: a % ae
eae
7

¢
& eo

be =o a >
B®

&
a

ieee #

aye

-

_"

bs ee as ww AE!
is Yo WF i we i

a Bb Tae ia Bose)
eh:
Soll

a aes mits e

¥@
ow
6 Oee deel
Pa caheer ttoer ed
sete ere ae a
Sa ener he mie 5° AEE Oe ete
bo ee Ne Ska -nwb + -84 Feet tee a Acad en, ae
ee ga oun ota aeeaet ediet > hte a eae ee keta® » peau
Sat ae ee een ore Peat bee Ror tested te Oe Law cies Syeearie brent 4% _~ =
re eine aeire meet SS men ee ou See pagiag eNO ne ee er ro g* pas fer swwrF
oie eM aes Soe red? har spatter Oe ae Bs s a . + A 7“
Bn eT gon wil af ~ “ gent oT tin sl SO gy ES hc te alae p nf malatiratidS zl os ak hai y = > (
ante sabe jah 23 eee te ad hoes a ‘pal eat bree +
by an SE OO : ¥ ee sitet Sen geacerie ve a ee - ow eee
Feet aoe a meat eG abst in O and pat he Soe ye cod - how wart ant ; i =
Fe ee can cst ctinhanascea aes tg ear iriaherstTatg coor = oe a a9 oe 3 we presales PT i. er ——_
seat hy NS Lancy eee Bear acnamr AEN oe Oy Sphere a * ‘ 3-2-6 puree ni 4 fe pad x el
ee candet e869 ON eae rr oven! " Sree Se tide ee ea -b- boy Weed rere . vine re “is anne de tes eter
pet ea ont EM Do hoch a eal ee mead ered wee Ie ene eT ap eetent to's 4 4 ee C ae See ee pyre
Npheneed Sr racae a tae mete Tie Beran E agar nes Sa REO aes ; er ae ee ne ane ee
ea Pet eee Rar Paare sare re re! Se erie pate OS ares pce © NN Sie Oe Seay
art Senre A kn ON be Pas aN er eT Pe - os ptt a OO etna
et ee IE ST eS Ser eT I rads Sone nee Seb re er ee Sp ep ae AES Fee ek Sanit SE
80 ont, Ot nando Bees vag tens ee phot rent hap ee CNL OS Oey ee aaah in ot OT Gobet A pe ene be Diep eee y,
eeu Be5 i to et eerie we as arene eres bone Bs Re ORES SO sar he parses foe eh banged ane mee
Oe ac nentont he ee vaiatinbe! cuba te Wena, SR apo ets mee ars ake ee ac hte AFD 5
tae CN ae Pe saprhpee eted Setar te a ee Pf ed ete Sangean Sa ie RO be Alper pee pee ad
ee aed SNL EO more at eT ee dna ER OE ra Saadeh ee wre somcet peat oe int pte Sor Saree
Tee nel a Le este Mints aot Dae rte eT oo Src tt arate
ae ee re pede trl eet Od eee el atin te ee greta’ ne a ern ank PO SP he ea geet MIN ach
Sc eres eae ICEL Me eS ee Sacer ped a Sore ase TS mnertee wal Oe oe a ate Sean trate oF wn rel eee
Pade WAS CS hare a ee ee Te anaed Lerch c SO Pe Fat woun’ eset I Sent oe ead pes
Ppa Perce aoe pacino re anes Hepogens ih on STN hy to in a wee See ek re ”
er =e eS ok aol’ ree Serr ee Seen ae igs ee Ten < Es, ae Trees
Ss edeind ede nee ane eh NES Ret ef aC ee we LN eet Lees ee teen
ae re Wath ne Te yb ed at Tuer aaeaey MEST aera Ye re EER pe are agate
“ae PW Sa Arte ES. Spieliemener ne aes ire oF a ale ran renee of otoh-by rere as
cage Pesce ree re ae eter ep ae pr fee en ee Oe ae tinte! rT Se ae Ce eg pers
Satis asa eee ee eee street Tan ye ie bearer ee aan ae
> re ae aa Feats ee sepee ete eae Sescores) "ie ta ey oo _ jn Fe ketene aay Be teatt eT aghe yi
Sr Re near Se gk aaa a eas ee re ane! Pf . . et eer ME” > 2
Pap I Se RT Py oe Sn ce oar eee Ler at br sie hin
% FG PAOD OSE aad TS rseeeere ees
Scare ererer + ee ates wee >
mere aps het pce ae .
ines nae Saad tt eM pari ee he
Sara wet X en iorbarar ene “pera AERO AL PS
 aebeck este ap a em ivan a re ey
winched A asta Petpet aS bead
pe et oa ns =

otter eer nee re Saat rooting

ipa ho ty" eee, D en,
Pee ae ne: re eT
Z SS Fae ten seme ena Sipe nae
7 ae aren cele i done

poabin os oa
se awed

Me ie a, ee eUvVvacet - om © OF Vevey & “2s =
~ Oo — re)
w fe wo EE a
: : : : e
2 a = = ‘=
° Z i Z :
RARI ES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOLLALILSNI _ NVINOSHIIWS S4 [dV
= < = < =
= = = fy, = =
2 z Wow | Y Ly, 2 z
ve 2 WN 8 YG ? g
Z Ee oS Z, lq. 7- = =)
BOS = = BAS >’ = >
aN 4 ” oe Fd wn Pd
LALILSNI_ NVINOSHLIWS | Sa IYVud ee BRARI ES SMITHSONIAN INSTITU
Ps uw —- WwW :
; iy
4+ Qe z “i = Ui
4 RMA = = = vg A
cc SS fad = o LG, Uf:
= sy " o = an «
Zz a ef z 5
RARI ES SMITHSONIAN _ INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI_NVINOSHLIWS _
=. city oO oO NS o
= bid = a XS =
aa > = > Ces fas
= ms : a N\ Ss. E
z 7 Z 2 =
LALILSNI_ NVINOSHLIWS |S iuyVvua (Tou B RAR | ES oMITHSONIAN (Nett e
Li? | gf tps SN 3 re
z EYH#Z = SX “
yyy x 8 Guy F SY. g =
li = 5 “@ Ss SS =
= —- Ww) * z= (op)
SRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILOALILSNI_ NVIN Ls
a z 2
u a a A WN -s
= et fix” ot = <4 W\ re
aivp tf > < = \\ eee
i BS = fata G o
= ar
co Y =_ a8) _ a
ose Ui O se o a
as z rae | z=. a
-NVINOSHLIWS (SS1UVU St) ~ ae
. S “- iS -
2 Ly, 5 % = 2
50 ENS = 2 = a
fe BAS 2 m Zz i
SRARI ES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI _ NVINOSHLINS (Sa Rohe
NA 2 2B WN 2 a: 8;
Ba ASS —'9 >
oS 2 a a z a z
ILALILSNI_ NVINOSHLIWS Sia] YVEYEIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN _INSTITU
a : é ty, &
a a = - aye
= = S F :
fe) - Oo a fo)
rs ny 2 4 | bd

seh ie he WT Bee Se ae ee eae eee

S3i¥vudlt
Jom
£4
INSTITUTION

INSTITUTION
7 SS

saruvualy
saluvudly

}RARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNILILSNI_NVINOSHLINS S3luv:

ed sf | z w ;
2 5 Gy: a g
AW § 8 Wk? 3 by
N ‘ RS z z , Gf 7? = Ey , J
“aN = Pa = >
ee 2 ow z
ANLILSNI_ NVINOSHLINS LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN” INSTITL

NOILNLILSNI
NOILNLILSNI
NOILNLILSNI

INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI

3RARIES SMITHSONIAN NVINOSHLINS SAIUYYV

SAIUVUSIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN

INSTITUTION
INSTITUTION
INSTITUTION

NVINOSHLINS S3IYVealT LIBRARIES

JLOLILSNI SAIYVYEIT_ LIBRARIES
ers w Zz we =
= & 5 Pe <
» for io za
5 cs Bip rs) S
= = Gy = E
; = ;

3RARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI

NOILNLILSNI
LIBRARIES

ILALILSNI NVINOSHLINS SSIYVEGIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN _INSTITL

SA(UVUGIT LIBRARIES

SA1YVYEITLIBRARIES
INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI

1 fj
INSTITUTION

Saluyvudd!y

3RARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI NVINOSHLINS S31YV.

Y>

a ps

SJIYVYEIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITU

“Ss 7
ILALILSNI_ NVINOSHLIWS

NVINOSHLIWS
NVINOSHLIWS
SMITHSONIAN
NVINOSHLIWS

Nu, BX

LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN

NOILNLILSNI

LIBRARIES

NOILNLILSNI
NOILNLILSNI
7 i ape _ q un 4 a: oe | al - ar
!

Ww
a > he, aos > -7, ine * NS
a _ 7 : 7 - ae |
/ ae ’ : » i > | en r ani

est
_

a

Teo MENINGES la ld
oe U.S. PUBLIC NFALTH SERVICE

i

ae ne be THE

BOARD OF REGENTS OF
THE SMITHSONIAN

INSTITUTION

OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND
CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION
FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30

1934

OP dae Va og nt eee f
; ae iE Bi ED RA Wi >
ae hiv. » a IN
‘Om

Ayes

yy a ih ik ss
MATIONAD

_ SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
WASHINGTON

MP ar diy yia ge
oS Seite UE Vite
i, we PUBLIC 4 ALTH SERVICE

4 ae a ‘al
rut UN, uy tue

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF REGENTS OF

THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION

SHOWING THE

OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND
CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION
FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30

Iig34

(Publication 3305)

UNITED STATES
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
WASHINGTON : 1935

For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D.C. - - - - - - - = - - - Price $1.00
areuaet

<oaae
reves
Sh a
eto
eerae
e
eu te
.
©
.*
«
.
Joe
ercee
c
eC br)
.
Sig
es
LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL

SmirHsonian I[Nstrrution,
Washington, January 28, 1936.
To the Congress of the United States:

In accordance with section 5593 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, I have the honor, in behalf of the Board of Regents,
to submit to Congress the annual report of the operations, expendi-
tures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year
ended June 30, 1934. I have the honor to be,

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
C. G. Aszor, Secretary.

it
CONTENTS

hist of. oficiaiss #.. 2+. pthelwa Ll. pate k. wasine ae tons tage Soe olin
Onitstandine.events 2e04 2 224 soy sh BAe Pein eas towged bee ohn gt oes
Summeanryeorthe year sactivities = sseees Sa. 22s ee eae a BU
sRneLestA DlShIMEMNGs! 22 Aas | ap ee Sete et Bee ee ly ep
ihe we oards oleRerents she bee eee as cs 2 We eee eee ee Bk
JEONG eyes Se Sa ER aR MRR ee meee At et 0 Piet Hy Sep ek 8 EO Poof a ee
IMT EEr Sho fae ener aleinGeTes betes ee ee eee iy am een ee ee ge
Johnson-Smithsonian Deep-Sea Expedition_____________--_-------
Rescanchespn=Munopeanuancliyesae erases ye fe ae eee ee
Walter Rathbone Bacon traveling scholarship__-_______---_-------
AnindeATrthurebectune 2-525 3 ee oe een oe ee aS
IB CONES US ener ets ee es ey ae ere a Pe Se
IBprgal Vevey ALovaVT ey aVGU SHV oly 01 8 ces eS SO A oe eee
HEPC A Gi ONS aoe ee ae ee CN ee Os ae ee eS

Appendix 1. Report on the United States National Museum____-__-_-_-_-
2; Report on the National Gallery of Art... --.-22.---_..-.--
oheporton the Freer Gallery of Art... 02..-.2.---.-.--.-
4. Report on the Bureau of American Ethnology___-_-_------
5. Report on the International Exchange Service____________-
6. Report on the National Zoological Park________-___-_-___-
7. Report on the Astrophysical Observatory__...-.----------
8. Report on the Division of Radiation and Organisms_ -- - ---
Ors eporuzonsuneibrarye \- =e see ee ye a ee

IO), Ieyoxerts Chal jlo ee eee ee eee

Report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents___________-

GENERAL APPENDIX

The new world-picture of modern physies, by Sir James H. Jeans_-_-____-
The markings and rotation of Mercury, by E. M. Antoniadi___________
British Polar Year Expedition to Fort Rae, Northwest Canada, 1932-33,

[DIN Ce LW SRS PE 12 Po he > ea UR el OR a en
Protium-deuterium-tritium, the hydrogen trio, by Hugh S. Taylor__-_-___
Some chemical aspects of life, by Sir Frederick Gowland Hopkins-_-_-_-___-
Commercial extraction of bromine from sea water, by Leroy C. Stewart__
Before papyrus ... beyond rayon, by Gustavus J. Esselen__________-_-_-
herveney, mtides, soy dA. Marmernsge2 9. 2 ee ee eee ok
Madernvseismology, byl. J. SCYases sete ese = 3 otis 2s
A generation’s progress in the study of evolution, by Edwin G. Conklin___
How the fishes learned to swim, by Anatol Heintz__________.________-
Curious and beautiful birds of Ceylon, by Casey A. Wood____________-
The influence of civilization on the insect fauna in cultivated areas of

North) Americayisy, Reger C. Smitheas. 32. 2.22 oe So

Page

a

OHOMAWADADDAHOAOMNMIRE NH
VI CONTENTS

Arctic butterflies; by. Austin MH. Clark. 2 2.22) i See eee
Grasses, what they are and where they live, by A. S. Hitchcock_______--
Phototropism: A specific growth response to light, by Earl 8. Johnston__
An outline development of highway travel, especially in America, by

Carl Ws Mitman! a2 2 25 soe ee sr Pe DE tee ae a ee ee
Via Appia in the days when all roads led to Rome, by Albert C. Rose_-_-
Smithsonian archeological projects conducted under the Federal Emergency

Relief Administration, 1933-34, by M. W. Stirling_-___-_-_-_--__-_--
Indian cultures of northeastern South America, by Herbert W. Krieger __
Commerce, trade, and monetary units of the Maya, by Frans Blom_----_-_

Page
267
297
313

325
347

371
401
423
LIST OF PLATES

Page

Secretary’s Report:

PETER ea a yea 26
Polar Year Expedition (Stagg) :

TUN RES LS Me eS ad eS Sa ape ANA eR 2 od 1 ee ys NORE ae 118
Hydrogen trio (Taylor) :

BEAT AE Spe mca a ct ig nL a A se re ES 128
Bromine from sea water (Stewart) :

DBA CSTE 2 3 BOE (ea oe a ee ee SE Pe SEB. 168
Birds of Ceylon (Wood) :

SAYERS ae ae ec ec arn alan ee es Ms ete ae ee ee Rime 256
Arctic butterflies (Clark) :

DSU SNS a a I eM repre Rae aa eM Oat Rae Py Re 296
Grasses (Hitchcock) :

VETER Y HENS} al he fase a TS SIG we ee oe ane oe ee eee ee a 312
Phototropism (Johnston) :

EAT ACS Bille seminar onsite lie ging oad ee Ra Oe ee SE Nl RE aed 324
Highway travel (Mitman) :

DARE Te eS hea es eA Tae ae ES SE aes te A ee PO Se «Ny Ev 346
Via Appia (Rose):

1 BANG rex) LT eg faerie =e Se UNL OE LS SO SE ee 370
Archeological projects (Stirling) :

LEA EM WES 5 ea O 2 Se PS I ES a ere Se el 400
Indian cultures of South America (Krieger) :

FETS Bie 2 a ee ee NN ene Ve iat ee 440
ot ThA WO Teh

J att

He F a
are
sat)

—

ane-> eso
sigeeni#) wall
war

atthe meh ee snake
2 (CroneRDP bus
ee ei eens ce
» Cyorwe ie) iow ie
om = iid jews
Bobs : ,
er

oe eo

“Ti
. bt Bs "

a oe

«Cee

: 4 ce

an Sa planet: ——

rents Oe ae on Soh if |

-

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR ENDING
JUNE 30, 1934

SUBJECTS

1. Annual report of the Secretary, giving an account of the opera-
tions and conditions of the Institution for the year ending June 30,
1934, with statistics of exchanges, etc., including the proceedings of
the meetings of the Board of Regents.

2. Report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents,
exhibiting the financial affairs of the Institution, including a state-
ment of the Smithsonian fund, and receipts and expenditures for
the year ending June 30, 1934.

3. General appendix comprising a selection of miscellaneous
memoirs of interest to collaborators and correspondents of the Insti-
tution, teachers, and others engaged in the promotion of knowledge.
These memoirs relate chiefiy to the calendar year 1934.
RK oe aN, a wig alld to te a
f adtie ier ee oe

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

June 30, 1934

Presiding officer ex officio—FRANKLIN D. RoosEvE.t, President of the United
States.
Chancellor—Cuar.Les Evans Huauss, Chief Justice of the United States.
Members of the Institution:
FRANKLIN D. RoosEvEtt, President of the United States.
Joun N. Garner, Vice President of the United States.
CHARLES Evans Huaues, Chief Justice of the United States.
CorpDELL HULL, Secretary of State.
Henry MorGentuat, Jr., Secretary of the Treasury.
GeorcE H. Dern, Secretary of War.
Homer S. Cummrines, Attorney General.
James A. FarueEy, Postmaster General.
CiaupE A. Swanson, Secretary of the Navy.
Haro.p L. Icxss, Secretary of the Interior.
Henry A. WaAtuAcE, Secretary of Agriculture.
DANIEL C. Roper, Secretary of Commerce.
FRraNcES Perkins, Secretary of Labor.
Regents of the Institution:
CuHarLes Evans Huauss, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor.
Joun N. Garner, Vice President of the United States.
JosePpH T. Rosinson, Member of the Senate.
M. M. Locan, Member of the Senate.
Davip A. REED, Member of the Senate.
T. ALAN GoLpsBorouGH, Member of the House of Representatives.
Epwarp H. Crump, Member of the House of Representatives.
Cuar.es L. Girrorp, Member of the House of Representatives.
Irwin B. LavGutiin, citizen of Pennsylvania.
Freperic A. DELANO, citizen of Washington, D. C.
Joun C. Merriam, citizen of Washington, D. C.
R. Watton Moors, citizen of Virginia.
RoBert W. BincuHaM, citizen of Kentucky.
Avucustus P. Loring, citizen of Massachusetts.
Executive committee—FREpDERIC A. DELANO, JoHN C. MerriAM, R. WALTON
Moore.
Secretary.—Cuaruzrs G. ABBorT.
Assistant Secretary — ALEXANDER WETMORE.
Administrative assistant to the Secretary Harry W. Dorsey.
Treasurer.—NicHouas W. Dorsery.
Editor —WEBSTER P. TRUE.
Inbrarian.—WiuuiaM L. Corsin.
Personnel officer —H®r.LEN A. OLMSTED.
Property clerk—James H. H1u.

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

Keeper ex officio —Cuar.eis G. ABBOT.
Assistant Secretary (in charge).—ALEXANDER WETMORE.

Associate Director.—JoHN E. Grar.
XI
XaI ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

SCIENTIFIC STAFF

DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY:
Walter Hough, head curator; W. H. Egberts, chief preparator.

Division of Ethnology: Walter Hough, curator; H. W. Krieger, curator;
H. B. Collins, Jr., assistant curator; Arthur P. Rice, collaborator.

Section of Musical Instruments: Hugo Worch, custodian.
Section of Ceramics: Samuel W. Woodhouse, collaborator.

Division of Archeology: Neil M. Judd, curator; F. M. Setzler, assistant
curator; R. G. Paine, aid; J. Townsend Russell, honorary assistant curator
of Old World archeology.

Division of Physical Anthropology: Ale’ Hrdli¢ka, curator; Thomas D. Stewart,
assistant curator.

Collaborator in anthropology: George Grant MacCurdy; D. I. Bushnell, Jr.

Associate in historic archeology: Cyrus Adler.

DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY:
Leonhard Stejneger, head curator; W. L. Brown, chief taxidermist.

Division of Mammals: Gerrit S. Miller, Jr., curator; Remington Kellogg,
assistant curator; A. J. Poole, scientific aid; A. Brazier Howell, collaborator.

Division of Birds: Herbert Friedmann, curator; J. H. Riley, associate curator;
Alexander Wetmore, custodian of alcoholic and skeleton collections;
Casey A. Wood, collaborator; Arthur C. Bent, collaborator.

Division of Reptiles and Bairachians: Leonhard Stejneger, curator; Doris M.
Cochran, assistant curator.

Division of Fishes: George S. Myers, assistant curator; E. D. Reid, aid.

Division of Insects: L. O. Howard, honorary curator; William Schaus, hon-
orary assistant curator; B. Preston Clark, collaborator.

Section of Hymenoptera: 8. A. Rohwer, custodian; W. M. Mann, assist-
ant custodian; Robert A. Cushman, assistant custodian.

Section of Myriapoda: O. F. Cook, custodian.

Section of Diptera: Charles T. Greene, assistant custodian.

Section of Coleoptera: L. L. Buchanan, specialist for Casey collection.

Section of Lepidoptera: J. T. Barnes, collaborator.

Section of Orthoptera: A. N. Caudell, custodian.

Section of Hemiptera: W. L. McAtee, acting custodian.

Section of Forest Tree Beetles: A. D. Hopkins, custodian.

Division of Marine Invertebrates: Waldo L. Schmitt, curator; C. R. Shoemaker,
assistant curator; James O. Maloney, aid; Mrs. Harriet Richardson Searle,
collaborator; Max M. Ellis, collaborator; William H. Longley, collaborator;
Maynard M. Metcalf, collaborator; Joseph A. Cushman, collaborator in
foraminifera; Charles Branch Wilson, collaborator in Copepoda.

Division of Mollusks: Paul Bartsch, curator; Harald A. Rehder, assistant
curator; Mary Breen, collaborator.

Section of Helminthological Collections: Maurice C. Hall, custodian.

Division of Echinoderms: Austin H. Clark, curator.

Division of Plants (National Herbarium): Frederick V. Coville, honorary
curator; W. R. Maxon, associate curator; Ellsworth P. Killip, associate
curator; Emery C. Leonard, assistant curator; Conrad V. Morton, aid;
Kigbert H. Walker, aid; John A. Stevenson, custodian of C. G. Lloyd
mycological collection.

Section of Grasses: Albert S. Hitchcock, custodian.
Section of Cryptogamie Collections: O. F. Cook, assistant curator.
Section of Higher Algae: W. T. Swingle, custodian.
ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934 XIII

DEPARTMENT OF BroLtoay—Continued.
Division of Plants—Continued.
Section of Lower Fungi: D. G. Fairchild, custodian.
Section of Diatoms: Albert Mann, custodian.
Associates in Zoology: C. Hart Merriam, W. L. Abbott, Mary J. Rathbun,
C. W. Stiles, Theodore 8S. Palmer, William B. Marshall.

Associate Curator in Zoology: Hugh M. Smith.

Associate in Marine Sediments: T. Wayland Vaughan.

Collaborator in Zoology: Robert Sterling Clark.

Collaborators in Biology: A. K. Fisher, David C. Graham.

DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY:
R. 8. Bassler, head curator.

Division of Physical and Chemical Geology (systematic and applied): W. F.
Foshag, curator; Edward P. Henderson, assistant curator.

Division of Mineralogy and Petrology: W. F. Foshag, curator; Frank L. Hess,

custodian of rare metals and rare earths.

Division of Stratigraphic Paleontology: Charles E. Resser, curator; Gustav A.
Cooper, assistant curator; Jessie G. Beach, aid; Margaret W. Moodey,
aid for Springer collection.

Section of Invertebrate Paleontology: T. W. Stanton, custodian of
Mesozoic collection; Paul Bartsch, curator of Cenozoic collection.
Section of Paleobotany: David White, associate curator.

Division of Vertebrate Paleontology: Charles W. Gilmore, curator; Charles L.
Gazin, assistant curator; Norman H. Boss, chief preparator.

Associate in Mineralogy: W. T. Schaller.

Associates in Paleontology: E. O. Ulrich, August F. Foerste.

Associate in Petrology: Whitman Cross.

DEPARTMENT OF ARTS AND INDUSTRIES:
Carl W. Mitman, head curator.

Division of Engineering: Frank A. Taylor, curator.

Section of Mechanical Technology: Frank A. Taylor, in charge; Fred C.
Reed, scientific aid.

Section of Aeronautics: Paul E. Garber, assistant curator.

Section of Mineral Technology: Carl W. Mitman, in charge; Chester G.
Gilbert, honorary curator.

Division of Textiles: Frederick L. Lewton, curator; Mrs. E. W. Rosson, aid.
Section of Wood Technology: William N. Watkins, assistant curator.
Section of Organic Chemistry: Aida M. Doyle, aid.

Division of Medicine: Charles Whitebread, assistant curator.

Division of Graphic Arts: R. P. Tolman, curator.

Section of Photography: A. J. Olmsted, assistant curator.

Loeb Collection of Chemical Types: Aida M. Doyle, in charge.

Division or History: T. T. Belote, curator; Charles Carey, assistant curator;
Mrs. C. L. Manning, philatelist.

ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF

Chief of correspondence and documents.—H. 8S. BRYANT.

Assistant chief of correspondence and documents.—L. E. COMMERFORD.
Superintendent of buildings and labor —J. S. GoLpsMITH.

Assistant superintendent of buildings and labor.—R. H. TREMBLY.
Editor —Pavuu H. OFHsErR.

Engineer.—C. R. DENMARK.

Accountant and auditor—N. W. Dorsey.
XIV ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

Photographer.—A. J. OLMSTED.
Property clerk.—W. A. KNOWLES.
Assistant Librarian.—LeiLta F. CuarK.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

Acting director—RuEt P. ToLMAn.

FREER GALLERY OF ART

Curator.—JOHN ELLERTON LODGE.
Associate curator —CarL Wuitine BISHOP.
Assistant curator.—GRracE DuNHAM GUEST.
Associate—KATHARINE NasH RHOADES.
Assistant—ARCHIBALD G. WENLEY.
Superintendent—Joun Bunpy.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

Chief —MatrHew W. STIRLING.

Ethnologists—JouHn P. Harrineton, Joun N. B. Hewitt, TRumMaN MIcHELSON,
Joun R. Swanton, Witu1amM D. STRONG.

Archeologist —FRANK H. H. Roperts, Jr.

Associate anthropologist —WiNsLow M. WALKER.

Editor. —STANLEY SEARLES.

Librarian.—E.Lua LEARY.

Illustrator.—Epwin G. CAssEDyY.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES

Secretary (in charge).—CHARLES G. ABBOT.
Chief clerk.—CoatrEs W. SHOEMAKER.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Director.—Wi.LLIaM M. Mann.
Assistant Director.—ERNEST P. WALKER.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Director.—CHARLES G. ABBOT.

Assistant director—LoyaL B. ALDRICH.

Research assistant—FREDERICK E. Fow te, Jr.
Associate research assistant—WILLIAM H. Hoover.

DIVISION OF RADIATION AND ORGANISMS

Director.—CHARLES G. ABBOT.

Assistant director—Earu 8. JOHNSTON.

Research and consulting physicist —FREDERICK 8S. BRACKETT.
Associate research assistant HEpwarp D. McALISTER.
Assistant in radiation research.—LELAND B. CLARK.

Research associate—FLORENCE FE. MEIER.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

C. G. ABBOT
FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1934

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution.

GENTLEMEN: I have the honor to submit herewith my report show-
ing the activities and condition of the Smithsonian Institution and
the Government bureaus under its administrative charge during the
fiscal year ended June 30, 1934. The first 10 pages contain a summary
account of the affairs of the Institution, and appendixes 1 to 10 give
more detailed reports of the operations of the National Museum, the
National Gallery of Art, the Freer Gallery of Art, the Bureau of Amer-
ican Ethnology, the International Exchanges, the National Zoological
Park, the Astrophysical Observatory, the Division of Radiation and
Organisms, the Smithsonian Library, and of the publications issued
under the direction of the Institution. On page 70 is the financial
report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents.

OUTSTANDING EVENTS

Reduced income, both private and governmental, has greatly re-
stricted the scope and amount of the Institution’s researches, explora-
tions, and publications. Nevertheless, the year has been exception-
ally fruitful. Specimens of the rarest merit have been purchased for
the Freer collections. Fifteen papers were published descriptive of
new forms of marine life discovered by the first Johnson-Smithsonian
Deep-Sea Expedition to the Puerto Rican Deep in 1933. Very
significant progress is believed to have been made in the study of the
dependence of weather on the variation of the sun’s heat. Indeed
the indications already furnished by many test forecasts seem almost
to verify the hope that Secretary Langley voiced 40 years ago, namely,
that the study of the sun will yield means of forecasting weather for
seasons and even years in advance. In the Division of Radiation and
Organisms very accurate data have been obtained showing the in-
fluence of wave lengths of radiation upon the absorption of carbon
dioxide by wheat plants and upon the bending of plants toward the
light. Interesting results have also been gained on the growing of
wheat to maturity in air containing enhanced amounts of carbon
dioxide. Several papers were completed on the action of radiation to

1
2 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

promote or inhibit the multiplication of algae. The Institution par-
ticipated, through Dr. W. D. Strong, in an expedition to Honduras,
where much new ethnological and archeological information was
gained in a field heretofore little worked. The Government’s relief
program under the Civil Works Administration supported several
very considerable archeological excavations in five States in charge
of members of the Institution’s staff. Especially interesting was the
excavation of a large mound near Macon, Ga. Six different levels of
occupation were uncovered there. Dr. Alan Mozley continued his
investigations of the molluscan fauna of Siberia under the Walter
Rathbone Bacon traveling scholarship. The Institution received a
bequest amounting to over $58,000 from William Herbert Rollins, of
Boston, to establish a fund to be known as ‘‘'The Miriam and William
Rollins Fund for Exploration Beyond the Boundary of Knowledge.”
Outstanding among the year’s publications were the Eighth Revised
Edition of the Smithsonian Physical Tables, greatly enlarged and
brought up to date, and a supplemental volume of the World Weather
Records, covering the period 1921 to 1930.

SUMMARY OF THE YEAR’S ACTIVITIES

National Museum.—The appropriations for the year totaled $654,-
871, a decrease of $46,585 from those of the previous year. New
specimens added to the collections numbered 340,780. These in-
cluded valuable anthropological materials from Africa, Honduras
and Nicaragua, Australia, Alaska, and various regions in this country.
In the field of biology, large sendings of mammals, birds, and other
forms were received from China and Siam; unusually large collections
of insects were accessioned, one numbering 69,000 specimens; and
many important plant specimens were added to the National Her-
barium, particularly from North, South, and Central America,
the Hawaiian Islands, Poland, and French Indo-China. Among the
large number of rocks, minerals, gems, meteorites, and fossils received
by the department of geology may be mentioned the collection of
2,500 rocks assembled by the late Dr. Henry S. Washington, one of
the world’s leading petrologists, and the Tellef Dahll collection of
minerals from the pegmatites of southern Norway. In arts and in-
dustries, the most important accession was the Wright brothers’
airplane in which Calbraith P. Rodgers completed the first flight
across the United States, in 1911. To the historical collections, Mrs.
Herbert Hoover added a costume worn by her at the White House
during her husband’s administration. Although field work was
greatly restricted by curtailed appropriations, nevertheless a number
of expeditions went out through various special arrangements in the
interest of the Museum’s scientific work. Visitors to the several
Museum buildings totaled 1,463,375.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 3

National Gallery of Art.—Three special exhibitions were held during
the year, one of works by Negro artists, another of miniatures by
Charles Fraser, and the third of water colors of the American Navy,
by Lt. Arthur E. Beaumont, U. S. N. R. A number of art works
were accessioned during the year subject to transfer to the Gallery
if approved by the National Gallery of Art Commission. Under the
fund established by the bequest of the late Catherine Walden Myer,
three miniatures were purchased for the Gallery. A descriptive
catalog was prepared of necklaces, jewels, and other miscellaneous
art objects contained in the Gellatly Collection, and a translation
was made of the Salmony Catalog of the Chinese glass in the same
collection.

Freer Gallery of Art—The year’s additions to the collection include
an example of Arabic bookbinding, Chinese bronzes, Chinese and
Persian ceramics, Arabic glass, Chinese gold work, an Armenian
manuscript, and Chinese, East Christian (Byzantine), Indian, and
Persian paintings. Curatorial work was devoted to the study of
Armenian, Chinese, Japanese, Arabic, and Persian texts associated
with receut acquisitions. During the year 708 objects and 433 photo-
eraphs of objects were submitted to the Curator for an opinion as to
their identity, provenance, and historical or esthetic value. Visitors
totaled 117,363, and 68 groups were given docent service. The
Gallery’s field expedition in China was recalled, as present conditions
there render cooperative archeological work practically impossible.
The expedition has to its credit, however, a moderate amount of
positive scientific achievement, as shown by the results of its surveys
and excavations.

Bureau of American Ethnology.—Under the C. W. A. relief program
a number of archeological investigations were conducted under the
direction of the scientific staff of the Bureau. In Florida, mounds
and habitation sites were excavated near Bradenton, on Perico Island,
at several points on the east coast, and in the vicinity of Lake Okee-
chobee. In Georgia, a large mound group was excavated near Macon.
In Tennessee, work was done on mounds in Shiloh National Military
Park. In California, archeological excavations were undertaken at
Buena Vista Lake, Kern County. Besides employing large numbers
of men, these projects resulted in the amassing of a considerable
amount of new information on the Indian cultures of the regions
involved. Members of the staff also carried on other archeological
investigations in Georgia and Arizona, field studies of the California
Indians, linguistic studies, and further researches on the Iroquois
tribes.

International Exchanges.—In the official exchange with other coun-
tries of governmental and scientific documents, the exchange service
handled during the year a total of 675,980 packages, weighing 624,741

111666—35——2

4 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

pounds. The clearance of consignments arriving at New York for
the Institution was taken over in April 1934 by the United States
Government Despatch Agent.

National Zoological Park.—Accessions to the collection during the
year numbered 772, and removals through various causes totaled
1,030, leaving the collections at the close of the year at 2,238 animals,
representing 707 different species of mammals, birds, reptiles, and
other forms. ‘The number of visitors was 2,978,041, including groups
from 586 schools in 20 States and the District of Columbia. With
the help of the C. W. A. and of the Work Planning and Job Assign-
ment Committee of the District, a large number of important projects
involving improvements to buildings and grounds were completed.
The great need of the Zoo continues to be the carrying out of its
program of providing adequate buildings for the splendid collection
of animals.

Astrophysical Observatory.—A statistical analysis of the solar-con-
stant observations made at the Mount Montezuma station led to an
improved method of reduction of the observations; this method was
applied at Mount Montezuma and resulted in increased accuracy.
The study of the relations of solar variation to the weather has shown
marked progress. The daily solar-constant values from Table Moun-
tain, Calif., have been broadcast. A new station for solar-constant
observations has been established on Mount St. Katherine, near
Mount Sinai, Egypt. The Eighth Revised Edition of the Smithsonian
Physical Tables, greatly enlarged, prepared by Mr. Fowle, was pub-
lished during the year.

Dwision of Radiation and Organisms.—The following investigations
were undertaken by the scientific staff of the division: Measurements
of the absorption of carbon dioxide from the air by wheat plants
under the influence of radiation; measurements of the effect of radia-
tion on worm eggs; the development of powerful apparatus for visible
and infrared absorption spectral investigations; growth experiments
with special radiation on tomatoes; measurements of phototropism in
oat coleoptiles; experiments to determine the influence on wheat of
modifying the supply of carbon dioxide; and studies of the influence
of radiation of various wave lengths on the multiplication of the alga
Chlorella vulgaris.

THE ESTABLISHMENT

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in
1846, according to the terms of the will of James Smithson, of England,
who in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United States of America
“to found at Washington, under the name of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of knowledge
among men.” In receiving the property and accepting the trust,
Congress determined that the Federal Government was without
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 5

authority to administer the trust directly, and, therefore, constituted
an ‘‘establishment”’ whose statutory members are ‘‘the President, the
Vice President, the Chief Justice, and the heads of the executive
departments.”

THE BOARD OF REGENTS

The affairs of the Institution are administered by a Board of
Regents whose membership consists of “the Vice President, the Chief
Justice, three Members of the Senate, and three Members of the
House of Representatives, together with six other persons other than
Members of Congress, two of whom shall be resident in the city of
Washington and the other four shall be inhabitants of some State, but
no two of them of the same State.”’ One of the regents is elected chan-
cellor of the board. In the past the selection has fallen upon the Vice
President or the Chief Justice, and a suitable person is chosen by the
regents as Secretary of the Institution, who is also secretary of the
Board of Regents, and the executive officer directly in charge of the
Institution’s activities.

No changes occurred in the personnel of the Board during the year.
Dr. John C. Merriam, whose 6-year term as a citizen (District of
Columbia) regent expired on December 20, 1933, was reappointed as
a member of the Board by joint resolution of Congress approved
April 20, 1934, for the statutory term of 6 years.

The roll of regents at the close of the year was as follows: Charles
Evans Hughes, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor; John
N. Garner, Vice President of the United States; members from the
Senate—Joseph T. Robinson, M. M. Logan, David A. Reed; mem-
bers from the House of Representatives—T. Alan Goldsborough,
Edward H. Crump, Charles L. Gifford; citizen members—Irwin B.
Laughlin, Pennsylvania; Frederic A. Delano, Washington, D. C.;
John C. Merriam, Washington, D. C.; R. Walton Moore, Virginia;
Robert W. Bingham, Kentucky; Augustus P. Loring, Massachusetts.

Proceedings—Only one meeting of the full Board was held during
the year—the annual meeting on December 14, 1933. The regents
present were Chief Justice Charles Evans Hughes, chancellor, Senator
M. M. Logan, Senator David A. Reed, Frederic A. Delano, Hon.
Irwin B. Laughlin, Dr. John C. Merriam, Hon. R. Walton Moore,
and the Secretary, Dr. Charles G. Abbot.

The Secretary presented his annual report, detailing the activities
of the several Government branches and of the parent Institution
during the year, and Mr. Delano presented the report of the executive
committee, covering financial statistics of the Institution. The
Secretary also presented the annual report of the National Gallery of
Art Commission.

The Secretary presented his usual special report reviewing the
outstanding events of the year, emphasizing the urgent need for the
6 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

erection of the proposed wings or extensions on the east and west sides
of the Natural History Building of the National Museum, and the
efforts which had been made by members of the board as well as by
himself to obtain the necessary funds to erect these extensions.
Dr. Wetmore, Assistant Secretary, described certain improvements
going forward at the National Zoological Park, under grants from
the Civil Works Administration, and also spoke of archeological
investigations which were being carried on in five States under similar
grants.

The Board adopted a resolution expressing its appreciation to
Eldridge R. Johnson and his son, E. R. Fenimore Johnson, for their
cooperation in the biological work of the Institution in connection
with the expedition to the Puerto Rican Deep. The meeting then
adjourned, and the regents inspected the special exhibits in the
Secretary’s office illustrative of some of the Institution’s recent
activities.

FINANCES

A statement will be found in the report of the executive committee,
page 70.
MATTERS OF GENERAL INTEREST

JOHNSON-SMITHSONIAN DEEP-SEA EXPEDITION

In last year’s report was described the first Johnson-Smithsonian
Deep-Sea Expedition to the Puerto Rican Deep, sponsored by Eldridge
R. Johnson, of Philadelphia, and directed by Dr. Paul Bartsch,
curator of the division of mollusks in the National Museum. This
first expedition is the beginning of an extensive program of ocean-
ographic investigation, for which Mr. Johnson has generously made
available his yacht Caroline, completely equipped at his expense with
the most modern devices for such work. The first cruise resulted in
very large and valuable catches of marine forms, and these were
separated into their component groups and turned over to specialists
for report. During the past year 15 papers describing some of the
new forms were published in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collec-
tions, the groups so far partially covered being mollusks, crabs,
crinoids, nematodes, trematodes, annelids, fishes, brachiopods,
amphipods, brittlestars, and starfishes. Other papers in this series
will appear during the coming year.

RESEARCHES IN EUROPEAN ARCHIVES

Dr. C. U. Clark completed during the year his research work among
the European archives under the grant furnished to the Smithsonian
Institution by Hon. Charles G. Dawes in 1929. These researches
carried Dr. Clark through the principal depositories in Italy, Spain,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 74

Portugal, France, and England, and resulted in the discovery of much
new material relating to the early history of exploration in America.
Besides many letters and short documents containing much interesting
information regarding the customs of the Indians of South and
Central America and their relationship to their Spanish conquerors,
the following list gives the titles of some of the principal manuscripts
which have been brought to light and which would be published if
funds were available:

“‘Compendio y Descripcion de las Indias Ocidentales”, by Fray Antonio
Vasquez de Espinosa. 1628-29. Something over 300,000 words. A compre-
hensive report on Central and South America, including New Mexico, some of
California, a part of the West Indian Islands, and the Philippines. Original in
Vatican Library.

“Apologetica historia summaria, quanto a las calidades, dispusicion, descrip-
cion, cielo y suelo destas tierras; y condiciones, naturales policies, republicas,
maneras de biuir, y costumbres de las gentes destas Indias oecidentales y meri-
dionales, cuyo imperio soberano pertenece a los Reyes Catholicos.’”? MS. of 216
folios. Mentions Hispaniola, New Spain, Vera Paz, Peru. Some interesting
notes on Indian customs. In the Vatican Library.

““Tassaciones de la prouincia de Yucatan, hechas en la Real audiencia de los
Conffines que Reside en la ciudad de Sanctiago de Goatemala.” 1549-1551.
Folios 307 to 401. Part of a document of 400 folios dealing with the assessments
of Guatemala, Nicaragua, Yucatan, and Comayagua (Honduras). This is a
most interesting tax list of Yucatan and Tabasco, listing many settlements now
either abandoned or combined with others; showing the number of adult Indian
tax payers in most of the towns; indicating the exact amount to be paid yearly in
products of the land—corn, fowls, honey, beeswax, fish, cacao, cloth, etc. In
Archivo General de Indias.

‘‘Relacion historical eclesiastica de la prouincia de Yucatan .. .”’ Written in
1635 by the Bachiller Francisco de Cardenas i Balencia, clerigo della. 67 folios.
Detailed and interesting description of Merida; lists various towns. In British
Museum.

“‘Vicita a su Obispado por el Illustrisimo Senor Fr. Don Ygnacio Padilla.”
1757. Folios, 36. A report by Bishop Ignacio Padilla of his inspection of the
Bishopric of Yucatan. Notes on the towns, distances between them, population,
ete. In British Museum.

Archivo General de Indias. Guatemala 11, Doc. 38 (2). Evidently a report
or letter, signed by Dr. Alonso Criado de Castilla, dated May 15, 1600. Folios
4 to 6v. A description of the manners and customs of the Indians of Vera Paz.

Account book of the town of San Juan Amatitlan, Guatemala, 1559-1562.
About 72 folios. In Archivo General de Indias. Written partly in Pokonchi, a
Maya language, and Pipil, which is a Nahuatl dialect, and apparently by native
scribes. A document interesting for its presentation of some of the earliest of
this linguistic material.

A letter from the Adelantado Pascual Aadagoya to King Charles of Spain,
dated Gali, Sept. 15, 1540; 21 pages. Treats of his voyage from Panama to
west coast of South America to take charge; explorations in the present Ecuador,
founding of towns, pacification and conversion of natives, uprisings, etc., quarrels
with Pizarro. Madrid, Biblioteca Nacional 19267.

“Plano sobre a civilizacéo dos Indios do Brasil, E principalmente Para a
Capitania da Bahia...” written by Domingos Alvez Munis Barrieto, Lt.
Col. of Cavalry at Bahia. In Ajuda (51—-IV—41). 122 folios. On the Indians
of Brazil, and an indictment of their treatment by the Jesuits.
8 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

Codex Berberini Latino 241. Vatican. ‘‘Libellus de Indorum medicinalibus
herbia.”” 1552. By one “Joannes Badianus, natione Indus, patria Xuchimilcanus,
ejesdem collegii (i. e., Sanotae Crucis, Tlatilulci) praelector.”’ A list of Mexican
medicinal plants, each illustrated in aquarelle, with native names and description
and exposition on use in Latin. The “Joannes Badianus” was an Indian, of
Xuchimilco, trained by the Franciscans. 638 folios, 6 by 8%. Characterized as
being probably the earliest American botanical and medicinal plant ms.

WALTER RATHBONE BACON TRAVELING SCHOLARSHIP

The Walter Rathbone Bacon scholarship, ‘‘for the study of the
fauna of countries other than the United States”, was held during
1932 and 1933 by Dr. Alan Mozley, who conducted a study of the
molluscan fauna of Siberia. The scholarship was later extended to
cover 1934, and Dr. Mozley continued his investigations during the
past year, in the course of which he made a 3-months’ journey through
the forest steppe to the south of Omsk. During the winter he worked
on his collections in Edinburgh.

In the early summer of 1934 Dr. Mozley turned in a manuscript
describing the new mollusks discovered in the course of his work,
and this paper will appear in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collec-
tions early in the next fiscal year. A full report on the fauna as a
whole will be made later, when Dr. Mozley has completed his studies.

THIRD ARTHUR LECTURE

In 1931 a bequest was received from James Arthur for the promo-
tion of a series of lectures at the Institution dealing with various
aspects of the relation of the sun to the planets, the stars, the weather,
and human life. The third Arthur Lecture was given by Dr. Charles
G. Abbot, Secretary of the Institution, in the auditorium of the
National Museum on February 26, 1934, the subject being ‘“‘How
the Sun Warms the Earth.”’ The speaker dealt with the sun as the
earth’s source of heat, power, plant growth, and weather, and as a
type of the radiative features of the stars. The lecture will be pub-
lished in the General Appendix to the 1933 Smithsonian Report, now
in press.

BEQUESTS

Rollins bequest.—In the will of the late William Herbert Rollins, of
Boston, the Institution was named a beneficiary, and during the year
the sum of $58,580 was received under this bequest to establish a
fund to be known as “‘The Miriam and William Rollins Fund for
Exploration Beyond the Boundary of Knowledge.”’ The conditions
of the trust are as follows:

. .. the interest of the whole Miriam and William Rollins Fund is to be used
for five years to confirm my experiments on the drag of the light medium in the

magnetic field. After 5 years one half of the interest of the whole fund is to be
added each year to the Principal.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 9

Forever the other half to be used for experiments. The object of this plan is
to provide a constantly increasing amount of money each year for experiments,
for these will each year become more difficult and recondite.

I direct no part of the money shall ever be used except for pushing forward
the bounds of physics and chemistry.

I cannot foresee what will be the nature of the experiments, beyond those
stated, but their cost will constantly increase as time goes on and will require
the time of great and devoted experimenters. I desire that no part of the money
shall ever be used for any other purpose than for the most difficult problems in
physics and chemistry, as these are what have most interested me, and to aid in
their solution.

Plans are now being worked out to promote researches that will
carry out the wishes of the donor.

Reid bequest—The will of Addison T. Reid, who died in 1902, pro-
vided for the payment of the income upon the property to certain
persons, and upon their death for the payment of the principal of
the estate to the Smithsonian Institution to found a chair in biology
in memory of the testator’s grandfather, Asher Tunis. During the
past year, the last of the beneficiaries, Harriet Reid, died, and the
Institution was notified that the sum of $5,010 would be added to
other funds already on hand under the Addison T. Reid bequest.
At the close of the year the funds had not actually been received at
the Institution.

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD WORK

In spite of its greatly decreased resources, both governmental and
private, the Institution sent out or took part in 13 field expeditions
in the furtherance of its research program. The new solar observing
station on Mount St. Katherine, Sinai Peninsula, Egypt, was occu-
pied and regular observations begun. Drs. Remington Kellogg
and C. Lewis Gazin searched the shore of Chesapeake Bay for the
fossil bones of extinct marine mammals. Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt
served as a member of the scientific staff of the 1933 Hancock expe-
dition to the Galapagos Islands. Capt. R. A. Bartlett continued his
scientific studies of the animal and plant life of the Arctic on behalf of
the Institution on the 1933 Norcross-Bartlett Arctic Expedition.
Dr. Hugh M. Smith took every opportunity, as in former years, to
collect Siamese natural history material for the Institution. Dr.
Walter Hough investigated the remains of ancient Indian irrigation
canals in Arizona. Frank M. Setzler excavated Indian cave deposits
in southwestern Texas, and later conducted archeological studies of a
group of mounds near Marksville, La. Dr. F. H. H. Roberts, Jr.,
excavated the remains of a small Indian village near Allantown,
Ariz., which had been built, occupied, and abandoned during the
ninth century. Dr. W. D. Strong represented the Institution on an
archeological expedition to a little-known region of Honduras. John
10 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

P. Harrington studied the early history of the California Indians,
rescuing valuable information from old Indian informants. Miss
Frances Densmore continued her studies of Indian music, this year
among the Indians of the Gulf States.

All the expeditions are briefly described and illustrated in the
pamphlet entitled ‘‘Explorations and Field Work of the Smithsonian
Institution in 1933”, Smithsonian publication no. 3235.

PUBLICATIONS

The series of publications issued by the governmental scientific
bureaus of the Institution—the National Museum and the Bureau
of American Ethnology—bore the brunt of the reduction in appropri-
ations suffered by the Institution as a result of the economy drive.
The printing funds for the year were so reduced that the bulletins
and proceedings of the Museum and the bulletins of the Bureau had
to be suspended entirely. These series present to the world the results
of fundamental researches in many branches in science, and their
suspension is a serious blow to the Institution’s program of diffusion
of knowledge.

A total of 71 volumes and pamphlets were published during the
year, most of these having been paid for from the private funds of the
Institution; 57 were issued by the Institution proper, 12 by the
the National Museum, and 2 by the Bureau of American Ethnology.
The number of publications distributed was 136,091.

LIBRARY

The accessions to the Smithsonian library during the year numbered
6,278 volumes and 8,191 pamphlets and charts, bringing the total
number of items in the library to 833,746. Most of the additions were
exchanges for Smithsonian publications, but there were also the usual
large number of gifts from organizations and individuals. With the
assistance of 34 C. W. A. workers assigned to the library, a number of
special projects were carried to various stages of completion; these
included classifying and indexing a large collection of aeronautical
material, cataloging several special collections of scientific pamphlets,
and continuing the preparation of a union catalog of the material
in the various libraries of the Institution.

Respectfully submitted.

C. G. Assot, Secretary.
APPENDIX I
REPORT ON THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

Str: I have the honor to submit the following report on the con-
dition and operation of the United States National Museum for the
fiscal year ended June 30, 1934.

Appropriations for the maintenance of the National Museum for
the year totaled $654,871, which was $46,585 less than for the previous
year. About 40 percent of this decrease was in the printing and bind-
ing allotment, which resulted virtually in the abandonment of the
publication program for the year.

COLLECTIONS

Expeditions and purchases were greatly curtailed by the reduction
of appropriations, but additions of valuable material to the Museum
collections continued in all departments, mainly by gift from outside
individuals and organizations. New material came in 1,842 sepa-
rate accessions, with a total of 340,780 specimens divided as follows:
Anthropology, 9,599; biology, 289,347; geology, 30,747; arts and in-
dustries, 5,832; history, 5,255. Gifts of specimens to schools and other
educational institutions numbered 7,197 specimens. Exchanges of
duplicate material with other organizations and with individuals
totaled 16,356 specimens, and 30,065 specimens were lent to workers
outside of Washington.

Following is a summary of the more important accessions received
during the year in the various departments:

Anthropology —The C. C. Roberts ethnological collection from
Africa was augmented by splendid examples of wood carving from the
Ivory Coast, Nigeria, Gold Coast, and Cameroons; wooden drums
and other musical instruments from Nigeria; and many other objects
representing the handiwork of the tribes of these countries. Impor-
tant collections transferred from the Bureau of American Ethnology
include Sumu and Misketo ethnologica from the Honduran and
Nicaraguan coasts gathered by Dr. W. D. Strong while a member of
the Haskell-Smithsonian expedition. <A collection of stone imple-
ments used in the daily life of Australian and Papuan tribes was given
by Joel H. DuBose.

A remarkable gift from Kokichi Mikimoto, prominent in the culture
pearl industry of Japan, is a miniature replica of Mount Vernon
executed entirely in worked pieces of mother-of-pearl and studded

11
12 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

and embellished with thousands of graduated pearls. This model
was displayed during the 1933 season at the Century of Progress
Exposition in Chicago.

From Alaska came 3,950 artifacts collected by James A. Ford and
M. B. Chambers; from Palestine 1,081 flint objects from Paleolithic
cave deposits near Haifa, collected by the American School of Pre-
historic Research and the British School of Archeology in Jerusalem;
from Louisiana 1,771 specimens of stone and pottery collected by
Frank M. Setzler for the Bureau of American Ethnology near Marks-
ville; from eastern Arizona 647 artifacts from Basket Maker III and
Pueblo I, II, and III sites collected by Dr. F. H. H. Roberts, Jr., for
the Bureau of American Ethnology; from Cumberland Island, Ga.,
part of an aboriginal dugout canoe bequeathed by the estate of
Lucy Coleman Carnegie.

Skeletal material received included 65 lots of bones from Indian
burials at Port Tobacco, Md., from Judge William J. Graham; 49
skulls from St. Lawrence Island, Alaska, collected and presented by
the Alaska Agricultural College and School of Mines; 37 skulls and
skeletons from the Sacramento Valley, Calif., given by Robert
F. Heizer; and 16 skulls from the same area, donated by Dr. Alés
Hrdli¢ka.

Biology.—The biological material accessioned came from a wide
variety of localities. From the Province of Szechwan, China, Dr.
D. C. Graham sent 229 mammals, 95 bird skins, and 31 skeletons,
including a series of the rare bird Cholornis, new to the Museum, a
large number of insects, 229 mollusks, and many other forms. Dr.
Hugh M. Smith’s sendings from Siam included 44 mammals, 444 bird
skins, 2,387 insects, and 409 mollusks. W.N. Beach donated nearly
2,000 eggs of South African birds, adding 200 forms not previously
represented in the Museum. From India came specimens of birds
from Dr. W. L. Abbott and the Roerich Museum.

Dr. C. E. Burt made a large collection of reptiles and amphibians
in the southeastern States for the Museum. Among important fishes
received were 31 from Baffin Land and other northern waters col-
lected by the Norcross-Bartlett expedition under Capt. Robert A.
Bartlett.

The most important entomological addition during the year was a
collection of about 69,000 insects (including 51,000 named beetles)
made by the late H. F. Wickham and presented by Mrs. Wickham.
Over 61,000 insects were received from J. C. Bridwell, collected by
him during his travels in Africa, Australia, North America, and
the Hawaiian Islands. Frank Johnson made a generous donation of
2,000 Lepidoptera.

Additions to the marine invertebrate collection included a valuable
lot of earthworms from Dr. Frank Smith, representing his lifetime
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 13

gathering of species from many parts of the world; a collection of
Crustacea brought together by the late Charles C. Nutting and pre-
sented by the State University of Iowa; an excellent series of Crus-
tacea from the 1934 Hancock Galapagos expedition; a large number of
specimens from Baffin Land from Captain Bartlett, who also sent 420
mollusks. Other mollusks received included over 1,500, chiefly North
American, from Mrs. H. F. Wickham, 1,680 from the Hawaiian Islands
from J. C. Bridwell, 500 from west Florida from G. S. Barnes, and
about 2,100 from Panama from Dr. James Zetek. From the Zoo-
logical Museum at Copenhagen came 221 crinoids, being part of a
collection made by Dr. Th. Mortensen in the East Indies and western
Pacific. Other important echinoderms came from the Bay of Bengal,
Arabian Sea, China Sea, and Sea of Okhotsk.

In the National Herbarium additions totaled nearly 39,000 plant
specimens, particularly from Guatemala, Peru, Mexico, Argentina,
the Hawaiian Islands, Brazil, Yucatan, China, Labrador, Poland,
Colombia, French Indo-China, and various parts of the United States.

Geology—Through the income of the Roebling fund there were
added 955 minerals, 16 gems, and 28 meteorites (13 new to the
Museum). Of these, the most important accession was the Tellef
Dahll collection, largely of minerals from the pegmatites of southern
Norway gathered before 1872. The outstanding specimen of this
lot is a 1%-pound prismatic crystal of thorite. The Canfield collec-
tion was enhanced by a series of diamond crystals from the Belgian
Congo, and valuable specimens of ruby spinel, sapphire, tourmaline,
and garnet from Ceylon, Brazil, and Madagascar were added to the
Isaac Lea collection through the Chamberlain fund. The American
Gem & Pearl Co. donated an unusually large and brilliant garnet and
a small brown beryl from North Carolina. President Roosevelt
deposited in the Museum 38 specimens of marbles cut into various
ornamental forms.

The petrological series received its most important accession in
years—the collection of rocks assembled by the late Dr. Henry S.
Washington, one of the world’s leading petrologists, consisting of
about 2,500 specimens, which have formed the basis of many of the
donor’s published researches.

The paleontological collections were greatly enhanced by the addi-
tion of excellent fossil echinoids and starfishes from Iowa; brachiopods
from New Zealand, Spain, Russia, India, and United States; 3,200
fossil insects from the H. F. Wickham collection; 10,000 Paleozoic
and Cretaceous invertebrate fossils collected and presented by Dr.
G. A. Cooper, H. D. Miser, and R. D. Mesler; a large number of
Tertiary mollusks from Mexico; and miscellaneous mammal and bird
remains from various localities.
14 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

Arts and industries.—The most important aeronautic accession was
the Wright Brothers’ airplane, type E—X, reconstructed with available
parts, in which Calbraith P. Rodgers completed the first flight across
the United States, in 1911, and presented by the Carnegie Museum
of Pittsburgh.

An accession that will undoubtedly prove to be a popular exhibi-
tion specimen is the excellent model of the Appian Way prepared and
transferred to the Museum by the Bureau of Public Roads, United
States Department of Agriculture. It ulustrates the methods and
materials used in the construction of this famous Roman highway,
iIngi2, BG,

The models of the sloop yacht Ariel and its power dinghy, together
with seven marine paintings, constituted a noteworthy gift from
John W. Loveland. A Gorin tabulating typewriter of 1886 was
presented by the inventor, Frederick P. Gorin.

Seventy-nine specimens of new textiles of American manufacture
were added to the collections; 289 specimens of wood from Queens-
land, Sumatra, and Africa were received in exchange from the New
York State College of Forestry, and 374 wood samples from the
United States Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce.

HMistory.—Over 5,000 articles of antiquarian or historical interest
were added during the year, of which may be mentioned the gift of
Mrs. Herbert Hoover for the costumes collection of a green satin
dress, a pair of white kid gloves, a pair of satin slippers, a silver
lorgnette, and a necklace worn by her at the White House during the
Presidential administration of her husband.

The numismatic section received 16 nickel coins from the Inter-
national Nickel Co., and the American Numismatic Association added
78 specimens to its already large loan collection of recent coins of the
world. In addition, 266 specimens of local scrip or emergency paper
currency were added. This collection includes examples of such
currency issued from 1931 to 1933 by banks, business firms, munici-
palities, chambers of commerce, and other organizations in 27 States.

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD WORK

Work in the field was much curtailed through reduction of appro-
priations. That carried on was mainly financed by grants from the
income of invested Smithsonian funds, through such sources as the
C. W. A. and P. W. A., by cooperators, or by the investigators them-
selves.

During the last few weeks of the year, at the request of the United
States Bureau of Indian Affairs, Herbert W. Krieger, curator of
ethnology, undertook field work, under P. W. A. funds, in the Colum-
bia River Valley in Oregon and Washington, the aim being to salvage
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 15

archeological material and information in the area to be flooded by
the dam under construction at Bonneville, Oreg.

Frank M. Setzler, assistant curator of archeology, during the latter
half of August, directed the excavation and restoration of several
Indian mounds, a neighboring village site, and surrounding earth-
works near Marksville, Avoyelles Parish, La., in a cooperative project
with the city of Marksville. The scientific importance of the obser-
vations made lies in the fact that the material remains, local burial
customs, and other factors have made it possible to identify the culture
of this site definitely as a southeastern variant of the spectacular
Hopewell archeological culture previously known in southern Ohio,
with related phases appearing in Wisconsin, Jowa, Ilhinois, Michigan,
and Indiana.

Through information from Hon. T. A. Jenkins, Mr. Setzler was
sent in mid-April to Proctorville, Ohio, to investigate the occurrence
of aboriginal remains in trenches being dug for local water and sewer
lines. After observation and study of the skeletons, potsherds, shells,
and bone and stone artifacts recovered, Mr. Setzler concluded that
part of the town was built on the site of a village once inhabited by
Indians considered in Ohio as belonging to proto-historic Fort Ancient
Culture, and generally regarded as ancestors of the Ohio Sioux.

Dr. Ale’ Hrdliéka, curator of physical anthropology, in May went
to Kodiak Island, Alaska, to resume archeological excavations at
Larsens Bay, where work was carried on 2 years ago.

At the end of May, Dr. C. Lewis Gazin, assistant curator of verte-
brate paleontology, assisted by George Sternberg, began work in the
Pliocene and Pleistocene formations of southern Idaho, particularly in
the Plesippus quarry near Hagerman. In August 1933 Dr. Gazin
and Dr. Remington Kellogg spent over a week at Governors Run, Md.,
searching Miocene deposits for remains of fossil cetaceans.

Dr. G. A. Cooper, assistant curator of stratigraphic paleontology,
visited Tennessee and Arkansas, where in Paleozoic localities he
collected much interesting material. A short trip by Dr. C. E. Resser,
curator, resulted in obtaining, among other fossils, a rare starfish
from the Ordovician rocks of Pennsylvania.

James Benn, aid in geology, assisted by other members of the
geological staff, collected an excellent slab from the Calvert Cliffs
of Chesapeake Bay for the exhibition series. He also obtained in the
vicinity of Washington a group of Lower Cretaceous lignite logs.

Dr. W. F. Foshag, curator of mineralogy, traveling under the
Roebling fund, examined the pegmatite pocket at Topsham, Maine.
EK. P. Henderson, assistant curator of physical and chemical geology,
under the Canfield fund, in company with Frank L. Hess, of the
United States Bureau of Mines, in June studied the pegmatites of
16 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

the spruce-pine district of North Carolina and obtained good exhibi-
tion and study material.

Dr. W. L. Schmitt, curator of marine invertebrates, was again
invited by Capt. G. Allan Hancock to accompany an expedition to the
Galapagos Islands and the coasts of northwestern South America
and Central America on the yacht Velero IJI. The party left Los
Angeles on December 30, 1933, and the cruise terminated on March 15,
1934. The new localities visited and the superior dredging equipment
provided by Captain Hancock resulted in an unusually valuable
collection, adding particularly to knowledge of the carcinological
fauna of the regions covered.

Dr. D. C. Graham, of Szechwan, China, resumed explorations in
the mountains of western China, making many valuable collections,
chiefly of mammals and insects, at altitudes as high as 15,300 feet;
and Dr. Hugh M. Smith, of Bangkok, Siam, continued to gather
large and valuable collections of animals from various parts of that
country, which have added materially to the Museum’s representation
of the Siamese fauna.

Capt. Robert A. Bartlett, during the course of the Norcross-
Bartlett expedition, made extensive gatherings for the Museum of
marine vertebrates from Baffin Land northward to Fury and Hecla
Straits.

Dr. Alan Mozley, awarded the Walter Rathbone Bacon traveling
scholarship under the Smithsonian Institution for the study of land
and fresh-water molluscan fauna of Siberia, made a 3-months’
expedition through the forest steppe south of Omsk. As during the
previous year, he spent the winter in Edinburgh working on his
collections.

Dr. G. S. Myers and E. D. Reid, of the division of fishes, continued
field work in Virginia collecting fishes with a view to preparing a report
on the fishes of that State. Dr. Paul Bartsch, curator of mollusks,
as In previous years, made a short trip to the Tortugas to inspect the
Cerion colonies planted there.

Except for a few days given by E. C. Leonard to collecting plants in
the mountains of Virginia, North Carolina, Tennessee, and West
Virginia, the only botanical field work during the year was that of
Jason R. Swallen, assistant botanist in the section of grasses, under
the Department of Agriculture, who visited Brazil to search for grasses.
This work was still in progress at the close of the year and was already
yielding excellent results, both in extending the ranges of many
species and in the discovery of new ones.

During the summer of 1933, Prof. C. E. Burt, of Southwestern
College, Winfield, Kans., was engaged in field work for the Museum
with a view to collecting a series of turtles in the southern Appalachian
system to settle certain taxonomic and zoogeographical problems.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 17

The results were eminently successful, and many turtles, other rep-
tiles, and amphibians were obtained for the collection.

MISCELLANEOUS

Visitors —Visitors to the various Museum buildings totaled
1,463,375 during the year, an increase of 36,017 over the previous
year. Attendance in the several buildings was recorded as follows:
Smithsonian Building, 232,183; Arts and Industries Building, 622,090;
Natural History Building, 507,948; Aircraft Building, 101,154.

Publications.—As no funds were available for publications other
than the annual report, the published output of the Museum was
confined to material sent to the printer before July 1, 1933, but ap-
pearing after that date. This consisted of 2 Bulletins, 8 Proceedings
separates, and 1 separate from the Contributions from the United
States National Herbarium. Volumes and separates distributed
during the year to libraries and individuals throughout the world
aggregated 35,127 copies.

Under the supervision of the editor of the Museum, work was
begun and well advanced on the preparation of a comprehensive
index to all the publications thus far issued by the Museum, from
1875 to date.

Special exhibitions —The year was notable for the number of special
exhibitions held, the foyer of the Natural History Building being
almost continuously occupied by a series of 15 exhibitions sponsored
by various educational agencies, such as the American Forestry
Association, Save the Redwoods League, the American Association
of Museums, the Public Schools of the District of Columbia, the
Model Aircraft League, as well as several Government departments.
In addition to these, 8 special exhibits of artists’ work and 10 of
photographic work were conducted by the division of graphic arts.

Organization and personnel changes.—The establishment of a central
disbursing office in the Treasury Department and the consequent
abolishment of the disbursing office of the Smithsonian at the end
of January necessitated a reorganization of the accounting and dis-
bursing work of the Museum. Nicholas W. Dorsey, disbursing agent,
on February 1 was given the title of accountant and auditor, and
Thomas F. Clark, his deputy, was made assistant accountant and
auditor.

The purchasing of heat hereafter from the Government’s central
heating plant, instead of producing it at the Museum’s own plant,
resulted in the abolishment of six permanent and several seasonal
positions in the power plant.

On July 1, 1933, Leonard C. Gunnell, formerly in charge of the
Regional Bureau of the International Catalogue of Scientific Litera-
18 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

ture (which was discontinued), was appointed assistant librarian in
the Museum for special bibliographic research.

William Blanchard Marshall, assistant curator of mollusks, was
retired, at his own request, on April 30, 1934, after 32 years’ service,
Harald A. Rehder being promoted to succeed him. Mr. Marshall’s
long association with the Museum was continued on May 1 by his
appointment as honorary associate in zoology. Likewise, Dr. Theo-
dore Sherman Palmer, retired biologist of the Bureau of Biological
Survey, was appointed honorary associate in zoology on August 1,
1933.

Other employees who left the service through operation of the
Civil Service Retirement Act were: Mrs. Nida M. Browne, preparator
(15 years’ service); John F. Brazerol, Isador S. Dyer, and Joseph G.
Adzema, senior mechanics (27, 22, and 9 years, respectively); Samuel
McDowell, blacksmith (17 years); August F. Broacker, Alexander
M. Cole, James W. Cornell, and Charles A. Sparks, guards (23, 15,
15, and 4 years, respectively—Mr. Sparks with a total of 35 years,
the last 4 with the Museum); Mrs. Ella Coleman, Mrs. Roxie A.
Burrell, Mrs. Fannie J. Smith, and Mrs. Margaret Hall, charwomen
(24, 23, 21, and 5 years, respectively); Scott Ambler and John F.
Pinkney, laborers (24 and 16 years, respectively).

Necrology.—The Museum lost through death 2 honorary and 6
active workers during the year, as follows: Edward Johnson Brown,
honorary collaborator, division of birds, on February 14, for many
years affiliated with the scientific work of the department of biology;
Edward William Nelson, honorary associate in zoology, on May 19,
for many years associated with the Government’s scientific explora-
tions and research; John Merton Aldrich, associate curator of insects,
on May 27 (21 years in Government service, the last 15 with the
Museum); Ruth Sherwood, stenographer and typist in the department
of arts and industries, on September 13 (15 years in Government
service, 13 with the Museum); George L. Weber, guard, on February
22 (16 years’ service); Mrs. Mary M. Lorance, charwoman, on Janu-
ary 28 (5 years); Mrs. Cassie Whiting, charwoman, on February 15
(10 years); and James P. Bourke, Sr., elevator conductor, on October
21 (15 years).

Respectfully submitted.

ALEXANDER WETMORE,
Assistant Secretary.
Dr. Cuarurs G. ABgor,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 2
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi-
ties of the National Gallery of Art for the fiscal year ending June 30,
1934.

Owing to the fact that the Gellatly collection occupies such a
large part of the Gallery, it was necessary to restrict the special
exhibitions. One of miniatures was held in the Gallery proper, and
two, which required wall space, were shown in the foyer through the
courtesy of the National Museum.

APPROPRIATIONS

For the administration of the National Gallery of Art by the
Smithsonian Institution, including compensation of necessary em-
ployees, purchase of books of reference and periodicals, traveling
expenses, uniforms for guards, and necessary incidental expenses,
$29,500.

THE NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART COMMISSION

The thirteenth annual meeting of the National Gallery of Art
Commission was held at the Smithsonian Institution on December 12,
1933. The members present were Dr. Charles G. Abbot, Secretary
of the Smithsonian Institution, who is an ex-officio member and also
the secretary of the Commission; Herbert Adams; Charles L. Borie,
Jr.; Joseph H. Gest, chairman; Frederick P. Keppel, John E. Lodge,
Frank Jewett Mather, Jr., and Edward W. Redfield. Ruel P.
Tolman, curator of the division of graphic arts, and acting director
of the National Gallery of Art, was also present.

Secretary Abbot was requested to communicate an expression of
the Commission’s sympathy to the families of Dr. William H. Holmes
and Charles A. Platt, who died April 20 and September 13, 1933,
respectively.

The Commission recommended the name of Mahonri Young to
the Board of Regents to fill the vacancy caused by the death of Dr.
William H. Holmes.

It also recommended to the Board of Regents the reelection for
the succeeding term of 4 years of the following members: George B.
McClellan, Frederick P. Keppel, and Charles L. Borie, Jr. The

111666—35——3 19

20 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

following officers were reelected for the ensuing year: Joseph H.
Gest, chairman; Frank Jewett Mather, Jr., vice chairman; and Dr.
Charles G. Abbot, secretary. The following were reelected members
of the executive committee for the ensuing year: Charles Moore,
Herbert Adams, and George B. McClellan. Joseph H. Gest, as
chairman of the Commission, and Dr. Charles G. Abbot, as secre-
tary of the Commission, are ex-officio members.

ART WORKS RECEIVED DURING THE YEAR

Accessions of art works by the Smithsonian Institution are as
follows:

Portrait of Julia Ward Howe (known as ‘‘The Battle Hymn
Portrait”’), by John Elliott (1858-1925). Presented by Mrs. Maud
Howe Elliott ‘‘for the collection of prominent Americans.”’

Portrait of Mrs. Albert J. Myer, by George P. A. Healy, acquired
through bill of sale from Miss Gertrude Walden Myer, to be delivered
at her death (which occurred June 4, 1934).

Plaster cast of heroic statue of Henry Clay, by Edmond T.
Quinn. Gift of the National Commission of Fine Arts, Washington,
D. C. This statue formed part of the George Washington Bicen-
tennial Exhibition at the National Museum in 19382.

Plaster model of figure from group entitled ‘‘ Patriotism”, by
Adolph Alexander Weinman. Gift of the sculptor, through the
National Commission of Fine Arts, Washington, D. C.

THE CATHERINE WALDEN MYER FUND

A bequest of the late Catherine Walden Myer of Washington,
D. C., who died February 8, 1922, established under the Smithsonian
Institution, a fund for the purchase of first-class works of art for the
use and benefit of the National Gallery of Art. The following
miniatures have been acquired through this fund:

Two Early American miniatures: Mrs. Alexander Rose, by John
Ramage, 1802; Mrs. Rose’s brother-in-law, by Archibald Robertson
(1765-1835); purchased from Dr. Arthur R. Guerard, Cranford, N. J.

Karly American miniature of an ‘Unknown Man”, by Edward
Greene Malbone (1777-1807), painted about 1798; purchased from
Mrs. Emily Nevill Jackson, London, England.

LOANS ACCEPTED BY THE GALLERY

Self portrait, by George Catlin (1796-1872), painted when the
artist was a young man; lent by Miss Mary Cogswell Kinney, New
York City.

Two miniatures of John Parke Custis and Martha ‘‘Patty”’ Custis,
children of Martha Washington, painted at Mount Vernon in 1772
by Charles Willson Peale (1741-1827); lent anonymously.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 21

An Early American miniature of Thomas Waties, by Charles
Fraser (1782-1860) ; lent by Miss Marie R. Waties, Washington, D.C.

Four miniatures: Virginia Casterton, 1918; Jane Casterton, 1923;
Miss Goss, 1910; and Mme. Tamaki Miura, 1918; lent by the artist,
Mrs. Eda Nemoede Casterton, Chicago, Ill.

A reproduction in silver, made in England about 1850, of a silver-
gilt wine pitcher attributed to Benvenuto Cellini; lent by Capt.
Frank O. Ferris, Ballston, Va.

Seven pieces of silver as follows: Hot-water kettle and stand,
old English (Britannia Standard), made in London by Paul Lamerie
in 1728; teapot, old Irish, made in Dublin by Mathew Walker in 1717;
four vegetable dishes and covers, made in London by Wakelin and
Taylor in 1791; and punch strainer made in Boston, Mass., by
Samuel Minott (1732-1803); lent by Mrs. George Morris, Washing-
ton, DC:

GALLERY LOANS RETURNED

The painting entitled ‘Indian Burial’’, by George de Forest Brush,
withdrawn by Mr. Brush for special exhibition of his works at the
Academy of Arts and Letters, New York City, was returned as a loan
to the Gallery May 4, 1934.

Five paintings, the property of the National Gallery, which were
on display in the office of the editor of Art and Archaelogy, of which
magazine the late director of the National Gallery, Dr. W. H. Holmes,
was art editor, were recalled on July 21, 1933. The paintings are:
Sheep, by Paul Dessar; Marine, by Edward Moran; The Villa Malta,
by Sanford Robinson Gifford; Waterfall, by Addison T. Millar;
Twilight After Rain, by Norwood Hodge MacGilvary.

The painting by Francesco Guardi (1712-1783) entitled ‘‘Ruins
and Figures”’, part of the Ralph Cross Johnson collection, lent to the
Art Institute of Chicago for its art exhibit in connection with the
Century of Progress Exhibition in Chicago, 1933, was returned
November 16, 1933.

The National Gallery’s part of the Institution’s exhibition at the
Century of Progress, Chicago, 1933, consisting of two water colors,
“The Maryland Fields”, by Wiliam H. Holmes (1846-1933), and
“The Canyon of the Belle Fourche, Wyoming, 1892”, by Thomas
Moran (1837-1926); one oil, ““A Quiet Nook”, by William Hart
(1823-1894); and two plaques of Solon-ware from the Alfred Duane
Pell Collection, were returned December 4, 1933.

LOANS BY THE GALLERY

Four pastels by Walter Beck, ‘The Mosby Triptych” and “Christ
Before Pilate”, were loaned to the Dayton Art Institute, Dayton,
22 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

Ohio, for an exhibition of the works of Mr. Beck during the months of
November and December 1933. Returned to the Gallery January 4,
1934.

The statue ‘‘The Greek Slave”, by Hiram Powers, was loaned
February 14, 1934, to the Cincinnati Art Museum, Cincinnati, Ohio,
for a special exhibition of the works of Hiram Powers. Returned
April 12, 1934.

The portrait of Mrs. Price, by William Hogarth, was loaned to the
Art Institute of Chicago, Chicago, Ill., for “‘A Century of Progress
Loan Exhibition of Fine Arts”, June 1 to October 31, 1934.

WITHDRAWALS BY OWNERS

The portrait of George A. Otis, by Gilbert Stuart (1755-1828),
was shipped August 11, 1933, to Roger Ernst, Brookline, Mass., at
request of the owner, Mrs. O. H. Ernst.

Two bronzes, ‘“‘A Teacher” and ‘An American Student”, by
Moses Wainer Dykaar (1884-1933), the property of Samuel Rappa-
port, Los Angeles, Calif., were returned to Mr. Rappaport through
Leon Brill, Jr., Washington, D. C., on January 22, 1934.

An oil painting entitled ‘‘Mother and Child with St. John”, by
Andrea del Sarto, was withdrawn July 7, 1933, by Mrs. E. E. Powell,
formerly Mrs. W. W. Powell, Washington, D. C., and Oxford, Ohio.

The portrait of the Honorable Richard Rush, copy by an unknown
artist from a portrait by T. W. Wood in the possession of the Smith-
sonian Institution, lent by Mrs. John Biddle Porter (Elizabeth
Rush), was withdrawn February 28, 1934, by Mrs. Frederick C.
Fearing (Elizabeth Porter Fearing), Bronxville, N. Y., who inherited
it from her mother.

SPECIAL EXHIBITIONS

An exhibition of works by Negro artists, sponsored by the Associa-
tion for the Study of Negro Life and History, Inc., including paintings,
drawings, water colors, block prints, wood carvings, etc., was shown
in the foyer of the Natural History Building from October 31 to
November 6, 1933.

An exhibition of 111 miniatures, the work of Charles Fraser (1782-
1860), American miniaturist, was held in the Gallery from March 7
to 27, 1934. Of these, 109 were received direct from an exhibition at
Charleston, S. C., the home of the artist, and 2 from Mrs. Benjamin
Huger Read, of Baltimore.

An exhibition of 32 water colors of the American Navy, by Lt.
Arthur E. Beaumont, U.S. N. R., was held in the foyer of the National
Museum from May 16 to 29, 1934.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 23

THE NATIONAL GALLERY REFERENCE LIBRARY

The work of reorganization in the library has been continued with
the services of one full-time assistant; from the first week in December
until the middle of February additional assistance was given by a
part-time C. W. A. worker. Cataloging and classifying has been con-
tinued, and considerable time has been given to book selection and
ordering, to transferring publications, to checking missing parts in
serial publications, to reference work, and to the making of bibli-
ographies on subjects pertaining to art.

The collection has been increased by over 700 publications.

OTHER ACTIVITIES

The Harriet Lane Johnston collection, which has been shown with
other miscellaneous works of art, now occupies a smaller gallery by
itself.

A selection of early and contemporary American miniatures were
on exhibition.

Two cases of Japanese, Chinese, and Korean porcelains from the
Alfred Duane Pell and H. Foster Bain collections were arranged for
display in the Ralph Cross Johnson Room.

The acting director was detailed to Chicago from July 21 to August
19, 1933, to study the art collections at the Century of Progress
Exposition, 1933, and to visit and examine the various art museums
and galleries en route. Galleries were visited at Pittsburgh, Pa.;
Columbus, Dayton, and Cincinnati, Ohio; Indianapolis, and Notre
Dame University, South Bend, Ind.; Chicago, Ill.; Muskegon, Grand
Rapids, Lansing, Ann Arbor, and Detroit, Mich.; Toledo, Cleveland,
and Youngstown, Ohio; Buffalo, Rochester, and Elmira, N. Y.; and
Harrisburg, Pa.

In preparation for an exhibition in the National Gallery of mini-
atures by Charles Fraser, which was being shown at the Gibbes
Memorial Art Gallery, Charleston, S. C., the acting director was
detailed from February 12 to March 3, 1934, to visit Charleston for
the purpose of examining and studying the collection there, and
arranging for the shipment to Washington of such of the miniatures
as were available through courtesy of their owners. Visits were
made to points farther south, examining galleries and museums at
Savannah, Ga.; Sarasota, Orlando, and St. Augustine, Fla.

PUBLICATIONS
Totman, R. P. Report on the National Gallery of Art for the year ending

June 30, 1933. Appendix 1, Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution for the year ending June 30. 1933, pp. 13-21.
24 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

Lopcs, J. E. Report on the Freer Gallery of Art for the year ending June 30,
1933. Appendix 2, Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution for
the year ending June 30, 1933, pp. 22-26.

Seymour, Rautpu, and Riees, ARTHUR STANLEY. The Gellatly Collection, by
Ralph Seymour and Arthur Stanley Riggs. Art and Archaeology, vol. 35,
no. 3, pp. 109-125 and 144, 28 illustrations, May—June, 1934. Also reprint.

Catalogue: Exhibition of Works by Negro Artists at National Gallery of Art,
Smithsonian Institution. Sponsored by the Association for the Study of
Negro Life and History, Washington, D. C., October 31 to November 6, 1933;
4 pp., privately printed for the association.

Catalogue of an Exhibition of Paintings by Arthur Beaumont, Lieutenant,
U.S. N. R., ‘Our Glorious Navy.” Privately printed, 4 pp., 1 illustration.

Respectfully submitted,

R. P. Touman, Acting Director.
Dr. C. G. ABzort,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 3
REPORT ON THE FREER GALLERY OF ART

Str: I have the honor to submit the fourteenth annual report on
the Freer Gallery of Art for the year ending June 30, 1934:

THE COLLECTIONS

Additions to the collections by purchase are as follows:
BOOKBINDING

34.17. Persian, sixteenth century. Qur‘dn binding: dark brown leather (out-
side) and light brown leather (inside). Decoration in gold tooling,
gold cut-work, and gold painting. One panel, 0.375 by 0.246.  ‘(Illus-
trated.)

BRONZE

34.3-34.14. Chinese, early Chou dynasty (1122-255 B. C.). A group of 12
blades for shafted weapons, excavated at An-yang, Honan Prov-
ince. Of various forms and sizes, decorated and plain. One
inlaid with mother-of-pearl.

34.21. Chinese, T‘ang dynasty, seventh to tenth century. A gilt bronze box

(0.245 by 0.095 by 0.051), with the cover wrought in an open-work
floral design.

CERAMICS

34.2. Chinese, Ch‘ing dynasty, early eighteenth century. Reign of Yung
a-b. Chéng, Ku Yiieh Hstian type. Porcelain bowl (0.053 by 0.102), thin,
translucent, white. Decoration: plum-blossoms in reserve in a ground

of raspberry red enamel. Mark under foot. Ivory stand.
34.18. Persian, thirteenth century, Rhages (Raiy) type. Pottery inkstand
(0.077 by 0.109), with four pen sockets. White matte glaze; decor-
ated with seated figures and bands of inscription in over-glaze enamels.

GLASS

33.13. Syrian (Arabic), fourteenth century. Large bowl (0.210 by 0.350) of
clear blown glass, of grayish amber tint. Decoration includes a frieze
of animals on the shoulder, a fabulous bird (szmurgh) on the bottom
inside, and an inscription inside—in polychrome enamels and gold;
series of borders in gold line work. (Illustrated.)

34.19. Syrian (Arabic), fourteenth century. Vase (0.362 by 0.234) with two
large and two small handles, of clear blown glass of grayish amber tint.
Decoration in polychrome enamels and gold. (Illustrated.)

25
26 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

34.20. Syrian (Arabic), fourteenth century. Bottle (0.497 by 0.248) of clear
blown glass of grayish amber tint. Decoration including an inscrip-
tion on the shoulder in polychrome enamels and gold. (Illustrated.)

GOLD

33.10-33.11. Chinese, T‘ang dynasty, seventh to tenth century. A pair of
iron ‘‘sleeve-weights”’ in the form of plaques (0.069 by 0.064),
overlaid with sheet gold repoussé in medium and high relief and
inlaid with jade.
MANUSCRIPT

33.5. Armenian, ninth to tenth century. The Gospel according to St. Mark
and St. Luke (both incomplete). Brown-black vertical uncials on 113
parchment leaves (0.311 by 0.235) plus 1 paper leaf. Illuminated
title page (St. Luke), paragraphs (112) and ornamented initials (112).

PAINTING

33.8. Chinese, Sung dynasty, thirteenth century. By Chao Méng-chien.
Narcissus: ink on a paper scroll (0.3815 by 0.766). Signed.

33.9. Chinese, late Sung dynasty, thirteenth to fourteenth century. By Chéng

Ssti-hsiao. Orchid: ink on a paper scroll (0.254 by 0.945). Signed.

34.1. Chinese, Ming dynasty, fifteenth to sixteenth century. By Shén Chou.
River landscape: ink and tints on a paper scroll (0.265 by 1.311).
Signed.

33.12. East Christian (Byzantine), early twelfth century. Frontispiece to

St. Luke’s Gospel: St. Luke writing, seated before a lectern. In
delicate color on a gold ground (worn) on paper (0.175 by 0.139).
34.15. Indian, seventeenth century, Mughal-Rajput. A woman at prayer: an
album picture in delicate colors and gold on paper (0.185 by 0.065).
34.16. Indian, early seventeenth century, Rajput, Rajasthini. A wife awaiting
her husband’s return: an illustration from the AmaruSsataka; in colors
and slight gold on paper (0.140 by 0.165).

33.6. Persian, sixteenth century, style of Shah Quli. Kneeling figure of an angel
as a cup-bearer: in ink, slight tint and gold on paper; illuminated
double border (0.1938 by 0.108). (Illustrated.)

33.7. Persian, sixteenth century, Safavid. Standing figure of a youth in a blue
coat: in opaque colors and gold on paper, with contemporary border
(0.159 by 0.069). (Illustrated.)

Curatorial work within the collection has been devoted to the
study of Armenian, Chinese, Japanese, Arabic, and Persian texts
associated with recent acquisitions, and to the studies ordinarily
associated with the cataloging and exhibition of objects of Oriental
fine arts, including the recent acquisitions. During the past year
708 objects and 433 photographs of objects were submitted to the
curator by other institutions or by private persons for an opinion as
to their identity, provenance, and historical or esthetic value. Five
inscriptions were submitted for translation. Reports on these things
were sent to owners or senders. Two early Arabic alphabets in
Kufic script of the ninth and twelfth centuries have been compiled
and reproduced. Gallery Book IV, with descriptive notes of the
Secretary's Report, 1934.—Appendix 3 PLATE 1

z , <7 = aie ce os 7S

CSRS AM COT

|
H
e

‘eon

33.7

SOME RECENT ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS OF THE FREER GALLERY OF ART.
ne

,
&
ya
-

S400 wae gyal

‘
»
* 0 bier Pe

'
i) a - moment =

av
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 27

Indian collection on view, is almost completed. Cataloging of the
Chinese books in the library is being revised.
Changes in exhibition have involved a total of 165 objects, distrib-

uted as follows:

American paintings and prints, 118.

Arabic mss. 13.

Arabic painting, 1. °

Chinese bronzes, 18.

Chinese porcelain, 1.

East Christian painting, 1.

Japanese screens, 4.

Persian paintings, 7.

Persian pottery, 1.

Syrian glass, 1.

AUDITORIUM

Several local organizations have met.in the auditorium and have
been given an illustrated talk by a staff member, preliminary to a
view of exhibitions in the galleries above.

November 14.—Twentieth Century Club, Art Section: Arts and Cultures of the
Near East. Attendance, 51.

February 10.—Women’s Club of Chevy Chase, Art Section: Chinese Arts.
Attendance, 39.

May 19.—District of Columbia Library Association: Christian and Islamic Mss.
Attendance, 98.

May 14.—The American Federation of Arts, in annual convention, held one
session at the reer Gallery to commemorate the one hundredth anniversary of
the birth of James NeNeill Whistler. For them a special Whistler exhibition
was arranged in Galleries VIJI-XII. Attendance, 157.

ATTENDANCE

The Gallery has been open every day from 9 until 4:30 o’clock,
with the exception of Mondays, Christmas Day, and New Year’s
Day.

The total attendance of visitors coming in at the main entrance
was 117,340. The total attendance for week days exclusive of
Mondays, was 77,810; for Sundays 39,530. The ratio of about 3 tol,
which for several years has existed between Sunday and week-day
attendance was maintained, the average Sunday attendance being
760, the average week-day attendance, 250. As heretofore, the high-
est monthly attendance was reached in April (22,232) and August
(11,265). The lowest monthly attendance this year was in February
(5,423).

The total attendance on Mondays was 23, making a grand total
of 117,363.

There were 2,754 visitors to the offices during the year. Of these,
84 came for general information, 444 to see objects in storage, 64 to
examine the building and installations, 229 to study in the library,
28 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

55 to see the Washington Manuscripts, 13 to make tracings and
sketches from library books, 32 to get permission to make photo-
graphs and sketches, 342 to examine or purchase photographs, 115
to submit objects for examination, and 608 to see members of the
staff.

Sixty-eight groups, ranging from 1 to 98 persons (total, 565), were
given docent service upon request (of these, 2 groups of 3 persons
were given docent service on Monday), and 17 groups, ranging from
1 to 17 persons (total, 180) were given instruction in the study rooms.

FIELD WORK

Last autumn we began the disbanding of our field expedition in
China and recalled Mr. Bishop to this country, where he arrived in
April.

It cannot be said that our attempt to prosecute scientific archeology
in China has been the sucess for which we hoped. On the other hand,
it has not been by any means a failure, as the results of our surveys
and excavations clearly show. We have to our credit a moderate
amount of positive scientific achievement, while on the negative side
we have demonstrated to my entire satisfaction that under the present
disturbed conditions it is not practicable to continue archeological
investigations in China.

PERSONNEL

Mrs. Myron W. Whitney worked at the Gallery between October
11, 1933, and June 25, 1934, on translations of Arabic and Persian
inscriptions.

Y. Kinoshita, mounter, returned to the Gallery on October 31,
1933, after a 4 months’ visit to Japan.

Mr. and Mrs. Carl Bishop left China for this country on March 17,
1934.

John Pinkney, laborer, retired on May 1, 1934, after nearly 14
years of continuous and faithful service.

Respectfully submitted.

J. EK. Lopas, Curator.

Dr. C. G. Aszor,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 4
REPORT ON THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the field
researches, office work, and other operations of the Bureau of Ameri-
can Ethnology during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1934, conducted
in accordance with the act of Congress approved June 16, 1933. The
act referred to contains the following item:

American ethnology: For continuing ethnological researches among the Ameri-
can Indians and the natives of Hawaii, the excavation and preservation of
archeologic remains under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution, in-
cluding necessary employees, the preparation of manuscripts, drawings, and
illustrations, the purchase of books and periodicals, and traveling expenses,
$50,000.00.

SYSTEMATIC RESEARCHES

M. W. Stirling, Chief, devoted the early part of the year to office
routine and to the preparation of manuscript relating to past re-
searches. When the Civil Works Administration began to expand
its relief program, opportunity was taken to give work to a number
of especially equipped unemployed in the translation of manuscript
and rare printed material in foreign languages and to the typing and
copying of a considerable quantity of rare manuscript material in the
archives of the Bureau which has been in danger of disintegrating
because of age.

On December 11, 1933, Mr. Stirling left Washington for Florida to
supervise archeological projects which he had proposed in connection
with the Federal Civil Works Administration relief program. After
conference with Civil Works Administration officials at Tallahassee
and Jacksonville, work was conducted in the excavation of mounds
and habitation sites in the vicinity of the south fork of the Little
Manatee River near Bradenton, Fla., and on Perico Island near the
mouth of the Manatee River. A sand burial mound was excavated
at Englewood in the southern part of Sarasota County. On the
eastern coast of Florida, work was conducted on Canaveral Island,
at Miami Beach, and at Ormond Beach. In the central part of the
State a large site near Belle Glade in the vicinity of Lake Okeechobee
was excavated. Because of the amount of labor which it was possible
to utilize, much information was obtained which will help to clear up

the problems of Southeastern archeology.
29
30 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

During the same period, Mr. Stirling took the opportunity of over-
seeing the work conducted under the auspices of the Bureau of
Ethnology at Macon, Ga., where a large and important mound group
was being excavated with the cooperation of the Macon Historical
Society. On May 5, Mr. Stirling returned to Washington where he
worked on the preparation of the collections obtained during this field
work and on the preparation of reports on the different excavations.

Upon the death of the late Gen. Hugh L. Scott, his valuable mate-
rial on the sign language of the American Indians was added to the
Bureau archives. Richard Sanderville, Blackfoot Indian, who had
been one of General Scott’s principal informants, was brought to
Washington in order to go over this material and to supplement it in
places which appeared lacking. Opportunity was also taken to make
additional motion pictures and a general photographic record of the
sign language with Mr. Sanderville as model.

During the earlier part of the year Dr. John R. Swanton, ethnolo-
gist, completed the bulletin on the languages of certain Texas tribes,
of which mention was made in his last report. This includes all of
the linguistic material known to be in existence, both published and
unpublished, from the Coahuiltecan, Karankawan, and Tamaulipecan
stocks, i. e., all of the Indian tongues of Texas west and south of the
Atakapa and Tonkawa, and extending as far into Mexico as the
boundaries of the Huastec and Uto-Aztecan tribes.

The remainder of his office work, aside from correspondence, has
been devoted mainly to the handbook of Southeastern Indians, men-
tioned in previous reports. The present draft of this work contains
about 1,200 typewritten pages.

At the end of February Dr. Swanton went to Macon, Ga., at the
invitation of the Society for Georgia Archaeology, to attend its first
meeting and take part in its activities as indicated elsewhere. He
remained at Macon for about 3 weeks, visiting archeological sites both
in the immediate neighborhood and in other parts of Georgia and
making some attempts to locate the route pursued by De Soto in
crossing the State in 1540. Dr. Swanton thinks there is little doubt
that the crossing point on the Oconee has been identified with the old
trail crossing at Carr Shoals, a few miles above Dublin.

Dr. Truman Michelson, ethnologist, devoted the bulk of his
time to preparing a paper entitled “The Linguistic Position of
Nawaéinanina™.” This consisted of going over Kroeber’s published
material and establishing the phonetic shifts of the language. It
also meant codifying in final form a number of Cheyenne shifts which
he had partially worked out in previous years. It also involved
clarifying some shifts in Arapaho and Atsina. The special novelty
consists in showing how at least certain Algonquian languages became
divergent simply by the operation of complex and far-reaching
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 31

phonetic shifts. The manuscript was completed before the end of
the fiscal year. Toward the close of the fiscal year Dr. Michelson
was engaged in working out the phonetic shifts in Natick, an extinct
Algonquian language, on the basis of Trumbull’s Dictionary.

During the first 6 months of the fiscal year, Dr. John P. Harring-
ton, ethnologist, continued his field studies among the Mission Indians
of California, obtaining a rather exhaustive set of notes to accompany
the publication of the Boscana manuscript recently discovered by
him. It is the long-lost original of the only complete report ever
written by a Franciscan missionary on the ethnology of the Califor-
nia Indians. It was written by the Rev. Jeronimo Boscana at San
Juan Capistrano Mission on the cost of southern California in 1822,
and is a delightfully variant version of the Boscana account entitled
“ Chinigchinich ”, published in English translation by Alfred Rob-
inson as an appendix to his Life in California in 1846. The task of
taking this Spanish original to the oldest surviving Indians and elicit-
ing their comment on its many detailed statements proved fascinat-
ing and often went far beyond the scope of the original.

The following 5 months were spent in Washington, D. C., in elab-
oration of field material. A very literal and careful translation of
the newly found manuscript was made, and this translation was
published in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, vol. 92,
no. 4. Copy of the Spanish text has been prepared, and this with
the notes, which exceed several times the bulk of the manuscript, will
constitute a later publication by the Smithsonian.

Leaving Washington for California early in June, Dr. Harrington
spent 17 days with an old Indian informant who contributed much
to the Boscana notes and gave considerable other important infor-
mation. The end of the fiscal year found him still in the field.

Dr. F. H. H. Roberts, Jr., archeologist, was on leave of absence
from the Bureau during the months of July and August 1933. Dur-
ing this time he excavated the remains of a small village of the Pueblo
Itype. The investigations were carried on 344 miles south of Allan-
town, Ariz., on a portion of the site where researches were conducted
in the field seasons of 1931, 1932. The 1933 work was done under
the auspices of the Laboratory of Anthropology, Santa Fe, N. Mex.,
as a part of its program of field training for graduate students. The
Laboratory and the Bureau cooperated in the investigations of 1931
and the Bureau sponsored those of 1932. Despite its small size, the
village excavated in 1933 contributed valuable data on developments
occurring within a single phase in the history of the pre-Spanish
Pueblo Indians, and this knowledge is being incorporated in the large
report on the results of the previous years’ investigations at the site.

In the 2 months allotted to the work, two unit dwellings—one
consisting of 5 rooms and a subterranean ceremonial chamber,
32 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

the other containing 7 rooms and a ceremonial chamber—a third
underground structure, and several courts were excavated. The
refuse mounds were trenched and 24 burials with accompanying
mortuary offerings were uncovered. A few timbers used as roof
beams in the structures were sufficiently preserved to make possible
their dating by means of dendrochronology. These show that the
village was built and occupied between 800 and 850 A. D. Specimens
collected include pottery; stone tools, bone implements and orna-
ments; and some tiny beads made from shells, both red and white in
color, which make a string 37 feet 314 inches in length, one of the
longest ever found in the Southwest.

The autumn months were spent in office researches and routine.
Drawings were made to illustrate the report on the Arizona work.
Information was furnished in response to inquiries. Manuscripts
were written detailing various problems in southwestern archeology
and explaining the results of the Bureauw’s activities in that field.

Dr. Roberts left Washington December 16, 1933, for Pittsburg
Landing, Tenn., where he began work December 21, on a group of
mounds located on the old battlefield in Shiloh National Military
Park. The project was one of many sponsored by the C. W. A. and
provided for an extensive investigation. The work continued until
March 30, 1934. The site is located on a high bluff above the west
bank of the Tennesee River and les between two deep ravines through
which flow tributary branches of the main stream. It consists of 7
large mounds, 6 domiciliary and 1 burial, and numerous low eleva-
tions which mark the places where dwellings once stood. ‘To the west
of the area of occupation is an embankment, extending across the neck
of the bluff from one ravine to the other, indicating the former exist-
ence of a palisade which protected the community on that side.

Dr. Roberts returned to Washington April 2, and from that time
until June 80 worked over material from the Southwest and from
Shiloh.

On July 1, 1933, Dr. W. D. Strong, with the Smithsonian expedi-
tion in northeastern Honduras, was returning from a muleback and
airplane reconnaissance of the interior between Trujillo and Teguci-
galpa. The party returned to Trujillo on July 7, having located a
considerable number of important and hitherto unknown ruins of
Chorotegan type on the overland traverse. Collections were packed
and shipped from Puerto Castilla and Dr. Strong reported in
Washington July 18.

From that date until December he was occupied in sorting and
classifying the Honduras ethnological and archeological collections
and commencing a report on the Bay Island reconnaissance. At the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 33

same time work was resumed on the report dealing with the stratified
archeological horizons excavated on Signal Butte the year before.
On December 11, 1933, Dr. Strong left Washington to take charge of
archeological excavations at Buena Vista Lake, Kern County, Calif.,
made possible by a grant from the Federal Civil Works Administra-
tion. This work lasted until March 30, 1984. The excavations
yielded a mass of specimens and detailed stratigraphic data bearing
on the prehistoric human occupation of the great southern valley of
California. Winslow M. Walker, who acted as assistant director on
the excavations, is preparing a report on this work.
- Beside the main excavation work at Buena Vista Lake a series of
week-end reconnaissance trips to the Cuyama Valley yielded infor-
mation on the prehistory of the eastern Chumash. A large burial
ground and several village sites were excavated. The prehistoric
house type in this border area seems to have been a round or ovoid
earth-lodge, with from two to four central posts and no entrance pas-
sage. One house of this sort, early historic in time, had a flue up one
side, reminiscent of Pueblo house types. At the close of the C. W. A.
excavations a small party, under Dr. Strong’s direction, made a sur-
vey of caves and village sites in the Santa Barbara Mountains west of
the Cuyama Valley, and in the Hurricane Deck region of the Sisquoe
River. Considerable perishable material from caves, data on a num-
ber of village sites, and some interesting pictographs were obtained
on this trip. The culture of the eastern Chumash, as revealed by
these valley and mountain sites, seems to have been intermediate
between that of the coastal Chumash and Island Shoshonean culture
and that of the Lake Yokuts. Particularly interesting is the fact
that the eastern Chumash cultural remains are particularly close to
those recovered from the older of the two kitchen middens excavated
on Buena Vista Lake.

Dr. Strong returned to Washington May 1, 1934, and resumed
work on the Signal Butte and Bay Island archeological reports.

Winslow M. Walker, associate anthropologist, unable to resume
field researches because of the provisions of the Economy Act, instead
devoted his time to a systematic examination and classification of the
manuscript material collected by the late Dr. Cyrus Thomas relating
to Indian mounds. These notes and reports were then refiled accord-
ing to geographical location in the manuscript division. Some
unpublished notes belonging to the late James Mooney were also
found which contained data about archeological sites in various parts
of the Cherokee country, and these together with a series of maps
prepared by Mr. Mooney in the field were revised with the helpful
34 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

assistance of Mrs. Mooney, and made available for the use of any
students interested in that section of the Southeast.

About the middle of December 1933 Mr. Walker left Washington
to assist Dr. Strong in the direction of an archeological exca-
vation project near Taft, Calif., made possible by a grant from the
Federal Civil Works Administration. The site chosen consisted of
two large shellmounds on the shore of Buena Vista Lake, known to
the early Spanish explorers as the Yokuts village of Tulamniu.
These mounds and a portion of the adjoining hill tops were made the
object of systematic excavations lasting until the end of March 1934,
employing a large number of men taken from the local relief rolls, as
well as a number of experienced students from the University of
California, and a staff of technical specialists. As a result a large
amount of information was obtained about the construction and
occupation of the shellmounds and the burial places of some 600 of
their former inhabitants, and about 4,500 specimens were collected
illustrating their material culture. Indications are that the inhabit-
ants of the later mound are closely related in culture to the shell-
mound builders of the San Francisco Bay region, some of whom may
have worked their way up the San Joaquin Valley, until they ap-
peared in historic times as the lake tribes of the Southern Yokuts.

Following the closing of the C. W. A. work early in April, Mr.
Walker also accompanied Dr. Strong on a 2-weeks’ packing trip into
the Santa Barbara Mountains mentioned above.

Mr. Walker returned to Washington the latter part of April and
has since been engaged in the classification and study of the material
collected in preparation for a report on the ancient Yokuts village
site of Tulamniu.

During the fiscal year ending June 30, 1934, J. N. B. Hewitt,
ethnologist, was engaged in office work. The time was devoted to
the revision and literal and free translation of native texts in the
Mohawk, the Cayuga, and the Onondaga languages, relating not only
to the several institutions of the League of the Iroquois, but also to
the traditional accounts of the events leading to its establishment,
with traditional biographies of the founders and their antagonists,
and also those relating to the legendary origin and development of
the Wind or Disease Gods and as well those relating to the Plant or
Vegetable Gods.

In the writings of many historians of the tribes of the Iroquois,
there is a constant occurrence of the terms “elder ” brothers, tribes,
and nations, and “younger” brothers, tribes, and nations. These
phrases have often been employed to show the tribal or racial descent
of one Iroquois Tribe or people from another. Mr. Hewitt was able
to demonstrate that the eldership or juniorship of tribes or nations
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 35

or political brothers among the Iroquois peoples has quite a differ-
ent signification, these terms being courteous forms of address of an
institutional nature, which bars completely the historical inferences
or deductions so frequently made from them.

Mr. Hewitt was also enabled as a result of his studies to assign to
their proper place and function the seven wampum strings utilized
by the Iroquois in the Farewell Chant of the Condolence and Instal-
lation Convocation of the League of the Iroquois.

As the representative of the Smithsonian Institution on the United
States Geographic Board and as a member of its executive committee
Mr. Hewitt attended 10 regular and 4 special meetings of the Board
and also 10 regular and 6 special meetings of the executive com-
mittee. On April 17, 1984, the President, by Executive order,
abolished the United States Geographic Board, transferring its paid
personnel of three members to the Interior Department, with the
records and other property of the Board.

EDITORIAL WORK AND PUBLICATIONS

The editing of the publications of the Bureau was continued
through the year by Stanley Searles, editor. The following publica-
tions were issued during the year ended June 30, 1934:

Forty-eighth Annual Report. Accompanying paper: General index, annual
reports of the Bureau of American Ethnology, vols. 148 (Bonnerjea). v,
1,221 pp.

Fiftieth Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology to the Secretary
of the Smithsonian Institution, 1932-83. 7 pp.

Publications distributed totaled 14,761.

LIBRARY

The reference library has continued under the care of Miss Ella
Leary, librarian. The library consists of 30,701 volumes, about
17,095 pamphlets, and several thousand unbound periodicals. Dur-
ing the year 310 books were accessioned, of which 34 were acquired
by purchase, the remainder being received through gift and ex-
change; also 102 pamphlets and 3,130 serials, chiefly the publica-
tions of learned societies, were received and recorded. The cata-
loging kept pace with the new accessions, and some progress was
made in cataloging ethnologic and related articles in the earlier
serials, 3,840 cards being added to the catalog. A considerable
amount of reference work was done in the usual course of the
library’s service to investigators and students, both those in the
Smithsonian Institution and others.

111666—35-—-4

36 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

ILLUSTRATIONS

Following is a summary of work accomplished by E. G. Cassedy,
illustrator, for the Bureau.

Water-color drawings —.-.-___ =... eee fal
Tine drawings 22 fe ee eee ee ee ee ee ee 64
Stippleldrawings oo ee ee See eee eee 50
Wiashidrawingss2= 22.1252 5e 228 ee eee ee ee 4
Crayon drawings. 42.20 2 ee ee eee all
Graphs’ 22. 22 Sa oe ee eee 38
IMSS ii 2 st ee ee eee 13
mettering JobS222 20) See Ee ee eee eee 206
Layouts—sizing, lettering, and assembling-___-_____________ 119
Retouched drawings-_-——— 2 =. ee ee 35
Tra Cin gs 2222 2 = 2 a ee ee 2
Retouched photos 2228 ee ee eee 8
Restored negatives:= oie 2 Soa eS ee eee eae 8
COLLECTIONS
Accession
number

123372. Skeletal material from a burial site near Sarasota, Fla. (1 specimen).

125140. Archeological material from various sites in Louisiana, Georgia, and
Mississippi, collected by W. M. Walker during the fall of 1982 (63
specimens).

125892. Archeological and human skeletal remains, alSo some bird bones and
four incomplete dog skeletons, collected in Arizona by Dr. F. H. H.
Roberts, Jr., during the seasons of 1931 and 1932 (662 specimens).

126484. Hthnological material from the Sumu and Miskito Indians collected by
Dr. W. D. Strong while on a recent expedition to Honduras, also
some natural history specimens (438 specimens).

128084. Ethnological specimens from Australia and Papua presented to the
Bureau by Joel H. DuBose (18 specimens).

129974. Archeological and skeletal material collected by F. M. Setzler from
August 20 to November 1, 1933, from mounds and village sites
within the Marksville Works, near Marksville, La. (1,772 speci-
mens).

MISCELLANEOUS

During the course of the year information was furnished by mem-
bers of the Bureau staff in reply to numerous inquiries concerning
the North American Indians, both past and present, and the Mex-
ican peoples of the prehistoric and early historic periods. Various
specimens sent to the Bureau were identified and data on them fur-
nished for their owners.

Personnel—Miss Marion Illig, junior stenographer, resigned on
December 11, 1933.

Miss Edna Butterbrodt was appointed junior stenographer on
June 1, 1934.

Respectfully submitted.

Dr. C. G. Axzsor,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

M. W. Srirurine, Chief.
APPENDIX 5
REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera-
tions of the International Exchange Service during the fiscal year
ended June 30, 1934:

Congress appropriated $39,054 for the International Exchange
Service, $38,500 of which was included in the regular appropriation
act and $554 in a deficiency act, the latter being for the purpose of
restoring on February 1, 1934, 5 percent of the 15-percent economy
reduction in salaries. The above appropriation is a decrease of
$2,571 from the actual amount expended for the service during the
previous year. The repayments from departmental and other
establishments aggregated $3,805.27, a decrease of $1,423, making
the total resources available for conducting the service during the
year $42,859.27.

The number of packages that passed through the service during
the year was 675,980, a decrease of 44,229. These packages weighed
a total of 624,741 pounds, a decrease of 9,966 pounds.

The table below gives the number and weight of the packages
arranged under certain classifications.

Packages Weight
Sent Received Sent Received

Pounds | Pounds

United States parliamentary documents sent abroad -_-------- S41 520) bee OONSH2h| Ensen ee
Publications received in return for parliamentary documents_|_--------- ON32s aes eet ee 27, 724
United States departmental documents sent abroad _--------- 1OOKO19) (2a ee ee IPENGYY | PE eee
Publications received in return for departmental documents-_-|_------_-- 73 4183/2 Sees 27, 983
Miscellaneous scientifie and literary publications sent abroad_| 162,924 |___._-__-__- 22ANG65} |Gaaaeee ==
Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications received
from abroad for distribution in the United States___________|---------- ea iy oe 120, 920
Obes eae 0 2 oe IS ee Sea es isan ole sae 604, 463 71,517 | 448, 114 176, 627
Grandttotalall'packares*handled! =. == 2252 ee ee 675,980 624,741

The total number of boxes shipped abroad was 2,342, a decrease of
346. Of these boxes, 441 contained full sets of United States official
documents for authorized foreign depositories and the remainder
(1,901) were filled with publications for miscellaneous establishments
and individuals. The number of packages sent abroad by mail was
57,859, a decrease of 22,271.

37
38 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

As stated in a previous report, the clearance of consignments
arriving at the port of New York for the Smithsonian Institution
was attended to from 1850 to July 1, 1923, by an official in the United
States Customhouse. On the latter date the work was taken over
by the Coordinator of the Second Area in New York City. The
Office of the Coordinator subsequently having been abolished, the
Institution appointed its own agent August 1, 1933. On April 1,
1934, the Smithsonian Agency in New York was discontinued and
the duties were assumed by the United States Government Despatch
Agent. Foreign consignments intended for the Institution and its
branches therefore now should be addressed as follows:

Smithsonian Institution,
Washington, D. C.
c/o United States Despatch Agent,
45 Broadway,
New York, U. 8S. A.

Vittorio Benedetti, who for many years had ably served the Royal
Italian Office of International Exchanges in Rome, was reinstated in
July 1929, after a separation of 3 years, as chief of that office. In
July 1933 he advised the Institution that, having passed the age
limit, he had been retired. The service rendered by Mr. Benedetti
in promoting the cultural relations between Italy and the United
States is inestimable.

FOREIGN DEPOSITORIES OF GOVERNMENTAL DOCUMENTS

The total number of sets of United States official publications sent
to foreign depositories is 112, of which 62 are full and 50 partial.
A complete list of the depositories is given in the report for 1931.

INTERPARLIAMENTARY EXCHANGE OF THE OFFICIAL JOURNAL

The number of foreign legislative bodies and other governmental
establishments to which the Congressional Record is forwarded under
the terms of the convention for the immediate exchange of the
official journal is 104. A list of the States taking part in this imme-
diate exchange, together with the names of the establishments to
which the Record is mailed, will be found in the report for 1931.

FOREIGN EXCHANGE AGENCIES

The Government of New Zealand advised the Institution under
date of June 1 that the Exchange Agency for that country had been
changed from the Dominion Museum to the General Assembly
Library in Wellington.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 39

The Chinese Bureau of International Exchange, which has been
conducted under the direction of the Academia Sinica in Shanghai
since 1930, was placed under the National Central Library in Nan-
king on July 1, 1934.

There is given below a list of the agencies abroad through which
the distribution of exchanges is effected. Many of the agencies for-
ward consignments to the Institution for distribution in the United
States.

LIST OF EXCHANGE AGENCIES

ALGERIA, via France.

ANGOLA, Via Portugal.

ARGENTINA: Comision Protectora de Bibliotecas Populares, Calle Callao 1540,
Buenos Aires.

AustTRIA: Internationale Austauschstelle, National-Bibliothek, Augustinerbastei
6, Wien, I.

AZORES, via Portugal.

Be.oium: Serviee Belge des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Royale de
Belgique, Rue du Musée, 4, Bruxelles.

Botivia: Oficina Nacional de Estadistica, La Paz.

Brazit: Servico de Permutacdes Internacionaes, Bibliotheca Nacional, Rio de
Janeiro.

BRITISH GUIANA: Royal Agricultural and Commercial Society, Georgetown.

BriTIsH HonpurAs: Colonial Secretary, Belize.

Buua@ariA: Institutions Scientifiques de S. M. le Roi de Bulgarie, Sofia.

CANADA: Sent by mail.

CANARY ISLANDS, via Spain.

CHILE: Servicio de Canjes Internacionales, Biblioteca Nacional, Santiago.

CHINA: Bureau of International Exchange, National Central Library, Nanking.

CoLoMBIA: Oficina de Canjes Internacionales y Reparto, Biblioteca Nacional,
Bogota.

Costa Rica: Oficina de Depésito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, San
José.

Cusa: Sent by mail.

CZECHOSLOVAKIA: Service Tchécoslovaque des Echanges Internationaux, Biblio-
théque de l’Assemblée Nationale, Prague 1-79.

Danzig: Amt ftir den Internationalen Schriftenaustausch der Freien Stadt
Danzig, Stadtbibliothek, Danzig.

DENMARK: Service Danois des Echanges Internationaux, Kongelige Danske
Videnskabernes Selskab, Dantes Plads, 35, Copenhagen VY.

DutTcH GUIANA: Surinaamsche Koloniale Bibliotheek, Paramaribo.

Ecuapor: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Quito.

EeypT: Government Press, Publications Office, Bulag, Cairo.

EsTon1A: Riigiraamatukogu (State Library), Tallinn (Reval).

FINLAND: Delegation of the Scientific Societies of Finland, Kasiirngatan 24,
Helsingfors.

FRANCE: Service Francais des Echanges Internationaux, 110 Rue de Grenelle,
Paris.

GERMANY: Amerika-Institut, Universititstrasse 8, Berlin. NW. 7.

GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND: Messrs. Wheldon & Wesley, 2, 8, and 4 Arthur
Street, New Oxford Street, London, W. C. 2.
40 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

GREECE: Bibliothéque Nationale, Athens.

GREENLAND, via Denmark.

GUATEMALA: Instituto Nacional de Varones, Guatemala.

Hartt: Secrétaire d’Etat des Relations Extérieures, Port-au-Prince.

Honpuras: Biblioteca Nacional, Tegucigalpa.

Hungary: Hungarian Libraries Board, Ferenciektere 5, Budapest, IV.

IcELAND, via Denmark.

InpraA: Superintendent of Government Printing and Stationery, Bombay.

IraLty: R. Ufficio degli Scambi Internazionali, Ministero dell’ Educazione
Nazionale, Viale del Re, Rome.

JAMAICA: Institute of Jamaica, Kingston.

JAPAN: Imperial Library of Japan, Uyeno Park, Tokyo.

JAVA, via Netherlands.

Korea: Sent by mail.

Latvia: Service des Hchanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque d’Etat de Lettonie,
Riga.

LiperIA: Bureau of Exchanges, Department of State, Monrovia.

LITHUANIA: Sent by mail.

LourENcCO MARrQuEz, via Portugal.

LUXEMBURG, via Belgium.

MADAGASCAR, Via France.

MaApDgErIrRA, Via Portugal.

Mexico: Sent by mail.

MozAMBIQUE, Via Portugal.

NETHERLANDS: International Exchange Bureau of the Netherlands, Royal
Library, The Hague.

New SoutH WALES: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.

New ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.

NiIcARAGUA: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Managua.

Norway: Service Norvégien des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque de
lV’Université Royale, Oslo.

PALESTINE: Hebrew University Library, Jerusalem.

PANAMA: Sent by mail.

PARAGUAY: Secci6n Canje Internacional de Publicaciones del Ministerio de
Relaciones Exteriores, Estrella 563, Asuncion.

Peru: Oficina de Reparto, Depdsito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones,
Ministerio de Fomento, Lima.

Potanp: Service Polonais des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Nationale.
Ul. Rakowiecka 6, Warsaw.

PorTUGAL: Seccao de Trocas Internacionaes, Biblioteca Nacional, Lisboa.

QUEENSLAND: Bureau of Exchanges of International Publications, Chief Secre-
tary’s Office, Brisbane.

RuMANIA: Bureau des Echanges Internationaux, Institut Météorologique Cen-
tral, Bucharest.

SALVADOR: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador.

Sram: Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok.

Sout AvustTraLtiA: South Australian Government Exchanges Bureau, Govern-
ment Printing and Stationery Office, Adelaide.

Spain: Servicio de Cambio Internacional de Publicaciones, Paseo de Recoletos
20, bajo derecha, Madrid.

SUMATRA, via Netherlands.

SweEDEN: Kongliga Svenska Vetenskaps Akademien, Stockholm.

SwirzERLAND: Service Suisse des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Cen-
trale Fédérale, Berne.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 4l

SyrraA: American University of Beirut.

TASMANIA: Secretary to the Premier, Hobart.

TRINIDAD: Royal Victoria Institute of Trinidad and Tobago, Port-of-Spain.

TUNIS, via France.

TuRKEY: Robert College, Istanbul.

UNION or SoutH Arrica: The Government Printer, Box 38738, Pretoria, Trans-
vaal.

UNION OF SoviET SoOcIALIST RepuBLics: Academy of Sciences, Birzhevaya L. 1,
Leningrad VY. O.

Uruauay: Oficina de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Ministerio de Rela-
ciones Exteriores, Montevideo.

VENEZUELA: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.

Victoria: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.

Yuaostavia: Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Belgrade.

Respectfully submitted.
C. W. SHOEMAKER,
Chief Clerk.

Dr. C. G. Aszor,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 6

REPORT OF THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera-
tions of the National Zoological Park for the fiscal year ended June
30, 1934.

The regular appropriation made by Congress for the maintenance
of the park was $180,000. There was a reduction, mainly impound-
age for positions vacant, of $4,778. The total expenditures for the
year were about $175,200.

ACCESSIONS

Gifts——A number of important gifts during the year have enriched
the collection appreciably. W. E. Buck, of Camden, N. J., presented
an electric catfish. From the Mount Vernon Ladies Association,
through Colonel Dodge, were received a pair of Virginia deer. Wil-
ham LaVarre, of New York City, presented a pair of rare white
tayra cats.

From the Ringling Brothers-Barnum & Bailey Circus was received
the Indian elephant “ Babe”, a famous animal that had traveled
with the circus for 51 years. She was presented at the afternoon
performance on May 16, through Samuel W. Gumpertz and Robert
Ringling.

Dr. Knowles Ryerson, of the Department of Agriculture, collected
in Puerto Rico and presented a specimen of the rare and attractive
Anolis cuviert.

DONORS AND THEIR GIFTS

Paul Achstetter and Hugh Claggett, Washington, D. C., 4 blue-tailed skinks,
spiny lizard.

Messrs. Acton and Williams, Riverdale Fire Department, Riverdale, Md.,
alligator.

A. M. Agelasto, Washington, D. C., 2 spotted gourami.

R. M. Allen and Ernest C. Weise, Washington, D. C., tarantula, scorpion.

Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co., Store No. 310, Washington, D. C., common boa.

C. C. Baker, Washington, D. C., tarantula.

Howard Ball, Washington, D. C., pintail.

H. Walter Barrows, Takoma Park, Md., green snake.

Pierce Beach, Silver Spring, Md., opossum.

Otto Benesh, Washington, D. C., blacksnake.

Dean F. Berry, Orlando, Fla., coral snake.

D. G. Blake, Washington, D. C., opossum.

42
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 43

W. F. Boldridge, Rixeyville, Va., 2 barn owls.

Mrs. J. S. C. Boswell, Alexandria, Va., king snake.

H. A. Bowie, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Mrs. James Broadmore, Washington, D. C., yellow-fronted parrot.

Warren Buck, Camden, N. J., electric catfish.

Dr. Charles E. Burt, Winfield, Kansas, 5 snapping turtles, 20 box tortoises, 37
painted turtles, 34 musk turtles, 4 six-lined race runners, hog-nosed snake,
golden eagle.

E. A. Candidus, Morsemere, N. J., armored catfish.

V. F. Cannon, Washington, D. C., bald eagle.

F. G. Carnochan, New York, N. Y., 2 wood turtles.

Claude T. Carpenter, Washington, D. C., diamond-back rattlesnake.

Carlyle Carr, Biological Survey, Gainesville, Fla., 2 coral snakes, horn snake.

Mrs. H. W. Clark, Washington, D. C., 2 Pekin ducks, 2 box tortoises.

J. B. Clark, Washington, D. C., alligator.

O. G. Clay, Washington, D. C., ring-necked pheasant.

Miss Myrabelle Clow, Washington, D. C., red fox.

W. F. Cochran, Washington, D. C., screech owl.

BE. 8. Cook, Washington, D. C., horned toad.

Miss Isabelle Cooke, Washington, D. C., pilot snake.

J. T. Cooke, Athens, Tenn., 2 ospreys.

“ Buzzie” and “ Sistie’’ Dall, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Malcolm Davis, Washington, D. C., 2 grass paroquets.

Charles F. Denley, Glenmont, Md., 2 ring-necked pheasants.

G. F. Dennis, Cherrydale, Va., broad-winged hawk.

Colonel Dodge, Mount Vernon Estate, Va., 2 Virginia deer.

Charles E. Eaton, Washington, D. C., red salamander.

R. K. Enders, Swarthmore College, Pa., 3 small red rodents.

Harry Feldinan, Washington, D. C., pied-bill grebe.

Mrs. A. E. Foot, Washington, D. C., 3 guinea pigs.

R. C. Frame, Washington, D. C., capuchin monkey.

Mrs. L. C. Frank, Chevy Chase, Md., 2 flying squirrels.

George Freeman, Bluemont, Va., great horned owl.

Langdon and Garland Fulton, Washington, D. C., burrowing owl.

Mrs. H. P. Gantt, Fort Hoyle, Md., banded rattlesnake.

Paul Hagdeson, Washington, D. C., woodchuck.

H. P. Hansberger, Washington, D. C., 3 copperheads.

Charles A. Harbaugh, Washington, D. C., blue jay.

G. A. Harlow, Culpeper, Va., 2 raccoons.

Dr. W. T. Harrison, National Institute of Health, Washington, D. C., 2 green
guenons.

B. C. Hayes, Washington, D. C., American barn owl.

N. S. Henrique, Habana, Cuba, Cuban boa.

R. Hess, Washington, D. C., ring-necked pheasant.

Roy Holmes, St. Petersburg, Fla., spider monkey.

T. B. Hopper, Washington, D. C., canary.

Mrs. Horton, Washington, D. C., Cuban parrot.

Miss Nan Hughes, Washington, D. C., double yellow-head parrot.

Mrs. Alice Jenks, Washington, D. C., yellow-naped parrot, double yellow-head
parrot.

W. Jennier, Cincinnati, Ohio, 30 horned lizards.

Vernon O. Kanable, Clarendon, Va., copperhead.

Mrs. Shunichi Kase, Washington, D. C., barred owl.
44 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

Mrs. Hazel Kenmeser, Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Mrs. Franklin Kenworthy, Purcellville, Va., white-crowned seed eater.

R. R. Klotz, Washington, D. C., broad-winged hawk.

TIrank Kothe, Washington, D. C., sparrowhawk.

Warren Krumke, Washington, D. C., green snake.

William LaVarre, New York, N. Y., 2 white tayra.

F. Leonard, Washington, D. C., common turkey.

Mrs. Jerome Lightfoot, Washington, D. C., albino bullfrog.

David Lynn, Washington, D. C., ring-necked pheasant, diamond-back terrapin.

James and John Magill, Athens, Tenn., 2 turkey vultures.

George EH. Malamphy, Georgetown, 8S. C., water moccasin, 2 copperheads, hog-
nose snake, red racer.

Mr. and Mrs. C. Manuel, Fairfax, Va., American black bear,

J. J. Marcotte, Chevy Chase, Md., golden pheasant, 6 ring-necked pheasants.

G. F. Marshall, Washington, D. C., Cuban parrot.

W. B. McCann, Washington, D. C., skunk.

Dr. Robert C. McCullough, Washington, D. C., red-shouldered hawk.

Henry J. McDermitt, Takoma Park, Md., great horned owl.

H. A. MclIlhenny, Avery Island, La., 6 blue geese, 4 lesser snow geese.

D. F. Miller and Tom Rowell, Washington, D. C., watersnake.

Miss Evelyn H. Miller, Washington, D. C., snapping turtle.

Peter Mills, Miami, Fla., gopher turtle.

Mitloff’s Market, Washington, D. C., common boa.

J. Mock, Washington, D. C., Reeve’s pheasant.

Dr. Carlton Morse, Watertown, Mass., mynah.

G. C. Moss, Newport News, Va., hog-nosed snake.

Miss Vera L. Munday, Silver Spring, Md., grass paroquet, canary.

J. R. Page, Greensboro, N. C., chicken snake.

Nelson and Robert Peach, Mitchellville, Md., sparrowhawk.

Petty and Jane Perkins, Washington, D. C., 2 Pekin ducks.

G. FE. Pollock, Skyland, Va., timber rattlesnake.

Harry B. Ragland, Washington, D. C., groundhog.

John L. Reh, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Loyd Reichard, Waynesboro, Pa., Florida pine snake, indigo snake, horn snake,
coral snake, grass snake or legless lizard.

A. G. Rhinehart, Washington, D. C., 3 horned lizards.

Ringling Bros.-Barnum & Bailey Circus, Indian elephant.

Norman Rovzar, Washington, D. C., garter snake.

Louis Ruhe, Inc., New York City, 5 mangrove snakes.

Mrs. Russell, Takoma Park, Md., opossum.

Ik. A. Ryerson, Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C., spiny-tailed
anolis.

Edward S. Schmid, Washington, D. C., 7 magpies, 2 marmosets, ostrich.

Mrs. Schribner, Washington, D. C., ring-necked pheasant.

Wilson Smith, Washington, D. C., vinegarone or whip scorpion.

R. E. Stadelman, Tela, Honduras, 12 Lepidophyma lizards.

Charles Stebbins, Washington, D. C., gray fox.

Miss Stewart, Washington, D. C., 2 grass paroquets.

A. J. Stout, Washington, D. C., red-crowned parrot.

Andrew Tenley, Washington, D. C., raccoon.

L. E. Thrift, Woodbridge, Va., barred owl.

Dr. Tytus Ulke, Washington, D. C., tree frog.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 45

United States National Museum, Washington, D. C., hybrid canary.

Guy van Dyne, St. Petersburg, Fla., Florida diamond-back rattlesnake.

Robert Wallace, Washington, D. C., red-tailed hawk, Florida king snake, 3 water
snakes, garter snake, blacksnake.

Lester Walters, Washington, D. C., barn owl.

Mrs. Charles Warren, Washington, D. C., orange-cheeked wax-bill, Swainson’s
bronzed mannikin.

H. F. Watson, Washington, D. C., alligator.

E. H. Wood, Parksville, S. C., 61 Florida cooters, 10 painted turtles.

W. B. Wood, Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C., 2 horned lizards.

Maj. G. R. Young, Portsmouth, Va., bald eagle.

Source unknown: 3 Reeve’s pheasants.

Exchanges.—A concave-casque hornbill was obtained from Louis
Ruhe, Inc., New York City. From the South Australian Acclimati-
zation Park, Adelaide, Australia, were received an elegant paroquet,
2 Bourke’s paroquets, 2 Cape Barren geese, a blue-tongued lizard, a
monitor, and 2 vulpine phalangers.

Purchases.—Important purchases during the year at prices that
made them practically gifts were 3 white-lipped peccaries from R. E.
Stadelman, Tela, Honduras; the rare Komodo dragon from Lawrence
Griswold and William Harkness, New York City; and a maned wolf,
collected in South America by Dr. S. A. Daveron, Baltimore, Md.
There was also purchased an aard-vark and a gerenuk, the first of
their kind ever exhibited in the park.

Births.—There were 40 mammals born and 19 birds hatched in the
park during the year. These include the following:

MAMMALS

Scientific name Common name No.
AMMO LRA SUSM CTV Ae ee eee, AOU ee eee ee al
/NSTG [Siete > d (SE Mes SO I ce ee INS GIST IG (tee 3
EST SOW USO TR eae eee ee aaa a CERN ad ke ‘American bison22=—=2- = — == 2
STE ULU SPAb UL ae Serre eratneriree ee eeeerees Indian’ buttalo====— === 1
Cervus duVvaucelin. Se 28 a et Be Barasingha deéer_ == _ Sas al
HES) 227s C1 TNT ls eee ee ee te a Mallowadeere sso) sae eae 5
Dolehotisspatagonicats= =a ans ee ae Patagonian cavyeoses = 2
Dolichotishsalinicolas— 22 eee DD Walia Cayyeae aes eee 4
Houusquaicea chapmani2--) = 22 22 ee Chapman’s zebra_________ 1
DENS ES COST VS AS I ON oS ES Su AR YSDG Ne Seer oeee te 2
Eemitrasusejemlqhnicus= =.= eee Uy WET) Ot ages A Se tel Se 2
Ey ela phussp ORCINUS 2 == a tes eee ee Gog CeCr aaa Ss Eee al
JC oa heed Vy os ese, tap te en RR aes ee Vos Sir eae ae ee Pe al
IIE EECOY OY DIY Te DT ED ES ea ee A ae Great red kangaroo_______ 1
Odocoileusvincinianus= =. ee oe Wircinia deersees sansa 3
Ovisscana den sig eee Tey ES eres Rees ee Rocky Mountain sheep--_-___ 1
OViSHeCULOP ACU See ee ee ye Se @ I tayopilohaleeee eke SA 2
Sika nipponts= 2G ta west Perri eee aed ety Japanese deer____________ 6

(USS ery AGS nee lee a es Alaska Peninsula bear____ 1
46 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

BIRDS
Brantascanadensisas==— sees wee ee Canada goose_____------- 10
Gennaecusswinh0eiee! 626 EE Swinhoe’s pheasant__--_-- 1
Guaracalbacx Gs rubra 222) = 2 eo ease Tbis@ (hybrid) se ae 1
Payo Cristatus==-2=- === eee Peatowliise 4f_ atin 2
MaAeniOpyeiawcaStaNOtises= = ees ee Zebra (tinch2sa2s sae 5
REMOVALS

Deaths.—A large anaconda which had been in the collection since
July 25, 1917, died October 10, 1933, from a tumor. A South African
buffalo and an inyala died during the year. The inyala was the
only specimen of its kind on exhibit in the United States.

ANIMALS IN COLLECTION THAT HAD NOT PREVIOUSLY BEEN EXHIBITED

MAMMALS
Scientific name Common name
Chrysocyon jubatas22 9-2. = ee eee Maned wolf.
Icitocranius, walleri a2 7a ee eee Gerenuk, or giraffe gazelle.
Ornycteropus7sp === en eee eee Aard-vark.
Preshytes“obscura 222 = 2222 Sa ee eee a Dusky or crested langur.
BIRDS

INeophema: bourkd= 2 tase es Gee ee Bourke’s paroquet.
Spheniscus demersuss22. _ 2a eee eee Jackass penguin.

REPTILES
AmOli§ <CtUnVieris 224 = 22 At ees a ee, Spiny or saw-tailed anolis.
Varanus komodoensis=_<==-=3- 52532 _te ae Komodo dragon.

Statement of the collection

[Accessions]
Received On
Presented Born in exchange Purchased deposit Total
Mammals- 22232. shy aan 28 39 6 ya) 6 104
LEGS Seen eee 81 19 23 72 6 201
Reptiles te .oee. Sees 149) ee ee 2 222 25 391
Atmphibians:22- eae ee ON See Se caer ee ee Gy aoe ees 16
I ISHOS Seen to ee ees (ON rapes he See ele ui La 20" | Sees ese 24
ATAChnICSse=2-= has Nee: 6] SU LE See 2 ea eee 5
TIS C ES See ee een le eee SO a ee ea eee | ao ee ee 30
Crustaceans:2-32 2 ae St 1D (eee eee ee ee mage ti MAS See 27 Leo 5 oe Se Ee a 1
Total sea etee = es 264 88 31 352 37 772
Summary
Animalsvonshandidulyel) 1Ossaee ee eee 2, 496
Accessions, during the wyearse = se a ee V2
Motal/animalsany collection during years eee 3, 268
Removed from collection by death, exchange, and return of animals on
CLE OG TC Eel oo ee eNO 1, 030

Ine collection: June*3s0 1934 ee 2, 238
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY AZT

Status of collection

. Individ- . Individ-

Species anls Species aals
IMammalseasssee= aa osne aes 172 G4Q50| | MINSOCES saese ns ae ae eae ae 1 40
BITS 3 eee ee end 328 TO28p MC rUSCACEANS == == n= es 1 a
RED UGS tee oe ee ee eee 147 D208 PIEOHUSKs hea oe es seen uae nae 1 5
Amphibians 2e2s== sss) sean 24 69 SS
DRAG Cas oh ile es eda ee 31 76 otal == ee ee 707 2, 238
(Arachnid Sie see eee 2 4

There are fewer individuals in the list of the collection than last
year. Because of the crowded conditions no attempt has been made
to replace losses in certain groups that cannot be properly exhibited,
and numbers of fish, amphibia, and other very transient individuals
have not been listed.

The quality of the collection, however, is greatly improved, and
the park is exhibiting an unusual number of rare and interesting
species.

Visitors

DUT ee BS fe a, ZE2ZTSO0R® Wharch= eee ein See 70, 200
PAU SUS Garnet 2 ee PACT (ats 7-15 ee ees Oy i eee ne eee ne ee nee 2 Ba 999, 496
Septem erste sees es te ZhOVOOOE: beIM Rays sess ea ae 286, 800
October sss. a. 268 740 es eViinl eer ee eene sce Ae 2438, 020
INOVemDerst 22322 set oe, 103, 600 ————
WMecembers = 2 essa te 99, 600 Total visitors for

LSE ONES a Vd ce ae oS 84, 750 VCO Ves sea See 2, 978, 041
MeDRU aT yase ee == = ee 21, 150

The attendance of organizations, mainly classes of students, of
which there is definite record, was 34,445 from 586 different schools
in 20 States and the District of Columbia, as follows:

Number of | Number of Number of | Number of
State persons parties State persons parties

Connecticut=== == 232 4) || New. Jersey= —.-2------—-=— 2, 810 42
MM GIAW ATOR Me ee eee 263 alle Niowexiork= == Besser re 2, 798 21
District of Columbia_-_____ 8, 173 151 || North Carolina.-...-.---- 552 14
Georrigess2ss ese eee 26 i PNorthyDakovaees..se-— 43 1
linois#ese= 2 ee eet 106 dig! | ROW O=28= AS tee ee 305 7
Maine Semen ae eee ae 155 3u|lReennsylvaniassesess=o== 7, 305 125
Maryland 2 6, 773 106 || South Carolina Le 83 3
Massachusetts -_ _ __ 229 Gall Varoiniges soe es se 3, 699 80
Michigan 287 4 || West Virginia_-------.---- 420 8
IVSSOUTIMee ee 164 1 [== SS
New Hampshire 22 1 otal’ 2 28es2 Ser 34, 445 586

Observations of the numbers of automobiles from the District of
Columbia and the different States and countries has led to the taking
of a census each day of the cars actually parked in the park at one
time. From a total of about 35,000 cars it has been ascertained that
approximately 50 percent are from the District of Columbia, the re-
mainder including cars from every State in the Union, besides several
from each of the following possessions and countries: Alaska, Canal
Zone, Hawaii, Canada, and Panama.
48 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

IMPROVEMENTS

No funds were available for the construction of buildings, but for
the period July 1 to November 21, minor repairs to structures, paint-
ing, repairing walks, improving the grounds by needed clearing,
planting, making fills, and sodding, were carried out with labor
furnished by the Work Planning and Job Assignment Committee of
the District.

Beginning in November activities were considerably expanded
when the C. W. A. took over the supplying of labor, both skilled and
unskilled, and some money was made available for the purchase of
materials to be used on the projects. This permitted the undertaking
of a considerable volume of urgently needed work which could not be
previously attempted. The more outstanding repairs and improve-
ments undertaken with C. W. A. materials are as follows:

Project no.

1. Construction of brick smokestack at bird house to replace the metal one that
was in very bad condition.

2. Replacing old and unsatisfactory frame structure by a series of stone shel-
ters and new fence for antelope and wild sheep.

8. Construction of large cage at bird house to house Andean condors and
lammergeyers.

4. Grading of the wild-horse exhibition area and construction of shelters and
paddocks.

5. Replacing an unsafe wooden floor in the lion house with a concrete-terrazzo
floor.

6. Putting brick foundation under warehouse no. 2 to replace a badly decayed
wood foundation.

8. Laying 6-inch water main into the Director’s office and installing fire
hydrant near office.

11. Construction of one-fourth mile of 18-foot service road from the silver gull
cage to the bird house.

12. Grading, sodding, and protecting banks that were eroding, and otherwise
improving the grounds.

18. Revising of a topographic map of the National Zoological Park.

15. Arranging and indexing file of blueprints and maps in Director’s office.

16. Cataloging and arranging Zoo library.

18. Completing preparations of plans and specifications for a small mammal
house.

20. Revision of plans for the completion of the bird house.

30. Minor construction, improvements, and repairs, consisting of painting, re-
pairing, improving or replacing minor buildings, cages, fences, pools, pipes,
drainage and electric lines, etc., and resurfacing, improving and extending
roads, walks, trails, bridle paths, and grounds.

Bad winter weather conditions seriously delayed the progress of
the work. This left many of the jobs incomplete when the work sud-
denly terminated March 31, 1934. However, from April 1 to June
30 a limited amount of unskilled labor was assigned under the Work
Planning and Job Assignment Committee. During this period
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 49

efforts were devoted to the finishing up of the jobs that had been
undertaken under the C. W. A. and on June 30 all had been com-
pleted or practically completed with the exception of the lion house
floor, the mountain-sheep mountain, and a small stone house for
hardy animals.

Much ground improvement work was carried on. In the spring
the grounds improvement work was continued by the making of fills,
siding banks that were eroding, planting of grass seed, shrubs, and
trees, and a cleaning of the lawns of weeds that had become estab-
lished. over a long period of years and were doing serious damage.

Much still remains to be done in the way of repairs and small im-
provements such as the reroofing or rebuilding of small structures,
replacement of paddock fences that are in bad condition, construction
of pools, paddocks, and cages, and miscellaneous repairs.

All District officials with whom contact was had in the course of
the C. W. A. and Emergency Relief operations have been most help-
ful and relations have been pleasant at all times, and to their splendid
cooperation a large proportion of the success attained in the work can
be attributed. At the close of the fiscal year it is the understanding
that a limited amount of labor will continue to be available to the
park, and the plans contemplate a continuance of similar activities to
such extent as the character of labor and amount of materials available
will permit.

Through the kind help of Capt. H. F. Clark and other District
officials, steel was obtained from the Aqueduct Bridge that was being
demolished, second-hand bricks from old buildings being razed, and
new bricks from the Occoquan plant of the District. A number of
trees and shrubs were acquired through the kindness of Clifford
Lanham, superintendent of trees and parking.

NEEDS OF THE ZOO

These remain as in previous years. No important construction
of exhibition buildings has been possible.

The park itself is second to none in natural beauty. The two good
buildings, the bird house and the reptile house, are widely and favor-
ably known throughout the United States and, in fact, among z0o
enthusiasts throughout the world. The other buildings are quite as
widely known and the subject of unfavorable criticism by all who have
interest in and knowledge of zoological parks.

It has been shown that the number of visitors has greatly increased.
They come from every State in the Union, and from throughout the
world. It is felt that the interest in the National Zoo and the benefit
derived from it by these visitors warrants the completion of the entire
program that has been submitted year after year.
50 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

By comparison with work being done in other zoos we believe
these requests to be entirely reasonable, considering the Zoo not
only as a national institution but as one suitable for such a city as
Washington, D. C.

During the present year the appropriation has been $180,000.
Nearly 3,000,000 persons have visited the Zoo. It can be seen that
the cost per visitor is trivial. The one desire is to have exhibition
quarters so that the animals may be properly housed and displayed.

Respectfully submitted.

W. M. Mann, Director.

Dr. C. G. Apsor,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 7
REPORT ON THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Str: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi-
ties of the Astrophysical Observatory for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1934:

This observatory comprises: (a) The central station at Washing-
ton where apparatus is made and standardized; where reports are
computed, written, and published; where preparations for expedi-
tions are made; and where a general oversight is maintained of the
field stations. (6) A station on Mount Wilson near Pasadena, Calif.,
where brief expeditions for special researches go from time to time.
(c) A station on Table Mountain near Swartout, Calif., where daily
observations of the solar constant of radiation are carried on. (d) A
similar solar-constant station on Mount Montezuma, near Calama,
Chile. (e) A similar station on Mount St. Katherine near Mount
Sinai, Egypt. These stations are supported principally by annual
Government appropriations, but in a considerable part by private
funds.

WORK AT WASHINGTON

Messrs. Aldrich and Fowle and Mrs. Bond completed the statis-
tical analysis of the observations made at Mount Montezuma since
1932. Thereby an improved method of reduction was worked up,
which is now in regular use at Montezuma. Increased accuracy
over the former method has resulted.

Mr. Fowle’s revision of the Smithsonian Physical Tables has been
published as the Eighth Revised Edition, greatly enlarged. Much
favorable comment has come regarding it.

Director Abbot, with the assistance of Mrs. Bond, has continued

the study of solar variation with reference to weather changes.
Several papers thereon have been published.
' With the assistance of A. Kramer, mechanician, and Messrs.
Clark and McAlister of the Division of Radiation and Organisms,
Messrs. Abbot and Aldrich prepared an expedition to Mount Wilson
for the summer of 1934. The accomplishments of this successful
expedition will be reported in 1935.

WORK IN THE FIELD

The station at Table Mountain reported daily by telegraph the
solar-constant values obtained. These were communicated to
Science Service for daily international broadcasting.

111666—35——_5 51
ae, ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

The station at Mount Montezuma made daily observations. They
were not communicated daily, as formerly, until after the revised
method above referred to was finished. This was not until after the
close of the period covered by this report.

By the generosity of John A. Roebling, a new station on Mount
St. Katherine near Mount Sinai, Egypt, was occupied. By coopera-
tion of His Eminence the Archbishop Porphyrio III, the buildings,
consisting of the observatory and a nearby dwelling and shop, and the
approaches thereto over the excessively rough mountain were built
by the St. Katherine Monastery. The monastery also undertakes
to carry forward the supplies by camel train from Tor on the
Red Sea.

The station is at an elevation of about 8,500 feet in a wildly moun-
tainous region, destitute of vegetation and almost destitute of rain-
fall. It is difficultly accessible. The staff comprises H. H. Zodtner,
with wife and two infant children, and F. A. Greeley. Observations
were begun in December 1933 and have proceeded regularly. It is
yet too soon to be sure how satisfactory the meteorological conditions
will prove, but while the station is not equal to Mount Montezuma,
it is believed to be superior to Table Mountain in this respect.

PERSONNEL

No changes have occurred from last year’s list, except that Wilson
R. Maltby succeeded Walter Watson, Jr., as assistant at Mount
Montezuma on June 23, 1933, Mr. Watson reporting as assistant at
Table Mountain.

SUMMARY

A revised method of reduction of solar-constant observations
has been completed and applied at Mount Montezuma, resulting in
improved accuracy. The Eighth Revised Edition of the Smithsonian
Physical Tables, prepared by Mr. Fowle and greatly enlarged over
previous editions, has been published. Much progress has been
made in the study of the relations of solar variation to the weather.
Daily solar-constant values have been broadcast. A new solar-
constant observatory has been established at Mount St. Katherine
near Mount Sinai, Egypt.

Respectfully submitted.

C. G. Assot, Director.

The SrecrETARY,

Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 8

REPORT ON THE DIVISION OF RADIATION AND
ORGANISMS

Str: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activities
of the Division of Radiation and Organisms during the year ending
June 30, 1934:

The work of the year has been very fruitful. It was supported as
heretofore largely by a special grant from the Research Corporation of
New York. There has been no change in personnel excepting the
resignation of Miss Virginia Stanley, typist secretary, and the substi-
tution, part time, of Miss Ruth MacManus.

Most of the experiments of the Division are done with electric lights.
Mr. Hoover continued measurements on the absorption of carbon
dioxide from the air by wheat plants under the influence of radiation.
Using the Christiansen filters prepared by Messrs. McAlister and Clark
as described in last year’s report, Mr. Hoover was able to grow wheat
in rays comprising narrow bands of nearly homogeneous radiation of
various wave lengths between the ultraviolet and the infrared spectral
regions. These rays were of measured intensity; the temperature,
humidity, and chemical food of the plants were standardized; and the
absorption of carbon dioxide was recorded by automatic apparatus.
The results obtained were checked by growth experiments under
strictly monochromatic rays produced by the mercury are.

As a result a well-determined curve of photosynthesis, rising from
zero in the ultraviolet, reaching maxima at about 4400 and 6400
angstroms, and descending to zero in the infrared, has been deter-
mined.

Dr. McAlister assisted Mr. Hoover and the other members of the
staff in many physical manipulations, standardizations, and measure-
ments. He also, in cooperation with Dr. Wright, of the Department
of Agriculture, carried through a long series of measurements on the
effect of radiation on worm eggs. He also worked out for Director
Abbot the elements of a set of Christiansen filters covering the region
3300 to 10300 angstroms for use in stellar spectrum measurements at
Mount Wilson. With Dr. F.S. Brackett he made much progress in
the development of powerful apparatus for visible and infrared absorp-
tion spectral investigations.

Dr. E. S. Johnston, besides having immediate charge of the Divi-
sion, conducted growth experiments with special radiation on toma-

53
54 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

toes. Healso repeated and published measurements on phototropism
in oat coleoptiles. These measurements are of such extreme accuracy
in indicating the relations of sensitiveness of bending to wave length
that the curve seems to be accurate in much of its length to less than 2
percent. Dr. Johnston also carried through in the open sunlight a
series of experiments to determine the influence on wheat of modifying
the supply of carbon dioxide. The results are exceptionally striking
and will form a paper in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections.

Dr. Florence E. Meier continued experimental studies of the influ-
ence of different colored rays on the multiplication of the alga Sticho-
coccus bacillaris. Further check experiments are contemplated. She
published results on the lethal action of ultraviolet rays on Chlorella
vulgaris.

L. B. Clark made up many valuable designs of glass and electrical
appliances for all members of the staff and also for the staff of the
Astrophysical Observatory. His technical skill and wise counsel in
these fields were indispensable.

Dr. F. S. Brackett, part-time consulting physicist, made progress
in preparing apparatus for absorption spectral investigations, and
designed therefor very ingenious devices. Much of his time, however,
was absorbed in the preparation of an important technical monograph
on radiation measurements, to be published under the auspices of the
National Research Council. Dr. Brackett’s experience in such work
makes this contribution of extreme value.

Respectfully submitted,

C. G. Assot, Director.

The SEcRETARY,

Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 9
REPORT ON THE LIBRARY

Srr: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi-
ties of the Smithsonian library for the fiscal year ended June 30,
1934.

THE LIBRARY

The various libraries of the Smithsonian, which have come into
being one by one since 1846 to meet the developing needs of the
Institution and its affliated Government bureaus, comprise a library
system of well over 800,000 volumes, pamphlets, and charts. Its
chief unit is, of course, the Smithsonian deposit in the Library of
Congress; next in size and importance are the libraries of the United
States National Museum and the Bureau of American Ethnology.
The other units are the libraries of the Astrophysical Observatory,
Freer Gallery of Art, National Gallery of Art, National Zoological
Park, the Langley aeronautical library, Smithsonian office library,
radiation and organisms library, and the 35 working libraries in the
offices of the curators of the National Museum. Together they form
a cooperative system, with the deposit as the great central collection,
which, while to some extent more or less general in character, is for
the most part closely related to the special interests of the Institution
and its branches.

CHANGES IN PERSONNEL

On July 1, 1933, Leonard C. Gunnell, formerly assistant in charge
of the United States Bureau of the International Catalogue of Scien-
tific Literature (discontinued on June 30, 1933) was made an assistant
librarian and was assigned to certain bibliographical projects. Mrs.
M. Landon Reed, who had been a clerk for some years in the corre-
spondence division, retired the middle of the year, and her position
was filled by the transfer of Miss Josephine A. McDevitt from the
Bureau of the International Catalogue of Scientific Literature.

EXCHANGE OF PUBLICATIONS

The Smithsonian library has been built up partly—in the early
days—by the operation of the copyright law, partly by purchase and
gift, but chiefly by the exchange of the publications of the Institution
and those of its official branches for the publications of other learned
institutions and societies and for various scientific and technical
journals. During the fiscal year just closed the library received

55
56 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

22,020 packages, each containing one or more publications. Of
these, 20,044 came by mail and 1,976 through the International
Exchange Service, which is administered by the Smithsonian. KEs-
pecially generous sendings were received from the Académie Malgache,
Tananarive; the Deutsche Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften und
Kiinste fiir die Tschechoslowakische Republik, Prag; the Elisha
Mitchell Scientific Society, Chapel Hill; the Fiirstlich Jablonowskische
Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften, Leipzig; the Historische-Anti-
quarische Gesellschaft, Basel; the Societatea de Stiinte din Cluj,
Cluj; the Société Scientifique du Chili, Santiago; the Société Zoolo-
gique de France, Paris; the Société des Amis de l'Université de
Strasbourg, Strasbourg; and the Wochenschrift fiir Aquarien und
Terrarienkunde, Braunschweig. Four of these went far toward com-
pleting important sets in the Smithsonian deposit and six in the
library of the National Museum. Among the exchange items were
7,776 dissertations from the universities of Basel, Berlin, Bern, Bonn,
Breslau, Budapest, Cornell, Erlangen, Freiburg, Giessen, Greifswald,
Halle, Heidelberg, Helsingfors, Jena, Johns Hopkins, Kiel, Kénigs-
berg, Kéln, Leipzig, Liége, Lund, Marburg, Neuchatel, Pennsylvania,
Rostock, Strasbourg, Tiibingen, Utrecht, Wiirzburg, and Ziirich, the
Academy of Freiberg, and technical schools at Berlin, Braunschweig,
Dresden, Karlsruhe, and Ziirich. The number of letters written by
the library was 2,482, most of which had to do with its exchange
activities, its reference work for outside correspondents, and its
acknowledgment of gifts. It obtained 4,114 volumes and parts in
response to special requests from the various libraries of the Institu-
tion. It entered into 238 new exchanges, more than one-half of which
were in the interest of the libraries of the National Museum and
National Gallery of Art. It may be added that most of these pub-
lications were obtained and most of the new exchanges arranged for
without drawing further on the stock of Smithsonian publications.
It should also be said in passing that steps were taken late in the year
to increase this supply, as well as that of the National Museum, very
materially when the library staff, in collaboration with members of
the division of publications, sorted and sent back to stock thousands
of pieces—-many of them out of print—that had been returned as
duplicates from libraries throughout the country. This is the
second joint effort of the kind during the last 2 years and each has
both added substantially to the publications available for exchange
distribution and brought to light hundreds that were needed in the
regular library sets.
GIFTS

The gifts were numerous. They included a set, in 15 folio volumes,
of the Raccolta di Documenti e Studi Pubblicati dalla R. Commis-
sione Colombiana per Quarto Centenario dalla Scoperta dell’America,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 57

issued at Rome in 1892-96 under the auspices of the Ministry of
Public Instruction, from Otto H. F. Vollbehr; Algemeene en Byzon-
dere Natuurlyke Historie (1773), in 17 volumes, by Comte de Buffon,
from Morris M. Green; Cowboy Scrap Books, in 3 volumes, by L. Fred
Foster, from John H. Foster and Louise T. Foster Ramer; 22 books on
cycling and the bicycling era in England and America, from Albert
E. Schaaf; 19 publications on archeology, by Louis Speleers, from
the author; Journal of the American Osteopathic Association, volumes
1-19, from G. H. Snow; Journal of Osteopathy, 179 volumes and parts,
from H. E. Litton, editor; The Birds of Tropical West Africa, volume
3, by David Armitage Bannerman, from the Crown Agents for the Col-
onies; Lectures, Selected Papers, Addresses, by Cyrus Adler, from the
author; Teneriffe: An Astronomer’s Experiment, by C. Piazzi Smyth,
from John C. Bridwell; Some Aeronautical Music from the Collection
of Bella C. Landauer, from Mrs. Landauer; Harry Wearne: a Short
Account of His Life and Work, with 63 Reproductions of His Designs
in Full Color, from Harry Wearne, Inc.; Historic House Museums
(2 copies), from the American Association of Museums; The Folger
Shakespeare Library, from the Trustees of Amherst College; The
Reconstruction of Tokyo (2 copies), from Mayor Torataro Ushizukas;
The Elephant, 2 volumes, by Etsujiro Sunamoto, from the author—
the second copy presented by him; Navaho Weaving: Its Technic and
History, by Charles Avery Amsden, from Frederick W. Hodge;
Cave Life of Kentucky, by Vernon Bailey, from the author; The
Earth Upsets, by Chase Salmon Osborn, from the author; Indo-China.
a Sportsman’s Opportunity, by Archibald Harrison, from Francis
Burton Harrison; Japan and America: a Journey and a Political
Survey, by Henry W. Taft, from the author; Ruf, Haight, Eddy,
Sumner, Hatch, and Allied Families, from Mrs. Alpha H. Ruf; The
Benedicts Abroad, by Clare Benedict, from the author; Siam: Nature
and Industry, and Siam: General and Medical Features, from Hugh
M. Smith; The Development of the Peace Idea and Other Essays, by
Benjamin F. Trueblood, from Mrs. Benjamin F. Trueblood; Le Livre
d’Or de Victor Hugo . . . par des Ecrivains Contemporains, from the
Biblioteca Nacional, Buenos Aires. Among the gifts, too, were three
important ethnological works from the library of her late brother,
Daniel Folkmar, from Mrs. Etta F. Winter; a letter from R. R. Wal-
dron to Sarah J. Hale on the U. S. Exploring Expedition (Wilkes).
from Charles B. Hale; and several publications of a miscellaneous
character, from Haydn T. Giles. Other gifts included 789 publica-
tions from the Library of Congress, 373 from the American Association
for the Advancement of Science, 447 from the American Association
of Museums, 563 from the Bureau of American Ethnology, 25 from
the Anthropological Society of Washington, and several from the
Geophysical Laboratory. Gifts were also received from Secretary
58 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

Abbot, Assistant Secretary Wetmore, Mrs. Charles D. Walcott, R. S.
Bassler, E. A. Chapin, A. H. Clark, W. L. Corbin, W. F. Foshag, R.
Kellogg, W. R. Maxon, G. 8. Miller, Jr., G. S. Myers, A. J. Olmsted,
M. J. Rathbun, H. Rehder, and F. M. Setzler.

SMITHSONIAN DEPOSIT

The Smithsonian deposit is the original and main library of the
Institution. In 1866 this collection, then numbering 40,000, was
transferred to the Library of Congress, where it has been increased to
about 530,000 by regular sendings from the Smithsonian. Although
on many subjects, the collection is concerned chiefly with the natural
sciences and technology. It is especially complete in its files of the
reports, proceedings, and transactions of learned societies and institu-
tions, both American and foreign, and of scientific and technical jour-
nals and monographs.

During the past year the additions to the deposit from the Institu-
tion totaled 2,851 volumes, 9,596 parts of volumes, 5,185 pamphlets,
and 15 charts. They included 5,973 dissertations. Many documents
of foreign governments, addressed to the Institution but intended for
the documents division of the Library of Congress, continued to come,
especially by mail, to the Smithsonian library. They were forwarded
promptly. The number of publications sent to the deposit in re-
sponse to special requests was 2,255. Most of these were obtained
on the basis of exchanges already established; many more than usual
were found in the west stacks of the Institution as the result of the
progress made during the year by the library staff, assisted by several
competent C. W. A. employees, in organizing the collection of
duplicates.

NATIONAL MUSEUM LIBRARY

The library of the United States National Museum was increased
during the year by 14,842 publications, or 2,158 volumes, 11,699
parts of volumes, 965 pamphlets, and 20 charts. The library now
numbers 86,738 volumes and 111,713 pamphlets. Among the acces-
sions 1,593 were found in the Smithsonian duplicate collection, or
received in response to special-request letters; 505 were obtained by
transfer from the Library of Congress, and 77 by exchange from the
Public Library of the District of Columbia. Many of the others were
given by members of the scientific staff. The library prepared several
hundred volumes for the bindery but, owing to lack of funds, was able
to send only 128. The staff entered 11,731 periodicals, cataloged
3,111 publications, added 25,925 cards to the catalogs and shelf lists,
filed 6,160 cards of the Concilium Bibliographicum, sorted and assigned
to the sectional libraries thousands of others of this series, filed 463
cards of the Wistar Institute, and made 9,972 loans to the curators and
their assistants and 110 to other libraries. They also sent 5,310
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 59

publications to the sectional libraries of the Museum. They borrowed
2,553 from the Library of Congress and 570 elsewhere, and returned
2,600 to the Library of Congress and 592 to other libraries. They
advanced materially the reorganization of the technological library,
where important changes in physical equipment occurred during the
year. They also rendered the usual reference and informational serv-
ice to scientists both inside and outside the Institution and to the
general public.

The sectional libraries were unchanged. With the aid of a number
of C. W. A. employees, the staff made considerable progress in
cataloging their collections. These 35 libraries are as follows:

Administration Invertebrate paleontology
Administrative assistant’s office Mammals

Agricultural history Marine invertebrates
Anthropology Medicine

Archeology Minerals

Biology Mollusks

Birds Organic chemistry
Botany Paleobotany
Echinoderms Photography

Editor’s office Physical anthropology
Engineering Property clerk’s office
Ethnology Reptiles and batrachians
Fishes Superintendent’s office
Foods Taxidermy

Geology Textiles

Graphic Arts Vertebrate paleontology
History Wood technology
Insects

OFFICE LIBRARY

The office library consists of works of general reference, the publica-
tions of the Smithsonian and its branches, as well as of certain other
learned institutions and societies, and many books and periodicals of
more or less popular interest, including the collection once known as
the “employees’ library’’. In it, too, is the newly organized rare-book
collection. The accessions for the last fiscal year were 173 volumes,
732 parts of volumes, and 19 pamphlets. The number of volumes
bound was 100. The staff made 2,562 periodical entries, prepared 828
cards for the union catalog and 355 for the catalog of the technological
library, filed 1,505 cards. mounted 847 aeronautical clippings in
continuation of one of the projects begun under the C. W. A., an-
swered 181 reference questions, loaned 2,765 publications, and
received 2,439 visitors.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY LIBRARY

The library of the Bureau of American Ethnology has to do mainly
with the history, life, and culture of the early peoples of the Americas,
especially the Indians of North America. Besides the 30,701 volumes
60 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

and 17,095 pamphlets in the collection, there are several Indian vocab-
ularies and many manuscripts and photographs. The accessions in
1934 were 310 volumes and 102 pamphlets, most of which were
obtained in exchange for the publications of the Bureau. The
number of cards added to the catalog was 3,840, and of periodicals
entered 3,130. The loans were 980.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY LIBRARY

The library of the Astrophysical Observatory contains 4,567 vol-
umes and 3,828 pamphlets, chiefly on astrophysics and meteorology.
It was increased in 1934 by 80 volumes, 102 pamphlets, and 14 charts.
The number of periodicals entered was 1,216, of cards added to tne
catalog 647, and of volumes bound 60. The loans numbered 254.

RADIATION AND ORGANISMS LIBRARY

The additions to the library of the Division of Radiation and Organ-
isms were 7 volumes, 236 parts of volumes, and 2 pamphlets. The
collection now numbers 201 volumes, 12 pamphlets, and 6 charts.

LANGLEY AERONAUTICAL LIBRARY

The Langley aeronautical library, which since 1930 has been, for the
most part, deposited, under its own name and bookplate, in the
aeronautical division of the Library of Congress, received additions,
as usual, during 1934 from the Smithsonian Institution. These
totaled 581 publications—or 24 volumes, 521 parts of volumes, 12
pamphlets, and 24 charts—which increased the library to 1,978
volumes, 1,128 pamphlets, and 29 charts. Most of the rare items in
the collection once belonged to Samuel Pierpont Langley, or to one
of his well-known collaborators in aeronautics, especially Alexander
Graham Bell, Octave Chanute, and James Means. In the library
are sets of the early aeronautical periodicals and many valuable
photographs and letters. There is also a mass of newspaper clippings.
Classification of the clippings was begun during the year as one of the
C. W. A. projects. It is being continued by a member of the Smith-
sonian library staff.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART LIBRARY

During the year the library of the National Gallery of Art was given
more attention than usual by the regular staff, which was assisted
for a few weeks by one of the C. W. A. workers. At the close of the
year the collection numbered 2,131 volumes and 1,724 pamphlets,
having been increased by 453 volumes and 215 pamphlets. Many of
the additions were purchased; while 284 were received by transfer
from the Library of Congress, and 16 from the library of the National
Museum. The checking of the serial sets was continued, and missing
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 61

numbers were reported to the correspondence division of the Smith-
sonian library, with the result that 131 were obtained in exchange.
The staff entered 1,247 periodicals. They catalogued 1,003 publica-
tions, classified 459, and added 7,675 cards to the catalog and shelf
list, 3,725 of which they withdrew from the Museum files, where, for
lack of adequate help, they had been obliged to leave them—many
at least—since the days when the Gallery was a section of the National
Museum and its library one of the Museum’s sectional collections.
This work of reorganization has increased materially the usefulness
of the library as a reference tool in the activities of the Gallery. It
will be continued as trained assistants can be spared from their
duties elsewhere. The need of a full-time junior librarian in charge of
the collection has become fully apparent, and it is hoped that one can
soon be provided.

FREER GALLERY OF ART LIBRARY

The library of the Freer Gallery of Art has to do largely with the
culture and art of the Far East, India, Persia, and the nearer East.
Among its items are a number of important publications in Chinese
and Japanese, which supplement to a degree those in the oriental
division of the Library of Congress; also various books on American
painters—especially James McNeill Whistler, many of whose works
are in the Gallery—and on the famous fourth- and fifth-century
manuscripts of the Bible, known as the ‘‘ Washington Manuscripts”’,
which are owned by the Freer. The main collection has 4,971 vol-
umes and 3,465 pamphlets. The accessions for the year were 114
volumes and 66 pamphlets. The field collection remained essentially
unchanged, at about 800 volumes and 500 pamphlets. In their effort
to complete the cataloging of the library, the staff made noteworthy
progress. They catalogued 670 volumes and 87 pamphlets, added 2,985
cards to the catalog and shelf list, and prepared 646 cards for the
union catalog at the Smithsonian Institution. They also entered 145
periodicals, sent 22 volumes to the bindery, and rendered the usual
reference service.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK LIBRARY

The library of the National Zoological Park received special con-
sideration during the year. The entire collection was sorted, many
items not needed by the Park were transferred to the Smithsonian
Institution, and the rest were cataloged, entered, and arranged in
appropriate rooms of the administration building. In this con-
nection the staff, which consisted chiefly of C. W. A. workers, cata-
loged 2,088 volumes and pamphlets, filed 1,102 pamphlets roughly
according to subject, recorded 1,168 periodicals, added 2,505 cards to
the library catalog and shelf list, and prepared 1,718 others for the
62 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

union catalog at the Smithsonian. The library numbers 1,330
volumes and 1,860 pamphlets. The additions were 108 volumes and
1,450 pamphlets. Among these were 308 publications of the Smith-
sonian Institution and National Museum and 21 parts of the Pro-
ceedings of the Zoological Society of London that were missing from
the sets at the Park. These were obtained from the Smithsonian
library.
SUMMARY OF ACCESSIONS

The accessions for the year, which showed an increase of 3,527 over
1933, may be summarized as follows:

Library Volumes Famers Total

‘AstrophysicaliO bsenvalonyies= = ae ee een 80 116 196
iBuream ofvAmericanve thnologyes=—2 == s- oa a e ee 310 102 412
MreersGallery.of Art 2222) 2 eee Sis 2) ee ee eee 114 66 180
angleyxAeronaublcal mes. sesso ae a eee eee 24 36 60
IN AtIONalCG alll eryao fie Ar te a ae te 453 215 668
National) Zoologicaleparks22s 2'Sel2oiees Se he ee ae ee eee 108 1, 450 1, 558
Radiationtand’Orranisms sels... ee 7 Zz, 9
Smithsonian deposit, Library of Congress...__-_.------------------ 2, 851 5, 200 8, 051
Smithsonian Of cesseset a ee a eee Se ee ee 173 19 192
United'tStatess Nationals Museums 322s ee Ses SE ee es es 2, 158 985 3, 143

MM Gtals i082 AEE: Pete aly ses ee! Arnie eae 6, 278 8, 191 14, 469

At the close of the fiscal year the approximate number of items in
the Smithsonian library system, not including the many thousands
of volumes still uncataloged, unbound, and uncompleted, was as
follows:

WiOU MMOS hye. oe sehr er eae ROR aay hep ee cr ny not ng eg SE 597, 461
Pamphlets: 22 oo oe Soya oe nee ee ee ee ee eee ren 209, 586
@harts) sei ih es 2 eb ah ray SEP TS BR SPEDE ME Saar Seen a. Mem ea eee i 26, 699

Otel seo eps ees oe Lege Ss eee Ls Ae eke oe EEA te 833, 746

If the exempt items referred to above were included in the count,
together with the collections of reprints in the sectional libraries, the
total would, of course, be much larger.

C. W. A. AND OTHER SPECIAL ACTIVITIES

The distinguishing event of the year was the appointment for a
few weeks of 34 C. W. A. workers to assist the library staff. These
employees, trained and experienced for the most part, made notable
progress on the projects assigned to them, which were as follows:
(1) Arranging the duplicate and other unorganized scientific and tech-
nical publications, many in foreign languages, with a view to getting
them ready for the use of the library either in completing its sets or in
obtaining by exchange much needed publications from other libraries;
(2) preserving, putting in order, and making more quickly available
thousands of cataloged volumes and pamphlets on the shelves, by
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 63

(a) labeling those without adequate location marks, (b) putting un-
bound pamphlets into binders and lettering them appropriately, and
(c) making minor repairs, such as mending torn pages and tipping in
loose plates; (3) classifying and indexing a large collection of valuable
aeronautical material; (4) cataloging several special collections of
scientific pamphlets; (5) preparing a dictionary catalog of the pub-
lications of the Smithsonian Institution and its affiliated bureaus;
(6) making an index of the exchange relations of the library with other
libraries, both American and foreign; and (7) preparing a union dic-
tionary catalog of the publications in the various libraries of the
Institution.

Since the withdrawal of the C. W. A. employees, further progress
has been made on several of these projects by the regular staff, and
one has even been completed to date—namely, the catalog of Smith-
sonian publications. The completing of the rest of the projects, how-
ever, will probably require many years.

Several other important pieces of work were undertaken by the
staff. About 34,000 scientific reprints and pamphlets—many of
much value—-were selected from the material in the west stacks of
the Smithsonian Building and distributed to the curators concerned;
the Schoolcraft and Watkins collections were removed from the first
floor of the main building to the second and third floors, thus making
room for the growth of the botanical library; the organization of the
American duplicates and of a large part of the foreign was finished,
with the result that hundreds of important volumes and parts were
found that were lacking in the standard sets, especially of the Smith-
sonian deposit and the library of the National Museum; nearly 17,000
duplicate and other unwanted publications, mainly in the techno-
logical library, were sorted out and transferred to various Govern-
ment libraries where they would be of use, particularly the Library of
Congress and the libraries of the Department of Agriculture, Geologi-
cal Survey, Bureau of Mines, Office of Education, and Naval Research
Laboratory; many hundred Government documents not needed by
the library were returned to the Superintendent of Documents; about
1,800 dissertations, on medical and allied subjects, were sent to the
library of the Surgeon General; special exchange credit on new publi-
cations essential to the work of the Institution was further built up
by sending of duplicates to Harvard, Yale, Princeton, the University
of Pennsylvania, and the Marine Biological Laboratory at Woods
Hole, and a number of valuable items received in partial return; to
meet a need that has become increasingly apparent in recent years in
connection with the detailed study of the collections, a rare book sec-
tion was sect aside in the main hall of the Smithsonian Building where,
under lock and key, especially rare and valuable publications can in
the future be shelved; marked progress was made toward completing
64 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

the library’s eight sets of the publications of the Institution and its
bureaus, notably in consequence of the sorting and returning to stock
of a large accumulation of these publications that had been sent back,
as not needed, by college and other libraries throughout the country;
the three files of Library of Congress analytical cards for the publica-
tions of the Institution and its bureaus were practically completed to
date; the librarian sketched a book plate for the libraries of the Insti-
tution—which was turned into a finished design by the artist of the
Bureau of American Ethnology—showing the unity of the Smith-
sonian library system, as well as the wide variety of the libraries that
comprise it; finally, the union catalog was advanced as follows:

Volumesicatalo ce ciysei) iste ys Oa ye ee eh ee ee 8, 957
Pamphiets: cataloged 20%. 32) ives sei se ee See ee a eee 3, 070
Chartsycatalored! ai. 25> 2k ote sah ee ee 73
Typedicards addeditovcatalog and shelfslist==2 22252-22225 se ae 7, 229
Library of Congress cards added to catalog and shelf list-_-----_------ 36, 357

Respectfully submitted.
Wiuuram L. Corsin, Librarian.
Dri€: G. Assor,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 10
REPORT ON PUBLICATIONS

Str: I have the honor to submit the following report on the publi-
cations of the Smithsonian Institution and the Government branches
under its administrative charge during the year ending June 30,
1934,

The Institution published during the year 31 papers in the series
of Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, 1 annual report and
pamphlet copies of the 22 articles contained in the report appendix,
and 3 special publications. The United States National Museum
issued 1 annual report (published as part 2 of the Report of the
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution and as a separate there-
from), 2 complete bulletins, 1 part of a bulletin and 8 separates from
the proceedings. The Bureau of American Ethnology issued 2 annual
reports.

Of these publications, there were distributed 136,091 copies, which
included 104 volumes and separates of the Smithsonian Contribu-
tions to Knowledge, 59,905 volumes and separates of the Smith-
sonian Miscellaneous Collections, 21,306 volumes and separates of
the Smithsonian Annual Reports, 3,908 Smithsonian special publi-
cations, 35,127 volumes and separates of the National Museum pub-
lications, 14,761 publications of the Bureau of American Ethnology,
103 publications of the National Gallery of Art, 14 publications of
the Freer Gallery of Art, 40 Annals of the Astrophysical Observatory,
18 reports of the Harriman Alaska Expedition, and 805 reports of
the American Historical Association.

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS

Of the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, volume 85, there
was issued the title page and table of contents; volume 86, title page
and table of contents; volume 87, 3 papers and title page and table
of contents; volume 88, whole volume and title page and table of
contents; volume 89, 10 papers; volume 90, whole volume and
title page and table of contents; volume 91, 15 papers; and volume
92, 1 paper, making 31 papers in all, as follows:

VOLUME 85

Title page and table of contents. (Publ. 3175.)
65
66 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

VOLUME 86
Title page and table of contents. (Publ. 3215.)

VOLUME 87

No. 18. Sun spots and weather, by C. G. Abbot. 10 pp., 5 text figs. (Publ.
3226.) November 20, 1933.

No. 19. An Oligocene eagle from Wyoming, by Alexander Wetmore. 9 pp.,
19 text figs. (Publ. 3227.) December 26, 1933.

No. 20. Pliocene bird remains from Idaho, by Alexander Wetmore. 12 pp.,
8 text figs. (Publ. 3228.) December 27, 1933.

Title page and table of contents. (Publ. 3239.)

VOLUME 88

(Whole volume.) Smithsonian Physical Tables, eighth revised edition, pre-
pared by Frederick E. Fowle. 682 pp., 27 text figs. (Publ. 3171.) September
22, 1933.

Title page and table of contents. (Publ. 3240.)

VOLUME 89

No. 6. The classification of the free-living nematodes and their relation to the
parasitic nematodes, by I. N. Filipjev. 63 pp., 8 pls. (Publ. 3216.) March 20,
1934. (Errata sheet issued June 138, 1934.)

No. 7. Evidence of Indian occupancy in Albemarle County, Virginia, by
David I. Bushnell, Jr. 24 pp., 11 pls., 6 text figs. (Publ. 3217.) October 6,
1933.

No. 8. Morphology of the insect abdomen. Part II. The genital ducts and
the ovipositor, by R. E. Snodgrass. 148 pp., 48 text figs. (Publ. 3219.) October
20, 1933.

No. 9. New Arctie foraminifera collected by Capt. R. A. Bartlett from Fox
Basin and off the northeast coast of Greenland, by Joseph A. Cushman. 8 pp.,
2 pls. (Publ. 3221.) September 30, 1938.

No. 10. Studies of American species of foraminifera of the genus Lepidocyclina,
by Thomas Wayland Vaughan. 58 pp., 32 pls. (Publ. 3222.) December 4,
1933.

No. 11. Tertiary larger foraminifera of Venezuela, by Donald Winchester
Gravell. 44 pp., 6 pls. (Publ. 3223.) December 9, 1933.

No. 12. Tribal migrations east of the Mississippi, by David I. Bushnell, Jr.
9 pp., 4maps. (Publ. 3217.) March 20, 1934.

No. 18. A systematic classification for the birds of the world, revised and
amended, by Alexander Wetmore. 11 pp. (Publ. 3242.) April 28, 1934.

No. 14. Millipeds of the West Indies and Guiana collected by the Allison V.
Armour Expedition in 1982, by H. I’. Loomis. 69 pp., 4 pls., 33 text figs. (Publ.
3244.) May 16, 1934.

No. 15. World weather and solar activity, by H. Helm Clayton. 52 pp., 26
text figs. (Publ. 3245.) May 31, 1934.

VOLUME 90

(Whole volume.) World weather records. Continued from volume 79.
1921-1930. Collected from official sources by Dr. G. C. Simpson, Robert C.
Mossman, Sir Gilbert Walker, and Trances L. Clayton. Assembled and ar-
ranged for publication by H. Helm Clayton. Published under grant from John
A. Roebling. 616 pp. (Publ. 3218.) May 18, 1934.

Title page and table of contents. (Publ. 3247.)
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 67

VOLUME 91

Reports on the collections obtained by the first Johnson-Smithsonian Deep-Sea
Expedition to the Puerto Rican Deep.

No. 1. Station records of the first Johnson-Smithsonian Deep-Sea Expedition,
by Paul Bartsch. 31 pp., 1 pl., 1 chart. (Publ. 3224.) December 1, 1933.

No. 2. New mollusks of the family Turritidae, by Paul Bartsch. 29 pp., 8
pls. (Publ. 3229.) May 29, 1934.

No. 3. A new crab of the genus Cyclodorippe, by Mary J. Rathbun, 1 p., 1
pl. (Publ. 3230.) February 5, 1934.

No. 4. Two new crinoids, by Austin H. Clark. 5 pp., 2 pls. (Publ. 3231.)
February 7, 1934.

No. 5. A new nematode of the genus Diplotriaena from a Hispaniolan wood-
pecker, by Everett E. Wehr. 3 pp., 1 text fig. (Publ. 3232.) February 2, 1934.

No. 6. New trematode parasites of birds, by Emmett W. Price. 6 pp., 1 pl.
(Publ. 3233.) February 9, 1934.

No. 7. New digenetic trematodes from marine fishes, by Emmett W. Price.
8 pp., 1 pl. (Publ. 3234.) February 10, 1934.

No. 8. New polychaetous annelids, by Aaron L. Treadwell. 9 pp., 2 pls.
(Publ. 3236.) March 23, 1934.

No. 9. Three new deep-water fishes from the West Indies, by George S. Myers.
12 pp., 1 pl. (Publ. 3238.) April 2, 1934.

No. 10. New brachiopods, by G. Arthur Cooper. 5 pp., 2 pls. (Publ. 3241.)
April 12, 1934.

No. 11. Two new nematodes, by B. G. Chitwood. 4pp., 1 pl. (Publ. 3243.)
April 13, 1934.

No. 12. Three new amphipods, by Clarence R. Shoemaker. 6 pp., 3 text figs.
(Publ. 3246.) June 1, 1934.

No. 18. A new genus of brittlestars from Puerto Rico, by Austin H. Clark.
3 pp., 1 pl. (Publ. 3248.) May 21, 1934.

No. 14. A new starfish from Puerto Rico, by Austin H. Clark. 3 pp., 1 pl.
(Publ. 3249.) May 23, 1934.

No. 15. Two new congrid eels and a new flatfish, by Earl D. Reid. 11 pp., 1 pl.
(Publ. 3251.) June 9, 1934.

VOLUME 92

No. 4. A new original version of Boscana’s historical account of the San Juan
Capistrano Indians of southern California, by John P. Harrington. 62 pp., 2 pls.
(Publ. 3255.) June 27, 1934.

SMITHSONIAN ANNUAL REPORTS

Report for 1932.—The complete volume of the Annual Report of
the Board of Regents for 1932 was received from the Public Printer in
September 1933.

Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution showing
operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the year ending
June 30, 1932. xiii+497 pp., 55 pls., 79 text figs. (Publ. 3185.)

The appendix contained the following papers:
Solar radiation, by C. G. Abbot.

Variable stars, by L. V. Robinson.

The master key of science: Revealing the universe through the spectroscope,
by Henry Norris Russell.

111666—35-——6
68 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

The decline of determinism, by Sir Arthur Eddington.

The measurement of noise, by G. W. C. Kaye.

The age of the earth and the age of the ocean, by Adolph Knopf.

A contribution to the geological history of the North Atlantic region, by Albert
Gilligan.

The meteorite craters at Henbury, central Australia, by Arthur Richard
Alderman.

Some geographical results of the Byrd Antarctic expedition, by Laurence M.
Gould.

Some phases of modern deep-sea oceanography, with a description of some
of the equipment and methods of the newly formed Woods Hole Oceanographic
Institution, by C. O’D. Iselin, II.

Safety devices in wings of birds, by Lieut. Commander R. R. Graham.

Through forest and jungle in Kashmir and other parts of north India, by Casey
A. Wood.

A decade of bird banding in America: A review, by Frederick C. Lincoln.

Insect enemies of insects and their relation to agriculture, by Curtis Clausen.

Plant records of the rocks, by A. C. Seward.

Cultivating algae for scientific research, by Florence E. Meier.

The present status of light therapy: Scientific and practical aspects, by Edgar
Mayer.

The rise of man and modern research, by James H. Breasted.

Mohenjo-Daro and the ancient civilization of the Indus Valley, by Dorothy
Mackay.

Historical cycles, by O. G. S. Crawford.

The ‘‘great wall of Peru”’ and other aerial photographic studies by the Shippee-
Johnson Peruvian expedition, by Robert Shippee.

Status of woman in Iroquois polity before 1784, by J. N. B. Hewitt.

Report for 1933.—The report of the Secretary, in which the report of
United States National Museum appeared as part 2, and which in-
cluded the financial report of the executive committee of the Board of
Regents, was issued in December 1933, and will form part of the
annual report of the Board of Regents to Congress.

Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution and financial report of

the executive committee of the Board of Regents for the year ending June 30, 1933.
194 pp. (Publ. 3225.)

SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS

Explorations and Field-Work of the Smithsonian Institution in 1933. 59 pp.,
69 figs. (Publ. 3235.) March 14, 1934.

Classified list of Smithsonian publications available for distribution, November
1, 1933. Compiled by Helen Munroe. 33 pp. (Publ. 3220.) October 28,1933.

(Reprint) The Smithsonian Institution. Revised statutes of the United States,
1878. Title LX XIII, with amendments to March 12, 1894. August 7, 1934.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

The editorial work of the National Museum has continued during
the year under the immediate direction of the editor, Paul H. Oehser.
There were issued 1 annual report, 2 complete bulletins, a part of a
bulletin, and 8 separates from the proceedings.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 69

The issues of the bulletin were as follows:

Bulletin 161, part 2. The foraminifera of the tropical Pacific collections of
the Albatross, 1899-1900: Lagenidae to Alveolinellidae, by Joseph Augustine
Cushman.

Bulletin 165. The bryozoan fauna of the Vincentown limesand, by Ferdinand
Canu and Ray S. Bassler.

From Volume 26 of the Contributions from the United States National Her-
barium: Part 7, The Mexican and Central American species of Viburnum, by
C. V. Morton.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

The editorial work of the bureau has continued under the immediate
direction of the editor, Stanley Searles. During the year two annual
reports were issued, as follows:

Forty-eighth Annual Report. Accompanying paper: General index, annual
reports of the Bureau of American Ethnology, vols. 1-48 (Bonnerjea). v+1221

pp.
Fiftieth Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology to the Secretary
of the Smithsonian Institution, 1932-1933. 7 pp.

REPORT OF THE AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION

The annual reports of the American Historical Association are
transmitted by the association to the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution and are communicated by him to Congress, as provided
by the act of incorporation of the association.

The annual report for 1930, volumes 2 and 4, were issued during the
year. The annual report for 1932 was in press at the close of the fiscal
year.

REPORT OF THE NATIONAL SOCIETY, DAUGHTERS OF THE AMERICAN
REVOLUTION

The manuscript of the Thirty-sixth Annual Report of the Na-
tional Society, Daughters of the American Revolution, was trans-
mitted to Congress, in accordance with law, December 28, 1933.

ALLOTMENTS FOR PRINTING

The congressional allotments for the printing of the Smithsonian
Report to Congress and the various publications of the Government
bureaus under the administration of the Institution were virtually
used up at the close of the year. The appropriation for the coming
year ending June 30, 1935, totals $25,500, allotted as follows:

SMipnsonianelnstitubion= sss asa see ee seh islet athe oo 2 ee $12, 750
Nationale Museums sree aes tes Lia ee fe ee Le 4, 750
ATVETICATIPELISTOLICAal ASSOCIA UOT sae = eee ee eee 8, 000

Respectfully submitted.
W. P. True, Editor.
Dr. C. G. Asszort,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
ms ae ¥ va ene - ‘es ; (fh Wella’: Sig a 2 iy.
hee beat sate ne n Hon? pS tee oar ve wrowlts Bi stony
ages mids, tq wei, hel cated tdtings Hike wd ap? ie
:

frail i) se Preencaeeh Ch aa F off ty ghey

’ ee i ee ioe P ie iss 7 be
aH (na hliaviastnte iodia Dd otal We
f ; bi

t
ENGR WO nom Ta Rane. Lene

nae Ah ely ushinnt harceatigdy pee
boriiverly wir thy 1) eal Se tapas petites sich ey Ong;

i cewadtok 8 Bk «bode 2B
f e Se ihr pat

agent shen ‘duly oe ia sa ea

aietitde Vib ese wf te bani

*

Lies vi ' at it hen

el SPATE. ee Med ia ba AD:
; B)

4

' p 4 r
}y At na fyi Pe eae et Sh iiss! oat veel

obateoa ou ia galliaee if Howes ie on ett

iy ry 7 n i ic .

FE peel y pues : VE eB a BOREL ES Ninh af toy dae aga a fj os
a. Ls

I | 4 , eet 4 ‘ . 4 ay +f) ~ Ae 6 p

ta r sor Jraqe2 fauna oa h
429% tHe Bead sy yous SBVNRAM, rk: 30 au 1

Re fons FETE, ve (Tak aa -

efor G0. et jas taelaale sidcieee ati! be al. cscs re
ep) nile 1) ee as ary Adie: ec eee!

' ‘ sh 4 wake:

cub hS)) ts cae vor Ass’
SIEM git OTe
rises teak te Oke

; @ YAS ye a4
(Way ‘ Pe , a = nih etlag bie sper’ or Ra af .

se ot
nw! a | bth, ee raingeet epee
cs ie a, re

a a e . +7

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF
THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITH-
SONIAN INSTITUTION

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1934

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

Your executive committee respectfully submits the following report
in relation to the funds of the Smithsonian Institution, together with
a statement of the appropriations by Congress for the Government
bureaus in the administrative charge of the Institution.

SMITHSONIAN ENDOWMENT FUND

The original bequest of James Smithson was £104,960, 8s. 6d.;

$508,318.46. Refunds of money expended in prosecution of

the claim, freights, insurance, ete., together with payment

into the fund of the sum of £5,015 which had been withheld

during the lifetime of Madame de la Batut, brought the fund

SOY LEY SAAN OND BGT HKO) Loa ty Us Xing Fee stp Nae eas IS Vleaees yn eS eyes peg ee gee $550, 000. 00
Since the original bequest the Institution has received gifts from

various sources, chiefly in the years prior to 1893, the income

from which may be used for the general work of the Institution.
To these gifts has been added capital from savings on income,

gain from sale of securities, etc., bringing the total endowment

for: general purposes'to the amount of_____-..--+-=-=-=-===2-- 1, 119, 829. 09

The Institution holds also a number of endowment gifts, the income
of each being restricted to specific use. These are invested and stand
on the books of the Institution as follows:

Arthur, James, fund, income for investigations and study of sun

andeleeturetonstneysumec sat Werte 9) Le Se a Pe $45, 225. 25
Bacon, Virginia Purdy, fund, for a traveling scholarship to in-

vestigate fauna of countries other than the United States___-_--- 56, 654. 99
Baird, Lucy H., fund, for creating a memorial to Secretary Baird _- 9, 618. 00
Barstow, Frederic D., fund, for purchase of animals for the

OOO DT CA aT Kes es ee an te ek en rye es piers est eee Td fs ye 860. 18
Canfield Collection fund, for increase and care of the Canfield

collection: of minerals=—— = see sees eee ete 43, 253. 33
Casey, Thomas L., fund, for maintenance of the Casey collection

and promotion of researches relating to Coleoptera__--------- 8, 739. 32
Chamberlain, Francis Lea, fund, for increase and promotion of

Isaac Lea collection of gems and mollusks_________-_-_------ 31, 844. 43
Hodgkins fund, specific, for increase and diffusion of more exact

knowledge in regard to nature and properties of atmospheric air- 100, 000. 00
Hughes, Bruce, fund, to found Hughes aleove__________-------- 17, 132. 00
Myer, Catherine Walden, fund, for purchase of first-class works

of art for the use of and benefit of the National Gallery of Art____ 21, 435. 86
Pell, Cornelia Livingston, fund, for maintenance of Alfred Duane

Rellkcollectione ey pen ee een ea ee Sg 2, 730. 24
Poore, Lucy T. and George W., fund, for general use of the Insti-

tution when principal amounts to the sum of $250,000___-_------ 64, 817. 17
12, ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

Reid, Addison T., fund, for founding chair in biology in memory of

Asher: Dumnis i325: 53552 RE ee 5 he hae Ae Se es a $26, 361. 98
Roebling fund, for care, improvement, and increase of Roebling

collectionvofemumeralst as see ae a eee ee 136, 470. 38
Rollins, Miriam and William, fund, for investigations in physics

and: chemistrya.s4 ssoeu lS. Shoo ol os 2 oe Se ee ane 58, 580. 44
Springer, Frank, fund, for care, etc., of Springer collection and

praryees a= oe See See eae ee es a ss ee eee 14, 883. 04

Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux, research fund, for develop-
ment of geological and paleontological studies and publishing

resultsithereof <r joes hea ee EN ee ee ee 11, 557. 55
Younger, Helen Walcott, fund, held in trust___._..______-__-_- 50, 112. 50
Zerbee, Frances Brincklé, fund, for endowment of aquaria_-_-__-_- 860. 63

Total endowment for specific purposes other than Freer
endowment #i£oes2 2 Sys eee et he Soe eh ee eee os 701, 137. 29

The capital funds of the Institution, except the Freer funds, are
invested as follows:

Was: Consoli- Separate
Fund Treasury | dated fund funds Total
Arthur ames see) mera on eS ee) Senet ee eee eee One ee $45,225.20) lena a ee ae $45, 225. 25
Bacon Virginia veurad ys eae ee eee eee ae | Dee BO6542 008 eeaeeseaees 56, 654. 99

Baird SGN CY Esse sate ee ee see ae ee eee ee eee
Barstow, Frederic D__
Canfield Collection_
Casey, Thomas L-_-
Chamberlain__-----

Hughes Bruce ha cee ea eee re ot ee a er eae

Myer Catherine iWree se oe oases ee oe nee oe ene ree Paes eee 215435586 ae eee 21, 435. 86
BellN@orneliadbivineston: sees eee ee re | eee 2.780824) [Tae eee 2, 730. 24
POOre; Laucyal ANG. G eorgenWie nee ene eee 26, 670 eter 4 Ig lie aes Sees 64, 817.17
Reid Addison lees Sees Se ee 11, 000 ASSSG1OS | seen ee 26, 361. 98
Roebling: Collection 2e otis ier ee ie eee ees Rar eo iee Biss 1362470538 noes 136, 470. 38
RollinsssMiriamrand)William=scss ss 26 see Ser 3a 58, BSO24e ||Li ees ease 58, 580. 44
Smithsonian special== es ees eee ee Pee SOP RES el RE ee AY $1, 400. 00 1, 400. 00

Smithsonian unrestricted funds:
(AN OL Yi S85 3 ool ees SS ee Se 14, 000 4210500) | 2 ee 56, 110. 09
NGO WMD So ose a en ee | ee ee 17 ON719 910) Bee ee aa 170, 779. 10
Mabe) jean. 2k at oe Se eS ee ey ee eee 500 500. 00
Macken bere sas en a re Ne oe eee) | 4, 549. 81
lamiltones!o222 S23 2 ae ee Cee eis ee ey 2, 500 2, 956. 48
Gn ry s oe ee ae an i eae) a ee | eee 1, 367. 64
HodeLins (general) 116, 000 149, 913. 94
Parent 727, 640 729, 020. 47
Rhos 590 1, 124. 95
Sanford 1, 100 . 61 2, 106. 61
Springer ee ee os So ENTE a ae an oie CU See eens Seer 14, 883. 04 14, 883. 04
Walcott, Charles D:‘and Mary Vaux. 22.22) 2 2 eee 557255 eee 11, 557. 55
COUN PER; sELelan WALCO bbs aie ne os see een | De ee | ee eee 50, 112. 50 50, 112. 50
Zorbes,Hrances: Brinck 6s 2s = eee eee eae anes Geen | ete nan S60k63e| eee eae 860. 63
Ph Otalt eas 22 Se Ree eee SS ees eee eee Oe eee 1, 000, 000 754, 570. 84 66, 395. 54 j1, 820, 966. 38

FREER GALLERY OF ART FUND

Karly in 1906, by deed of gift, Charles L. Freer, of Detroit, gave to
the Institution his collection of Chinese and other oriental objects of
art, as well as paintings, etchings, and other works of art by Whistler,
Thayer, Dewing, and other artists. Later he also gave funds for the
construction of a building to house the collection, and finally, in his
will, probated November 6, 1919, he provided stock and securities to
the estimated value of $1,958,591.42 as an endowment fund for the
operation of the gallery. From the above date to the present time
these funds have been increased by stock dividends, savings of income,
etc., to a total of $4,700,436.50. In view of the importance and special
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Thee:

nature of the gift and the requirements of the testator in respect to it,

all Freer funds are kept separate from the other funds of the Institu-

tion, and the accounting in respect to them is stated separately.
The invested funds of the Freer bequest are classified as follows:

Cini crac orotic e ete ee SL ae ee ee $526, 598. 50
Courtrands grounds maintenance: fund’. -— 2555-5255. - ee ooo. 132, 408. 27
Curatorshundee ss se an en ann eee eee be Ein ee a 535, 872. 86
RVESIGUAT Ye C RACY eee ne ee oe eee rene Shane pe oy as see ae Ret yt Tee 3, 505, 556. 87
BCG of) (EME Na eo Na I ee ee ee en 4, 700, 436. 50
SUMMARY
Invested endowment for general purposes__._......-----_---- $1, 119, 829. 09
Invested endowment for specific purposes other than Freer
TAG) © WU TIVE Ta ae eae ey te re ye eaten a ee See San 701, 137. 29
Total invested endowment other than Freer endowment__ 1, 820, 966. 38
Freer invested endowment for specific purposes_____-_-------- 4, 700, 436. 50
Total invested endowment for all purposes__..--------- 6, 521, 402. 88

CLASSIFICATION OF INVESTMENTS
Deposited in the United States Treasury at 6 percent per annum
as authorized in the U. S. Revised Statutes, sec. 5591________ $1, 000, 000. 00
Investments other than Freer endowment (cost or
market value at date acquired):

Bonds, (21 different, groups)-2---=—--.----.- $319, 771. 57
Stocks (41 different groups)_._.._-.-_------ 445, 793. 46
Real estate first-mortgage notes____________- 16, 550. 00
Uninvested capital = es 5. Sas San ee 38, 851. 35
a 820, 966. 38
Total investments other than Freer endowment-_--_-_-__-__- 1, 820, 966. 38
Investments of Freer endowment (cost or market
value at date acquired):
Bonds (46 different groups)__.__.___------- $2, 189, 550. 61
Stocks (48 different groups)____--_--_--_-- 2, 409, 476. 30
Real estate first-mortgage notes__.________- 38, 500. 00
WUninvestedtcapital weve. s= ssn ae 62, 909. 59
———__—_——— 4, 700, 436. 50
ARotaluinvestimentsee. se later one ts aaa oe 6, 521, 402. 88
CASH BALANCES, RECEIPTS, AND DISBURSEMENTS DURING THE FISCAL
YEAR !
CashabalancelonehandsuuneisO Osos — ee eee 2 ee Se $183, 408. 25
Receipts:
Cash income from various sources for general
workvofathevinstitution= 2. .— eee =e $72, 367. 48
Cash gifts expendable for special scientific ob-
jects (not: to! be invested) = =2 2-2 ese ee ee 19, 215. 64

Cash income from endowments for specific use
other than I'reer endowment and from mis-
cellaneous sources (including refund of tempo-
TAT sAO VANCES) bee = eee eee 50, 821. 08

1 This statement does not include Government appropriations under the administrative charge of the
Institution.
74 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

CASH BALANCES, RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS DURING THE FISCAL

YEAR—continued

Receipts—Continued.
Cash capital from sale, call of securities, ete.

(Co! beireimvested) Bae ee Sean ie Aare ae $1338, 066.

Total receipts other than Freer endowment_____---_-

Cash receipts from Freer endowment:

Income from investments, ete___.------- $200, 355.
Cash capital from sale, call of securities,
euc. (tovbe:reinvested) =< 22 s.=22 22222 5538, 646.
Total receipts from Freer endowment____-----_-
AR OGRA Rene SER Re RAEN, Eee: See ae
Disbursements:

From funds for general work of the Institution:
Buildings, care, repairs, and alterations___. $2, 138.
Kurnitureandaixturess= = see see ive
General administration 22 ..-L_ 2 vil2_L__- 21, 655
Tat rea resycaes fig ip Re eae yp aes ee eS 2, 500.
Publications (comprising preparation, print-

ing. and distribution) 222. 345 20s se ee 18, 035.
Researches and explorations_____________- 23, 001.
Speciaiund: eee 6 | ee an ae 1, 400.
International exchanges____.__.._.-_------ 4, 415.

From funds for specific use, other than Freer

endowment:
Investments made from gifts, from gain

from sale, etc., of securities and from

Savin Ss Onin COMes=s ss ae es eee 9, 089.
Other expenditures, consisting largely of

research work, travel, increase and care

of special collections, ete., from income

of endowment funds and frem cash gifts

for specific use (including temporary

EVAN CES) haexs fhe eka eee see, SL ee eas 68, 711.
Reinvestment of cash capital from sale,

eall:of-securitiessebei = Sat ee Se 104, 596.

From Freer endowment:

Operating expenses of the gallery, salaries,

fieldvexpenses ieteso222U 8 Wee ae ee 51, 890.
Purchases. of art obyects_¢- 22) te ee 132, 736.
Investments made from gain from sale, etc.

of securities and from income______-___- 26, 1381.
Reinvestment of cash capital from sale, call

ofjsecurities, etes. 2. eee eee 496, 440.

2 This includes salaries of the Secretary and certain others.

11

$275, 470. 93

754, 002. 37

1, 212, 881. 55

73, 165. 51

182, 397. 50

707, 199. 74
250, 118. 80

1, 212, 881. 55
|

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 75

EXPENDITURES FOR RESEARCHES IN PURE SCIENCE, EXPLORATIONS,
CARE, INCREASE, AND STUDY OF COLLECTIONS, ETC.

Expenditures from general funds of the Institution:

Bublications==—————— Zee sect pe $18, 035. 98
Researches and explorations_______________-- 23, 001. 50
SS $41, 037. 48
Expenditures from funds devoted to specific purposes:
Researches and explorations_________-_-__-_-- 39, 737. 54
Care, increase, and study of special collections. 15, 057. 46
Birolications 2200 hl Acree ere Ee ek 2, 023. 93
——_—__-— 56, 818. 93
PLR tet Sale ee Ma Remar eens ak Neh Ao EM be eae ciel Bare 97, 856. 41

The practice of depositing on time in local trust companies and
banks such revenues as may be spared temporarily has been con-
tinued during the past year, and interest on these deposits has
amounted to $1,106.47.

The Institution gratefully acknowledges gifts or bequests from the
following:

Dr. W. L. Abbott, purchase of collections of certain birds of the Himalayas.

Dr. Adolph M. Hanson, further income from certain royalties for conducting
scientific work of the Institution.

Dr. T. Wayland Vaughan, publication of papers on Foraminifera.

Mr. Eldridge R. Johnson, for expenses in connection with deep-sea and other
oceanographic explorations.

Mrs. Mary Vaux Walcott, for publication of pitcher-plant volume of North
American Wild Flowers.

Research Corporation, further contributions for researches in radiation.

Dr. William Schaus, collection of Lepidoptera.

Mr. John A. Roebling, further contributions for researches in radiation.

All payments are made by check, signed by the Secretary of the
Institution, on the Treasurer of the United States, and all revenues
are deposited to the credit of the same account. In many instances
deposits are placed in bank for convenience of collection and later are
withdrawn in round amounts and deposited in the Treasury.

The foregoing report relates only to the private funds of the In-
stitution.

The following appropriations were made by Congress for the
Government bureaus under the administrative charge of the Smith-
sonian Institution for the fiscal year 1934.

DAI AEICSTATICRO NOCD SCAR as 5225-52 keene eer eee te ee $32, 500
internationale bxchanges® 2-2 2220 = 2- eee Se eee 38, 500
FACINETI CAT MH tht O10 Sayan mie’ os) hed fetes cae Rens pe Dee ye 50, 000

Astrophysical Observatory
National Museum:
Maintenancerand operationa=— eee eee eee $128, 500
preservation. or.collectionsee =) eee ease eee eee 509, 000
637, 500
76 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

National: Gallery ofvArt 2232 525 3525. 55 2) a Se ee eee $29, 500
National’ Zoological (Parks 98 22 so. 220 28 See we ae ee ee 180, 000
Printing and’bindmng sass eee Bs eee ee eee 5, 500

Rotaligcssig eee Ese eis aso at ee ne 1, 000, 000

There was also an allotment of $3,000 made by the United States
Commission of the Chicago World’s Fair Centennial Celebration for
participation by the Smithsonian Institution in ‘‘A Century of Prog-
ress”, and a grant of $7,625 from the Federal Civil Works Admin-
istration to cover necessary overhead expenses in connection with the
project ‘‘ Archaeological Excavations.”

The report of the audit of the Smithsonian private funds is printed
below:

SEPTEMBER 25, 1934.
Executive CoMMITTEE, Boarp OF REGENTS,
Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C.

Sirs: Pursuant to agreement we have audited the accounts of the Smithsonian
Institution for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1934, and certify the balance of
cash on hand June 30, 1934, to be $252,018.80 [which includes $1,900 held in
cash at the Institution].

We have verified the record of receipts and disbursements maintained by the
Institution and the agreement of the book balances with the bank balances.

We have examined all the securities in the custody of the Institution and in
the custody of the banks and found them to agree with the book records.

We have compared the stated income of such securities with the receipts of
record and found them in agreement therewith.

We have examined all vouchers covering disbursements for account of the In-
stitution during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1934, together with the authority
therefor, and have compared them with the Institution’s record of expenditures
and found them to agree.

We have examined and verified the accounts of the Institution with each trust
fund.

We found the books of account and records well and accurately kept and the
securities conveniently filed and securely cared for.

All information requested by your auditors was promptly and courteously
furnished.

We certify the balance sheet, in our opinion, correctly presents the financial
condition of the Institution as at June 30, 1934.

Respectfully submitted.

WiuuiaM L. YAEGER & Co.,
WILLIAM L. YAEGER,
Certified Public Accountant.

Respectfully submitted.
Freperic A. DELANo,
R. Watton Moors,
Joun C. Merriam,
Executive Committee.
GENERAL APPENDIX

TO THE

SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1934

77
tA i
hate R,

ae

We

ADVERTISEMENT

The object of the Grnrrat Appenprx to the Annual Report of the
Smithsonian Institution is to furnish brief accounts of scientific
discovery in particular directions; reports of investigations made by
collaborators of the Institution; and memoirs of a general character
or on special topics that are of interest or value to the numerous
correspondents of the Institution.

It has been a prominent object of the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution from a very early date to enrich the annual
report required of them by law with memoirs illustrating the more
remarkable and important developments in physical and biological
discovery, as well as showing the general character of the operations
of the Institution; and, during the greater part of its history, this
purpose has been carried out largely by the publication of such
papers as would possess an interest to all attracted by scientific
progress.

In 1880, induced in part by the discontinuance of an annual sum-
mary of progress which for 30 years previously had been issued by
well-known private publishing firms, the secretary had a series of
abstracts prepared by competent collaborators, showing concisely
the prominent features of recent scientific progress in astronomy,
geology, meteorology, physics, chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zool-
ogy, and anthropology. This latter plan was continued, though not
altogether satisfactorily, down to and including the year 1888.

In the report for 1889 a return was made to the earlier method of
presenting a miscellaneous selection of papers (some of them origi-
nal) embracing a considerable range of scientific investigation and
discussion. ‘This method has been continued in the present report
for 1934.

79
J § =
ate aa : a
7 it j
i rT ae it : a bY,
L} , wee i ue '
wl i s
yy 7 / 7
te a - - i] '
a a} a (: ao
' on | oe ay if
= Ti : i
_ A 0 Tt)
oo ; a j
- — Ais ; : si ;
! a |
ae D
a '
i nl
f
€ ‘
: ‘
a , 7 AR

a: wae swine A ggiieerate iN
Fe ano a ee
he Se exroqet fade ub (an
uk | yp to rtiqnsin. DG «nothin tat) YO li
aaerre glad, wo Jevenied 20 ore 40) 1 Injaoda ane:

| hea aii ae on
nil Ts Yo Trewath orth ‘te oey[do daaatatogny a aaa .
‘aeniian ably dhewine of aiuls ohne cuet anee a ee

Prot wire itil zahageaity Oia vent ea wall Pep, “svg »
mr a es me as ypavarepeloyeaty. Reel siege, hum vldeitne
PE git, be soideils Jpeieey vind, a wal a
qodetal ati ia ia p08 Le

4 ee tees! iio "eee ownl va peoeatty

oe yi pra i: os eoipial siete higow oo .

erates Lutte sah sunuyeieienetty wilt ye panda Dab lieh 08 ale a
gd hieswsh andt Ber eiwnbehin, 104, So ie mse Kine
fo ceive w Syoal AGMMoiogm, OLE inti shiakdrding elerey Lkisds
yloeryito >: yitivraite euicrodaiidy, iilkisaatios 4a beni.
Wngherie ni weniger, weap Tape to. eda fasninaa a
hun Aurion) iyyoberanin jeveiienis: oly Sunehirainak are "s
jak dgvod): fenabiiia: enw Ap vetid Why pgetouiertisiy Gt ae

pea unt Het GULLS {paw i) oven vimana leaae ee sodle
he badiars salle olde aliony ue dates 468 oot nas, ool
<tajrq dost) ‘Me arays) eekyety 40 fortenles erovtnl oak 6,3 propane
fist weanyhterriat aiiaageotos 1: ager ‘al hinnpbanuitor, Me ge? (hae
yoqat 4 ee OES Se aes el
THE NEW WORLD-PICTURE OF MODERN
PHYSICS

By Sir JAMEs H. JEANS

The British Association assembles for the third time in Aberdeen—
under the happiest of auspices. It is good that we are meeting in
Scotland, for the Association has a tradition that its Scottish meet-
ings are wholly successful. It is good that we are meeting in the
sympathetic atmosphere of a university city, surrounded not only
by beautiful and venerable buildings, but also by buildings in which
scientific knowledge is being industriously and successfully accumu-
lated. And it is especially good that Aberdeen is rich not only in
scientific buildings but also in scientific associations. Most of us
can think of some master mind in his own subject who worked here.
My own thoughts, I need hardly say, turn to James Clerk Maxwell.

Whatever our subject, there is one man who will be in our thoughts
in a very special sense tonight—Sir William Hardy, whom we had
hoped to see in the presidential chair this year. It was not to be,
and his early death, while still in the fullness of his powers, casts a
shadow in the minds of all of us. We all know of his distinguished
work in pure science, and his equally valuable achievements in
applied science. I will not try to pay tribute to these, since it has
been arranged that others, better qualified than myself, shall do so
in a special memorial lecture. Perhaps, however, I may be per-
mitted to bear testimony to the personal qualities of one whom I
was proud to call a friend for a large part of my life, and a colleague
for many years. Inside the council room his proposals were always
acute, often highly original, and invariably worthy of careful con-
sideration; outside, his big personality and wide range of interests
made him the most charming and versatile of friends.

And now I must turn to the subject on which I have specially
undertaken to speak—the new world-picture presented to us by
modern physics. It is a full half century since this chair was last
occupied by a theoretical physicist in the person of the late Lord
Rayleigh. In that interval the main edifice of science has grown

1 Presidential address before the British Association for the Advancement of Science,
Aberdeen, 1934. Reprinted by permission from Nature, Sept. 8, 1934,

81
82 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

almost beyond recognition, increasing in extent, dignity, and beauty,
as whole armies of laborers have patiently added wing after wing,
story upon story, and pinnacle to pinnacle. Yet the theoretical
physicist must admit that his own department looks like nothing so
much as a building which has been brought down in ruins by a
succession of earthquake shocks.

The earthquake shocks were, of course, new facts of observation,
and the building fell because it was not built on the solid rock of
ascertained fact, but on the ever-shifting sands of conjecture and
speculation. Indeed it was little more than a museum of models,
which had accumulated because the old-fashioned physicist had a
passion for trying to liken the ingredients of Nature to familiar
objects such as billiard balls, jellies, and spinning tops. While he
believed and proclaimed that Nature had existed and gone her way
for countless eons before man came to spy on her, he assumed that
the latest newcomer on the scene, the mind which could never get
outside itself and its own sensations, would find things within its
limited experience to explain what had existed from all eternity.
It was expecting too much of Nature, as the ruin of our building
has shown. She is not so accommodating as this to the lmita-
tions of the human mind; her truths can only be made compre-
hensible in the form of parables.

Yet no parable can remain true throughout its whole range to the
facts it is trying to explain. Somewhere or other it must be too wide
or too narrow, so that “the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but
the truth” is not to be conveyed by parables. The fundamental
mistake of the old-fashioned physicist was that he failed to distin-
guish between the half truths of parables and the literal truth.

Perhaps his mistake was pardonable, perhaps it was even natural.
Modern psychologists make great use of what they describe as “ word-
association.” They shoot a word at you, and ask you to reply im-
mediately with the first idea it evokes in your uncontrolled mind.
If the psychologist says “ wave”, the boy-scout will probably say
“flag”, while the sailor may say “sea”, the musician “sound ”, the
engineer “ compression ”, and the mathematician “ sine ” or “ cosine ”.
Now the crux of the situation is that the number of people who will
give this last response is very small. Our remote ancestors did not
survive in the struggle for existence by pondering over sines and
cosines, but by devising ways of killing other animals without being
killed themselves. As a consequence, the brains we have inherited
from them take more kindly to the concrete facts of everyday life
than to abstract concepts; to particulars rather than to universals.
Every child, when first it begins to learn algebra, asks in despair
“But what are a, y, and 2?” and is satisfied when, and only when,
MODERN PHYSICS—JEANS §3

it has been told that they are numbers of apples or pears or bananas
or something such. In the same way, the old-fashioned physicist
could not rest content with a, y, and 2, but was always trying to ex-
press them in terms of apples or pears or bananas. Yet a simple
argument will show that he can never get beyond @, y, and 2.

Physical science obtains its knowledge of the external world by
a series of exact measurements, or, more precisely, by comparisons
of measurements. Typical of its knowledge is the statement that
the line Ha in the hydrogen spectrum has a wave length of so many
centimeters. This is meaningless until we know what a centimeter
is. The moment we are told that it is a certain fraction of the earth’s
radius, or of the length of a bar of platinum, or a certain multiple
of the wave length of a line in the cadmium spectrum, our knowl-
edge becomes real, but at that same moment it also becomes purely
numerical. Our minds can only be acquainted with things inside
themselves—never with things outside. Thus we can never know
the essential nature of anything, such as a centimeter or a wave
length, which exists in that mysterious world outside ourselves to
which our minds can never penetrate ; but we can know the numerical
ratio of two quantities of similar nature, no matter how incompre-
hensible they may both be individually.

For this reason, our knowledge of the external world must always
consist of numbers, and our picture of the universe—the synthesis
of our knowledge—must necessarily be mathematical in form. All
the concrete details of the picture, the apples and pears and bananas,
the ether and atoms and electrons, are mere clothing that we ourselves
drape over our mathematical symbols—they do not belong to Nature,
but to the parables by which we try to make Nature comprek2nsible.
It was, I think, Kronecker who said that in arithmetic God made
the integers and man made the rest; in the same spirit, we may
add that in physics God made the mathematics and man made the
rest.

The modern physicist does not use this language, but he accepts
its implications, and divides the concepts of physics into observ-
ables and unobservables. In brief, the observables embody facts of
observation, and so are purely numerical or mathematical in their
content; the unobservables are the pictorial details of the parables.

The physicist wants to make his new edifice earthquake proof—
immune to the shock of new observations—and so builds only on
the solid rock, and with the solid bricks, of ascertained fact. Thus
he builds only with observables, and his whole edifice is one of
mathematics and mathematical formulae—all else is man-made
decoration.

111666—35——7
84 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

For instance, when the undulatory theory had made it clear that
light was of the nature of waves, the scientists of the day elaborated
this by saying that hght consisted of waves in a rigid, homogeneous
ether which filled all space. The whole content of ascertained fact
in this description is the one word “ wave” in its strictly mathe-
matical sense; all the rest is pictorial detail, introduced to help out
the inherited limitations of our minds.

Then scientists took the pictorial details of the parable literally,
and so fell into error. For instance, ight waves travel in space and
time jointly, but by filling space and space alone with ether, the
parable seemed to make a clear-cut distinction between space and
time. It even suggested that they could be separated out in prac-
tice—by performing a Michelson-Morley experiment. Yet, as we all
know, the experiment when performed only showed that such a
separation is impossible; the space and time of the parable are
found not to be true to the facts—they are revealed as mere stage
scenery. Neither is found to exist in its own right, but only as a way
of cutting up something more comprehensive—the space-time
continuum.

Thus we find that space and time cannot be classified as realities
of nature, and the generalized theory of relativity shows that the
same is true of their product, the space-time continuum. This can
be crumpled and twisted and warped as much as we please without
becoming one whit less true to nature—which, of course, can only
mean that it is not itself part of nature.

In this way space and time, and also their space-time product,
fall into their places as mere mental frameworks of our own con-
struction. ‘They are, of course, very important frameworks, being
nothing less than the frameworks along which our minds receive
their whole knowledge of the outer world. This knowledge comes
to our minds in the form of messages passed on from our senses;
these in turn have received them as impacts or transfers of electro-
magnetic momentum or energy. Now Clerk Maxwell showed that
electromagnetic activity of all kinds could be depicted perfectly as
traveling in space and time—this was the essential content of his
electromagnetic theory of light. Thus space and time are of pre-
ponderating importance to our minds as the media through which
the messages from the outer world enter the “gateways of know-
ledge ”, our senses, and in terms of which they are classified. Just
as the messages which enter a telephone exchange are classified by
the wires along which they arrive, so the messages which strike our
senses are classified by their arrival along the space-time framework.

Physical science, assuming that each message must have had a
starting point, postulated the existence of “ matter” to provide such

MODERN PHYSICS—JEANS SO

starting points. But the existence of this matter was a pure hypothe-
sis; and matter is in actual fact as unobservable as the ether, New-
tonian force, and other unobservables which have vanished from
science. Early science not only assumed matter to exist, but further
pictured it as existing in space and time. Again this assumption
had no adequate justification; for there is clearly no reason why
the whole material universe should be restricted to the narrow
framework along which messages strike our senses. ‘To illustrate
by an analogy, the earthquake waves which damage our houses
travel along the surface of the ground, but we have no right to
assume that they originate in the surface of the ground; we know, on
the contrary, that they originate deep down in the earth’s interior.

The Newtonian mechanics, however, having endowed space and
time with real objective existences, assumed that the whole universe
existed within the limits of space and time. Even more character-
istic of it was the doctrine of “mechanistic determinism”, which
could be evolved from it by strictly logical processes. This reduced
the whole physical universe to a vast machine in which each cog,
shaft, and thrust bar could only transmit what it received, and wait
for what was to come next. When it was found that the human body
consisted of nothing beyond commonplace atoms and molecules,
the human race also seemed to be reduced to cogs in the wheel, and
in the face of the inexorable movements of the machine, human effort,
initiative, and ambition seemed to become meaningless illusions.
Our minds were left with no more power or initiative than a sen-
sitized cinematograph film; they could only register what was
impressed on them from an outer world over which they had no
control.

Theoretical physics is no longer concerned to study the Newtonian
universe which it once believed to exist in its own right in space and
time. It merely sets before itself the modest task of reducing to
law and order the impressions that the universe makes on our senses.
It is not concerned with what hes beyond the gateways of knowledge,
but with what enters through the gateways of knowledge. It is con-
cerned with appearances rather than reality, so that its task resembles
that of the cartographer or mapmaker rather than that of the
geologist or mining engineer.

Now the cartographer knows that a map may be drawn in many
ways, or, as he would himself say, many kinds of projection are
available. Each one has its merits, but it is impossible to find all
the merits we might reasonably desire combined in one single map.
It is reasonable to demand that each bit of territory should look its
proper shape on the map; also that each should look its proper
relative size. Yet even these very reasonable requirements cannot
86 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

usually be satisfied in a single map; the only exception is when the
map is to contain only a small part of the whole surface of the globe.
In this case, and this only, all the qualities we want can be combined
in a single map, so that we simply ask for a map of the county of
Surrey without specifying whether it is to be a Mercator’s or ortho-
graphic or conic projection, or whatnot.

All this has its exact counterpart in the map-making task of the
physicist. The Newtonian mechanics was like the map of Surrey,
because it dealt only with a small fraction of the universe. It was
concerned with the motions and changes of medium-sized objects—
objects comparable in size with the human body—and for these it was
able to provide a perfect map which combined in one picture all the
qualities we could reasonably demand. But the inconceivably great
and the inconceivably small were equally beyond its ken. As soon
as science pushed out—to the cosmos as a whole in one direction and
to subatomic phenomena in the other—the deficiencies of the New-
tonian mechanics became manifest. And no modification of the
Newtonian map was able to provide the two qualities which this
map had itself encouraged us to expect—a materialism which ex-
hibited the universe as constructed of matter lying within the frame-
work of space and time, and a determinism which provided an
answer to the question “ What is going to happen next? ”

When geography cannot combine all the qualities we want in a
single map, it provides us with more than one map. Theoretical
physics has done the same, providing us with two maps which are
commonly known as the particle-picture and the wave-picture.

The particle-picture is a materialistic picture which caters for
those who wish to see their universe mapped out as matter existing
in space and time. The wave-picture is a determinist picture which
caters for those who ask the question “ What is going to happen
next?” It is perhaps better to speak of these two pictures as the
particle-parable and the wave-parable. For this is what they really
are, and the nomenclature warns us in advance not to be surprised
at inconsistencies and contradictions.

Let me remind you, as briefly as possible, how this pair of pictures
or parables have come to be in existence side by side.

The particle parable, which was first in the field, told us that the
material universe consists of particles existing in space and time. It
was created by the labors of chemists and experimental physicists,
working on the basis provided by the classical physics. Its time of
testing came in 1913, when Bohr tried to find out whether the two
particles of the hydrogen atom could possibly produce the highly com-
plicated spectrum of hydrogen by their motion. He found a type of
motion which could produce this spectrum down to its minutest details,
MODERN PHYSICS—JEANS 87

but the motion was quite inconsistent with the mechanistic deter-
minism of the Newtonian mechanics. The electron did not move
continuously through space and time, but jumped, and its jumps were
not governed by the laws of mechanics, but to all appearance, as Kin-
stein showed more fully 4 years later, by the laws of probability. Of
1,000 identical atoms, 100 might make the jump, while the other 900
would not. Before the jumps occurred, there was nothing to show
which atoms were going to jump. Thus the particle picture conspicu-
ously failed to provide an answer to the question, “ What will happen
next?”

Bohr’s concepts were revolutionary, but it was soon found they
were not revolutionary enough, for they failed to explain more com-
plicated spectra, as well as certain other phenomena.

Then Heisenberg showed that the hydrogen spectrum—and, as we
now believe, all other spectra as well—could be explained by the mo-
tion of something which was rather like an electron, but did not move
in space and time. Its position was not specified by the usual! coordi-
nates a, y, 2 of coordinate geometry, but by the mathematical abstrac-
tion known as a “ matrix.” His ideas were rather too abstract even for
mathematicians, the majority of whom had quite forgotten what
matrices were. It seemed likely that Heisenberg had unravelled the
secret of the structure of matter, and yet his solution was so far re-
moved from the concepts of ordinary life that another parable had to
be invented to make it comprehensible.

The wave parable serves this purpose; it does not describe the uni-
verse as a collection of particles but as a system of waves. The uni-
verse is no longer a deluge of shot from a battery of machine guns,
but a stormy sea with the sea taken away and only the abstract quality
of storminess left—or the grin of the Cheshire cat if we can think of
a grin as undulatory. This parable was not devised by Heisenberg,
but by de Broglie and Schrodinger. At first they thought their waves
merely provided a superior model of an ordinary electron; later it
was established that they were a sort of parable to explain Heisen-
berg’s pseudoelectron.

Now the pseudoelectron of Heisenberg did not claim to account for
the spectrum emitted by a single atom of gas, which is something
entirely beyond our knowledge or experience, but only that emitted
by a whole assembly of similar atoms; it was not a picture of one
electron in one atom, but of all the electrons in all the atoms.

In the same way the waves of the wave parable do not picture indi-
vidual electrons, but a community of electrons—a crowd—as for in-
stance the electrons whose motion constitutes a current of electricity.

In this particular instance the waves can be represented as traveling
through ordinary space. Except for traveling at a different speed,
88 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

they are very like the waves by which Maxwell described the flow of
radiation through space, so that matter and radiation are much more
like one another in the new physics than they were in the old.

In other cases, ordinary time and space do not provide an adequate
canvas for the wave picture. The wave picture of two currents of
electricity, or even of two electrons moving independently, needs a
larger canvas—six dimensions of space and one of time. There can
be no logical justification for identifying any particular three of these
six dimensions with ordinary space, so that we must regard the wave
picture as lying entirely outside space. The whole picture, and the
manifold dimensions of space in which it is drawn, become pure men-
tal constructs—diagrams and frameworks we make for ourselves to
help us understand phenomena.

In this way we have the two coexistent pictures—the particle pic-
ture for the materialist, and the wave picture for the determinist.
When the cartographer has to make two distinct maps to exhibit the
geography of, say, North America, he is able to explain why two maps
are necessary, and can also tell us the relation between the two—he
can show us how to transform one into the other. He will tell us, for
instance, that he needs two maps simply because he is restricted to flat
surfaces—pieces of paper. Give him a sphere instead and he can show
us North America, perfectly and completely, on a single map.

The physicist has not yet found anything corresponding to this
sphere; when, if ever, he does, the particle picture and the wave pic-
ture will be merged into a single new picture. At present some kink
in our minds, or perhaps merely some ingrained habit of thought,
prevents our understanding the universe as a consistent whole—just
as the ingrained habits of thought of a “ flat-earther ” prevent his
understanding North America as a consistent whole. Yet, although
physics has so far failed to explain why two pictures are necessary, it
is, nevertheless, able to explain the relation between the particle pic-
ture and the wave picture in perfectly comprehensible terms.

The central feature of the particle picture is the atomicity which
is found in the structure of matter. But this atomicity is only one
expression of a fundamental coarse-grainedness which pervades the
whole of nature. It crops up again in the fact that energy can
only be transferred by whole quanta. Because of this, the tools with
which we study nature are themselves coarse-grained; we have only
blunt probes at our disposal, and so can never acquire perfectly
precise knowledge of nature. Just as, in astronomy, the grain of our
photographic plates prevents our ever fixing the position of a star
with absolute precision, so in physics we can never say that an elec-
tron is here, at this precise spot, and is moving at just such and such
a speed. The best we can do with our blunt probes is to represent
MODERN PHYSICS—JEANS 89

the position of the electron by a smear, and its motion by a moving
smear which will get more and more blurred as time progresses.
Unless we check the growth of our smear by taking new observations,
it will end by spreading through the whole of space.

Now the waves of an electron or other piece of matter are simply
a picture of just such a smear. Where the waves are intense, the
smear is black, and conversely. The nature of the smear—whether
it consists of printer’s ink, or, as was at one time thought, of elec-
tricity—is of no importance; this is mere pictorial detail. All that
is essential is the relative blackness of the smear at different places—
a ratio of numbers which measures the relative chance of electrons
being at different points of space.

The relation between the wave picture and the particle picture
may be summed up thus: The more stormy the waves at any point
in the wave picture the more likely we are to find a particle at that
point in the particle picture. Yet if the particles really existed as
points and the waves depicted the chances of their existing at dif-
ferent points of space—as Maxwell’s law does for the molecules of
a gas—then the gas would emit a continuous spectrum instead of
the line spectrum that is actually observed. Thus we had better put
our statement in the form that the electron is not a point particle,
but that if we insist on picturing it as such, then the waves indicate
the relative proprieties of picturing it as existing at the different
points of space. But propriety relative to what?

The answer is—relative to our own knowledge. If we know noth-
ing about an electron except that it exists, all places are equally
likely for it, so that its waves are uniformly spread through the
whole of space. By experiment after experiment we can restrict the
extent of its waves, but we can never reduce them to a point or,
indeed, below a certain minimum; the coarse-grainedness of our
probes prevents that. There is always a finite region of waves left.
And the waves which are left depict our knowledge precisely and
exactly; we may say that they are waves of knowledge—or, perhaps
even better still, waves of imperfections of knowledge—of the posi-
tion of the electron.

And now we come to the central and most surprising fact of the
whole situation. I agree that it is still too early, and the situation
is still too obscure, for us fully to assess its importance, but, as I see
it, it seems likely to lead to radical changes in our views not only
of the universe but even more of ourselves. Let us remember that
we are dealing with a system of waves which depicts in a graphic
form our knowledge of the constituents of the universe. The central
fact is this: The wave parable does not tell us that these waves depict
our knowledge of nature, but that they are nature itself.
90 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

If we ask the new physics to specify an electron for us, it does not
give us a mathematical specification of an objective electron, but
rather retorts with the question: “ How much do you know about
the electron in question? ” We state all we know, and then comes
the surprising reply, “ That is the electron.” The electron exists only
in our minds—what exists beyond, and where, to put the idea of
an electron into our minds we do not know. The new physics
can provide us with wave-pictures depicting electrons about which
we have varying amounts of knowledge, ranging from nothing at all
to the maximum we can know with the blunt probes at our command,
but the electron which exists apart from our study of it is quite
beyond its purview.

Let me try and put this in another way. The old physics im-
agined it was studying an objective nature which had its own exist-
ence independently of the mind which perceived it—which, indeed,
had existed from all eternity whether it was perceived or not. It
would have gone on imagining this to this day, had the electron
observed by the physicists behaved as on this supposition it ought
to have done.

But it did not so behave, and this led to the birth of the new physics,
with its general thesis that the nature we study does not consist so
much of something we perceive as of our perceptions; it is not the
object of the subject-object relation, but the relation itself. There
is, in fact, no clear-cut division between the subject and object;
they form an indivisible whole which now becomes nature. This
thesis finds its final expression in the wave-parable, which tells us
that nature consists of waves and that these are of the general
quality of waves of knowledge, or of absence of knowledge, in our
own minds.

Let me digress to remind you that if ever we are to know the true
nature of waves, these waves must consist of something we already
have in our own minds. Now knowledge and absence of knowledge
satisfy this criterion as few other things could; waves in an ether,
for instance, emphatically did not. It may seem strange, and almost
too good to be true, that nature should in the last resort consist of
something we can really understand; but there is always the simple
solution available that the external world is essentially of the same
nature as mental ideas.

At best this may seem very academic and up in the air—at the
worst it may seem stupid and even obvious. I agree that it would
be so, were it not for the one outstanding fact that observation
supports the wave-picture of the new physics whole-heartedly and
without hesitation. Whenever the particle-picture and the wave-
picture have come into conflict, observation has discredited the
MODERN PHYSICS—JEANS QO]

particle-picture and supported the wave-picture—not merely, be it
noted, as a picture of our knowledge of nature, but as a picture of
uature itself. The particle-parable is useful as a concession to the
materialistic habits of thought which have become ingrained in our
minds, but it can no longer claim to fit the facts, and, so far as we
can at present see, the truth about nature must lie very near to the
wave-parable.

Let me digress again to remind you of two simple instances of
such conflicts and of the verdicts which observation has pronounced
upon them.

A shower of parallel-moving electrons forms in effect an electric
current. Let us shoot such a shower of electrons at a thin film of
metal, as your own Prof. G. P. Thomson did. The particle-parable
compares it to a shower of hailstones falling on a crowd of umbrellas;
we expect the electrons to get through somehow or anyhow and come
out on the other side as a disordered mob. But the wave-parable
tells us that the shower of electrons is a train of waves. It must
retain its wave-formation, not only in passing through the film,
but also when it emerges on the other side. And this is what actually
happens; it comes out and forms a wave-pattern which can be pre-
dicted—completely and perfectly—from its wave-picture before it
entered the film.

Next let us shoot our shower of electrons against the barrier
formed by an adverse electromotive force. If the electrons of the
shower have a uniform energy of 10 volts each, let us throw them
against an adverse potential difference of a million volts. According
to the particle-parable, it is like throwing a handful of shot up into
the air; they will all fall back to earth in time—the conservation of
energy will see to that. But the wave-parable again sees our shower
of electrons as a train of waves—like a beam of light—and sees the
potential barrier as an obstructing layer—like a dirty window pane.
The wave-parable tells us that this will check, but not entirely
stop, our beam of electrons. It evens shows us how to calculate
what fraction will get through. And just this fraction, in actual
fact, does get through; a certain number of 10-volt electrons sur-
mount the potential barrier of a million volts—as though a few
of the shot thrown lightly up from our hands were to surmount the
earth’s gravitational field and wander off into space. The phenom-
enon appears to be in flat contradiction to the law of conservation
of energy, but we must remember that waves of knowledge are not
likely to own allegiance to this law.

A further problem arises out of this experiment. Of the mil-
lions of electrons of the original shower, which particular electrons
will get through the obstacle? Is it those who get off the mark
92 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

first, or those with the highest turn of speed, or what? What little
extra have thty that the others haven’t got?

It seems to be nothing more than pure good luck. We know of
no way of increasing the chances of individual electrons; each just
takes its turn with the rest. It is a concept with which science has
been familiar ever since Rutherford and Soddy gave us the law of
spontaneous disintegration of radioactive substances—of a million
atoms 10 broke up every year, and no help we could give to a
selected 10 would cause fate to select them rather than the 10 of
her own choosing. It was the same with Bohr’s model of the atom;
Einstein found that without the caprices of fate it was impossible
to explain the ordinary spectrum of a hot body; call on fate, and
we at once obtained Planck’s formula, which agrees exactly with
observation.

From the dawn of human history, man has been wont to attribute
the results of his own incompetence to the interference of a malign
fate. The particle-picture seems to make fate even more powerful
and more all-pervading than ever before; she not only has her finger
in human affairs, but also in every atom in the universe. The new
physics has got rid of mechanistic determinism, but only at the price
of getting rid of the uniformity of nature as well!

I do not suppose that any serious scientist feels that such a state-
ment must be accepted as final; certainly I do not. I think the
analogy of the beam of light falling on the dirty windowpane will
show us the fallacy of it.

Heisenberg’s mathematical equation shows that the energy of a
beam of light must always be an integral number of quanta. We
have observational evidence of this in the photoelectric effect, in
which atoms always suffer damage by whole quanta.

Now this is often stated in parable form. The parable tells us
that light consists of discrete light-particles, called photons, each
carrying a single quantum of energy. A beam of light becomes a
shower of photons moving through space like the bullets from a
machinegun; it is easy to see why they necessarily do damage by
whole quanta.

When a shower of photons falls on a dirty windowpane, some of
the photons are captured by the dirt, while the rest escape capture
and get through. And again the question arises: How are the
lucky photons singled out? The obvious superficial answer is a
wave of the hand toward Fortune’s wheel; it is the same answer
that Newton gave when he spoke of his “corpuscles of light ” experi-
encing alternating fits of transmission and reflection. But we read-
ily see that such an answer is superficial.
MODERN PHYSICS—JEANS 93

Our balance at the bank always consists of an integral number of
pence, but it does not follow that it is a pile of bronze pennies. A
child may, however, picture it as so being, and ask his father what
determines which particular pennies go to pay the rent. The father
may answer “ Mere chance ”—a foolish answer, but no more foolish
than the question. Our question as to what determines which
photons get through is, I think, of a similar kind, and if Nature seems
to answer “ Mere chance,” she is merely answering us according to
our folly. A parable which replaces radiation by identifiable pho-
tons can find nothing but the finger of fate to separate the sheep
from the goats. But the finger of fate, like the photons themselves,
is mere pictorial detail. As soon as we abandon our picture of
radiation as a shower of photons, there is no chance but complete
determinism in its flow. And the same is, I think, true when the
particle-photons are replaced by particle-electrons.

We know that every electric current must transfer electricity
by complete electron-units, but this does not entitle us to replace
an electric current by a shower of identifiable electron-particles.
Indeed the general principles of quantum-mechanics, which are in
full agreement with observation, definitely forbids our doing so.
When the red and white balls collide on a billiard table, red may go
to the right and white to the left. The collision of two electrons A
and B is governed by similar laws of energy and momentum, so that
we might expect to be able to say that A goes to the right, and B to
the left or vice versa. Actually we must say no such thing, because
we have no right to identify the two electrons which emerge from the
collision with the two that went in. Its as though A and B had tem-
porarily combined into a single drop of electric fluid, which had sub-
sequently broken up into two new electrons, C, D. We can only say
that after the collision C will go to the right, and D to the left. If we
are asked which way A will go, the true answer is that by then A will
no longer exist. The superficial answer is that it is a pure toss-up.
But the toss-up is not in nature, but in our own minds; it is an even
chance whether we choose to identify C with A or with B.

Thus the indeterminism of the particle-picture seems to reside
in our own minds rather than in nature. In any case this picture
is imperfect, since it fails to represent the facts of observation. The
wave-picture, which observation confirms in every known experi-
ment, exhibits a complete determinism.

Again we may begin to feel that the new physics is little better
than the old—that it has merely replaced one determinism by
another. It has; but there is all the difference in the world between
the two determinisms. For in the old physics the perceiving mind
was a spectator; in the new it is an actor. Nature no longer forms
94 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

a closed system detached from the perceiving mind; the perceiver
and perceived are interacting parts of a single system. The nature
depicted by the wave-picture in some way embraces our minds

“as well as inanimate matter. Things still change solely as they
are compelled, but it no longer seems impossible that part of the
compulsion may originate in our own minds.

Even the inadequate particle-picture told us something very simi-
lar in its own roundabout stammering way. At first it seemed to be
telling us of a nature distinct from our minds, which moved as di-
rected by throws of the dice, and then it transpired that the dice
were thrown by our own minds. Our minds enter into both pictures,
although in somewhat different capacities. In the particle-picture
the mind merely decides under what conventions the map is to be
drawn; in the wave-picture it perceives and observes and draws the
map. We should notice, however, that the mind enters both pictures
only in its capacity as a receptacle—never as an emitter.

The determinism which appears in the new physics is one of waves,
and so, in the last resort, of knowledge. Where we are not ourselves
concerned, we can say that event follows event; where we are
concerned, only that knowledge follows knowledge. And even this
knowledge is one only of probabilities and not of certainties; it is at
best a smeared picture of the clear-cut reality which we believe to lie
beneath. And just because of this, it is impossible to decide whether
the determinism of the wave-picture originates in the underlying
reality or not—can our minds change what is happening in reality,
or can they only make it look different to us by changing our angle of
vision? We do not know, and as I do not see how we can ever find
out, my own opinion is that the problem of free-will will continue to
provide material for fruitless discussion until the end of eternity.

The contribution of the new physics to this problem is not that it
has given a decision on a long-debated question, but that it has re-
opened a door which the old physics had seemed to slam and bolt.
We have an intuitive belief that we can choose our lunch from the
menu or abstain from housebreaking or murder; and that by our
own volition we can develop our freedom to choose. We may, of

_ course be wrong. The old physics seemed to tell us that we were,

and that our imagined freedom was all an illusion; the new physics

tells us it may not be.

_. The old physics showed us a universe which looked more like a
prison than a dwelling place. The new physics shows a building

which is certainly more spacious, although its interior doors may:be

_either open or locked—we cannot say. But we begin to suspect, it

May give us room for such freedom as we have always believed we
possessed ; it seems possible at least that in it we can mold events
MODERN PHYSICS—JEANS 95

to our desire, and live lives of emotion, intellect, and endeavor. It
looks as though it might form a suitable dwelling place for man, and
not a mere shelter for brutes.

The new physics obviously carries many philosophical implica-
tions, but these are not easy to describe in words. They cannot be
summed up in the crisp, snappy sentences beloved of scientific
journalism, such as that materialism is dead, or that matter is no
more. The situation is rather that both materialism and matter
need to be redefined in the light of our new knowledge. When this
has been done, the materialist must decide for himself whether the
only kind of materialism which science now permits can be suitably
labeled materialism, and whether what remains of matter should be
labeled as matter or as something else; it is mainly a question of
terminology.

What remains is in any case very different from the full-blooded
matter and the forbidding materialism of the Victorian scientist.
His objective and material universe is proved to consist of little more
than constructs of our own minds. To this extent, then, modern
physics has moved in the direction of philosophic idealism. Mind
and matter, if not proved to be of similar nature, are at least found
to be ingredients of one single system. There is no longer room for
the kind of dualism which has haunted philosophy since the days of
Descartes.

This brings us at once face to face with the fundamental difficulty
which confronts every form of philosophical idealism. If the nature
we study consists so largely of our own mental constructs, why do
our many minds all construct one and the same nature? Why, in
brief, do we all see the same sun, moon, and stars?

I would suggest that physics itself may provide a possible although
very conjectural clue. The old particle-picture which lay within
the limits of space and time, broke matter up into a crowd of distinct
particles, and radiation into a shower of distinct photons. The
newer and more accurate wave-picture, which transcends the frame-
work of space and time, recombines the photons into a single beam
of light, and the shower of parallel-moving electrons into a continuous
electric current. Atomicity and division into individual existences
are fundamental in the restricted space-time picture, but disappear
in the wider, and as far as we know, more truthful, picture which
transcends space and time. In this, atomicity is replaced by what
General Smuts would describe as “holism ”—the photons are no
longer distinct individuals each going its own way, but members of
a single organization or whole—a beam of light. The same is true,
mutatis mutandis, of the electrons of a parallel-moving shower. The
biologists are beginning to tell us, although not very unanimously,
96 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

that the same may be true of the cells of our bodies. And is it not
conceivable that what is true of the objects perceived may be true
also of the perceiving minds? When we view ourselves in space
and time we are quite obviously distinct individuals; when we pass
beyond space and time we may perhaps form ingredients of a con-
tinuous stream of life. It is only a step from this to a solution of
the problem which would have commended itself to many philoso-
phers, from Plato to Berkeley, and is, I think, directly in line with
the new world-picture of modern physics.

I have left but little time to discuss affairs of a more concrete
nature. We meet in a year which has to some extent seen science
arraigned before the bar of public opinion; there are many who
attribute most of our present national woes— including unemploy-
ment in industry and the danger of war—to the recent rapid advance
in scientific knowledge.

Even if their most lurid suspicions were justified, it is not clear
what we could do. For it is obvious that the country which called
a halt to scientific progress would soon fall behind in every other
respect as well—in its industry, in its economic position, in its
naval and military defenses, and not least important, in its culture.
Those who sigh for an Arcadia in which all machinery would be
scrapped and all invention proclaimed a crime, as it was in Erewhon,
forget that the Erewhonians had neither to compete with highly
organized scientific competitors for the trade of the world nor to
protect themselves against possible bomb-dropping, blockade, or
invasion.

But can we admit that the suspicions of our critics are justified ?
If science has made the attack more deadly in war, it has also made
the defense more efficient; in the long run it shows no partiality in
the age-long race between weapons of attack and defense. This
being so, it would, I think, be hard to maintain in cold blood that its
activities are likely to make wars either more frequent or more pro-
longed. It is at least arguable that the more deadly a war is likely
to be, the less hkely it is to occur.

Still it may occur. We canot ignore the tragic fact that, as our
President of 2 years ago told us, science has given man control over
Nature before he has gained control over himself. The tragedy
does not le in man’s scientific control over Nature but in his absence
of moral control over himself. This is only one chapter of a long
story—human nature changes very slowly, and so forever lags
behind human knowledge, which accumulates very rapidly. The
plays of Aeschylus and Sophocles still thrill us with their vital
human interest, but the scientific writings of Aristarchus and Ptole-
my are dead—mere historical curiosities which leave us cold. Sci-
entific knowledge is transmitted from one generation to another,
MODERN PHYSICS—JEANS 97

while acquired characteristics are not. Thus, in respect of knowl-
edge, each generation stands on the shoulders of its predecessor, but
in respect of human nature, both stand on the same ground.

These are hard facts which we cannot hope to alter, and which—
we may as well admit—may wreck civilization. If there is an
avenue of escape, it does not, as I see it, he in the direction of less
science, but of more science—psychology, which holds out hopes
that, for the first time in his long history, man may be enabled to
obey the command “ Know thyself”; to which I for one, would
like to see adjoined a morality and, if possible, even a religion,
consistent with our new psychological knowledge and the established
facts of science; scientific and constructive measures of eugenics
and birth control; scientific research in agriculture and industry,
sufficient at least to defeat the gloomy prophecies of Malthus and
enable ever larger populations to live in comfort and contentment on
the same limited area of land. In such ways we may hope to re-
strain the pressure of population and the urge for expansion which,
to my mind, are far more likely to drive the people of a nation to
war than the knowledge that they—and also the enemies they will
have to fight—are armed with the deadliest weapons which science
can devise.

This last brings us to the thorny problem of economic depression
and unemployment. No doubt a large part of this results from the
war, national rivalries, tariff barriers, and various causes which have
nothing to do with science, but a residue must be traced to scientific
research; this produces labor-saving devices which in times of
depression are only too likely to be welcomed as wage-saving
devices and to put men out of work. The scientific Robot in
Punch’s cartoon boasted that he could do the work of 100 men,
but gave no answer to the question—* Who will find work for the
displaced 99?” He might, I think, have answered— The pure
scientist in part, at least.” For scientific research has two products
of industrial importance—the labor-saving inventions which dis-
place labor, and the more fundamental discoveries which originate
as pure science, but may ultimately lead to new trades and new
popular demands providing employment for vast armies of labor.

Both are rich gifts from science to the community. The labor-
saving devices lead to emancipation from soul-destroying toil and
routine work to greater leisure and better opportunities for its enjoy-
ment. The new inventions add to the comfort and pleasure, heaith
and wealth of the community. If a perfect balance could be main-
tained between the two, there would be employment for all, with
a continual increase in the comfort and dignity of life. But, as
I see it, troubles are bound to arise if the balance is not maintained,
and a steady flow of labor-saving devices with no accompanying
98 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

steady flow of new industries to absorb the labor they displace,
cannot but lead to unemployment and chaos in the field of labor.
At present we have a want of balance resulting in unemployment, so
that our great need at the moment is for industry-making discov-
eries. Let us remember Faraday’s electromagnetic induction, Max-
well’s Hertzian waves, and the Otto cycle—each of which has
provided employment for millions of men. And, although it is an
old story, let us also remember that the economic value of the work
of one scientist alone, Edison, has been estimated at three thousand
million pounds.

Unhappily, no amount of planning can arrange a perfect balance.
For as the wind bloweth where it listeth, so no one can control the
direction in which science will advance; the investigator in pure
science does not know himself whether his researches will result in
a mere labor-saving device or a new industry. He only knows
that if all science were throttled down, neither would result; the
community would become crystallized in its present state, with
nothing to do but watch its population increase, and shiver as it
waited for the famine, pestilence, or war which must inevitably come
to restore the balance between food and mouths, land and population.

Is it not better to press on in our efforts to secure more wealth
and leisure and dignity of life for our own and future generations,
even though we risk a glorious failure, rather than accept inglorious
failure by perpetuating our present conditions, in which these
advantages are the exception rather than the rule? Shall we not
risk the fate of that over-ambitious scientist Icarus, rather than
resign ourselves without an effort to the fate which has befallen the
bees and ants? Such are the questions I would put to those who
maintain that science is harmful to the race.
THE MARKINGS AND ROTATION OF MERCURY’

By E. M. ANTONIADI

It is a well-known fact that the planet Mercury has been singularly
neglected by astronomers, so that the greatest confusion is reigning
as to the reality and configuration of its spots, the duration of its
rotation period, or even the existence of its atmosphere. This un-
certainty strikes its roots in the smallness of the disk of Mercury;
in the practical hopelessness of detecting well-defined markings on
his surface at the very low altitude, and consequent rippling air, of
twilight and dawn; and in the difficulty of finding the planet itself
without an equatorial mounting, at daytime, high above the horizon,
and in the overpowering glare of the Sun.

In the beginning of the nineteenth century, Schroter drew moun-
tains, a dark streak, and other spots on Mercury, from which Bessel
deduced a rotation period of 24" 0™ 53° round an axis inclined some
70° to the plane of the orbit. But these objects were illusive. Yet
Schroter had called attention to two features which were subsequently
confirmed: (1) that the phase was always smaller than it ought to
be theoretically; and (2) that the S. cusp looked very often blunted.
This last phenomenon was well explained by Schiaparelli as due to
the presence of some dusky area near the S. pole, although he did not
draw any such marking on his map of the planet.

At about the same time as Schroéter, Herschel could detect no
spots on Mercury. Prince, in 1867, Birmingham, in 1870, called
attention to their observation of white areas, while Vogel seemed to
recognize other markings. In 1879 Flammarion saw no spots; and
from 1876 to 1881 Trouvelot could only catch a glimpse of a white
area at the N. cusp of the crescent phase.

In 1882 De Ball drew a curved dusky shading on the morning
phase, which Schiaparelli later identified with one of the markings
seen by himself; and, in the same year, the eminent English observer,
Denning, saw several spots, which I was enabled to confirm in 1927,
and from which he concluded that the rotation period was about 25".

Between 1881 and 1889 Mercury was scrutinized in broad daylight
by Schiaparelli with his customary perseverance and with the start-

1 Reprinted by permission, with a few additions by the writer, from The Journal of
the Royal Astronomical Society of Canada, vol. 27, no. 10, December 1933.

111666—35. 8 99

100 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

ling result that the period of rotation was found to be equal to the
period of revolution, the planet completing a rotation of 87°.969256
round an axis almost perpendicular to the orbital plane.

It is generally stated that Lowell did confirm the conclusions of
Schiaparelli. Yet in his 1896-97 map he does not show a single
marking observed at Milan, or elsewhere, but only an enormous
number of illusive blackish, linear canals, some perpendicular, others
parallel, others inclined to the plane of the orbit of the planet.

On August 31, 1900, Barnard, using the 40-inch at Yerkes, de-
tected in broad daylight “3 or 4 large darkish spots, very much
resembling those seen on the Moon with the naked eye,” adding
that “one of these dark markings south preceding the center of
Mercury was specially noticeable.”

In 1907 and the years following, Jarry-Desloges and Fournier
drew some dusky spots of Schiaparelli’s chart, which Sormano
believed to have been probably confirmatory of the long rotation
period.

Five years later, Danjon, using a 71-inch refractor in Paris, de-
picted admirably some real dark markings on the evening phase,
confirming Schiaparelli, and thus succeeding with a modest instru-
ment located in the smoke and dust of the great city there, where
Lowell had failed with a powerful telescope in the elevated and so
highly vaunted tablelands of Arizona.

The conclusions of Schiaparelli met a cool reception. Yet a hand-
ful of astronomers, among them C. A. Young, E. W. Maunder, and
A. C. D. Crommelin, entertained but little doubt as to the accuracy
of the results of the Italian, while the majority of scientists opposed
to them a sturdy skepticism. It was thus only 4 years ago that
Graff wrote that almost nobody now believed in the 88-day rotation
period of Schiaparelli, controverted, as he thought, by the radio-
metric measures executed on the small disk of the planet. I never
accepted the deductions drawn from the interesting indications of
the thermocouple on the planets; and, in the case of Mercury at
least, my distrust was proved to be founded by the unexceptionable
evidence of observation.

Prudence naturally prompted me to have no opinion on the rota-
tion period of that planet since I had not studied it telescopically ;
but, convinced that the powerful refractor of 33 inches aperture at
Meudon could easily help to solve the mystery, I asked my director,
M. Deslandres, for permission to use that instrument occasionally on
Mercury in daytime—a demand which was favorably received by that
most distinguished astronomer, and for which I wish to express here
my feelings of deep gratitude.
MARKINGS OF MERCURY—ANTONIADI 101

The planet was thus followed near the meridian during the summer
months of 1927, 1928, and 1929; and it was soon obvious that its
markings, which were often seen quite distinctly, appeared fixed with
regard to the terminator for hours together on the same day. Yet
they showed, day after day, a pronounced movement of libration in

Ficurn 1.—Chart of Mercury. Embodying all the markings observed on the planet
with the 33-inch Refractor at Meudon, in 1927, 1928, and 1929. By E. M. Antoniadi.

The central point, Z, is supposed to have the Sun at the zenith when the planet is in
perihelion or aphelion; but as the projection is not an orthographic one, the chart does
not give the approximate appearance of Mercury in superior conjunction with the Sun.

The letter S. stands for the initial of the Latin word Solitudo, wilderness; and the
abbreviation Prom. stands for promontorium.

Argyritis is a bright white region, and was discovered in 1882 by the English astron-
omer, W. F. Denning.

longitude, such as would be necessitated by a uniform rotation of
Mercury in a period equal to that of the revolution round the Sun.
The axis was found almost perpendicular to the plane of the orbit,
its inclination not reaching 7°. Here, then, we had a complete
vindication of the conclusions of Schiaparelli.?

2I must state that a very close scrutiny of Venus near the meridian for many months
in 1928 with the large telescope has convinced me that Schiaparelli’s period of 2254
102 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

My results are embodied in the figure accompanying this paper.
A closer scrutiny with the large telescope, and with better definition
under a high Sun, would have revealed a much more detailed struc-
ture; but the present map gives a satisfactory view of the most
important markings seen by me with certainty on that desolate world.

The color of Mercury looked at daytime in the 33-inch almost com-
parable with that of the Moon in twilight. The planet appeared
yellowish with a slight roseate tinge on the azure of the sky; while
a distinct neutral-gray hue was characteristic of its dusky areas.*

With the view of avoiding the use of periphrases in the description
of the spots, I have given names to the latter, generally drawn from
the Greco-Egyptian mythology of the god Mercury. A few names
were inspired by the desert state and tremendous heat prevailing on
the planet; and I deemed it a duty to christen a bright area by the
name of the antique Ziguria, in pious remembrance of Schiaparelli,
born at Savigliano, for his truly wonderful discovery of the chief
spots and slow rotation of Mercury with a small telescope.

The dusky markings of the planet appear larger in the 33-inch
than in the telescopes of the Italian astronomer—a fact due to dimin-
ished diffraction in the big glass, and one, too, which yields a precious
independent proof of the reality of the markings in question.

The largest of the gray spots was named “ Solitudo Herme Tris-
megisti ”, or “ Wilderness of Mercury the Thrice Greatest ”—a fabu-
lous personage, believed by the Greeks and the Egyptians to have
invented all sciences, including astronomy. This marking was dis-
covered, among others, by me at Meudon; it had not been seen
previously on account of its faintness, and I have shown that
medium-sized instruments do not reveal pale half-tones on the
planets.*

The dark area named Solitudo Atlantis, to the right of my map,
is certainly much larger now than when it was first drawn 53 years
ago. Yet the reality of this apparent change must be considered
with the utmost diffidence, as vegetation seems impossible on a world
where the temperature rises at least 200- above the zero of the
Centigrade scale.

rests on no decisive spots, but on an effect of contrast. The faint markings seen by
me on Venus were manifestly atmospheric and variable from 1 day to the other. A
calculation of the solar tides on Venus has shown me that her rotation was slackened
only twice as much as that of the Earth. Should the absence of a satellite constitute
an indication of a slow original rotation (which is doubtful), then the neighbor planet
may have a rotation period extending over months, which seems to agree with my
observations. In fact, definite spots appeared fixed here several times during more than
3 hours.

3 Schiaparelli found that these spots had a pale brown tinge. This I could not confirm,
in spite of the great superiority of the large instrument in showing color. Mars, Jupiter,
and Saturn display wonderful hues in it; but the dark spots of Mercury always appeared
to me quite as colorless as the Maria of the Moon.

«Mars Report for 1909, in Mem. British Astron. Assoc., vol. 20, p. 30.
MARKINGS OF MERCURY—ANTONIADI 103

An analysis of past observations has shown me that all the most
important spots drawn by De Ball, Denning, Schiaparelli, Jarry-
Desloges, Fournier, and Danjon are confirmed by my own observa-
tions; and that the principal markings of my map have been partly
confirmed with the 83-inch by Messrs. Ritchey, Lyot, Burson, Baldet,
Grenat, Roger, Mlle. Roumens, and by M. Swings, of the University
of Liége, in Belgium, observing with me Mercury in the large
instrument.

We thus have the converging evidence of many hundreds of mutual,
independent, confirmations of the existence of definite spots on Mer-
cury by several well-trained observers, and this always, without excep-
tion, in the positions necessitated by a period of uniform rotation
equal to the period of revolution. Hence the 88° rotation of the planet
is now demonstrated to be established on an immovable basis.

The idea of a rapid rotation, of some 24°, rests merely on analogy
with the kindred rotation of Mars and of the Earth; and, apart from
the decisive conflicting evidence of observation, it has the further
disadvantage of ignoring the important action of the bodily tides.
Now, I have shown that Mercury is with reference to the Sun in a po-
sition comparable with that of Iapetus with regard to Saturn;® and
we know, since the days of Cassini, that Iapetus, apart from his libra-
tions, presents always the same face to Saturn. The mean distance
of Iapetus to his primary is 62 mean radii of Saturn; and the mean
distance of Mercury to the Sun is 83 solar radii. But the density of
the Sun is double that of Saturn; and, applying the sixth power law,
which governs the frictional force slowing down rotation, we find
that Mercury, as above stated, is with the reference to the Sun in a
comparable position with that of Iapetus to Saturn. The duration
of such tidal actions comes here into play, and somebody may ask if
the Sun is as old as Saturn. A cosmogonist, skilled in the arts of
grasping the exact manner in which the various globes of the universe
were begotten, can alone clear up that mysterious question.

The application of the sixth power law to the satellites has further
enabled me to demonstrate that all those bodies known up to 1893
show, apart from their librations, always the same face to their pri-
maries.° The problem had to be set in a very particular way, to which
I was led by observation; and that is the reason why the law govern-
ing the rotation of the satellites had eluded the penetration of such
profound mathematicians as Henri Poincaré and Sir George Darwin.

The same law will enable us to understand the very reason of the
fundamental difference existing between the rotation of the planets
and that of the principal satellites; expressing distances in radii of

* Letter to Mrs. Maunder, Jour. British Astron. Assoc., vol. 39, p. 86, 1928.
® Bull. Soc. Astron. France, vol. 43, pp. 385-398, 1929.
104 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

the primaries, we find that the satellites had their rotation annulled
because they were too near their planets; whereas the planets, except-
ing Mercury, have preserved the independence of their rotation
because they were far too distant from the Sun.

Another interesting question is raised by the existence of an atmos-
phere around Mercury. That gaseous envelop, like the one surround-
ing Mars, is absolutely invisible; but the frequent presence of cloudy
veils over the markings of the superficies constitutes a solid proof of
its existence. The clouds of the planet were discovered by the acute-
ness of Schiaparelli, who found that they often appear as white
streaks on the limb, and that they also veil the dark areas, being
curiously more frequent on the evening than on the morning phase.
The Italian astronomer compared these veils to the clouds of the
Earth—a natural, though at present impossible, assumption, as will
soon be seen. Yet, excepting this comparison, my independent re-
sults have entirely confirmed the statements of Schiaparelli on this
question of the atmospheric veils of Mercury. The lmb of the
planet often showed to me temporary, irregular, whitish arcs of cloud,
stretching sometimes over 3,000 miles in length. Toward the central
regions, these veils tended to become invisible, their presence being
indirectly revealed by the temporary pallor, or invisibility, of the
subjacent markings of the surface. It was rarely that a spot be-
longing to the superficies would preserve its intensity unimpaired for
many successive days; and the veils in question presented all the
degrees of condensation, frorn the greatest rarefaction up to an opac-
ity which completely obliterated dark areas of the soil measuring
more than 2,000 miles across. ‘The changes were sometimes so rapid,
that a spot of the length just mentioned, visible with its real intensity
through a clear Mercurian air one day, would be utterly invisible
24" later, and conversely. Very often the dark areas had their in-
tensity locally diminished for weeks, with an alternate succession
of various degrees of pallor, extinction, and final return to their nor-
mal appearance. In the course of my inquiry, the hooked dark spot
to the right of my chart, named “ Solitudo Criophori”, was much
more often rendered invisible by local veils than any other marking.

The clouds of Mercury are much more frequent and more obliterat-
ing than those of Mars, whose nature is, however, quite a different
one.

It is certain that these veils cannot be composed of droplets of
water or of particles of ice, like our own clouds. The enormous heat
radiated from the Sun renders the existence of water in the liquid
state on the sun-lit hemisphere of Mercury impossible, while the
deductions of Johnstone Stoney from the kinetic theory of gases
make the presence even of aqueous vapour extremely doubtful in
MARKINGS OF MERCURY—ANTONIADI 105

the atmosphere of that world. Meantime the low albedo of these
clouds, which does not exceed 0.2, is quite different from that of our
cumuli at 0.7, so that the only admissible explanation of the atmos-
pheric veils of Mercury is that they are probably due to minute
particles of dust, raised by the violence of the winds above the
gloom of the dark, scorched, and desolate surface.

It has been shown by the variation of ight with phase that Mer-
cury must have a very rough and uneven soil; and his low albedo
seems to indicate the presence, on his superficies, of eruptive rocks,
of basalt and dark lava. The varying distance from the Sun must
tend slowly to disintegrate the rocks exposed to his heat, and this
process of destruction must be particularly active along the border-
land of the terminator, where the wilderness is exposed to awful
variations of temperature, ranging, indeed, over hundreds of degrees
Centigrade.

“Mercury ”, says Dr. Crommelin, “is probably a parched desert,
with nothing to mitigate the intense glare of the Sun on its day
side, seven times as fierce as we receive on Earth.”* Professor Ait-
ken rightly considers that “the little planet is not fitted to be the
abode of life” *—a conclusion to which the late lamented E. W.
Maunder had independently arrived when he wrote that “ the con-
ditions of Mercury are so unfavorable for life, that, even if this
remarkable relation of rotation period to revolution did not hold
good, it would still be impossible to regard it as a world for habi-
tation.”

™The Star World, pp. 82-83.
§ Journ. Roy. Astron, Soc. Canada, October 1911.
° Are the Planets inhabited?, pp. 116—117.
agro 483

Ao,

? rae ’

aa pi eit ae, slioe py corte fumes iors, Sey a)
aoa weitde rad ier =e aise) j Fit-ing? ie ads ie Ho Josibenert if. Oba area
Sati, (eons fe igineh peste sy) Bake OVE GE Bk Bark SFR nap ‘Ass
aliih dare, Abad His) Dama“ vio ost) seta ie
“vabaod ahs itole ovidog. qiialioited ed dean pacers 6
tenet Revades. at) aesitobtin gay ited: Judai adi.
aang to gheubnisst sic. boabis anigagh cial wore
| | HF ciao
Pol Sraaen biwhd udirter: af? pes: ets £7 aa avon gt ‘i:
yah a me one oft. to orale aeons sd : 5, hgh? thx, tbh: iden
dtd anes Flite iO: OS S0RE ea ae Sy gonk- pawontd-iko%
ahi ad ot. Pash Pra ai tonsky esi ie Jar ctabieep ide
AG Shi badietieadl wal sii dacs ol aegis ano ties Lee
oes ot * dude otetee od. aed obese hei haed obese bay
mie th. gave stadt oll toh aalaioy pina (ee Mas SS penne
bid doe: fils aaitihogenot dele NB

dda “wok shiv wm at gaia eaeonas allie pied i ad ie

zs +t?

wd
peg

7 Cet ag bier
UPLat “Adder pahae rie stn ng 4

i 7
i 7 ul 4%
' : ie
v 1
7 BO 4 ERS
u AL
® ay } ; eas ae
’
i
= y : ib hte

2 : : ‘ee aa ees i; 4h Mae pba tot eo a

* at oh}
‘i
g \ .
‘ .
s
oN hak Kf ri
° ; i Raat
€ A x
Cian Biren 4
“<5, ie, a ae
ie 4 i ee
ay i i q
arava, hay y bia }

9

its beac he ue eee
BRITISH POLAR YEAR EXPEDITION TO FORT
RAE, NORTHWEST CANADA, 1932-33*

By J. M. Straae

[With 2 plates]

The first three-quarters of last century were years of tremendous
activity in polar and especially Arctic exploration. Led by such men
as McLintock, Franklin, Ross, Barrow, and many others, expedition
followed expedition for a long series of years. Naturally, a great
deal of novel and extremely interesting observational material was
gathered in the course of these expeditions, but, on the whole, and
very largely because of the sporadic and uncoordinated nature of the
activities, the truly scientific results accruing from so much splendid
effort and so great expense were considered meager.

Hence it came about that, around 1875, a proposal was put forward
by Count Weyprecht, of Austria, for the arranging of a number of
simultaneous expeditions which would cooperate on a uniform plan
over a full year. The result was the organization of what has come
to be known as the First International Polar Year, 1882-83, when
14 expeditions were in the field, 12 to high northern latitudes and 2 to
the Antarctic. Great Britain collaborated with Canada in establish-
ing a station at Fort Rae, a trading outpost of the Hudson’s Bay Co.
on the North Arm of the Great Slave Lake. From that expedition
Captain Dawson, R. E. (who in 1932 died as Colonel Dawson), with
his party of engineers trained as observers and with the assistance of
Canadian canoe men and guides, brought back results whose value
and usefulness have not been fully explored to this day. During that
First Polar Year all the stations were fully equipped with such instru-
ments as were then available for a comprehensive series of observa-
tions in meteorology and terrestrial magnetism; they worked on a
common prearranged plan.

Practically and scientifically, from the point of view of the interna-
tional collaboration as well as Britain’s share in it, the year’s activi-
ties were completely successful.

1The G. J. Symons’ Memorial Lecture delivered on Mar. 21, 1934. Reprinted by
Permission from the Quarterly Journal of the Royal Meteorological Society, vol. 60, no.
256, July 1934,

107
108 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

Since 1882 progress in meteorology and cognate lines of geophysi-
cal investigation—though probably less spectacular than in some of
the other domains of physical science—has been very great. A vast
number of new problems have arisen; the fields of inquiry and ob-
servation have grown ever wider—and higher. In 1882-83 none of
the expeditions, so far as I know, carried out any upper air work.
Their efforts were necessarily confined to surface meteorology. In
terrestrial magnetism hourly readings by eye of instruments designed
to give the three major elements in the earth’s magnetic field were as
much as the expeditionary technique of those days allowed. And
the description of the state of the sky at each hour covered the
demands of the time in auroral observations.

In recent years, however, meteorologists have been requiring more
observations over an increasingly wide area and more detailed data
on the characteristics and circulation of the atmosphere up into and
beyond the stratosphere. Again, the study of states of disturbance
and quiet in the earth’s magnetic field has shown that one observatory
can no longer be considered representative of a large area of the earth
around it; the changes in the magnetic field are fine structured in
space as well as in time, so that a close network of magnetic stations
equipped with continuously recording instruments is now needed.
And for observations in aurora to serve their best purpose in linking
up with the associated magnetic disturbance on the one hand and the
variations in height and intensity of ionization in the several con-
ducting layers of the high atmosphere on the other, precise determi-
nations of the position of the aurora in space are required from as
many and as widely distributed localities on the earth’s surface as
possible.

Thus we see that from all angles of meteorology, terrestrial mag-
netism and auroral investigation, a fresh Polar Year program was
urgently required on a much more intensified and extensive basis
than that of 1882-83.

The suggestion, put forward by Admiral Dominik of the Deutsche
Seewarte, Hamburg, to hold the repetition in 1932-33—the jubilee
year of the First Polar Year—was therefore generally welcomed.
An International Commission representative of the meteorological
services of many countries was set up to organize the project on a
world-wide basis, and national committees were convened to carry out
the general recommendations in each separate country. In Britain
the national committee had representatives from the Royal Soci-
eties of London and Edinburgh and six other interested institu-
tions, including the Royal Meteorological and Royal Geographical
Societies. Col. Sir Henry Lyons became its chairman and Dr. Simp-
son its secretary. Despite the grave financial stringencies of the
times, funds to the extent of £10,000 were put at the disposal of the

POLAR YEAR EXPEDITION—STAGG 109

committee by the Government through the Air Ministry, and large
and generous donations were made in instrumental and foodstuff
equipment by upwards of 50 manufacturing and wholesale firms.

For obvious reasons, it had been one of the guiding principles of
the international program that, as far as possible, the stations oc-
cupied 50 years ago should be reestablished, with, of course, as many
additional ones as possible to complete the circumpolar network.
And, further, though it was true that special efforts were to be made
in high latitudes, where systematic observational material is at once
most scanty and most important, the program of meteorological,
auroral, and magnetic work was to be intensified throughout the
world.

It reflects great credit on the efforts of the International Polar Year
Commission and especially on its most enthusiastic and energetic
president, Dr. la Cour, director of the Danish Meteorological Serv-
ice, that in spite of the incidence of the world-wide financial crises
just at the time when preparations were in progress, some 46 differ-
ent countries have taken part in the Polar Year activities, 23 of
which have been able to set up special stations either in their own
territory or that of other countries more suitable for the work. A
map showing the distribution of Polar Year stations is reproduced
in fieure 1.

To this general program Britain’s contribution has been fourfold:

(1) By collaboration with her permanent and regular meteoro-
logical stations and observatories, including ships at sea.

(2) By organizing a scheme of special auroral observations in
Scotland and the northern islands—a work largely in the hands of
the Royal Society, Edinburgh.

(3) By subsidizing a party under Prof. E. V. Appleton for mak-
ing an extensive, novel, and very valuable series of observations of
conditions in the ionosphere over Tromso.

(4) By reoccupying the station at Fort Rae, established 50 years
ago.

In the party of 6 selected by the National Committee for the
work in Canada, 4 of us, Messrs. Morgans, Sheppard, Grinsted,
and I, were from the Meteorological Office staff; the fifth, Mr.
A. Stephenson, from the geography department, Cambridge, had
had experience of Arctic work with the British Arctic Air Route
Expedition to Greenland in 1980-31; and Mr. Kennedy, our sixth
member, acted as our steward-mechanic. All six of us were very
thoroughly examined by the Air Ministry medical staff before being
accepted, since our station would be far from skilled medical aid for
at least 14 months and our personnel was too small to include a
doctor. Mr. Grinsted and Mr. Stephenson had, however, undergone
a short course in first aid against the cruder contingencies which
110 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

might arise. Fortunately, their skill in this direction was never
seriously tested; except for one or two minor mishaps, all of us kept
good health and fitness throughout our stay in Canada.

Sailing from Southampton to Montreal about the middle of May
1932, we journeyed by Canadian National Railways to Edmonton
in Alberta, and thence north for 300 miles to MacMurray, the end

1s0° 160°

PRINCIPAL STATIONS arouno tre NORTH POLAR CAP Vv
FUNCTIONING ovuring 1932 ~5.

6" 4

K tach
SS ma seals
Patchy ak
\ s/o Sa
mS /
TS Se SS
q Kathe ~leg
vA 20 rghberg
are
4

7

Ficurs 1.—Distribution of main observing stations around the North Polar Cap. The
dotted line indicates the supposed position of the zone of maximum auroral frequency
deduced from observations before the Second Polar Year.

of the once-weekly railway service, and starting point of the river
and lake transport of the Hudson’s Bay Co., used for distributing
stores to its trading stations in the Mackenzie River district of
northwest Canada. In the shallow-draft, stern-wheeled boat,
Northern Echo, we chugged our way northward down the river
Athabaska, across the lake of that name, and then down the Slave
River till we came to Fort Fitzgerald, where 16 miles of rapids
make the river impassable. Our freight, comprising 16 tons of
POLAR YEAR EXPEDITION—STAGG Lit

instrumental equipment and foodstuffs, had gone ahead of us, but
we caught up on it at Fort Smith at the lower end of the rapids
along which it had been transported by a portage road. From
Smith we continued north down the Slave River and across the
Great Slave Lake till we were some 1,000 miles north of Edmonton.
In the early years of this century the site of the trading post at
Fort Rae had been moved 25 kilometers farther north into the
Marian Lake extension of the Great Slave Lake. The added facili-
ties offered by staying near the trading post made us choose the
new Rae for our main base. During the period of our stay, however,
a site almost identical with that of the 1882-83 expedition was used
as a subsidiary station in communication with the main base for
photography of aurora and also in the two summers of our stay for
comparison observations in terrestrial magnetism.

We were fortunate in finding the north arm of the lake free
from ice at an unusually early date and so arrived at the scene of
our Polar Year activities by mid-June.

Every minute of our time before August 1, 1932, the official date
when all the Polar Year stations were due to start their activities,
was occupied with the building of huts, setting up of instruments,
and getting them into proper working order. By arrangement with
the Hudson’s Bay Co. we were saved the building of dwelling
and main observatory huts, but our magnetic work demanded two
huts of special type, one for the continuously recording magneto-
graphs and another for the control observations. Both of these had
to be free of magnetic material, and, though our standard magneto-
graphs could be completely self-compensated for temperature
changes, we though it best to erect them in a chamber with as small
a daily range of temperature as possible for double safety.

A custom among the Dog Rib Indians in that part of Canada
of deserting any dwelling-place where a member of a family has
died, gave us a log shack which, when denuded of the large quantity
of iron nails used by the former owners for supporting the “ wall-
paper ”, formed a very serviceable outer shell for a multiple-walled,
thermally insulated chamber we built within. The outer walls of
this hut were subsequently mudded and heavy turf was banked up
around them, so that by the time the autumn snows had made still
another covering the insulation of the magnetograph chamber
within was very satisfactory. In this chamber we erected three com-
plete sets of magnetographs, each set recording photographically,
continuously and independently the variations in the three compo-
nents of the earth’s magnetic field. One set, the standard, was of
the very recent pattern designed by Dr. la Cour, Copenhagen; the
second set, acting as a subsidiary and run at low sensitivity, was
loaned by Greenwich Observatory; and the third, also of the Copen-
ly ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

hagen type, was run at quick speed for giving accurate times of inci-
dence of special perturbations in the field, such as sudden commence-
ments of magnetic storms.

Until a year or two ago, when this quick-run magnetograph was
perfected in Denmark, it was impracticable to specify times of
perturbations on magnetic traces to a greater accuracy than 1 or
even 2 minutes, so that such questions as the mode of propagation
of world-wide sudden commencements—whether they appeared
simultaneously over the earth, whether they traveled from east to
west, or whether they were propagated along meridians—could not
be decided with certainty. Now, among disturbances in the earth’s
magnetic field during the Polar Year, a well-marked sudden com-
mencement on April 30, 1933, heralding a big disturbance on May 1,
was recorded on the quick-run magnetographs at most of the Polar
Year stations. Preliminary measurements show that, within about
2 seconds, this movement was recorded simultaneously at places as
far distant as Copenhagen, Thule in northwest Greenland, Rae in
northwest Canada, and probably also at Huancayo in Peru and
Watheroo in Australia. Thus an early result of the Polar Year
activities may be to throw important light on this long discussed
question and therefore, directly, on the mechanism producing mag-
netic storms.

The electric light for the recording mechanisms of this magnetic
apparatus was supplied by a Delco motor generator and accumulator
battery we took with us for the purpose.

Of control magnetic instruments we had a double set representing
the old and new systems of magnetic observing. A Kew magnetom-
eter and dip circle served as comparison checks and also for parallel
work at the old Fort Rae substation, where magnetic observations
had to be carried out to determine the secular change since 1882;
while a Smith magnetometer and dip inductor were used as the stand-
ard instruments for determining horizontal force, declination, and
inclination at the main base. The use of electromagnetic methods for
determining the value of the earth’s magnetic field is of special ad-
vantage in such a place as Rae, where magnetic disturbance is so
frequent and on such a large scale. Observations which took the best
part of an hour by the older technique now require only a few min-
utes—provided everything goes as it should.

Our meteorological equipment was very complete. Almost every
instrument was run in duplicate so that records might be maintained
complete in case of clock stoppage or unforeseen accident. And such
safeguards proved necessary, especially where clocks running out of
doors were concerned. Expecting trouble with the temperature and
humidity recorders in the Stevenson screen in the winter months, we
POLAR YEAR EXPEDITION—-STAGG 113

took clocks which had been specially designed to function at low
temperatures; we also had some lubricating oil alleged to have a very
low freezing point. But the oil froze in its bottle when put. outside
the door in midwinter, and the low temperature clocks gave much
more trouble than, and were indeed ultimately discarded in favor of,
ordinary clocks used at meteorological office stations, after they had
been completely overhauled and cleaned of every trace of lubricant.
For future work where clocks are required to run continuously and
regularly at low temperatures, much more attention should be paid
to the design of the balance wheel and escapement movement.

Our Dines anemometer erected over the main observing hut roof
worked very satisfactorily. Instead of galvanized iron tubing to
convey the pressure and suction surges from the head to the recorder,
we used hose piping. This stood up to the cold admirably and much
eased the process of erection. Only once or twice in the early days
of winter had we difficulty with the water of the recorder freezing.
A cupboard into which we could put a Valor heating stove was built
completely around it, and when the temperature of the hut showed
signs of falling below 32° F., the lighting of the stove insured safety.
A greater cause of trouble in the running of the recorder was the
drying of the pen. Throughout the winter months, when there was
probably no unfrozen water surface nearer than the Arctic Ocean, to
the north, absolute humidity generally was very low, and this, added
to the dry heat produced by a large iron box-stove burning wood
fuel, made the air in the hut so extremely dry that many ordinary
operations became difficult. In particular, the capillary action of the
surface of the anemograph record in drawing the ink from the pen
seemed almost to be prohibited. A great many remedies were tried,
but none was wholly satisfactory.

The recording of snowfall has its own pitfalls. Even to esti-
mate the total fall over a 24-hour period is difficult where the snow
is fine, dry, and powdery, and so liable to drift with the slightest
wind. We had a continuously recording snow recorder of the Hell-
man-Fuess type as well as a rain gage converted into a snow gage,
and two or three snow poles distributed around our station, but the
days on which we got agreement between any two of these were
exceptionally few. An attempt was made to estimate the drift snow
by arranging a box with vertical circular opening and a system of
baffle plates to be automatically turned into the wind, but the con-
tributions to knowledge from this bit of our gear are probably
negligible.

An important aspect of the meteorological program was our aero-
logical work, and for that we required a considerable stock of hydro-
gen. The very long and expensive overland route to our station
in Canada made the transport of hydrogen in cast steel cylinders
114 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

prohibitive, and to produce it by the calcium hydride process was
too costly in the quantities we required. Captain Rogers, of the
Royal Airship Works at Cardington, designed an apparatus for
producing the gas by the interaction of hot caustic soda on finely
granulated quartz. From the generator the gas passed through
water traps into a reservoir bag, and from this it could be pumped
by bellows into either the pilot balloons or ballons-sondes. An excel-
lent piece of apparatus for its purpose in summer once its idiosyn-
crasies were known, this hydrogen generator could be the most
capricious item of our equipment in the winter months. It was
lable to do anything with little or no provocation or warning. A
shower of boiling caustic soda was common; Mr. Morgans, in charge
of the meteorological work, and on whom almost all of this aerological
work fell, escaped miraculously on one occasion when the roof of
the hut was blown up, and the windows out, and parts of the ap-
paratus rendered more or less permanently hors de combat.

Pilot balloons were sent up at least once a day throughout the
period of our stay at Rae, and the larger balloons with Dines meteoro-
graphs attached on days when the pilot balloons indicated that the
upper air currents were likely to carry them into a part of the Indian
reserve through which trapping and hunting trails mainly passed.

The recovery of the meteorographs was one of our very serious
problems. For, except for the few Indian trails winding through
the bush from Rae to the Barren Lands and Bear Lake trapping
grounds in the north and down the lake shore toward the Yellow
Knife estuary in the southeast, the country around our main base
was almost completely uninhabited. To have attempted to hunt for
the instruments ourselves, even if we had had double the personnel
we actually had, would have been wholly impracticable because of
the difficult nature of the bush country. And even the project—
which we very seriously contemplated—of transporting all our aero-
logical equipment 100 miles down to the main lake, we finally saw
would not materially help our chances of recovery. So we were
forced to rely on our pilot balloon and nephoscope observations (and
these after all can tell us very little of where a meteorograph may
be carried by the time it gets well into the stratosphere) indicating
that, at any rate during the early stages of its journey, the ballons-
sondes would be moving over areas where there was a chance of a
few isolated Indians on the trail. To increase the chance of the
meteorographs being found a long brightly colored tape was tied to
each one and the Indians were encouraged to keep their eyes open
for them by promise of a substantial gratuity. Further, by offering
presents (illegally, as it turned out) from our small liquor store to
the traders of the settlement to whom their Indian customers might
bring the meteorographs, we hoped to encourage them to continue re-
POLAR YEAR EXPEDITION—STAGG 115

minding the Indians of the value we put on the recovery of the
instruments,

When we went out to Canada we were not sanguine of retrieving
any of the meteorographs, but we hoped for two; and, alas, two only
we got. Both of these were from balloons released in winter condi-
tions when the air temperature was about —30° C., and both the
records are fortunately very good. They show that in both ascents
the instruments attained heights of approximately 16 kilometers,
passing through a well-marked tropopause at 8.5 kilometers with a
temperature about —60° C.

Since the meteorograph records are engraved on silvered plates
which do not perish for many years, and since, too, the uncontami-
nated nature of the atmosphere in that part of Canada will help
preserve them, there is always the chance that the remainder of our
meteorographs which fell into the bush will yet be discovered and
forwarded to us.

During the 13 calendar months of the Polar Year that ended on
August 31, 1933, we continued complete meteorological observations
according to the International Code every 3 hours, and during most
months of that year observations of cloud every hour. The object
in maintaining complete records and observations of all the meteoro-
logical elements was much less to collect data for the making of
climatological averages than to be able to supply detailed informa-
tion about the weather and conditions in the atmosphere at any time.
This, along with similar information from other cooperating sta-
tions, would allow the general meteorological situation over wide
areas to be reconstructed and investigated synoptically. The sum-
mary of our temperature records is, however, of general interest.
This confirms our experience that the winter of 1932-33 at Fort Rae
was characterized less by extremes of low temperature reached than
by the protracted steadiness of the cold. The mean temperature for
the 7 months ending April 80 was —20° C., the contributions to this
mean from January and February being both about —381° C. On
individual days the lowest mean was —40° C. Day temperatures
during the short summer comprising the latter part of July and
August not infrequently rose to 20° C. Over the 12 months ending
September 380, 1933, the mean temperature at Rae was —7.3° C. com-
pared with —6.2° C. for the corresponding period at the old Fort
Rae station in the first polar year 50 years ago.

Observations in atmospheric electricity formed one of the other
mainsubdivisions of our program of work, and these Mr. Sheppard
had in his particular care. For the maintenance of continuous rec-
ords of atmospheric potential gradient we used a Benndorf electro-
graph and a polonium collector. To make up for the rather quick

111666—35——9
116 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

rate of decay of the polonium, additional collectors were fitted sym-
metrically to the boom throughout the year so that the rate of
pick-up of potential remained not less than a safe limit. The control
measurements of the potential gradient were made over a level
stretch of rock using the Simpson stretched wire method. Twice a
day whenever possible, at 9 h. and 15 h. local time, measure-
ments were made of the air-earth current, using a Wilson guard-
ring electrometer modified to incorporate a Lindemann electrometer,
and of small ion content of the air by an Ebert aspiration electrom-
eter, also modified by Mr. Sheppard. On almost all days while
these measurements were being made the number of Aitken nuclei in
the atmosphere were counted by an Aitken counter. During the
spring months series of experiments were made over periods of 24
hours to determine the nature of the diurnal variation of the air-
earth current, ion content, and Aitken nuclei, as well as of the rate
of production of ions near the ground.

Though some of Mr. Morgan’s meteorological instruments had
been functioning continuously from July 1, it was nearer August
before the magnetographs had settled down in their new quarters,
but by the first of that month, the zero hour for the general Polar
Year operations, all was in working order.

Since by that time the evenings were fast drawing in, we set
about finding a means of maintaining communication between our
main base and the substation, the site of the 1882-83 activities,
15 miles down the lake to the southeast. For a fourth and impor-
tant item in our program was the simultaneous photography of
suitable types of aurora at two ends of a base-line, to allow the
height and orientation of the aurora to be measured from the ap-
parent displacement of the same piece of aurora against its stellar
background on pairs of synchronously exposed plates. To have the
two-way communication which is almost necessary for this work,
we had taken a supply of Silmalec wire made for us by the British
Aluminum Co., and specially insulated by Henleys Cables, Limited.
In its final form the wire weighed only about 23 pounds per mile.
This we hoped to erect down the lakeside between the two stations,
using the spruce and birch trees for support. But on detailed recon-
naissance the shore was found to be so broken and irregular that to
have followed the shore would have exceeded our length of cable,
if not also our amateurish capabilities in erection of telephone lines.
So we decided to wait till the lake had just frozen and in the mean-
time, that is between August and October, we used two small wire-
less transmitting and receiving sets. Though the simultaneous photo-
graphic work could, in default of other means of communication,
have proceeded by this means with difficulties and inconveniences and
probably much loss of effective aurora, we started to erect the tele-
POLAR YEAR EXPEDITION—STAGG 117

phone line as soon as the ice on the lake was safe for working on.
In the bush immediately behind the two stations the wire was hung
from the taller spruce trees bared of their longer branches, and on
the 8 to 10 miles of open lake, poles cut from spruce or birch trees
along the lakeside and let into the ice sufficiently far to be frozen
solidly in position, formed the bases of support. It was not prac-
ticable to lay the cable on the ice, partly because the high specific
inductive capacity of ice would have amounted to earthing the cable
as it became buried in the ice by its own weight, and partly because
a winter trail for Indians passes up the lake between the two sta-
tions. The cable would very probably have been inadvertently cut
by the passage of dog sleighs over it. In this work of cable laying
we all had a hand, but Mr. Stephenson with his experience of dog-
sleigh work gained in Greenland was invaluable in the open lake work
of providing the poles from the lakeside, and Mr. Grinsted looked
after all the technical details. Most of the erection was done at
temperatures between —5° C. and —15° C.; it was a time of intro-
duction to the experience of minor frost bites for some of us.

At the two stations the observers operating the cameras, designed
for auroral photography by Professors Stérmer and Krogness of
Norway, were equipped with telephone headgear and breast-plate
microphones, supplied by Messrs. Siemens, Ltd., so that the hands
were free for manipulating the camera and plates. The microphones
were fitted with auxiliary diaphragms of cellophane supported over
the working diaphragm to prevent accumulation of hoar frost and
ice crystals obstructing its movement. These cellophane diaphragms
were exceedingly useful when working out-of-doors for periods of a
few hours at temperatures down to —35° C.

Using the telephone system throughout the most rigorous winter
months, and taking turns at manning the substation, we continued
photographing aurora till the melting of the ice in spring undermined
the supports and finally allowed the whole line to break up. Alto-
gether we got about 4,700 pairs of photographs, of which probably
75 percent will be suitable for measurement.

In addition to this side of the auroral work an almost continuous
log was maintained of all activity when it was dark enough to be
seen. It was not infrequent in midwinter for aurora to continue
uninterruptedly for 15 hours; and, despite the fact that the winter of
the Polar Year was very near the minimum of the cycle of solar
activity, aurora was observed at some time on every night almost
without exception during the autumn, winter, and spring months
when sky conditions were suitable.

During our 15 months’ stay at Rae we had frequent contact with
the outside world; indeed by wireless it could have been made con-
tinuous. In 1930 a reputedly rich discovery of gold and pitchblend
118 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

ores on the southeast shores of the Great Bear Lake to the north of
us led to a “rush ” of prospectors and miners to stake claims, so that,
whereas up to that year Rae had been one of the most isolated trad-
ing posts of the Hudson’s Bay Co., in 1930 it suddenly developed into
a fueling station for aeroplanes passing from the south to the Great
Bear Lake mining camps. By the time we left there was a fairly
regular mail service during the months when planes could use either
skis or floats, so that we had the very questionable benefit of frequent
contacts with the outside world. During the summer months, and at
Christmas and Easter too, the Fort is a meeting-place of the Indians
of the Dog Rib, Bear Lake, and Yellow Knife tribes. These come in
from their hunt to barter the fox, martin, muskrat, and other fine
grades of fur for their crude necessities of existence. Though at
times it was annoying to see these Indians gather round when our
balloons were being inflated, and gloat with glee, so it seemed, with
the prospect of seeing them burst, they were a wholly inoffensive set
of people, simple and contented with their lot, wistfully sympathetic
with, if not openly amused at, our activities.

We continued our observations at Fort Rae till early September
1933, so that we could have data covering very completely and con-
tinuously the main elements in meteorology, terrestrial magnetism,
atmospheric electricity, and aurora for the full Polar Year. And
now the less exciting, but none the less valuable part of the work
remains to be done—the reduction of the data brought home and their
adequate interpretation and discussion. This must be a matter of
years. For it will not be till the corresponding material from all the
other cooperating stations in the network functioning along similar
lines during the Polar Year is available that the true significance of
events at any one station can even be partially appreciated. Not till
this is done will it be possible to say whether our work at Rae was
successful. But whatever the verdict of the future may be, I, as
the person privileged to lead the party, would lke to take this oppor-
tunity of expressing my thanks publicly to my colleagues. On such
a purely scientific expedition, with the numbers cut to a minimum
and with such a full program of activities, every man had to pull
his full weight, and at Rae every one did so. That the observational
material and records we gathered are as complete as they have turned
out to be is due entirely to the splendid support given me throughout
the period of our stay in Canada.
Smithsonian Report, 1934.—Stagg PLATE 1

Copyright photograph by Photopress, Ltd.
1. MEMBERS OF THE POLAR YEAR PARTY PHOTOGRAPHED AT KEW OBSERVATORY.

Reading from left to right: W. A. Grinsted, A. Stephenson, P. A. Sheppard, J. M. Stagg, W. R. Morgans,
J. L. Kennedy.

2. ONE CORNER OF THE MAIN METEOROLOGICAL HUT.

Showing (from left to right) part of the Dines anemograph and lower end of the mast, the Benndorf elec-
trograph, the Ebert and Wilson instruments, and, on the right, the wireless transmitter and receiver
used to maintain communication with the substation before the telephone line was erected.
ALV1d

“INH IWOISDOTOHXOALAW AHL ‘2

“qny 94} VPISUT SI Svq IOAIOSaI oY L,

“SNLVEVddV ONILVYANSAD
NA39S0OYUGAH AHL HLIM SNVSYOW “YY “M YW Cl

3321S —'PCol ‘yaoday uRtuosyzWig
PROTIUM—DEUTERIUM—TRITIUM
THE HYDROGEN TRIO*

By HueuH S. TAytLor

David B. Jones professor of chemistry, Princeton University

[With 3 plates]

Three months before the outbreak of war in 1914 an international
scientific race had just been concluded. Soddy of Aberdeen had
found that radio-lead from thorium sources had an atomic weight of
about 208. Richards and Lembert in Harvard and Honigschmidt
in Vienna had shown independently that radio-lead from uranium
sources had an atomic weight of about 206. Ordinary lead was
known to be about 207. Soddy’s concept that substances could exist
with identical, or practically identical, chemical and spectroscopic
properties but different atomic weights was established. Soddy
suggested a name for such substances, isotopes, because, though dif-
ferent in mass, they occupied the same place in the chemist’s periodic
table of the elements. We know now that isotopes of the same ele-
ment have the same net positive charge on the nucleus and the same
system of external electrons. It is the net nuclear charge, not the
mass of the nucleus, which determines the position in the periodic
table.

Aston, who after the war returned to the Cavendish Laboratory
in Cambridge, England, developed a mass spectrograph to determine
masses of individual charged particles, and in November of the year
1919 supplied definite proof that the rare gas, neon, existed in at
least two isotopic forms of masses 20 and 22. He thus extended the
concept of isotopes to elements which were not radioactive in their
origins. There followed a decade of activity in which, with the
mass spectrograph progressively refined, an increasingly large num-
ber of elements were shown to be isotopically complex. There are,
for example, 11 isotopes of tin. Some elements persistently proved
to be simple. Carbon, oxygen, and hydrogen were among those so
regarded at the end of the 10-year period.

| + ina by permission from The Scientific Monthly, vol. 39, pp. 364-3872, October

|
| 119
120 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

Early in 1929 the complexity of oxygen was established by Giau-
que and Johnston of California, using a novel method of attack, by
examining the absorption of light by air. They found absorption
bands which were interpreted as belonging to compounds containing
two new oxygen isotopes, one of mass 18 and a much rarer one of
mass 17. Oxygen, of mass 16, had been used as the standard of mass
reference for all the other elements both for historical reasons and
because of its assumed simplicity. Its established complexity at
once raised doubts as to the simplicity of carbon and hydrogen. In
the case of the former, the doubts were resolved by the discovery,
in 1929, of a rare isotope of mass 13 by Birge and King, again from
a study of the band spectra of gaseous carbon compounds, among
others that of carbon monoxide. Birge and Menzel calculated that
discrepancies between the chemical atomic weight and the mass spec-
trograph value for hydrogen would be resolved if hydrogen contained
about one part in 4,500 of an isotope of mass 2. It was this theoretical
calculation which provided the spur for an experimental search for
such an isotope by Urey, Brickwedde, and Murphy, jointly, at Co-
lumbia University, and the United States Bureau of Standards.
They announced early in 1932 that, by fractional distillation of liq-
uid hydrogen, the heavier isotope concentrated in the residue, and
that its presence could be demonstrated by the appearance of a
faint spectral line in the hydrogen discharge near the ordinary line
of atomic hydrogen and spaced from it at such a distance as would
be demanded theoretically for an atom with a charge of unity (that
is to say a hydrogen isotope), but having a mass of 2.

Atomic weight determinations, mass spectrographic and hght
absorption measurements only demonstrate the existence, the rela-
tive abundance and the masses of isotopes. The practical identity
of their chemical properties, emphasized at the outset by Soddy, had
been utilized in the case of radioactive isotopes for chemical indicator
purposes; the desirable goal of the scientist, the separation of the
isotopes of an element and the separate examination and comparison
of their properties, remained until a year ago unattained. An enor-
mous amount of effort has been expended in the attempts at sepa-
ration. These must be based on differences in properties which
depend essentially on mass or on chemical reactivity. For a decade
and a half prior to 1933 a variety of trials were made. Separation
was attempted by fractional diffusion, by thermal diffusion, by cen-
trifugal separation, by fractional distillation and evaporation at low
pressure, by migration of isotopic ions under the influence of an
electric current, by preferential excitation to photochemical reaction
of one or other isotope using light absorbed by one and not the other.
PROTIUM—DEU TERIU M—TRITIUM—TAYLOR 121

The net success was vanishingly small. One or other method gave
separations of one or two parts per thousand at such a prodigious
expenditure of effort that the recovery of the pure components of
an isotopic mixture seemed to be an unattainable objective. The
hydrogen isotopes, of masses 1 and 2, represent the most favorable
case, since the mass difference is 100 percent. Even in this case the
problem seemed to be discouragingly difficult when it was shown
that the fractional evaporation of 40 liters of liquid hydrogen until
only two liters of gas remained raised the concentration of the
heavier gas only to 1.5 percent. Hertz in Germany has separated
the two isotopes by fractional diffusion through special porous ma-
terial to yield the separate constituents spectroscopically pure. His
method, however, only yields a few cubic millimeters of gaseous
product.

The development which revolutionized the whole subject of isotope
chemistry is due to the late Dr. E. W. Washburn of the United
States Bureau of Standards. Washburn determined, late in 1931,
to test the efficiency of electrolysis of water solutions as a method
of concentrating the hydrogen isotopes. While his own experiments
were in progress, he secured samples of water from commercial cells
which had been used for several years in the electrolytic production
of hydrogen and oxygen. Urey analyzed this water for him by the
spectroscopic method and found an enrichment of the mass 2 isotope.
Washburn himself found that the density of the water was greater
than that of ordinary water by 50 parts per million, a further evi-
dence of enrichment. As Washburn and Urey wrote in their joint
communication “the above results are of great importance, for we
now know that there are large quantities of water in these electro-
lytic cells containing heavy hydrogen in relatively high concentra-
tions and, also, there is available now a method for concentrating this
isotope in large quantities.” Washburn’s determination of the ab-
normal density of water from electrolytic cells will take rank with
those classical determinations by Lord Rayleigh of the densities of
chemical and atmospheric nitrogen, from which, with the work of
Sir William Ramsay, there resulted the discovery of the rare gases
of the atmosphere, helium, neon, argon, krypton, and xenon.

The isolation of the mass 2 isotope in approximate purity was not
achieved by Washburn. The race was to the swift and to those richer
in available resources of apparatus and men. In rapid succession,
from the University of California, Princeton, Cambridge, England,
Columbia University, Frankfort, and Vienna came records of the
success of Washburn’s method in producing water in which, with
continued electrolysis, 30, 60, 92, 99.9 percent of all the hydrogen
122 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

atoms had a mass of 2 instead of 1. Since the mass of the molecule
H,O would be 2X2+16=20, whereas ordinary water would be
2xX1+16=18, it is evident that, granting equal volumes of the two
molecules, the new water might have a density of 20/18=1.11. The
experiments were followed by the changing density of the product,
and it is now known that heavy water with hydrogen of mass 2 has
a density of 1.1079 at 25° C. referred to ordinary water at the same
temperature.

Shortly after the isolation was accomplished, Urey, Brickwedde,
and Murphy christened the isotopes; hitherto this had not been
necessary with isotopes, since there had been no chemistry of separate
isotopes to be considered. ‘The discoverers of heavy hydrogen sug-
gested, for hydrogen of mass 1, the name protium, since this would
conform with current usage of the name proton for the nucleus of
the hydrogen atom. For the isotope of mass 2 they proposed the
name deuterium, which, for the nucleus of this atom, suggests deu-
teron or, more briefly, deuton, the nucleus of mass 2 and unit positive
charge. They also suggested that, if the isotope of mass 3 were
discovered, the name tritium might be considered. These names
have found general acceptance, except in England, where, following
a suggestion from Lord Rutherford’s laboratory, the name “ dip-
logen ” has been employed. The best excuse for this latter is that it
gives “diplon ” instead of deuton, which latter does not find favor
with the English scientists who, with colds in their heads in winter
time, may confuse deuton with the “neutron”, the particle of
mass 1 and zero charge. Considerable discussion has arisen as to
the symbols to be employed. Previous custom has sanctioned H?,
H?, and H® for the symbolic representation. ‘There is, however, an
increasing use of H for H,, of D for H, and of T for H;. For-
tunately, D and T have not hitherto been used as symbols for any
elements; also, D stands, equally well in England and elsewhere,
for both deuterium and diplogen.

For the technique of preparation of pure heavy water or deuterium
oxide, the Princeton procedure may be cited, since, in this manner,
about 13 tons of commercial electrolyte corresponding to upwards
of 50 tons of ordinary water have already been treated to yield
approximately one pound of the purest heavy water. About 15
galions of commercial liquor are electrolyzed daily to one-fifth vol-
ume in a battery of 960 cells using nickel anodes and iron cathodes.
The residue is distilled to remove excess electrolyte, and the distillate
after addition of alkali is passed to the second stage, a unit of 160
cells shown in plate 1, where it is again electrolyzed to one-fifth
volume. These two stages concentrate the deuterium from 1 part
in 1,600 to 0.25 percent, and 1 percent, respectively. From the third
stage onward a modified form of electrolysis is employed in which
PROTIUM—DEUTERIUM—TRITIUM—TAYLOR 123

the evolved hydrogen (containing deuterium) and oxygen gases are
recovered as water and passed back to the preceding stage of elec-
trolysis. ‘The experimental arrangement is shown in plate 2. The
successive stages handle successively smaller volumes of water, the
concentration of deuterium in which rises by steps from 1 percent
to 4, 13, 35, 95, and 100 percent D,O. The electrolytic fractionation
factor is about 5, that is to say, the gas evolved is about one-fifth
as concentrated in deuterium as the water from which it is evolved.
Hence the separation that is achieved.

The product has unique and characteristic properties. Its density
relative to ordinary water at 25° C. is 1,1079. It melts at 3.82° C.
and boils at 101.42° C. It has a maximum density, not at 4° C. as
with ordinary water, but at 11.6° C. It is 25 percent more viscous
than ordinary water at 20° C. but has a smaller surface tension.
Salts are less soluble in it by about 10 percent, and the electrical
conductance of salt solutions is less than in light water.

There are three kinds of hydrogen molecules that can arise from
hght and heavy hydrogen atoms, namely, H, molecules, D. molecules,
and the mixed molecule HD. To analyze mixtures of such gases a
special mass spectrograph has been developed by Dr. Bleakney, of
the Princeton Physics Department. It is evident that the molecules
just discussed will give rise to ions of masses 2\(H,*), 34(HD*),
and 4\(D,*). In addition to these, atomic ions of masses 1 and 2
(H* and D*) can also arise and, from these, triatomic ions (HHH*)
of mass 8, (HHD*) of mass 4, (HDD*) of mass 5 and (DDD*) of
mass 6. Bleakney’s method permits him to sort out these various
possibilities so that he can estimate how much protium (H) and
how much deuterium (D) is present in a given sample. Figure 1
shows the results of one such analysis of a deuterium-rich sample.

Using such a method of analysis it has been found that the deute-
rium content of normal rain water is 1 part in 5,000 of the total hydro-
gen present. This is a much greater abundance of deuterium than is
present in the chromosphere of the sun as spectra at the last eclipse
definitely showed; it points to a tremendous preferential loss of light
hydrogen during the earth’s formation. The announcement by Lord
Rutherford of the synthetic production of hydrogen of mass 3, tritium
(T) by bombardment experiments of deuterium with highspeed
deutons lent considerable interest to a determination by the Princeton
Physics Department of the tritium content of the purest deuterium
oxide water prepared in the Frick Chemical Laboratory. With a new
and specially refined mass spectrograph it has now been shown that
our purest heavy water contains approximately 1 tritium to 200,000
deuteriumatoms. This means that, in ordinary water, the tritium con-
tent is not more than 1 part in a billion. Tritium, therefore, becomes
the youngest and rarest of all the isotopes yet discovered in naturally
124 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

occurring substances. Since heavy deuterium water costs, at a con-
servative estimate, $5 per gram, it is evident that, with a 100 per cent
efficiency of recovery of its tritium content, pure tritium water, T,O,
would cost at least $1,000,000 a gram or water roughly 20 times the
cost of radium. Such are the paradoxes of modern isotope chemistry.

A wD

i]

Intensities of tke Ions

PY)

+
(uDD)xiot (BPD) */ O°

Hxio? — (HH)X10" (HD)

Ke 2 3 4 5 6
Masses of the Ions

Ficurp 1.—Diagrammatic representation of an analysis by the mass spectrograph of a gas
sample rich in deuterium. Each peak represents the abundance of the ion of mass
given along the horizontal axis of the graph. The scale for the ions H+, (HH)t,
(HDD)+, and (DDD)+ is multiplied by the amounts shown against each peak to
Permit their representation on the same diagram in spite of their great rarity. The
analysis yields 98 atom percent D and 2 atom percent H.

Using the same method of analysis it is possible to follow the rate
of reaction of one isotope of a given element with its one isotope.
It has been shown, for example, that H, molecules will react with D,
molecules to form HD molecules at temperatures as low as that of
liquid air, with catalysts such as chromium oxide and nickel, which
are active in catalytic hydrogenation processes. These results indicate
that the high temperatures necessary in industrial syntheses such as
those of ammonia or wood alcohol are required not for the activation
of the hydrogen but for the activation of the molecules with which the
hydrogen has to react. Ifsurfaces can be found as active toward these
molecules as present available surfaces are with respect to hydrogen,
PROTIUM—DEU TERIUM—TRITIU M—TAYLOR 125

tremendous improvements would be possible in such industrial opera-
tions, under much simpler working conditions. Deuterium points
the direction which research in technical catalysis must take.
Biologically, heavy water has proved to be of the utmost interest.
Seeds of the tobacco plant do not germinate in heavy water. Fresh-
water organisms such as tadpoles and guppies die quickly when placed
in heavy water. Unicellular organisms, such as paramoecium or
euglena, are more resistant, but are eventually killed. The lumines-
cence of bacteria is modified in heavy water media, and the rate of
respiration markedly reduced. Yeast ferments sugar in heavy water
at only one ninth the rate in ordinary water. The enzyme catalase
present in the blood stream and whose function it is to detroy hydro-
gen peroxide does so at only one-half the normal rate in 85 per cent
heavy water. The action of the heavy water may be likened to that
of a generally unfavorable environment leading to progressive
changes in the cell. It would seem that the changes observed are the
result of differential effects on the rate of biochemical reactions, ex-
amples of which have just been given in respect to enzyme reactions.
The use of heavy water as an indicator of reaction mechanism in
biological systems is evident from reports of recent English work in
which it has been shown, by experiments conducted in heavy water,
with organisms such as B. coli and B. aceti, that the present accepted
mechanisms for their activity need to be modified in the light of re-
sults obtained with media containing deuterium instead of hydrogen.
The known compounds containing hydrogen are numbered in the
hundreds of thousands. It is evident that an overwhelming program
of research replacing hydrogen by deuterium is possible. Judiciously
conducted, such a program will aim at the preparation of materials
with which problems in physicochemical science may be tested. There
are already the beginnings of such a program to be recorded. A
number of exchange reactions between heavy water and different
substances have thrown light on the problems of mechanism involved.
Thus, ammonia gas, NH;, exchanges very rapidly with heavy water,
D,O, to give ammonia in which the hydrogen atoms are replaced by
deuterium atoms to an extent depending on relative concentrations.
In cane sugar, however, only about half the hydrogen atoms are
readily replaced and these atoms are those present in the molecules
as hydroxyl (OH) groups. Acetylene, C.H., and acetone CH,
COCHs, do not replace their hydrogens for deuterium in acid solu-
tions or in plain heavy water but do so more or less readily in basic
solutions. The former exchange indicates definitely the acidic nature
of acetylene. The latter demonstrates that acetone in basic solutions
exists partially in another form CH;*COH: CH), which is acidic in
nature due to the H attached to oxygen. In acetic acid CH,;COOH
only the final acidic H is readily replaceable by D. In a compound
126 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

such as nitroethane, CH,CH,NO,, the two hydrogen atoms next to the
NO, group are replaceable by deuterium in basic solutions of heavy
water. In this case the rate of reaction can be measured and it has
been shown that H atoms leave this molecule more easily in the heavy
water solutions than they do in light water solutions. Similarly, cane
sugar is broken up by reaction with heavy water faster than by light
water. In other reactions the velocity is slower in heavy water. The
accelerating or retarding effect obtained is used by the chemist to de-
cide the detailed picture of what is occurring in such solutions. With
deuterium atoms as labeled hydrogen atoms, much can be learned
about these detailed occcurrences; and what is found for deuterium
must also occur with hydrogen under the same conditions, even
though, without the label, this cannot be demonstrated. Reactions
of deuterium and deuterium compounds which are slower than those
of hydrogen are due to the fact that the lowest energy states (the
zero-point energies) of the former are less than those of the latter.
‘To become equally activated, by heat or ight, deuterium must receive
greater increments of energy; vice versa, under equal energy condi-
tions the deuterium compounds will in general be less reactive. In
cases where this does not hold it is to be concluded that reaction does
not involve molecules of the deuterium compound, but rather an atom
or an ion. Comparative velocity measurements are, therefore, of
great importance theoretically.

In the physics laboratory deuterium is being put to spectacular use
as a projectile in atomic transmutation. Immediately after the isola-
tion of deuterium the nuclei or deutons were so employed to bombard
lithium, the results showing them to be much more effective missiles
than protons. Two processes are possible with the isotopes of
lithium of masses 6 and 7.

gli® + ,D? = 2,He*
eh) chy 2 — 2 Eee enne

The subscript to the left represents the nuclear charge; the super-
script is the mass. Here also on? represents a neutron of zero charge
and unit mass. Helium of mass 4 and charge 2 is the other product.

Experiments in Cambridge under Lord Rutherford suggested that
deutons could be used to bombard deutons and produce new forms of
matter. Here, also, there are two possibilities.

{D?+,D?=,T?+,H#

In the first, transmutation gives two hydrogen atoms, one of mass 1,
the other of mass 8, in other words, tritium. In the second, the
change is to a helium isotope of mass 3 and charge 2 and a neutron
PROTIUM—DEUTERIU M—TRITIUM—TAYLOR 127

of mass 1 and zero charge. Both of these changes have now been
decisively demonstrated not only by the methods of Rutherford
involving measurements of the tracks of particles; they have been
employed to produce these rare isotopes “in quantity.” Samples of

deuterium after subjection
to such atomic bombard-
ment in apparatus shown
in figure 2 and plate 3 have
been found by the Prince-
ton physicists to contain
concentrations of tritium 40
times greater than that of
the deuterium initially.
Similarly, the production
of helium isotope of mass 3
has also been shown. In
each case the method of
analysis involves the sensi-
tive mass spectrograph al-
ready discussed. Deutons
also are being used as the
projectiles for the produc-
tion of artificially radio-
active light atoms, the new
field of physics developed
only this last year by M.
Joliot and his wife, Mme.
Curie Joliot, first with al-
pha particles, next with
protons and neutrons, and
now also with deutons.
That the pace of this
scientific development is
prodigious all must realize
when they remember that
only a year ago the deu-
terium isotope was not yet
isolated. Today it has a

TigurH 2.—Diagrammatiec sketch of transmuta:

tion tube. Deuterium in the upper half is
ionized and the deutons are led through the
slit or canal, between the shaded areas, to the
lower half of the tube in which they collide,
under high potential, with deuterium atoms
and molecules to give the observed transmuta-
tions to tritium and to helium 3. The gas is
constantly circulated between the upper and
lower halves of the canal ray tube.

still rarer brother, tritium; it has itself given rise to this and to other
new isotopes, some radioactive, some not; it has made possible a new
branch of chemistry, the chemistry of isotopes, which already has
markedly enriched our knowledge of general and physical chemistry ;
it is a potent weapon of attack also on physiological and biological

problems.
i

jee Aiea Soy, | delet uaa
ot csectayn Met era, * seal
aly size de Fit redid
ie

eat ee

oe sos

diet
ti

hie iki i) Vee ee i

WAL sitizect;. ia te nach tp phot
al ssl die Reh to

*) 78 WAMOYS St sont 2 JO UOTIBI[NSIP IO] [[Ms Joddoo oy, ‘SUOTINIOS poe}vs}U9DM0d BIOL IO} posn pave Sein} XIU UINI1d|Nep
-UaZ0IPAT PAfOAd 0} JO AJOAODEI SULAO[CWd “31uN JoTTeUIS B ST *Z eye[d Ur [le}ep UT is ‘q yuey de[a 94} JO 93RIs 098 94} JOJ SJIUN OYYT SUIVIMOS YYSII 0 Y Yury,

"YSLVM AAVSH AO NOILVYLNSONOD DILATON LOATA AO MAIA IWYANAD

z

“GH HUB] UL P9[000-107VM STOSSOA SISA[O1}N9][O OY] UL SUIUIVUIOI ONPISA Poeyoius oyy ‘CG UL pdI}oe][00 puw pesuEpUoOd sI IO}VM
eL “Oo Jef xoidd B Ye pound oie pus ‘g sdv1j Uolsojdxo oy} YsSnoIyy ssvd ‘U0}400 YUEqIOSGe SUIUTRIUOD Y S19M0} OY} UL AVIS UOJ Pod] OB UBDSAXO PUB MINTeyNep-uds0IpAY oy,

“NOILVWSNAGNOD AGNV NOILSNEWOD AG NS3SAKO GNV WNIYSLNAG-NS390Y¥GAH SAO AYSBAODSY HLIM SISATOYN LOA19

C aLVld JojAe | —*peg| ‘qoday ueruosyyiwcg
Smithsonian Report, 1934.—Taylor PLATE 3

GENERAL VIEW OF APPARATUS EMPLOYED IN PALMER PHYSICAL LABORATORY,
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY, FOR TRANSMUTATION OF DEUTERIUM INTO (A) TRI-
TIUM AND HYDROGEN, (B) HELIUM OF MASS 3 AND NEUTRONS.

The long glass tube shown to the left of the center of the photograph is the actual location of the transmu-
tation process. This unit is shown diagrammatically in figure 2.
SOME CHEMICAL ASPECTS OF LIFE *

By Sir FreprricK GOWLAND HOPKINS, Pres. R. S.

I

The British Association returns to Leicester with assurance of a
welcome as warm as that received 26 years ago, and of hospitality as
generous. The renewed invitation and the ready acceptance speak
of mutual appreciation born of the earlier experience. Hosts and
guests have today reasons for mutual congratulations. The Associa-
tion on its second visit finds Leicester altered in important ways. It
comes now to a city duly chartered and the seat of a bishopric. It
finds there a center of learning, many fine buildings which did not
exist on the occasion of the first visit, and many other evidences of
civic enterprise. The citizens of Leicester, on the other hand, will
know that since they last entertained it the Association has cele-
brated its centenary, has four times visited distant parts of the
Empire, and has maintained unabated through the years its useful
and important activities,

In 1907 the occupant of the Presidential Chair was, as you know,
Sir David Gill, the eminent astronomer who, unhappily, like many
who listened to his address, is with us no more. Sir David dealt
in that address with aspects of science characterized by the use of
very exact measurements. The exactitude which he prized and
praised has since been developed by modern physics and is now so
great that its methods have real esthetic beauty. In contrast, I have
to deal with a branch of experimental science which, because it is
concerned with living organisms, is in respect of measurement on a
different plane. Of the very essence of biological systems is an in-
eludible complexity, and exact measurement calls for conditions here
unattainable. Many may think, indeed, though I am not claiming
it here, that in studying life we soon meet with aspects which are
nonmetrical. I would have you believe, however, that the data of
modern biochemistry which will be the subject of my remarks were

won by quantitative methods fully adequate to justify the claims
based upon them.

1 Presidential address before the British Association for the Advancement of Science,
Leicester, 1933. Reprinted by permission from the Report of the Association for 1933.

129
130 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

Though speculations concerning the origin of life have given in-
tellectual pleasure to many, all that we yet know about it is that
we know nothing. Sir James Jeans once suggested, though not
with conviction, that it might be a disease of matter—a disease of
its old age! Most biologists, I think, having agreed that life’s
advent was at once the most improbable and the most significant
event in the history of the universe, are content for the present to
leave the matter there.

We must recognize, however, that life has one attribute that is
fundamental. Whenever and wherever it appears the steady in-
crease of entropy displayed by all the rest of the universe is then
and there arrested. There is no good evidence that in any of its
manifestations life evades the second law of thermodynamics, but
in the downward course of the energy-flow it interposes a barrier
and dams up a reservoir which provides potential for its own re-
markable activities. The arrest of energy degradation in living
nature is indeed a primary biological concept. Related to it, and
of equal importance is the concept of organization.

It is almost impossible to avoid thinking and talking of life in this
abstract way, but we perceive it, of course, only as manifested in
organized material systems, and it is in them we must seek the
mechanisms which arrest the fall of energy. Evolution has estab-
lished division of labor here. From far back the wonderfully effi-
cient functioning of structures containing chlorophyll has, as every-
one knows, provided the trap which arrests and transforms radiant
energy—fated otherwise to degrade—and so provides power for
nearly the whole living world. It is impossible to believe, however,
that such a complex mechanism was associated with life’s earliest
stages, Existing organisms illustrate what was perhaps an earlier
method. The so-called “autotrophic” bacteria obtain energy for
growth by the catalyzed oxidation of materials belonging wholly to
the inorganic world, such as sulphur, iron, or ammonia, and even free
hydrogen. ‘These organisms dispense with solar energy, but they
have lost in the evolutionary race because their method lacks
economy. Other existing organisms, certain purple bacteria, seem
to have taken a step toward greater economy, without reaching that
of the green cell. They dispense with free oxygen and yet obtain
energy from the inorganic world. They control a process in which
carbon dioxide is reduced and hydrogen sulphide simultaneously
oxidized. The molecules of the former are activated by solar energy
which their pigmentary equipment enables these organisms to arrest.

Are we to believe that life still exists in association with systems
that are much more simply organized than any bacterial cell? The
very minute filter-passing viruses which, owing to their causal rela-
CHEMICAL ASPECTS OF LIFE—HOPKINS iol

tions with disease, are now the subject of intense study, awaken
deep curiosity with respect to this question. We cannot yet claim
to know whether or not they are living organisms. In some sense
they grow and multiply, but, so far as we yet know with certainty,
only when inhabitants of living cells. If they are nevertheless
living, this would suggest they they have no independent power of
obtaining energy and so cannot represent for us the earliest forms
in which life appeared. At present, however, judgment on their
biological significance must be suspended. The fullest understand-
ing of all the methods by which energy may be acquired for life’s
processes is much to be desired.

In any case every living unit is a transformer of energy however
acquired, and the science of biochemistry is deeply concerned with
these transformations. It is with aspects of that science that I am
to deal and if to them I devote much of my address my excuse is
that since it became a major branch of inquiry biochemistry has had
no exponent in the Chair I am fortunate enough to occupy.

As a progressive scientific discipline it belongs to the present cen-
tury. From the experimental physiologists of the last century it
obtained a charter, and, from a few pioneers of its own, a promise
of success; but for the furtherance of its essential aim that century
left it but a small inheritance of facts and methods. By its essential
or ultimate aim I myself mean an adequate and acceptable descrip-
tion of molecular dynamics in living cells and tissues.

1B

When this association began its history in 1831 the first artificial
synthesis of a biological product was, as you will remember, but 3
years old. Primitive faith in a boundary between the organic and
the inorganic which could never be crossed was only just then realiz-
ing that its foundations were gone. Since then, during the century
of its existence, the association has seen the pendulum swing back
and forth between frank physico-chemical conceptions of hfe and
various modifications of vitalism. It is characteristic of the present
position and spirit of science that sounds of the long conflict between
mechanists and vitalists are just now seldom heard. It would almost
seem, indeed, that tired of fighting in a misty atmosphere each has
retired to his tent to await with wisdom the light of further knowl-
edge. Perhaps, however, they are returning to the fight disguised as
determinist and indeterminist, respectively. If so the outcome will
be of great interest. In any case I feel fortunate in a belief that what
T have to say will not, if rightly appraised, raise the old issues. To
claim, as I am to claim, that a description of its active chemical

111666—35——10
132 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

aspects must contribute to any adequate description of life is not to
imply that a living organism is no more than a physio-chemical
system. It implies that at a definite and recognizable level of its
dynamic organization an organism can be logically described in
physico-chemical terms alone. At such a level indeed we may hope
ultimately to arrive at a description which is complete in itself, just
as descriptions at the morphological level of organization may be
complete in themselves. There may be yet higher levels calling for
discussion in quite different terms.

I wish, however, to remind you of a mode of thought concerning
the material basis of life, which though it prevailed when physico-
chemical interpretations were fashionable, was yet almost as inhibi-
tory to productive chemical thought and study as any of the claims
of vitalism. This was the conception of that material basis as a single
entity, as a definite though highly complex chemical compound. Up
to the end of the last century and even later the term “ pretoplasm ”
suggested such an entity to many minds. In his brilliant presidential
address at the association’s meeting at Dundee 22 years ago, Sir
Edward Sharpey-Schafer, after remarking that the elements compos-
ing living substances are few in number, went on to say: “ The com-
bination of these elements into a colloid compound represents the
physical basis of life, and when the chemist succeeds in building up
this compound it will, without doubt, be found to exhibit the phe-
nomena which we are in the habit of associating with the term ‘life’.”
Such a compound would seem to correspond with the “ protoplasm ”
of many biologists, though treated perhaps with too little respect.
The presidential claim might have seemed to encourage the biochem-
ist, but the goal suggested would have proved elusive, and the path
of endeavor has followed other lines.

So long as the term “ protoplasm ” retains a morphological signifi-
cance as in classical cytology, it may be even now convenient enough,
though always denoting an abstraction. Insofar, however, as the
progress of metabolism with all the vital activities which it supports
was ascribed in concrete thought to hypothetical qualities emergent
from a protoplasmic complex in its integrity or when substances
were held to suffer change only because in each living cell they are
first built up, with loss of their own molecular structure and identity,
into this complex, which is itself the inscrutable seat of cyclic change,
then serious obscurantism was involved.

Had such assumptions been justified the old taunt that when the
chemist touches living matter it immediately becomes dead matter
would also have been justified. A very distinguished organic chem-
ist, long since dead, said to me in the late eighties: “ The chemistry
of the living? That is the chemistry of protoplasm; that is super-
chemistry; seek, my young friend, for other ambitions.”
CHEMICAL ASPECTS OF LIFE—HOPKINS 133

Research, however, during the present century, much of which has
been done since the association last met in Leicester, has yielded
knowledge to justify the optimism of the few who started to work in
those days. Were there time, I might illustrate this by abundant
examples; but I think a single illustration will suffice to demon-
strate how progress during recent years has changed the outlook for
biochemistry. I will ask you to note the language used 30 years ago
to describe the chemical events in active muscle and compare it with
that used now. In 1895 Michael Foster, a physiologist of deep vision,
dealing with the respiration of tissues, and in particular with the
degree to which the activity of muscle depends on its contemporary
oxygen supply, expounded the current view which may be thus
briefly summarized. The oxygen which enters the muscle from the
blood is not involved in immediate oxidations, but is built up into the
substance of the muscle. It disappears into some protoplasmic com-
plex on which its presence confers instability. This complex,
ke all living substance, is to be regarded as incessantly undergoing
changes of a double kind, those of building up and those of breaking
down. With activity the latter predominates, and in the case of
muscle the complex in question explodes, as it were, to yield the en-
ergy for contraction. ‘“ We cannot yet trace”, Foster comments,
“the steps taken by the oxygen from the moment it slips from the
blood into the muscle substance to the moment when it issues united
with carbon as carbonic acid. The whole mystery of life lies hidden
in that process, and for the present we must be content with simply
knowing the beginning and the end.” What we feel entitled to say
today concerning the respiration of muscle and of the events asso-
ciated with its activity requires, as I have suggested, a different
language, and for those not interested in technical chemical aspects
the very change of language may yet be significant. The conception
of continuous building up and continuous breakdown of the muscle
substance as a whole, has but a small element of truth. The colloidal
muscle structure is, so to speak, an apparatus, relatively stable even
as a whole when metabolism is normal, and in essential parts very
stable. The chemical reactions which occur in that apparatus have
been followed with a completeness which is, I think, striking. It is
carbohydrate stores distinct from the apparatus (and in certain
circumstances also fat stores) which undergo steady oxidation and
are the ultimate sources of energy for muscular work. Essential
among successive stages in the chemical breakdown of carbohydrate
which necessarily precede oxidation is the intermediate combination
of a sugar (a hexose) with phosphoric acid to form an ester. This
happening is indispensable for the progress of the next stage, namely
the production of lactic acid from the sugar, which is an anaerobic

| process. The precise happenings to the hexose sugar while in com-

|
134 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

bination with phosphoric acid are from a chemical standpoint re-
markable. Very briefly stated they are these. One-half of the sugar
molecule is converted into a molecule of glycerin and the other half
into one of pyruvic acid. Now with loss of two hydrogen atoms
glycerin yields lactic acid, and, with a gain of the same pyruvic
acid, also yields lactic acid. The actual happening then is that hydro-
gen is transferred from the glycerin molecule while still combined
with phosphoric acid to the pyruvic acid molecule with the result
that two molecules of lactic acid are formed. ‘The lactic acid is then,
during a cycle of change which I must not stop to discuss, oxidized
to yield the energy required by the muscle.

But the energy from this oxidation is by no means directly avail-
able for the mechanical act of contraction. The oxidation occurs
indeed after and not before or during a contraction. The energy it
liberates secured however the endothemic resynthesis of a substance,
creatin phosphate, of which the breakdown at an earlier stage in
the sequence of events is the more immediate source of energy for
contraction. Even more complicated are these chemical relations,
for it would seem that in the transference of energy from its source
in the oxidation of carbohydrate to the system which synthesizes
creatin phosphate, yet another reaction intervenes, namely, the alter-
nating breakdown and resynthesis of the substance adenyl pyrophos-
phate. The sequence of these chemical reactions in muscle has been
followed and their relation in time to the phases of contraction and
relaxation is established. The means by which energy is transferred
from one reacting system to another has till lately been obscure,
but current work is throwing light upon this interesting question,
and it is just beginning (though only beginning) to show how at the
final stage the energy of the reactions is converted into the mechan-
ical response. In parenthesis it may be noted as an illustration of
the unity of life that the processes which occur in the living yeast
cell in its dealings with sugars are closely similar to those which
proceed in living muscle. In the earlier stages they are identical
and we now know where they part company. You will, I think, be
astonished at the complexity of the events which underlie the activity
of a muscle, but you must remember that it is a highly specialized
machine. A more direct burning of the fuel could not fit into its
complex organization. I am more particularly concerned to feel
that my brief summary of the facts will make you realize how much
more definite, how much more truly chemical, is our present knowl-
edge than that available when Michael Foster wrote: Ability to
recognize the progress of such definite ordered chemical reactions in
relation to various aspects of living activity characterizes the cur-
rent position in biochemistry. I have chosen the case of muscle,
and it must serve as my only example, but many such related and
CHEMICAL ASPECTS OF LIFE—-HOPKINS 135

ordered reactions have been studied in other cells and tissues, from
bacteria to the brain. Some prove general, some more special.
Although we are far indeed from possessing a complete picture in
any one case we are beginning in thought to fit not a few pieces
together. We are on a line safe for progress.

I must perforce limit the field of my discussion, and in what fol-
lows my special theme will be the importance of molecular structure
in determining the properties of living systems. I wish you to be-
lieve that molecules display in such systems the properties inherent
in their structure even as they do in the laboratory of the organic
chemist. The theme is no new one, but its development illustrates
as well as any other, and to my own mind perhaps better than any
other, the progress of biochemistry. Not long ago a prominent
biologist, believing in protoplasm as an entity, wrote: “ But it seems
certain that living protoplasm is not an ordinary chemical compound,
and therefore can have no molecular structure in the chemical sense
of the:word.” Such a belief was common. One may remark, more-
over, that when the development of colloid chemistry first brought
its indispensable aid toward an understanding of the biochemical
field, there was a tendency to discuss its bearing in terms of the less
specific properties of colloid systems, phase-surfaces, membranes,
and the like, without sufficient reference to the specificity which the
influence of molecular structure, wherever displayed, impresses on
chemical relations and events. In emphasizing its importance I shall
leave no time for dealings with the nature of the colloid structures
of cells and tissues, all important as they are. I shall continue to
deal, though not again in detail, with chemical reactions as they
occur within those structures. Only this much must be said. If the
colloid structures did not display highly specialized molecular struc-
ture at their surface, no reactions would occur; for here catalysis
occurs. Were it not equipped with catalysts every living unit would
be a static system.

With the phenomena of catalysis I will assume you have general
acquaintance. You know that a catalyst is an agent which plays
only a temporary part in chemical events which it nevertheless deter-
mines and controls. It reappears unaltered when the events are com-
pleted. The phenomena of catalysis, though first recognized early
in the last century, entered but little into chemical thought or enter-
prise, till only a few years ago they were shown to have great impor-
tance for industry. Yet catalysis is one of the most significant
devices of nature, since it has endowed living systems with their
fundamental character as transformers of energy, and all evidence
suggests that it must have played an indispensable part in the living
universe from the earliest stages of evolution.
136 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

The catalysts of a living cell are the enzymic structures which
display their influences at the surface of colloidal particles or at
other surfaces within the cell. Current research continues to add to
the great number of these enzymes which can be separated from, or
recognized in, living cells and tissues, and to increase our knowledge
of their individual functions.

A molecule within the system of the cell may remain in an inactive
state and enter into no reactions until at one such surface it comes
in contact with an enzymic structure which displays certain adjust-
ments to its own structure. While in such association the inactive
molecule becomes (to use a current term) “activated,” and then
enters on some definite path of change. The one aspect of enzymic
catalysis which for the sake of my theme I wish to emphasize is its
high specificity. An enzyme is in general adjusted to come into
effective relations with one kind of molecule only, or at most with
molecules closely related in their structure. Evidence based on
kinetics justifies the belief that some sort of chemical combination
between enzyme and related molecule precedes the activation of the
latter, and for such combinations there must be close correlation in
structure. Many will remember that long ago Emil Fischer recog-
nized that enzymic action distinguishes even between two optical
isomers and spoke of the necessary relation being as close as that of
key and lock.

There is an important consequence of this high specificity in bio-
logical catalysis to which I will direct your special attention. A liv-
ing cell is the seat of a multitude of reactions, and in order that it
should retain in a given environment its individual identity as an
organism, these reactions must be highly organized. They must be
of determined nature and proceed mutually adjusted with respect to
velocity, sequence, and in all other relations. They must be in
dynamic equilibrium as a whole and must return to it after disturb-
ance. Now if of any group of catalysts, such as are found in the
equipment of a cell, each one exerts limited and highly specific influ-
ence, this very specificity must be a potent factor in making for
organization.

Consider the case of any individual cell in due relations with
its environment, whether an internal environment as in the case of
the tissue cells of higher animals, or an external environment as
in the case of unicellular organisms. Materials for maintenance of
the cell enter it from the environment. Discrimination among
such materials is primarily determined by permeability relations,
but of deeper significance in that selection is the specificity of the
cell catalysts. It has often been said that the living cell differs
from all nonliving systems in its power of selecting from a hetero-
CHEMICAL ASPECTS OF LIFE—HOPKINS 137

geneous environment the right material for the maintenance of its
structure and activities. It is, however, no vital act but the nature
of its specific catalysts which determines what it effectively “ selects.”
If a molecule gains entry into the cell and meets no catalytic influence
capable of activating it, nothing further happens save for certain
ionic and osmotic adjustments. Any molecule which does meet
an adjusted enzyme cannot fail to suffer change and become directed
into some one of the paths of metabolism. It must here be remem-
bered, moreover, that enzymes as specific catalysts not only promote
reactions, but determine their direction. The glucose molecule, for
example, though its inherent chemical potentialities are, of course,
always the same, is converted into lactic acid by an enzyme system
in muscle but into alcohol and carbon dioxide by another in the yeast
cell. It is important to realize that diverse enzymes may act in suc-
cession and that specific catalysis has directive as well as selective
powers. If it be syntheses in the cell which are most difficult to pic-
ture on such lines, we may remember that biological syntheses can be,
and are, promoted by enzymes, and there are sufficient facts to jus-
tify the belief that a chain of specific enzymes can direct a complex
synthesis along lines predetermined by the nature of the enzymes
themselves. I should like to develop this aspect of the subject even
further, but to do so might tax your patience. I should add that
enzyme-control, though so important, is not the sole determinant of
chemical organization in a cell. Other aspects of its colloidal struc-
ture play their part.
III

It is surely at that level of organization, which is based on the
exact coordination of a multitude of chemical events within it, that
a living cell displays its peculiar sensitiveness to the influence of
molecules of special nature when these enter it from without. The
nature of very many organic molecules is such that they may enter
a cell and exert no effect. Those proper to metabolism follow, of
course, the normal paths of change. Some few, on the other hand,
influence the cell in very special ways. When such influence is highly
specific in kind, it means that some element of structure in the en-
trant molecule is adjusted to meet an aspect of molecular structure
somewhere in the cell itself. We can easily understand that in a
system so minute the intrusion even of a few such molecules may so
modify existing equilibria as to affect profoundly the observed
behavior of the cell.

Such relations, though by no means confined to them, reach their
greatest significance in the higher organisms, in which individual
tissues, chemically diverse, differentiated in function and separated
in space, so react upon one another through chemical agencies trans-
138 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

mitted through the circulation as to coordinate by chemical trans-
port the activities of the body as a whole. Unification by chemical
means must today be recognized as a fundamental aspect of all
such organisms. In all of them it is true that the nervous system
has pride of place as the highest seat of organizing influence, but
we know today that even this influence is often, if not always,
exerted through properties inherent in chemical molecules. It is
indeed most significant for my general theme to realize that when
a nerve impulse reaches a tissue the sudden production of a definite
chemical substance at the nerve ending may be essential to the re-
sponse of that tissue to the impulse. It is a familiar circumstance
that when an impulse passes to the heart by way of the vagus nerve
fibers the beat is slowed, or, by a stronger beat, arrested. That is,
of course, part of the normal control of the heart’s action. Now
it has been shown that whenever the heart receives vagus impulses
the substance acetylcholin is hberated within the organ. ‘To this
fact is added the further fact that, in the absence of the vagus in-
fluence, the artificial injection of minute graded doses of acetyl
choline so acts upon the heart as to reproduce in every detail the
effects of graded stimulation of the nerve. Moreover, evidence is
accumulating to show that in the case of other nerves belonging to
the same morphological group as the vagus, but supplying other
tissues, this same liberation of acetyl choline accompanies activity,
and the chemical action of this substance upon such tissues again
produces effects identical with those observed when the nerves are
stimulated. More may be claimed. The functions of another group
of nerves are opposed to those of the vagus group; impulses, for
instance, through certain fibers accelerate the heart beat. Again a
chemical substance is liberated at the endings of such nerves, and
this substance has itself the property of accelerating the heart. We
find then that such organs and tissues respond only indirectly to
whatever nonspecific physical change may reach the nerve ending.
Their direct response is to the influence of particular molecules with
an essential structure when these intrude into their chemical
machinery.

It follows that the effect of a given nerve stimulus may not be
confined to the tissue which it first reaches. There may be humeral
transmissions of its effect, because the liberated substance enters
the lymph and blood. This again may assist the coordination of
events in the tissues.

From substances produced temporarily and locally and by virtue
of their chemical properties translating for the tissues the messages
of nerves, we may pass logically to consideration of those active sub-
stances which carry chemical messages from organ to organ. Such
in the animal body are produced continuously in specialized organs,
CHEMICAL ASPECTS OF LIFE—HOPKINS 139

and each has its special seat or seats of action where it finds chemical
structures adjusted in some sense or other to its own.

I shall be here on familiar ground, for that such agencies exist,
and bear the name of hormones, is common knowledge. I propose
only to indicate how many and diverse are their functions as revealed
by recent research, emphasizing the fact that each one is a definite
and relatively simple substance with properties that are primarily
chemical and in a derivate sense physiological. Our clear recogni-
tion of this, based at first on a couple of instances, began with this
century, but our knowledge of their number and nature is still grow-
ing rapidly today.

We have long known, of course, how essential and profound is the
influence of the thyroid gland in maintaining harmonious growth
in the body, and in controlling the rate of its metabolism. Three
years ago a brilliant investigation revealed the exact molecular struc-
ture of the substance—thyroxin—which is directly responsible for
these effects. It is a substance of no great complexity. The con-
stitution of adrenalin has been longer known and likewise its remark-
able influence in maintaining a number of important physiological
adjustments. Yet it is again a relatively simple substance. I will
merely remind you of secretin, the first of these substances to receive
the name of hormone, and of insulin, now so familiar because of its
importance in the metabolism of carbohydrates and its consequent
value in the treatment of diabetes. The most recent growth of
knowledge in this field has dealt with hormones which, in most
remarkable relations, coordinate the phenomena of sex.

It is the circulation of definite chemical substances produced locally
that determines during the growth of the individual, the proper devel-
opment of all secondary sexual characters. The properties of other
substances secure the due process of individual development from the
unfertilized ovum to the end of fetal life. When an ovum ripens and
is discharged from the ovary a substance, now known as eestrin, is
produced in the ovary itself, and so functions as to bring about all
those changes in the female body which make secure the fertilization
of the ovum. On the discharge of the ovum new tissue, constituting
the so-called corpus luteum, arises in its place. This then produces a
special hormone which in its turn evokes all those changes in tissues
and organs that secure a right destiny for the ovum after it has been
fertilized. It is clear that these two hormones do not arise simul-
taneously, for they must act in alternation, and it becomes of great
interest to know how such succession is secured. The facts here are
among the most striking. Just as higher nerve centers in the brain
control and coordinate the activities of lower centers, so it would seem
do hormones, functioning at, so to speak, a higher level in organiza-
tion, coordinate the activities of other hormones. It is a substance
140 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

produced in the anterior portion of the pituitary gland situated at
the base of the brain, which by circulating to the ovary controls the
succession of its hormonal activities. The cases I have mentioned
are far from exhausting the numerous hormonal influences now
recognized.

For full appreciation of the extent to which chemical substances
control and coordinate events in the animal body by virtue of
their specific molecular structure, it is well not to separate too widely
in thought the functions of hormones from those of vitamins.
Together they form a large group of substances of which every
one exerts upon physiological events its own indispensable chemical
influence.

Hormones are produced in the body itself, while vitamins must be
supplied in the diet. Such a distinction is, in general, justified.
We meet occasionally, however, an animal species able to dispense
with an external supply of this or that vitamin. Evidence shows,
however, that individuals of that species, unlike most animals, can
in the course of their metabolism synthesize for themselves the
vitamin in question. The vitamin then becomes a hormone. In
practice the distinction may be of great importance, but for an
understanding of metabolism the functions of these substances are
of more significance than their origin.

The present activity of research in the field of vitamins is pro-
digious. The output of published papers dealing with original in-
vestigations in the field has reached nearly a thousand in a single
year. Each of the vitamins at present known is receiving the
attention of numerous observers in respect both of its chemical and
biological properties, and though many publications deal, of course,
with matters of detail, the accumulation of significant facts is growing
fast.

It is clear that I can cover but little ground in any reference to
this wide field of knowledge. Some aspects of its development have
been interesting enough. The familiar circumstance that attention
was drawn to the existence of one vitamin (B, so called) because
populations in the East took to eating milled rice instead of the
whole grain; the gradual growth of evidence which links the
physiological activities of another vitamin (D) with the influence of
solar radiation of the body, and has shown that they are thus
related, because rays of definite wave length convert an inactive
precurser into the active vitamin, alike when acting on foodstuffs
or on the surface of the living body; the fact again that the recent
isolation of vitamin C, and the accumulation of evidence for its
nature started from the observation that the cortex of the adrenal
gland displayed strongly reducing properties; or yet again the proof
that a yellow pigment widely distributed among plants, while not
CHEMICAL ASPECTS OF LIFE—HOPKINS 141

the vitamin itself, can be converted within the body into vitamin A;
these and other aspects of vitamin studies will stand out as interesting
chapters in the story of scientific investigation.

In this very brief discussion of hormones and vitamins I have so
far referred only to their functions as manifested in the animal body.
Kindred substances, exerting analogous functions, are, however, of
wide and perhaps of quite general biological importance. It is
certain that many micro-organisms require a supply of vitaminlike
substances for the promotion of growth, and recent research of a very
interesting kind has demonstrated in the higher plants the existence
of specific substances produced in special cells which stimulate
growth in other cells, and so in the plant as a whole. These so-
called auxines are essentially hormones. Section B will soon be
listening to an account of their chemical nature.

It is of particular importance to my present theme and a source
of much satisfaction to know that our knowledge of the actual molec-
ular structure of hormones and vitamins is growing fast. We have
already exact knowledge of the kind in respect to not a few. We are
indeed justified in believing that within a few years such knowledge
will be extensive enough to allow a wide view of the correlation
between molecular structure and physiological activity. Such
correlation has long been sought in the case of drugs, and some
generalizations have been demonstrated. It should be remembered,
however, that until quite lately only the structure of the drug could
be considered. With increasing knowledge of the tissue structures
pharmacological actions will become much clearer.

I cannot refrain from mentioning here a set of relations connected
especially with the phenomena of tissue growth which are of par-
ticular interest. It will be convenient to introduce some technical
chemical considerations in describing them, though I think the
relations may be clear without emphasis being placed on such details.
The vitamin, which in current usage is labeled “A”, is essential for
the general growth of an animal. Recent research has provided much
information as to its chemical nature. Its molecule is built up of
units which possess what is known to chemists as the “ isoprene struc-
ture.” These are condensed in a long carbon chain which is attached
to a ring structure of a specific kind. Such a constitution relates it to
other biological compounds, in particular to certain vegetable pig-
ments, one of which a carotene, so called, is the substance which I have
mentioned as being convertible into the vitamin. For the display of
an influence upon growth, however, the exact details of the vitamin’s
proper structure must be established. Now turning to vitamin D,
of which the activity is more specialized, controlling as it does the
growth of bone in particular, we have learned that the unit elements
in its structure are again isoprene radicals; but instead of forming
142 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

a long chain as in vitamin A they are united into a system of con-
densed rings. Similar rings form the basal component of the mole-
cules of sterols, substances which are normal constituents of nearly
every living cell. It is one of these, inactive itself, which ultra-
violet radiation converts into vitamin D. We know that as stated
each of these vitamins stimulates growth in tissue cells. Next con-
sider another case of growth stimulation, different because patho-
logical in nature. As you are doubtless aware, it is well known that
long contact with tar induces a cancerous growth of the skin. Very
important researches have recently shown that particular constit-
uents in the tar are alone concerned in producing this effect. It is
being further demonstrated that the power to produce cancer is
associated with a special type of molecular structure in these con-
stituents. This structure, like that of the sterols, is one of condensed
rings, the essential difference being that (in chemical language) the
sterol rings are hydrogenated, whereas those in the cancer-producing
molecules are not. Hydrogenation indeed destroys the activity of
the latter. Recall, however, the ovarian hormone oestrin. Now the
molecular structure of oestrin has the essential ring structure of a
sterol, but one of the constituent rings is not hydrogenated. In a
sense therefore the chemical nature of oestrin links vitamin D with
that of cancer-producing substances. Further, it is found that sub-
stances with pronounced cancer-producing powers may produce
effects in the body like those of oestrin. It is difficult when faced
with such relations not to wonder whether the metabolism of sterols,
which when normal can produce a substance stimulating physiolog-
ical growth, may in very special circumstances be so perverted as to
produce within living cells a substance stimulating pathological
growth. Such a suggestion must, however, with present knowledge,
be very cautiously received. It is wholly without experimental
proof. My chief purpose in this reference to this very interesting
set of relations is to emphasize once more the significance of chemical
structure in the field of biological events.

Only the end results of the profound influence which minute
amounts of substances with adjusted structure exert upon living cells
or tissues can be observed in the intact bodies of man or animals.
It is doubtless because of the elaborate and sensitive organization of
chemical events in every tissue cell that the effects are proportionally
so great.

It is an immediate task of biochemistry to explore the mechanism
of such activities. It must learn to describe in objective chemical
terms precisely how and where such molecules as those of hormones
and vitamins intrude into the chemical events of metabolism. It is
indeed now beginning this task which is by no means outside the
scope of its methods. Efforts of this and of similar kind cannot
CHEMICAL ASPECTS OF LIFE—-HOPKINS 143

fail to be associated with a steady increase in knowledge of the whole
field of chemical organization in living organisms, and to this increase
we look forward with confidence. The promise is there. Present
methods can still go far, but Iam convinced that progress of the kind
is about to gain great impetus from the application of those new
methods of research which chemistry is inheriting from physics:
X-ray analysis; the current studies of unimolecular surface films
and of chemical reactions at surfaces; modern spectroscopy; the
quantitative developments of photochemistry; no branch of inquiry
stands to gain more from such advances in technique than does
biochemistry at its present stage. Especially is this true in the case
of the colloidal structure of living systems, of which in this address
I have said so little.

IV

As an experimental science, biochemistry, like classical physiology
and much of experimental biology, has obtained, and must continue
to obtain, many of its data from studying parts of the organism in
isolation, but parts in which dynamic events continue. Though
fortunately it has also methods of studying reactions as they occur
in intact living cells, intact tissues, and, of course, in the intact ani-
mal, it is still entitled to claim that its studies of parts are consistently
developing its grasp of the wholes it desires to describe, however
remote that grasp may be from finality. Justification for any such
claim has been challenged in advance from a certain philosophic
standpoint. Not from that of General Smuts, though in his powerful
address which signalized our centenary meeting, he, like many philos-
ophers today, emphasized the importance of properties which emerge
from systems in their integrity, bidding us remember that a part
while in the whole is not the same as the part in isolation. He has-
tened to admit in a subsequent speech, however, that for experimental
biology, as for any other branch of science, it was logical and neces-
sary to approach the whole through its parts. Nor again is the claim
challenged from the standpoint of such a teacher as A. N. White-
head, though in his philosophy of organic mechanism there is no real
entity of any kind without internal and multiple relations, and each
whole is more than the sum of its parts. I nevertheless find ad hoc
statements in his writings which directly encourage the methods of
biochemistry. In the teachings of J. S. Haldane, however, the value
of such methods have long been directly challenged. Some here will
perhaps remember that in his address to section I 25 years ago he
described a philosophic standpoint which he has courageously main-
tained in many writings since. Dr. Haldane holds that to the en-
lightened biologist a living organism does not present a problem for
analysis; it is, qua organism, axiomatic. Its essential attributes are
144 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

axiomatic; heredity, for example, is for biology not a problem but
an axiom. “The problem of physiology is not to obtain piecemeal
physico-explanations of physiological processes” (I quote from the
1885 address), “ but to discover by observation and experiment the
relatedness to one another of all the details of structure and activity
in each organism as expressions of its nature as one organism.” I
cannot pretend adequately to discuss these views here. They have
often been discussed by others, not always perhaps with understand-
ing. What is true in them is subtle, and I doubt if their author has
ever found the right words in which to bring to most others a con-
viction of such truth. It is involved in a world outlook. What I
think is scientifically faulty in Haldane’s teaching is the a priori
element which leads to bias in the face of evidence. The task he sets
for the physiologist seems vague to most people, and he forgets that
with good judgment a study of parts may lead to an intellectual
synthesis of value. In 1885 he wrote: “That a meeting point be-
tween biology and physical science may at at some time be found
there is no reason for doubting. But we may confidently predict
that if that meeting point is found, and one of the two sciences is
swallowed up, that one will not be biology.” He now claims, indeed,
that biology has accomplished the heavy meal because physics has
been compelled to deal no longer with Newtonian entities but, lke
the biologist, with organisms such as the atom proves to be. Is it
not, then, enough for my present purpose to remark on the significance
of the fact that not until certain atoms were found spontaneously
splitting piecemeal into parts, and others were afterward so split in
the laboratory, did we really know anything about the atom as a
whole ?

At this point, however, I will ask you not to suspect me of claim-
ing that all the attributes of living systems or even the more obvious
among them are necessarily based upon chemical organization alone.
I have already expressed my own belief that this organization will
account for one striking characteristic of every living cell—its abil-
ity, namely, to maintain a dynamic individuality in diverse environ-
ments. Living cells display other attributes even more characteristic
of themselves; they grow, multiply, inherit qualities and transmit
them. Although to distinguish levels of organization in such
systems may be to abstract from reality it is not illogical to believe
that such attributes as these are based upon organization at a level
which is in some sense higher than the chemical level. The main
necessity from the standpoint of biochemistry is then to decide
whether nevertheless at its own level, which is certainly definable,
the results of experimental studies are self-contained and consistent.
CHEMICAL ASPECTS OF LIFE—-HOPKINS 145

This is assuredly true of the data which biochemistry is now acquir-
ing. Never during its progress has chemical consistency shown
itself to be disturbed by influences of any ultrachemical kind.

Moreover, before we assume that there is a level of organization
at which chemical controlling agencies must necessarily cease to
function, we should respect the intellectual parsimony taught by
Occam and be sure of their limitations before we seek for super-
chemical entities as organizers. There is no orderly succession of
events which would seem less likely to be controlled by the mere
chemical properties of a substance than the cell divisions and cell
differentiation. which intervene between the fertilized ovum and the
finished embryo. Yet it would seem that a transmitted substance,
a hormone in essence, may play an unmistakable part in that
remarkable drama. It has for some years been known that, at an
early stage of development, a group of cells forming the so-called
“ organizer ” of Spemann induces the subsequent stages of differentia-
tion in other cells. The latest researches seem to show that a cell-
free extract of this “ organizer ” may function in its place. The sub-
stance concerned is, it would seem, not confined to the “ organizer ”
itself, but is widely distributed outside, though not in, the embryo.
It presents, nevertheless, a truly remarkable instance of chemical
influence.

It would be out of place in such a discourse as this to attempt
any discussion of the psychophysical problem. However much
we may learn about the material systems which, in their integrity,
are associated with consciousness, the nature of that association may
yet remain a problem. The interest of that problem is insistent
and it must be often in our thoughts. Its existence, however,
justifies no prejudgments as to the value of any knowledge of a
consistent sort which the material systems may yield to experiment.

Vv

Tt has become clear, I think, that chemical modes of thought,
whatever their limitation, are fated profoundly to affect biological
thought. If, however, the biochemist should at any time be inclined
to overrate the value of his contributions to biology, or to under-
rate the magnitude of problems outside his province, he will do well
sometimes to leave the laboratory for the field, or to seek even in the
museum a reminder of that infinity of adaptations of which life is
capable. He will then not fail to work with a humble mind, however
great his faith in the importance of the methods which are his own.

It is surely right, however, to claim that in passing from its
earlier concern with dead biological products to its present concern
146 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

with active processes within living organisms, biochemistry has
become a true branch of progressive biology. It has opened up
modes of thought about the physical basis of life which could scarcely
be employed at all a generation ago. Such data and such modes of
thought as it is now providing are pervasive, and must appear as
aspects in all biological thought. Yet these aspects are, of course,
only partial. Biology in all its aspects is showing rapid progress,
and its bearing on human welfare is more and more evident.

Unfortunately, the nature of this new biological progress and its
true significance is known to but a small section of the lay public.
Few will doubt that popular interest in science is extending, but it is
mainly confined to the more romantic aspects of modern astronomy
and physics. That biological advances have made less impression
is probably due to more than one circumstance, of which the chief,
doubtless, is the neglect of biology in our educational system. The
startling data of modern astronomy and physics, though of course
only when presented in their most superficial aspects, find an easier
approach to the uninformed mind than those of the new experimental
biology can hope for. The primary concepts involved are para-
doxically less familiar. Modern physical science, moreover, has been
interpreted to the intelligent public by writers so brilliant that their
books have had a great and stimulating influence.

Lord Russell once ventured on the statement that in passing
from physics to biology one is conscious of a transition from the
cosmic to the parochial, because from a cosmic point of view life
is &@ very unimportant affair. Those who know that supposed parish
well are convinced that it is rather a metropolis entitled to much
more attention than it sometimes obtains from authors of guide-
books to the universe. It may be small in extent, but is the seat of all
the most significant events. In too many current publications, pur-
porting to summarize scientific progress, biology is left out or receives
but scant reference. Brilliant expositions of all that may be met in
the region where modern science touches philosophy have directed
thought straight from the implications of modern physics to the
nature and structure of the human mind, and even to speculation
concerning the mind of the Deity. Yet there are aspects of bio-
logical truth already known which are certainly germane to such
discussions, and probably necessary for their adequacy.

VI

It is, however, because of its extreme importance to social prog-
ress that public ignorance of biology is especially to be regretted.
Sir Henry Dale has remarked that “it is worth while to consider
today whether the imposing achievements of physical science have
CHEMICAL ASPECTS OF LIFE—HOPKINS 147

not already, in the thought and interests of men at large, as well
as in technical and industrial development, overshadowed in our
educational and public policy those of biology to an extent which
threatens a one-sided development of science itself and of the civi-
lization which we hope to see based on science.” Sir Walter Flet-
cher, whose death during the past year has deprived the nation of an
enlightened adviser, almost startled the public, I think, when he said
in a national broadcast that “ we can find safety and progress only
in proportion as we bring into our methods of statecraft the guid-
ance of biological truth.” That statecraft, in its dignity, should
be concerned with biological teaching, was a new idea to many ls-
teners. A few years ago the Cambridge philosopher, Dr. C. D.
Broad, who is much better acquainted with scientific data than are
many philosophers, remarked upon the misfortune involved in the
unequal development of science; the high degree of our control
over inorganic nature combined with relative ignorance of biology
and psychology. At the close of a discussion as to the possibility
of continued mental progress in the world, he summed up by saying
that the possibility depends on our getting an adequate knowledge
and control of life and mind before the combination of ignorance
on these subjects with knowledge of physics and chemistry wrecks
the whole social system. He closed with the somewhat startling
words: “ Which of the runners in this very interesting race will
win it is impossible to foretell. But physics and death have a
long start over psychology and life!” No one surely will wish for,
or expect, a slowing in the pace of the first, but the quickening up
in the latter which the last few decades have seen is a matter for high
satisfaction. But, to repeat, the need for recognizing biological
truth as a necessary guide to individual conduct and no less to state-
eraft and social policy still needs emphasis today. With frank
acceptance of the truth that his own nature is congruent with all
those aspects of nature at large which biology studies, combined with
intelligent understanding of its teaching, man would escape from
innumerable inhibitions due to past history and present ignorance,
and equip himself for higher levels of endeavor and success.
Inadequate as at first sight it may seem when standing alone in
support of so large a thesis, I must here be content to refer briefly to
a single example of biological studies bearing upon human wel-
fare. I will choose one which stands near to the general theme
of my address. I mean the current studies of human and animal
nutrition. You are well aware that during the last 20 years—that
is, since it adopted the method of controlled experiment—the study
of nutrition has shown that the needs of the body are much more
complex than was earlier thought, and in particular that substances
111666—35——11
148 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

consumed in almost infinitesimal amounts may, each in its way, be as
essential as those which form the bulk of any adequate dietary. This
complexity in its demands will, after all, not surprise those who have
in mind the complexity of events in the diverse living tissues of the
body.

My earlier reference to vitamins, which had somewhat different
bearings, was, I am sure, not necessary for a reminder of their nutri-
tional importance. Owing to abundance of all kinds of advertise-
ment vitamins are discussed in the drawing room as well as in the
dining room, and also, though not so much, in the nursery, while
at present perhaps not enough in the kitchen. Unfortunately,
among the uninformed their importance in nutrition is not always
viewed with discrimination. Some seem to think nowadays that if
the vitamin supply is secured the rest of the dietary may be left to
chance, while others suppose that they are things so good that we
cannot have too much of them. Needless to say, neither assumption
is true. With regard to the second indeed it is desirable, now that
vitamin concentrates are on the market and much advertised, to
remember that excess of a vitamin may be harmful. In the case of
that labeled D at least we have definite evidence of this. Neverthe-
less, the claim that every known vitamin has highly important
nutritional functions is supported by evidence which continues to
grow. It is probable, but perhaps not yet certain, that the human
body requires all that are known.

The importance of detail is no less in evidence when the demands
of the body for a right mineral supply are considered. A proper
balance among the salts which are consumed in quantity is here of
prime importance, but that certain elements which ordinary foods
contain in minute amounts are indispensable in such amounts is
becoming sure. To take but a single instance: the necessity of a
trace of copper, which exercises somewhere in the body an indis-
pensable catalytic influence on metabolism, is as essential in its way
as much larger supplies of calcium, magnesium, potassium, or iron.
Those in close touch with experimental studies continually receive
hints that factors still unknown contribute to normal nutrition, and
those who deal with human dietaries from a scientific standpoint
know that an ideal diet cannot yet be defined. This reference to
nutritional studies is indeed mainly meant to assure you that the
great attention they are receiving is fully justified. No one here,
T think, will be impressed with the argument that because the human
race has survived till now in complete ignorance of all such details
the knowledge being won must have academic interest alone. This
line of argument is very old and never right.

One thing I am sure may be claimed for the growing enlight-
ment concerning human nutrition and the recent recognition of its
CHEMICAL ASPECTS OF LIFE—-HOPKINS 149

study. It has already produced one line of evidence to show that
nurture can assist nature to an extent not freely admitted a few
years ago. That is a subject which I wish I could pursue. I cannot
myself doubt that various lines of evidence, all of which should be
profoundly welcome, are pointing in the same direction.

Allow me just one final reference to another field of nutritional
studies. Their great economic importance in animal husbandry calls
for full recognition. Just now agricultural authorities are becoming
acutely aware of the call for a better control of the diseases of ani-
mals. Together these involve an immense economic loss to the farm-
ers, and therefore to the country. Although, doubtless, its influence
should not be exaggerated, faulty nutrition plays no small share in
accounting for the incidence of some among these diseases, as re-
searches carried out at the Rowett Institute in Aberdeen and else-
where are demonstrating. There is much more of such work to be
done with great profit.

vil

In every branch of science the activity of research has greatly
increased during recent years. This all will have realized, but only
those who are able to survey the situation closely can estimate the
extent of that increase. It occurred to me at one time that an ap-
praisement of research activities in this country, and especially the
organization of State-aided research, might fittingly form a part of
my address. The desire to illustrate the progress of my own sub-
ject led me away from that project. I gave some time to a survey,
however, and came to the conclusion, among others, that from 8 to 10
individuals in the world are now engaged upon scientific investiga-
tions for every one so engaged 20 years ago. It must be remembered,
of course, that not only has research endowment greatly increased in
America and Europe, but that Japan, China, and India have entered
the field and are making contributions to science of real importance.
It is sure that, whatever the consequences, the increase of scientific
knowledge is at this time undergoing a positive acceleration.

Apropos, I find difficulty as today’s occupant of this important
scientific pulpit in avoiding some reference to impressive words
spoken by my predecessor which are still echoed in thought, talk, and
print. In his wise and eloquent address at York, Sir Alfred Ewing
reminded us with serious emphasis that the command of Nature has
been put into man’s hand before he knows how to command himself.
Of the dangers involved in that indictment he warned us; and we
should remember that General Smuts also sounded the same note of
warning in London.

Of science itself it is, of course, no indictment. It may be thought
of rather as a warning signal to be placed on her road: “ Dangerous
150 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

hill ahead ”, perhaps, or “Turn right”; not, however, “Go slow”,
for that advice science cannot follow. ‘The indictment is of man-
kind. Recognition of the truth it contains cannot be absent from the
minds of those whose labors are daily increasing mankind’s command
of Nature; but it is due to them that the truth should be viewed in
proper perspective. It is, after all, war, to which science has added
terrors, and the fear of war, which alone give it real urgency; an
urgency which must, of course, be felt in these days when some nations
at least are showing the spirit of selfish and dangerous nationalism.
I may be wrong, but it seems to me that, war apart, the gifts of sci-
ence and invention have done little to increase opportunities for the
display of the more serious of man’s irrational impulses. The worst
they do, perhaps, is to give to clever and predatory souls that keep
within the law the whole world for their depredations, instead of a
parish or a country as of yore.

But Sir Alfred Ewing told us of “ the disillusion with which, now
standing aside, he watches the sweeping pageant of discovery and
invention in which he used to make unbounded delight.” I wish that
one to whom applied science and this country owe so much might
have been spared such disillusion, for I suspect it gives him pain.
I wonder whether, if he could have added to an “engineer’s out-
look” the outlook of a biologist, the disillusion would still be there.
As one just now advocating the claims of biology, I would much like
to know. It is sure, however, that the gifts of the engineer to
humanity at large are immence enough to outweigh the assistance
he may have given to the forces of destruction.

It may be claimed for biological science, in spite of vague refer-
ences to bacterial warfare and the like, that it is not of its nature to
aid destruction. What it may do toward making man as a whole
more worthy of his inheritance has yet to be fully recognized. On
this point I have said much. Of its service to his physical better-
ment you will have no doubts. I have made but the bare reference in
this address to the support that biological research gives to the art
of medicine. I had thought to say much more of this, but found that
if I said enough I could say nothing else.

There are two other great questions so much to the front just now
that they tempt a final reference. I mean, of course, the paradox of
poverty amidst plenty and the replacement of human labor by ma-
chinery. Applied science should take no blame for the former, but
indeed claim credit unfairly lost. It is not within my capacity to say
anything of value about the paradox and its cure; but I confess that
I see more present danger in the case of “ Money versus Man ” than
danger present or future in that of the “ Machine versus Man”!

With regard to the latter it is surely right that those in touch with
science should insist that the replacement of human labor will con-
CHEMICAL ASPECTS OF LIFE—HOPKINS 151

tinue. Those who doubt this cannot realize the meaning of that posi-
tive acceleration in science, pure and applied, which now continues.
No one can say what kind of equilibrium the distribution of leisure is
fated to reach. In any case an optimistic view as to the probable
effects of its increase may be justified.

It need not involve a revolutionary change if there is real planning
for the future. Lord Melchett was surely right when some time ago
he urged on the upper House that present thought should be given
to that future; but I think few men of affairs seriously believe what
is yet probable, that the replacement we are thinking of will impose
a new structure upon society. This may well differ in some essentials
from any of those alternative social forms of which the very names
now raise antagonisms. I confess that if civilization escapes its other
perils I should fear little the final reign of the machine. We should
not altogether forget the difference in use which can be made of real
and ample leisure compared with that possible for very brief leisure
associated with fatigue; nor the difference between compulsory toil
and spontaneous work. We have to picture, moreover, the reactions
of a community which, save for a minority, has shown itself during
recent years to be educable. I do not think it fanciful to believe that
our highly efficient national broadcasting service, with the increased
opportunities which the coming of short wave length transmission
may provide, might well take charge of the systematic education of
adolescents after the personal influence of the schoolmaster has pre-
pared them to profit by it. It would not be a technical education but
an education for leisure. Listening to organized courses of instruc-
tion might at first be for the few; but ultimately might become
habitual in the community which it would specifically benefit.

In parenthesis allow me a brief further reference to “ planning.”
The word is much to the front just now, chiefly in relation with cur-
rent enterprises. But there may be planning for more fundamental
developments; for future adjustment to social reconstructions. In
such planning the trained scientific mind must play its part. Its
vision of the future may be very limited, but in respect of material
progress and its probable consequences science (I include all branches
of knowledge to which the name applies) has at least better data for
prophecy than other forms of knowledge.

It was long ago written, “ Wisdom and knowledge shall be stability
of Thy times.” ‘Though statesmen may have wisdom adequate for
the immediate and urgent problems with which it is their fate to
deal, there should yet be a reservoir of synthesized and clarified knowl-
edge on which they can draw. ‘The technique which brings govern-
ments in contact with scientific knowledge in particular, though
greatly improved of late, is still imperfect. In any case the politician
is perforce concerned with the present rather than the future. I
152 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

have recently read Bacon’s New Atlantis afresh and have been
thinking about his Solomon’s House. We know that the rules for
the functioning of that House were mistaken because the philosopher
drew them up when in the mood of a Lord Chancellor; but insofar as
the philosopher visualized therein an organization of the best intellects
bent on gathering knowledge for future practical services, his idea
wasa great one. When civilization is in danger and society in transi-
tion might there not be a House recruited from the best intellects in the
country with functions similar (mutatis mutandis) to those of Bacon’s
fancy? A House devoid of politics, concerned rather with synthesiz-
ing existing knowledge, with a sustained appraisement of the progress
of knowledge, and continuous concern with its bearing upon social
readjustments. It is not to be pictured as composed of scientific
authorities alone. It would be rather an intellectual exchange where
thought would go ahead of immediate problems. I believe, perhaps
foolishly, that given time I might convince you that the functions of
such a House, in such days as ours, might well be real. Here I must
leave them to your fancy, well aware that in the minds of many I
may by this bare suggestion lose all reputation as a realist!

I will now hasten to my final words. Most of us have had a
tendency in the past to fear the gift of leisure to the majority. To
believe that it may be a great social benefit requires some mental
adjustment, and a belief in the educability of the average man or
woman.

But if the political aspirations of the nations should grow sane,
and the artificial economic problems of the world be solved, the com-
bined and assured gifts of health, plenty, and leisure may prove to be
the final justification of apphed science. In a community advantaged
by these each individual will be free to develop his own innate powers,
and, becoming more of an individual, will be less moved by those herd
instincts which are always the major danger to the world.

You may feel that throughout this address I have dwelt exclusively
on the material benefits of science to the neglect of its cultural value.
I would like to correct this in a single closing sentence. I believe
that for those who cultivate it in a right and humble spirit, science
is one of the humanities; no less.
COMMERCIAL EXTRACTION OF BROMINE
FROM SEA WATER*

By Leroy C. STEWART

The Dow Chemical Company, Midland, Mich.

[With 7 plates]

In 1924 the production of free and chemically combined bromine
in this country amounted to approximately 2 million pounds. In
1931 this quantity had risen to about 9 million pounds, all of which
was being produced from natural brines and from bitterns resulting
from evaporation of sea water. This remarkable increase in con-
sumption of bromine was due largely to the use of ethylene di-
bromide in conjunction with tetraethyllead in the treatment of
gasoline motor fuel.

A number of years ago it became evident that the demand for
bromine was becoming so great that its ordinary sources were inade-
quate and that new ones would have to be employed. It was logical
that sea water should be considered for this purpose, in spite of the
fact that its bromine content is less than 70 parts per million, since
the enormous quantities of it which are available would insure an
inexhaustible source of raw material. It was up to the chemist and
engineer, however, to develop a practical and economical method of
extracting this desirable halogen element.

The Ethyl Gasoline Corporation was one of the pioneers along
this line. In 1924 they operated a small-scale plant with sea water
as its source of bromine and produced tribromoaniline which can be
used with tetraethyllead in the treatment of gasoline. Some months
later, the same organization operated the process on board a boat,
the 8. S. Hthyl (4).2. Their method involved the addition of aniline
to chlorinated sea water to form tribromoaniline according to the
reaction :

3NaBr ae 3Cl; 35 C,H;NH. —_—> Che br. NE. sh 3NaCl a 3HCl

A number of years ago the Dow Chemical Company likewise
undertook the problem of extracting bromine from sea water, but

1 Reprinted by permission from Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, vol. 26, p. 361,
April 1934.
2 Numbers in parentheses refer to list of literature cited at end of paper.

153
154 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

proposed to obtain it in the pure, elemental state by a process some-
what similar to that in use on natural brines at their plant in Mid-
land, Mich. It was recognized that modifications and refinements
would have to be made in the old procedure, but the basic principle
was considered practical and economically sound. ‘This process con-
sists essentially of (a) oxidizing a natural bromide-containing brine
with chlorine to liberate the bromine, (0) blowing the free bromine
out of solution with air, and(c) absorbing the bromine from the air
with an alkali carbonate solution from which it subsequently can be
recovered in a commercially desirable form.

Through many years of experience and effort, the Dow process has
been developed to the point where it is possible to recover, con-
sistently, 95 percent of the bromine content of the natural brines.
The latter contain approximately 25 percent total solids, consisting
chiefly of the chlorides of sodium, calcium, and magnesium, together
with approximately 1,300 p. p. m. bromine. Sea water, however,
contains about 3.5 percent total solids, and only 65 to 70 p. p. m.
bromine. This is approximately the same bromine content as that
of the waste effluent from the commercial process just mentioned.
Consequently, when laboratory work was started on the problem of
removing bromine from sea water, it is not surprising that at first
a low efficiency was obtained.

RESEARCH LABORATORY DEVELOPMENTS

It was realized that an addition of acid as well as chlorine would
be necessary in order to obtain a satisfactory yield of bromine from
sea water on account of its alkalinity, as indicated by its pH of 7.2.

es et AD

Fie Bil SLE a MS cd I

fe Bes Ga i
Fe EF a

° 4 8 l2 1 20 24 2 32 36 40 44 48 52 56 60

CUBIC CAN TI MET ERS JE7) Ina
FIG. 1

EFFECT OF ADDITION OF ACID ON pH OF SEA WATER

Otherwise, when the solution was chlorinated, neutralization would
have been effected at the expense of the liberated bromine. At the
same time there would have been a corresponding formation of
BROMINE FROM SEA WATER—STEWART 155

oxidized bromine products from which bromine could not have been
liberated easily again by chlorine.

However, it was found that even in carefully neutralized sea
water, a satisfactory yield of bromine was not obtained. An ex-
planation of this appeared to be that in the exceptionally dilute
solution the liberated bromine hydrolyzed to form bromic and
hydrobromic acids according to the equation:

3Br.+3H.0 — HBrO,+5HBr

This being the case, such reaction would have continued until a
sufficient concentration of hydrogen ions was obtained to suppress
the hydrolysis.

In the production of bromine from Michigan brines, some hy-
drolysis and reabsorption of the halogen, with the attendant forma-
tion of acid, had been encountered. Because of the comparatively
smaller volume handled in the case of the natural brine, it was

a VALUE
FIG. 2

LFFEGCT OF pH ON PERCENTAGE OF BROMINE LIBERATED
IN SEA WATER

feasible to permit such acidification by hydrolysis to take place
and, still to make a satisfactory recovery of the bromine. However,
in the case of the enormous quantity of liquid involved with sea
water as the source of bromine, such acidification by hydrolysis
would be uneconomical. Careful laboratory research, involving po-
tentiometric titration of natural sea water, showed that reabsorp-
tion of free bromine by hydrolysis ceased if the hydrogen-ion con-
centration were increased to a pH of 3 or 4 by the addition of acid
from an outside source. This indicated, therefore, that in order to
liberate bromine in sea water completely and efficiently, it would be
necessary first to add sufficient acid to give a pH of approximately
3.5. This would require the use of approximately 0.27 pound of 96
percent sulphuric acid per ton of sea water. In operation of the
tribromoaniline process, already mentioned, it had also been found
that it was desirable to add acid to the raw sea water before adding
the chlorine, but a greater proportion was employed.
156 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

Figure 1 shows the variation in pH of raw sea water as affected
by the addition of acid. Figure 2 shows the effect of variation of
pH on the percentage of total bromine that can be liberated from
the sea water by chlorine oxidation. Figure 3 indicates the effect
of variation of pH of sea water on the chemical equivalents of chlo-
rine required to liberate one equivalent of bromine. Figure 3 shows
that, at a pH of 3.5 or less, the theoretical mole of chlorine was
required per mole of bromine which was liberated.

With the knowledge at hand of the definite proportion of acid
which would have to be added to sea water in order to promote a
highly efficient process, the next research problem which arose was
that of developing a means of immediately and continuously indi-
cating the progress of oxidation in the chlorination step, so that
the degree of liberation of bromine could be ascertained at any time.

/0

EQUIV Cl PER VVEOU(4AVs Er

ie Ea Pa RE
A Sw I
: pH VALUE
Ful sGaio

EFFECT OF pH ON CHLORINE REQUIRED TO LIBERATE
BROMINE IN SEA WATER

With the use of the ocean as a source of bromine, such enormous
quantities of water were involved that, without some such control
method, together with a method of continuously recording acidity,
large losses of chlorine and acid would be sure to occur before the
operator would realize what was happening. A method was finally
developed which answered all requirements.

The new method of oxidation control depended on the fact that for
every type of bromide-containing solution there is a characteristic
range of oxidation potential values. This range depends on the ini-
tial concentration of bromine ions and also upon the collective effect
of other ions present. It was found that, in acidified sea water, the
first traces of free bromine in a solution that was being tested caused
an immediate increase in oxidation potential. This rise was meas-
BROMINE FROM SEA WATER—STEWART 157

ured by the difference in voltage between a saturated calomel elec-
trode and a platinum electrode. Figure 4 shows the relationship
between the oxidation potential, expressed in volts, and the percent-
age of bromine liberated in sea water which contained about 3.5
percent total solids in solution and about 60 to 70 parts per million
bromine, and which had been acidified to a pH of 3 to 4. The char-
acteristic potential under these conditions ranged between 0.88 and
0.97 volt. The methods of extracting bromine from sea water, in-
volving the control of acidification and oxidation, are protected by
patents (3).

po | ee
C2 ls EP
FEE
WET TL | das ncercenr ora

3.5 PER CENT TOTAL SOLIDS

60-70 PPM BROMINE
3704 pH

i Lt a at alive

0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 I10 120 130 140
PERCENTAGE BROMINE LIBERATED

FIG. 4
PERCENTAGE OF BROMINE LIBERATED IN SEA WATER

After obtaining a clear understanding of the factors which made
for the most efficient liberation of bromine from sea water and devel-
opment of satisfactory control methods, the laboratory and semiplant
work on the process progressed much more rapidly. This work es-
tablished the fact that air, blown countercurrent through a 70 parts
per million bromine solution, would remove the halogen sufficiently
to leave a concentration as low as 5 parts per million. It was also
found that soda ash solution would effectively remove the very low
concentration of bromine from the air. In these experiments, per-
formed at Midland, Mich., synthetic sea water was used at first, and
this was followed by tests made on tank-car shipments of true sea
water. The chief result of the small-scale work was the demonstra-
tion that more than 50 percent of the bromine in the real sea water

could be extracted and actually collected as the pure liquid. The
indicated cost of operating the process seemed satisfactorily low.

1.0

ea

158 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934
SELECTION OF PROCESS AND PLANT SITE

Considerable other research work was done before the final process
was selected. Other natural waters, as well as sea water, were inves-
tigated as sources of bromine, and improved methods were devised
for their use. More economical methods in conjunction with the
liberation of bromine were studied, including the use of hme or
metallic iron to remove bicarbonates from solution and thus to save
acid. Many different processes for removing bromine from very
dilute solutions were tried extensively in the laboratory, some on
semiplant scale. These included precipitation (7), extraction, and
vaporization of the bromine as well as its absorption and adsorption
in various agents, particularly in charcoal (2). While some showed
fair success, the technic of blowing the bromine from solutions as
dilute as the tailings from previous practice was improved and devel-
oped to a sound process as already described. Various methods were
devised for recovering the bromine from the blowing-out air by both
physical and chemical means, including immediate reaction of the
bromine with ethylene. It is possible that some such improvements
may be employed in the next few years. Finally, the commercial
phases of correlating this industry with others were given careful
study, and publication of the more interesting and important possi-
bilities may be expected.

A comparison of the two general methods of obtaining bromine
from sea water indicated that the direct extraction process possessed
several economic advantages over the tribromoaniline method:

1. The direct process requires theoretically only 1 mole of chlorine for each
mole of bromine which is liberated, whereas the other scheme requires 2 moles
of chlorine per mole of bromine.

2. Smaller quantities of sulphuric acid are required by the direct process
than by the other method.

8. Aniline is a relatively expensive raw material and is at a further economic
disadvantage as a carrier of bromine for gasoline treatment when it is con-
sidered that tribromoaniline contains only 73 percent bromine, whereas ethylene
dibromide is 85 percent bromine.

At this point in the history of the development it was decided to
build and operate a pilot plant for extracting bromine from sea
water by the Dow Chemical Company’s process. The site for this
unit was selected after considerable careful investigation, as it was
proposed to build a commercial plant in the same location if the
results of this venture were satisfactory. The chief requisites for
such a site were:

1. The sea water at the point selected should not be diluted by fresh-water
streams.
BROMINE FROM SEA WATER—STEWART 159

2. The location should be such that it would be easy to get rid of the sea
water from which the bromine had been extracted, without diluting the water
entering the process.

3. There should be no appreciable quantities of industrial waste present in
the water entering the process.

A thorough study was made of the eastern and southern coast lines
of this country. In this connection information learned from United
States Coast and Geodetic Survey, to the effect that the water of all
streams entering the Atlantic Ocean flows southward, was of con-
siderable assistance. Many samples of sea water were analyzed, and,
except where dilution with fresh water was indicated by a study of
the location from which the sample was taken, the bromine content
was found to be 67 parts per million. Before construction of the com-
mercial plant, about 20 samples were taken during a boat trip from
New Orleans to Havana and then to New York. ‘The same bromine
content of the deep-sea water was found throughout the entire
distance.

The various factors involved in the selection of the plant site all
indicated that it should be located on the north shore of a river, close
to the point where it entered the Atlantic Ocean, and that there should
be no large river entering the ocean for a number of miles to the
north of such a location. The long narrow peninsula in North Caro-
lina at the mouth of the Cape Fear River, which separates the latter
from the ocean, appeared to answer all the above requirements. Con-
sequently, a large tract of land was acquired near the southern end
of this peninsula, and in 1931 a pilot plant was constructed and oper-
ated to extract 500 pounds of bromine per day from sea water. The
bromine was absorbed in soda ash solution to form a bromide-bromate
liquor frora which bromine could have been liberated by acidification.
Operation of this small unit for 6 months furnished valuable experi-
ence which aided in the design of the commercial plant which was to
follow.

CONSTRUCTION DATA ON COMMERCIAL PLANT

About the middle of July 1933 the Ethyl-Dow Chemical Company
was incorporated and the decision was made to construct a plant hav-
ing a capacity to extract about 15,000 pounds of bromine per day
from sea water and to manufacture it into somewhat more than 16,000
pounds of ethylene dibromide per day. Within a period of 5 months
the plans were drawn, materials assembled, and the plant built
and put into operation. The design and construction was executed
by the Dow Chemical Company organization with the exception of
some of the common building operations which were let on contract.
160 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

It is believed that this is an achievement in chemical engineering
which is worthy of note, as the following facts relative to the con-
struction of the plant will testify:

Clearing of eroundistarted io 2 es eee eee een ee July 27, 19383
Hand! (Cleared; sare se wewe i aire oko A ee I ok oe LO Nay ee A 90
Ground tbrokensforsfirst: buildin eo ee ee ee Aug. 15, 1933
Production of ethylene dibromide commenced_________-_________ Jan. 10, 1984
Wood piles) drivent(30 eet lome;) se 2 sere eee oil eee ee es 1,800
Sheet steel piling (36-50 feet long), tons______________________. 750
EXXCavatlon cubes yar Soe so eee ee eas ee ee ae 125,000
Dredging Cubic yV aids es so ie eel SE ales as 100,000
Concrete Cup CRY ANS Ss ae a ee a ee 8,892
IVEGNLOLCIN Se Stel LOT Soe ee a ee Se eee 425
StPUCcturale steel atoms a ess eae eee ne ee Se eee LEC et Ree pve 350
Hlectriexconduit, pmiilesises 26s see ee ee SEEN need SURES ee ee 9.5
HIecériciwininge miles: see Sheers ee ee eh Een A eats 38
Bri Chia Ge ose hetiine deeb a he Pi eS te eA 3,540,764
Maximum number men employed at one time, approximate_____- 1,500
Approximate total Obey Man= Cay Se = eee ee ee eee 90,000
DAO WUC GUI ateeeeta a hj (Pah sO tts Meets wel ea oe OL ae nd ian ee De ES ys eS 150
Kirst working, drawine completed2 22 ee ee Aug. 14, 1933
Last workings drawing completeds: 2 see a eee ee Nov. 2, 1933
Number of principal drawings (24 by 86 inches) _--_-__________. 265

The construction facts become even more impressive when it is
realized that the nearest railroad shipping point is at Wilmington,
approximately 20 miles away. Consequently the large quantities of
materials which were involved had to be trucked that distance to the
construction site. In order that the work might proceed rapidly,
a considerable number of engineers and superintendents were
required. These were accommodated in a nearby 50-room beach hotel
which was leased and operated by the Ethyl-Dow Chemical Com-
pany.

Shortly before the construction work was completed, a wharf was
built and a channel was dredged out to the navigable part of the
Cape Fear River so that boat transportaion could be used for deliver-
ing operating supplies to the plant. The boat that has been acquired
for this purpose is 116 feet long and is propelled by a 100 horsepower
Diesel engine. It has a capacity of about 140 tons. One of its chief
cargoes is sulphuric acid which is carried in special tanks installed
below deck. The trip from the plant to the dock in Wilmington
requires from 2 to 4 hours.

Figure 5 is a flow sheet showing the scheme of operations. Figure
6 shows the general layout of the plant.

OCEAN WATER INTAKE, CANAL, AND POND

The design and construction of the ocean water intake offered an
opportunity for ingenuity and engineering foresight. No plans or
BROMINE FROM SEA WATER—STEWART 161

descriptions of a structure such as it was desired to construct were
available. Experience obtained in putting down an intake pipe for
the pilot plant indicated that a single row of piling would not sur-
vive the pounding of the ocean waves. It had been found, however,

Sea Weorer

Seo Woter Effluent
Jo Aiver

Blowing- Out
Jowers

Towers

Sroroge Yrs
Ne 8r-- Wo br Oy
Solve tion

Suiphuric Acid

Sodium Sulphate -
Acid Solution

é+hylene Qibremide
Reactor and
Finishing Still

Finished
| 4t4ylere Dibramige

FIG. §
FLOW SHEET

Sthyglene Dibromide trom Bromine
Litracted fram Sea Werer

Ficurn 5.—Manufacture of ethylene dibromide from bromine extracted from sea water.

that a row of piling on each side of the pipe remained rigid when
tied together with a large number of crosspieces. In planning the
intake of the new plant, it was decided, therefore, to cut a channel
out into the ocean for a short distance and to protect it with a rigid
wall on each side. The walls were each to consist of two parallel
rows of piling tied together at suitable intervals.
ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

162

N-V-F 20
DU LIN VET LAY.

‘gpIMOIGIP eMa[AyIA OJUT IT SuLANZORJNUBU PUB 1d}VM Bos WOIJ auMIOIq Sufjovs}xe Joy yuRld Jo ynoAVy—'g Guang

ef ee

io it eee re eS
, Gers ALIAVYS

SYIMOL NO/LdyosSav
| ONV LNO ONIMOTE

2
|

FOVYOLS
INIAOTHD

‘9078 HSV vdOS.

INV Td
szomorgia OOO

NOLLYLS - 8s:

f ¢ dale d,

| yy, Leaf =)! qed Yo 2
Ni 1A Soe }) ie
/ i SdOHS ONY 39/940 yj
Ad (

NOT ININ TT Mm

j

o/
BROMINE FROM SEA WATER—STEWART 163

In constructing the intake walls, 50-foot lengths of interlocking
sheet steel piling were used. These were driven to a depth of about
42 feet below mean low-tide level. The parallel rows of piling in
each wall were joined together at every tenth member by a partition
of similar piles at right angles to the direction of the wall. Con-
sequently, when completed, each wall of the intake consisted of a
series of interlocked cells 21 feet long and 15 feet wide. These were
built, one at a time, beginning at the shore end and were filled with
sand that was dug from the channel between them.

Altogether the intake (pl. 1, fig. 2) is about 200 feet long.
It extends approximately 30 feet out into the ocean at low tide and
about the same distance onto the land at high tide. The channel
between the walls is 15 feet wide and the depth is 9 feet below mean
low-tide level.

The sea water flows through the intake into a settling basin which
is 112 feet long, 76 feet wide, and 12 feet deep. The walls in this
case were formed from a single row of 40-foot steel piles. These
were left with about 14 feet exposed above mean low-tide level and
are about level with the surrounding ground.

The walls of the settling basin had to be supported from the
outside in order to keep them from collapsing toward the inside.
This was accomplished by bolting 24-inch I-beams to every eighth
piece of piling and extending 2.5-inch steel rods about 30 feet out
from each I-beam to anchor into timber piling which served as
“dead men ” to absorb the thrust of the dirt against the piling wall.

In putting down the steel piles, considerable difficulty was ex-
perienced in driving the first few members. When these were in
place, it was found expedient to use water jets to aid in sinking
the subsequent units. A 0.75-inch nozzle was carried down on each
side of the piles, and, by forcing the water through the nozzles at
100 pounds per square inch pressure, it was possible to drive them a
considerable distance merely by raising and dropping them. When
the power required to raise a pile became too great for the derrick,
the jetting was continued and a hammer applied to the top of the
pile until the latter was driven to the desired depth. In order to
keep the piles of the intake walls in perfect alignment so that there
would be no difficulty in tying-in the cross partitions, a frame was
constructed which was suspended in the air and which kept the piles
perfectly straight in their desired location.

Four concrete compartments were built along the end of the set-
tling basin opposite the intake. At the present time three of these
are closed off with plank bulkheads to keep out floating debris. The
fourth compartment has installed at its entrance a 120-inch Link-

111666—35——12

164 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

Belt traveling screen which removes floating sticks and other foreign
matter.

The pump house, adjacent to these concrete wells, contains two
30-inch centrifugal pumps. One of these has a capacity of about
26,000 gallons per minute, and the other can deliver approximately
32,000 gallons per minute. They are operated by 300-horsepower
synchronous motors. The intake pipe for the pumps extends 9 feet
below the water level at low tide, whereas the screens operate to
practically the full depth of the compartment, which is 3 feet lower.
In starting the pumps a Nash Hytor vacuum pump is employed to
prime them. Three to five minutes are usually required to accom-
plish priming by this method. An interior view of the pump house
appears in plate 2, figure 1.

Each of the centrifugal pumps is connected to a separate 42-inch
steel pipe line which carries the water under a road into a 72-inch
steel pipe. The latter conducts the water up over a concrete dam
(pl. 2, fig. 2) into a canal and pond. The purpose of the dam is
to prevent the emptying of the canal and pond back into the ocean
when the pumps are not in operation. The top of the dam is at a
level of 23 feet above mean low tide.

The canal is about 6 feet deep and extends about 4,000 feet across
the peninsula to the plant, which is located close to the shore of the
Cape Fear River. Approximately 2,200 feet of the canal are diked
off from a pond through which the sea water is bypassed during
the summer months. With some 900,000 square feet of exposed
surface, the pond permits an increase in temperature during warm
weather. This increases the efficiency of the process during several
months of the year. After the water has been pumped over the
dam and into the canal or pond, it flows to the extraction plant
with a loss in head of only about 3 inches. <A view of the canal and
pond is shown in plate 3, figure 1. The pilot plant is visible near
the far left-hand corner of the pond.

BROMINE EXTRACTION

The extraction of bromine from sea water takes place in two
identical units which are located at the exit of the canal. A dia-
eram of one of them is shown in figure 7. Each unit consists
chiefly of a blowing-out tower in which a current of air removes
the bromine from acidified and oxidized sea water, and an adjacent
absorption tower in which the bromine is extracted from the air
by means of a soda-ash solution. The towers are built of brick
and have concrete floors and foundations. The foundations of each
unit cover an area 197 by 84 feet. Wood piles 30 feet long were
driven in the ground beneath the foundations to avoid any possibility
of their settling.
BROMINE FROM SEA WATER—STEWART 165

The original ground where these structures are located was exca-
vated to a depth of 9 feet or to a level which is about 5 feet above the
river at low tide. This was done to minimize the height that the sea
water would have to be pumped to the top of the blowing-out towers.

A horizontal steel flume, which is semicircular in cross-section and
10 feet in diameter, extends between the two extraction units and con-
nects with the canal which brings in the sea water. Because the bases
of the towers and the area between them are below the canal level, the
flume is carried on steel supports so that it is at the same level as the
canal (pl. 3, fig. 2). The absorption towers are located at the end
of the flume which is nearest the canal. Hence, the water passes by
them on its way to centrifugal pumps which elevate it to the tops of
the blowing-out columns. Before entering the pumps, however, the
water flows through a traveling screen at the end of the flume. This
filters out any leaves or debris which may fall into the water after
it enters the canal or pond.

AIR EXIT
tf

3 -SODA ASH
TANK

EFFLUENT SEA WATER
TO CAPE FEAR RIVER

INLET SEA WATER
FROM ATLANTIC OCEAN

Ficure 7.—Diagram of bromine extraction unit.

In each extraction unit the sea water is pumped to the top of the
blowing-out tower through a vertical 42-inch rubber-lined pipe. Near
the bottom of this, a 10 percent sulphuric acid solution is introduced
into the water through a group of small rubber-lined pipes. A short
distance higher the chlorine is introduced through similar rubber-
lined pipes. At the top of the blowing-out tower the water passes
through a series of large and small distributor boxes and pipes so that
it eventually is divided up into about 3,200 small streams. These flow
down through the tower, which is partitioned off into narrow cham-
bers extending the full width of the structure. These chambers are
filled with wood packing and are operated in parallel. A stream of
air is sucked up through the tower countercurrent to the sea water.
The bromine that has been liberated by the chlorine is thus blown out
of the sea water, and the latter passes out of the bottom of the tower
166 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

through exit flumes to the river and thence into the ocean about 12
miles south of the intake. Plate 4, figure 1, shows a view of the
exit flume.

The treatment of the sea water on its way to the blowing-out towers
is regulated from the nearby control laboratory. Meters on a wall of
the laboratory continuously show both the pH of the acidified sea
water and its oxidation potential with respect to bromine liberation.
Valves in the sulphuric acid and chlorine lines which lead to the
49-inch vertical mixing pipes are operated by hand from the control
laboratory. At a later date it is probable that the control of these
valves will be made automatic. Signal lights above the meters also
indicate whether the condition of the treated sea water is correct for
the blowing-out towers.

The chlorine which is used in oxidizing the sea water is obtained
from cylinders having a capacity of 1 ton. A group of 16 of these
is placed in each of 2 wooden compartments. These are kept at a
temperature of not less than 70° F. The cylinders are connected to
the chlorine line and their contents, in liquid form, flow to the chlorine
vaporizer. This is a steam-jacketed iron pipe and is located adjacent
to the control laboratory.

The sulphuric acid is delivered to the plant in the concentrated
form, but it is diluted to a 10 percent solution before it is added to the
sea water. This dilution is accomplished in two rubber-lined tanks,
16 feet in diameter and 10 feet high. ‘These are located adjacent to
the contro] laboratory.

In each extraction unit the air from the blowing-out tower is
drawn through its adjacent absorption tower by three fans which
are located on a concrete platform at the end of the unit. The air,
just before entering the fans, passes through a small wood-filled
chamber which catches any spray of soda ash solution that might
otherwise be carried out of the system.

In the absorption tower the bromine is removed from the air by a
soda ash solution to form a dissolved mixture of sodium bromide and
bromate according to the formula:

3Na.CO,+3Br, —-> 5NaBr+NaBrO,+38CO,

The absorption towers are built on reenforced concrete arches which
elevate their floors so as to permit gravity flow of the dissolving
liquor into tanks which are located at their bases. This construction
also makes possible the detection of any leakage which might take
place in the tower bases at any future time.

Each absorption tower is divided into nine chambers which are
connected in series so that the air, passing in at the end adjacent to
the blowing-out tower, follows in succession through these absorbing
BROMINE FROM SEA WATER—STEWART 167

chambers and out through the suction fans. Soda ash solution is
circulated continuously in each chamber. This is done by pumping
it from a tank at the bottom and spraying it in at the top through
36 nozzles, from which it falls by gravity and drains again into the
tank.

At proper intervals the strong bromide-bromate solution formed in
the absorption chamber adjacent to the blowing-out tower is pumped
to a storage tank. The charges of partially brominated soda ash
liquor in the other members of the series are then pumped forward,
in turn, to the next tank nearer the one which has just been emptied
to storage. When the tank farthest from the blowing-out tower has
been emptied, it is charged with a fresh solution of soda ash. Plate
4, figure 2, shows the south end of the bromine extraction plant.
Plate 5, figure 1, is a view looking down on the absorption liquor
tanks, and plate 5, figure 2, shows the battery of pumps which circu-
late the soda ash solution. The inlet flume may be seen overhead.

After the bromine from the sea water has been collected in the
form of a solution of sodium bromide and bromate, the remainder of
the process is performed according to methods which have been pre-
viously in use in the industry. The bromide-bromate liquor is treated
with sulfuric acid to liberate the bromine. The free bromine vapors
are then steamed out of the acidified solution and are condensed into
pure liquid bromine. Plate 6, figure 1, shows the plant in which the
bromine is finally obtained in liquid form. The two bromide-bromate
liquor storage tanks are seen at the side of the building and the hori-
zontal sulfuric acid storage tanks are in front of it.

The bromine is used in the manufacture of ethylene dibromide,
which is also made in the building shown in plate 6, figure 1. Ethyl-
ene is made by passing ethyl alcohol vapor over heated kaolin cata-
lyst to form ethylene gas, which is in turn brominated according to
the standard method to form pure ethylene dibromide. Plate 6, fig-
ure 2, shows the ethylene plant and powerhouse, which are both in
the same building. The battery of valves for controlling the ethylene
production is shown in plate 7, figure 1. A consignment of finished
product on the shipping platform of the ethylene dibromide plant is
shown in plate 7, figure 2.

The powerhouse employs hand-fired boilers and makes steam only
for heating and evaporating purposes. Its capacity is about 15,000
pounds of steam per hour at a pressure of 150 pounds per square inch.
Operating electric power is purchased from the Tidewater Power Co.
It is delivered to the plant at 33,000 volts, where it is stepped down
to 2,300 volts in two transformer banks.

The entire plant is functioning as anticipated and is removing
about 15,000 pounds of bromine per day from sea water. This is
168 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

being converted into ethylene dibromide at an efficiency somewhat
over 90 percent.

The direct recovery of minerals for industrial use from sea water
has long held the attention of chemists, and it is believed that the
plant which has been described is the first to accomplish this achieve-
ment on a commercial scale of operation. The extraction of gold
from sea water, in which it is present to the extent of but a few parts
per billion, has always been the investigator’s most fascinating goal,
but no success along this line has been reported thus far. Now that
the recovery of bromine, which is present to the extent of less than
70 parts per million, has been successfully executed, it does not seem
beyond reason to expect the chemist of the next decade to extract gold
from sea water commercially.

LITERATURE CITED

(1) Grebe, J. J., United States Patent 1891888 (Dec. 20, 19382).

(2) Grebe, J. J.. and Boundy, R. H., Ibid., 1885255 (Nov. 1, 1982).

(3) Grebe, J. J., Boundy, R. H., and Chamberlain, L. C., [bid., 1917762 (July
11, 1933) ; Grebe and Boundy, Jbid., 1944738 (Jan. 23, 1934).

(4) Stine, C. M. A., Ind. Eng. Chem., vol. 21, pp. 48442, 1929.
Smithsonian Report, 1934.—Stewart

ie

PLANT FOR EXTRACTING BROMINE FROM SEA WATER
IT INTO ETHYLENE DIBROMIDE.

(Compare figure 6.)

2. SEA-WATER INTAKE.

PEATE) 1

AND MANUFACTURING

Smithsonian Report, 1934.—Stewart PLATE 2

1. INTERIOR OF PUMP HOUSE AT SEA-WATER INTAKE.

2. SEA WATER BEING PUMPED OVER DAM AT RATE OF 58,000 GALLONS PER
MINUTE.
Smithsonian Report, 1934.—Stewart PLATE 3

2. FLUME FOR CONDUCTING SEA WATER TO BLOWING-OUT TOWERS.
Smithsonian Report, 1934.—Stewart PLATE 4

1. EFFLUENT SEA WATER PASSING FROM BLOWING-OUT TOWERS TO RIVER.

2. SOUTH END OF BROMINE EXTRACTION UNITS.
PEATE So
LIQUOR

n)
NE
Zz
<
Kk
©
fe)
2)
g
-]
Zo
0
Kk
Oo
o
fe)
)
a
<
ey
z
=
fe)
or
om
Zz
0
Zé
S
i)
fal
0
Z
Ne
fe)
fe)
nad

T:

2. BATTERY OF PUMPS FOR CIRCULATING BROMINE ABSORPTION

Smithsonian Report, 1934.—Stewart

Smithsonian Report, 1934.—Stewart

ee : :
oe ee

2. ETHYLENE PLANT AND POWER HOUSE.

Smithsonian Report, 1934.—Stewart

PEATE) 7

1. BATTERY OF VALVES FOR CONTROLLING ETHYLENE PRODUCTION.

er a

ini. fi
cae EM

2. SHIPMENT OF FINISHED ETHYLENE DIBROMIDE.

BEFORE PAPYRUS ... BEYOND RAYON’

By Gustavus J. ESSELEN, PH. D.

President, Gustavus J. Esselen, Inc., Chemical Research and Development,
Boston, Mass.

We wear it; we live in houses made of it; we record our news and
literature upon it; we even take it into our systems with our food.
What is it? The answer to this riddle is a material which has been
responsible for epoch-making changes in the trend of human affairs
throughout the long road up from savagery through barbarism and
early civilization to the present time. Everyone is familiar with
it, yet few know it. It is not only the most abundant material of
the vegetable kingdom, but it is also one of the most important ma-
terials on which man has relied throughout the development of civ-
ilization. We know it in the forms of cotton and of linen; of wood
and of paper. We even know it as artificial silk. Yet ref-
erence to cellulose, which is the basic chemical substance common to
all these materials, brings in a word which is familiar to few. On
the other hand, this term cellulose is one destined to become gradu-
ally more and more familar, at least to those who make any pre-
tense of following modern trends in the arts and sciences.

Cellulose has not only exerted an unusual influence on the progress
of mankind in the past, but today it is the basic raw material for
great industries. Since it forms the structural framework of all
trees and plants, it is available wherever vegetable life occurs.
Furthermore, it is one of the few raw materials which is capable of
periodic reproduction in enormous quantities, and for this reason,
if for no other, seems destined to take an increasingly important
part in the industrial development of the world.

Since cellulose is so common in nature, it is only natural that it
should have played an outstanding role in the history of mankind
from the time that early man took the first step out of savagery
by accidentally learning how to burn it, until, in the form of a

1 Reprinted by permission from the Journal of the Franklin Institute, vol. 217, no. 3,
March 1934. Presented at a meeting of the Franklin Institute held Thursday, Oct. 26,
1933.

169
170 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

“serap of paper” it was responsible for developments leading to
the Great War in 1914.

Civilization proper is generally considered to have begun with the
development of a system of writing, perhaps 10,000 years ago. For
this, cellulose can claim no credit, since early writings were on clay
and stone long before the advent of papyrus. However, when in
more recent years cellulose, as paper, became the silent bearer of the
written and later the printed word, it became the messenger of the
guiding forces of civilization. It is in this role that cellulose has
reached its highest significance, making possible many things which
had not been feasible before, through the easy and ready dissemina-
tion of information to great masses of people.

At about the same time that the manufacture of paper was being
introduced into Europe there were also other developments depend-
ent upon the use of cellulose which were of such outstanding im-
portance as to have changed the whole trend of civilization. It
was in the thirteenth century that Roger Bacon? first described
black powder, to which he gave the name “philosopher’s egg.”
How strikingly time has shown the aptness of this picturesque title
and what events of first importance have been hatched from it!
When used in guns, as it was in the fourteenth century, it put a new
power in the hands of the common people and changed the entire
social system. Truly did Bacon write, referring to his anagram in
which he gave the secret of gunpowder, “ Whoever will rewrite
this will have a key which opens and no man shuts; and when he
will shut, no man opens.” And an essential part of this “ key ” was
charred cellulose. Again the ready availability of cellulose con-
tributed its part to an epoch-making step in the advance of civiliza-
tion. Even today charcoal from willow and beech is preferred for
the manufacture of black powder.

It has been said that this particular period was a great period of
leveling; that gunpowder was a great leveling influence downward
for the mighty and that the printed page was a great leveling
influence upward for the lowly. At any rate paper has now come
into universal use throughout the civilized world. It may be only
to wrap a bundle or it may be to record a thesis which starts a
reformation. It may be to carry a love message or it may be to
announce a declaration of independence. It may be merely the kin-
dling which lights the fire on the hearth or it may be the scrap of
paper which starts a world conflagration.

To be sure, paper had been known in China for several hundred
years before the Christian era, but its use was not established in
Europe until about the twelfth or thirteenth century. The story is

2 Davis, Ind. and Eng. Chem., vol. 20, p. 772, 1928.
BEFORE PAPYRUS... BEYOND RAYON—ESSELEN 171

told that the Arabs were attacked by the Chinese in Samarkand about
the middle of the eighth century. The Arabs repulsed their enemies
and succeeded in capturing some of the Chinese who knew how to
make paper and from them learned the secret. The knowledge of
papermaking spread rapidly in Arabia as is evidenced by the fact that
there are many early Arabian manuscripts on paper still preserved to-
day, the earliest being dated A. D. 866. Trade with Asia seems to
have been responsible for bringing a knowledge of paper manufacture
to Greece at about the end of the eleventh century, and the Moors
established it in Spain in the middle of the twelfth. It gradually
spread to Italy, Germany, and France, so that by the year 1350 the
manufacture and use of paper was well established in Western Europe
and vellum was gradually superseded.

Today we have many grades and kinds of paper, but all are com-
posed mainly of cellulose, of degrees of purity which vary with the
particular kind of paper. At first all paper was made from cotton
or linen rags, but during the last century wood has become the chief
source of supply through the development of chemical methods for
separating the cellulose from the other constituents of wood. In 1932
in the United States alone there were consumed about 4,000,000 tons
of wood pulp which represents about 9,000,000 tons of wood. Of
this, a little more than half was of domestic production and the bal-
ance imported. The use of a natural resource at so rapid a rate has
naturally raised the question as to the steps which should be taken
to prevent exhaustion of the supply. To some, the answer seems to
be reforestation, while others prefer to rely on cutting trees only above
a certain size. By leaving the smaller trees in this way, it has been
demonstrated in several sections in the South that a 20-year crop
cycle is perfectly feasible. Many experts believe that if the cellulose
resources of the temperate zone should prove inadequate, the Tropics
could be relied upon for an adequate supply. Already the rapid-
growing bamboo of India is being converted into pulp, and studies
are being made of the pulp possibilities of varieties of African trees
which yield as much or more cellulose per acre per year.

Since cellulose forms the structural skeleton of all vegetable
growth, attention is also being focused on annual field crops as
possible sources of cellulose. Cornstalks were suggested for paper-
making well over 100 years ago, and chemically this has been pos-
sible for a long time. However, it is only within the last few years
that the economic problems of harvesting, collecting, and storage
have received the scientific study which is essential if these problems
are to be solved in such a way as to make the use of cornstalks eco-
nomically feasible. The sugarcane also has been the object of con-
siderable attention and many kinds of paper have been produced
172 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1934

from it. The application of scientific method in this case has demon-
strated in actual farm tests that the per-acre yield of sugarcane
can readily be increased fourfold to sixfold, and in special test plots
the yield has been raised to 20 or 30 times the usual average. _Even

can readily be increased fourfold to sixfold, and in special test. plots
the yield has been raised to 20 or 30 times the usual average. _Even

can readily be increased fourfold to sixfold, and in special test. plots
the yield has been raised to 20 or 30 times the usual average. _Even

can readily be increased fourfold to sixfold, and in special test. plots
the yield has been raised to 20 or 30 times the usual average. _Even

can readily be increased fourfold to sixfold, and in special test. plots
the yield has been raised to 20 or 30 times the usual average. _Even

can readily be increased fourfold to sixfold, and in special test. plots
the yield has been raised to 20 or 30 times the usual average. _Even

can readily be increased fourfold to sixfold, and in special test. plots
the yield has been raised to 20 or 30 times the usual average. _Even

can readily be increased fourfold to sixfold, and in special test. plots
the yield has been raised to 20 or 30 times the usual average. _Even

can readily be increased fourfold to sixfold, and in special test. plots
the yield has been raised to 20 or 30 times the usual average. _Even

can readily be increased fourfold to sixfold, and in special test. plots
the yield has been raised to 20 or 30 times the usual average. _Even

can readily be increased fourfold to sixfold, and in special test. plots
the yield has been raised to 20 or 30 times the usual average. _Even

can readily be increased fourfold to sixfold, and in special test. plots
the yield has been raised to 20 or 30 times the usual average. _Even

can readily be increased fourfold to sixfold, and in special test. plots
the yield has been raised to 20 or 30 times the usual average. _Even

can readily be increased fourfold to sixfold, and in special test. plots
the yield has been raised to 20 or 30 times the usual average. _Even

can readily be increased fourfold to sixfold, and in special test. plots
the yield has been raised to 20 or 30 times the usual average. _Even

can readily be increased fourfold to sixfold, and in special test. plots
the yield has been raised to 20 or 30 times the usual average. _Even

can readily be increased fourfold to sixfold, and in special test. plots
the yield has been raised to 20 or 30 times the usual average. _Even

can readily be increased fourfold to sixfold, and in special test. plots
the yield has been raised to 20 or 30 times the usual average. _Even

can readily be increased fourfold to sixfold, and in special test. plots
the yield has been raised to 20 or 30 times the usual averey Even

- a Aas - : — ~.
