ae H
ri Ba ian ae
ud yh a ’ aT g “4
> t / rs + x : . Bs '
d } < cial reer Pan f
ye . * &. 4 igh oe, P
a - te }) K be . ee '
$ (pe » $a ae hy Fi
4 : ‘
h a #
?

|

3

¥

7

gi pe

aby a, Ge yh a © < " haten ee ve iA , ny
Ptr pi ate yD Oy an We

'@ 7} i ye ae 8 t "a “ Jye ae q Yh py ‘ e F a < ase wi ie be M
ye ee, a ye we rye BD
wo ” hi he be. yb

( By: ip"
i 2) : &
a yy rs

f

‘Bs a,
ae" ae |
ig WW
# ¥ he
Mi i
iby pt
“ : ay
, : as
{! ye re
x 4.

a
4

aN

‘4
att
Bie
se.
ila
be
ee
4
eee
od
i
ee
an
5 ty eee ame | Ss
, Se gas
— : ego se
ey
=
Eo
a
Se
ai
st
er
nas
ee
SS.
ae
Ba
—
er = ..
6

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF REGENTS OF

THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION

SHOWING THE

OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND
CONDITION OF THE. INSTITUTION
FOR THE YEAR, ENDED JUNE 30

oun,

(Publication 3921)

UNITED STATES
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
WASHINGTON : 1948

For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U. S. Government Printing Office, Washington 25, D. C.
Price $2.00 (Buckram)
LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, February 13, 1948.

To the Congress of the United States:

In accordance with section 5593 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, I have the honor, in behalf of the Board of Regents,
to submit to Congress the annual report of the operations, expendi-
tures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year ended
June 30, 1947. I have the honor to be,

Respectfully,
A. Wermorge, Secretary.

II

CONTENTS

ion OMI GIMIS fe ee Sere Coane a ee ee os es ee a Se oe ee ee
‘iNG- Secs Nahment 252s. Seen aera ea ee cece doe eR coe
Pe POOATO Of IORCNtSe oo oat Sees en ee el ie. oe
Ja) 050 52) 0) 9 621" (0) 0) ape mm ap ah ed ade ea eee A ee a
BeNunsoniay Centennial... ole. Gee te ee ee eed Sue ta secl 2k 2S ee
PER RRA ed re eee ele Oe hg ane ee a deems eel ee a ee
Trust Funds’ employees included under Federal Retirement System______
DER ST i ree = eae I ee a eae Gap ste eee aa pe
Pmotographic Laboratory o2 2+ sok 22ers See ee pa cesta Se
iGines sine SQuUIpMment 2. 562 2a ee ee em lee
Appendix 1. Report on the United States National Museum____________
2. Report on the National Gallery of Art_....._____________-

3. Report on the National Collection of Fine Arts.__________-

4. Report on the Freer Gallery of Art.._-.......-__________-

5. Report on the Bureau of American Ethnology__-_________-

6. Report on the International Exchange Service_____________

7. Report on the National Zoological Park____________-----_--

8. Report on the Astrophysical Observatory.......-.------_-

9. Report on the National Air Museum___________-____-_--_-

10. Report on the Canal Zone Biological Area____.___.____-__-

ii% Report on the Rorarg. sea woe oe ei a ee
12.*Report on publications...24. 254002255225 eo ee eens

Report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents____________-

GENERAL APPENDIX

Large sunspots, by Seth B. Nicholson__________________---_--__-_____-
AtOMIC Puerey, OY As W.. JONNS oe. = 20k oan oe dace ee nc neocon ess
Telegraphy—pony express to beam radio, by George C. Hillis___________
Plutonium and other transuranium elements, by Glenn T. Seaborg______-
The use of isotopes as tracers, by A. H. W. Aten, Jr., and F. A. Heyn____
Silicones—a new continent in the world of chemistry, by S. L. Bass_____-
New products of the petroleum industry, by Hugh W. Field____________-
The tsunami of April 1, 1946, in the Hawaiian Islands, by G. A. Macdonald,

HOE | DME DAO YONG MO sCOR cars scene ee Le
Drowned ancient islands of the Pacific basin, by H. H. Hess___________-
The biology of Bikini Atoll, with special reference to the fishes, by Leonard

The senses of bats, by Brian Vesey-FitzGerald____.________-__-__----_--
Mollusks and medicine in World War II, by R. Tucker Abbott_________-

a")
r)
0g
ry

SMANAODANN 4
IV CONTENTS

Page
Some remarks on the influence of insects on human welfare, by Carl D.

Tun Canis sates Leek eA Oe SEI a Pann eS ce ae cl Ue 339
Mosquito control tests from the Arctic to the Tropics, by H. H. Stage--_ 349
The primary centers of civilization, by John R. Swanton___-_-_-_--__-_- 367
The Ryukyu people: A cultural appraisal, by Marshall T. Newman and

Ransom Wh. Wingo) oe Gare 2 2 eran pee ayy 282 Tee ee 379
Puzzie.in Panama, by Waldo G. Bowman 422 22. )22 0 eee ee ee 407
Comparison of propeller and reaction-propelled airplane performances, by

Bensonye amlin ame PRS CM COL] yee ea aaa eas a ee a 429

LIST OF PLATES

Secretary’s report:

Plates i 2a cee cere eee ete ne = ee Se eee Seen ne ed ee ee ae 46

LRU iy ph tees ee a ti eS Te Sa PAR Une 92
largesunspots (Nicholson) "Plates (i, 25> is sass ye ee ee eee ee 176
elegraphy ;(aillis) sce lates Sit 2 ee ct ee Sie ee ae ee ee 206
Plutonium and other transuranium elements (Seaborg): Plate 1_________ 216
Isotopes as tracers (Aten and Heyn): Plate 1_....-.-__-.____-___--__- 228
Silicones; (Bass)t Plates 1-3 ate rae ses ere ara ere eens BE 230
Tsunami of April 1, 1946 (Macdonald, Shepard, and Cox): Plates 1-6_.___ 280
Biology of Bikini Atoll (Schultz):

LEAR PU ean ieee ed Ree IBA elton = pila A Ais SLs Wasa hho ee La 301

ea Fey roi 07 oly fl ip a ie ica a En and) Dae add LBD pee rns bade AEA ea A Cy SR Re 310
Senses of bats (Vesey-FitzGerald): Plates 1-4________.-___-__--__--_--- 318
Mollusks and medicine in World War II (Abbott): Plates 1-3___________ 334
Mosquito control tests (Stage): Plates 1-8__..___...-._------_-------- 366
The Ryukyu people (Newman and Eng.): Plates 1-5_._____-_--------- 406

Puzzlein banams (Bowman): plates Sm e cae et ene ne eee 414
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

June 30, 1947

Presiding Officer ex officio.—Harry S. TRUMAN, President of the United States.
Chancellor.—F RED M. VINSON, Chief Justice of the United States.
Members of the Institution:
Harry S. TRUMAN, President of the United States.
Vice President of the United States.
Frep M. VINSON, Chief Justice of the United States.
GrorGE C. MARSHALL, Secretary of State.
JOHN W. SNyper, Secretary of the Treasury.
RoBERT P, PATTERSON, Secretary of War.
Tom C. CLARK, Attorney General.
Rovert E. HANNEGAN, Postmaster General.
JAMES FORRESTAL, Secretary of the Navy.
Juuius A. Kruea, Secretary of the Interior.
CLINTON P. ANDERSON, Secretary of Agriculture.
WILLIAM AVERELL HARRIMAN, Secretary of Commerce.
Lewis B. SCHWELLENBACH, Secretary of Labor.
Regents of the Institution:
Frep M. Vinson, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor.
Vice President of the United States.
ALBEN W. BARKLEY, Member of the Senate.
WALLACE H. WHITE, Jr., Member of the Senate.
WALTER F’. GEorGE, Member of the Senate.
CLARENCE CANNON, Member of the House of Representatives.
SAMUEL K. McConneELL, Jr., Member of the House of Representatives.
JOHN M. Vorys, Member of the House of Representatives.
FrepErIC A, DELANO, citizen of Washington, D. C.
Harvey N. Davis, citizen of New Jersey.
ARTHUR H. Compton, citizen of Missouri.
VANNEVAR BusH, citizen of Washington, D. C.
FREDERIC C. WALCOTT, citizen of Connecticut.
Executive Committee.—FREDERIC A. DELANO, VANNEVAR BUSH, CLARENCE CANNON.
Secretary.— ALEXANDER WETMORE.
Assistant Secretary.—JOHN E. GRAF.
Assistant Secretary.—J. L. Keppy.
Administrative assistant to the Secretary.—Harry W. Dorsey.
Treasurer.—NICHoLAs W. DorSEY.
Chief, editorial division —WEBSTtER P. TRUE.
Librarian.—LeEILa F, CLARK.
Administrative accountant.—THOMAS F. CLARK,
Personnel officer.—BeERTHA T. CARWITHEN.
Chief, publications division.—L. BE. COMMERFORD.
Purchasing officer —ANTHONY W. WILDING.

vi ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM
Director.—ALEXANDER WETMORE.
SCIENTIFIC STAFF

DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY :
Frank M. Setzler, head curator; A. J. Andrews, chief preparator.

Division of Archeology: Neil M. Judd, curator; Waldo R. Wedel, associate
curator; J. R. Caldwell, scientific aid; J. Townsend Russell, honorary
assistant curator of Old World archeology.

Division of Ethnology: H. W. Krieger, curator; J. C. Ewers, associate cura-
tor; R. A. Elder, Jr., assistant curator; Arthur P. Rice, collaborator.

Division of Physical Anthropology: T. Dale Stewart, curator; M. T. New-
man, associate curator.

Collaborators in anthropology: George Grant MacCurdy, W. W. Tay-
lor, Jr.
DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY:
Waldo L. Schmitt, head curator; W. L. Brown, chief taxidermist; Aime
M. Awl, illustrator.

Division of Mammals: Remington Kellogg, curator; D. H. Johnson, asso-
ciate curator; A. Brazier Howell, collaborator; Gerrit S. Miller, Jr., as-
sociate.

Division of Birds: Herbert Friedmann, curator; H. G. Deignan, associate
curator; Alexander Wetmore, custodian of alcoholic and skeleton collec-
tions; Arthur C. Bent, collaborator.

Division of Reptiles and Batrachians: Doris M. Cochran, associate curator.

Division of Fishes: Leonard P. Schultz, curator; R. R. Miller, associate
curator; D. S. Erdman, scientifie aid.

Division of Insects: L. O. Howard, honorary curator; Edward A. Chapin,
curator; R. E. Blackwelder, associate curator; W. E. Hoffmann, asso-
ciate curator; W. L. Jellison, collaborator.

Section of Hymenoptera: S. A. Rohwer, custodian; W. M. Mann, assist-
ant custodian ; Robert A. Cushman, assistant custodian.

Section of Myriapoda: O. F. Cook, custodian.

Section of Diptera: Charles T. Greene, assistant custodian.

Section of Coleoptera: L. L. Buchanan, specialist for Casey collection.

Section of Lepidoptera: J. T. Barnes, collaborator.

Section of Forest Tree Beetles: A. D. Hopkins, custodian.

Division of Marine Invertebrates: F. A. Chace, Jr., curator; P. L. Illg, asso-
ciate curator; Frederick M. Bayer, assistant curator; Mrs. Harriet Rich-
ardson Searle, collaborator; Max M. Ellis, collaborator; J. Percy Moore,
collaborator; Joseph A. Cushman, collaborator in Foraminifera; Mrs.
M. S. Wilson, collaborator in copepod Crustacea.

Division of Mollusks: Harald A. Rehder, curator; Joseph P. E. Morrison,
associate curator; R. Tucker Abbott, assistant curator; P. Bartsch,
associate.

Section of Helminthological Collections: Benjamin Schwartz, collabo-
rator.

Division of Echinoderms: Austin H. Clark, curator.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY vii

DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGy—Continued

Division of Plants (National Herbarium): BH. P. Killip, curator; Emery C.
Leonard, associate curator; Conrad V. Morton, associate curator; Egbert
H. Walker, associate curator; John A. Stevenson, custodian of C. G. Lloyd
mycological collection ; Agnes Chase, research associate.

Section of Grasses: J. R. Swailen, associate curator.

Section of Cryptogamic Collections: O. F. Cook, assistant curator.
Section of Higher Algae; W. T. Swingle, custodian.

Section of Lower Fungi: D. G. Fairchild, custodian.

Section of Diatoms: Paul S. Conger, associate curator.

Associates in Zoology: Theodore S. Palmer, William B. Marshall, A. G.
Boving, W. K. Fisher, C. R. Shoemaker.

Associates in Botany: Henri Pittier, F. A. McClure, W. R. Maxon.

Collaborator in Zoology: Robert Sterling Clark.

Collaborators in Biology: A. K. Fisher, David C. Graham.

DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY:
R. 8. Bassler, head curator; J. H. Benn, exhibits preparator; Jessie G.
Beach, aid.

Division of Mineralogy and Petrology: W. F. Foshag, curator; E. P. Hender-
son, associate curator; B. O. Reberholt, exhibits preparator ; Frank L. Hess,
custodian of rare metals and rare earths.

Division of Invertebrate Paleontology and Paleobotany: Gustav A. Cooper,
curator; A. R. Loeblich, Jr., associate curator; J. Brookes Knight, research
associate in Paleontology.

Section of Invertebrate Palenotology: T. W. Stanton, custodian of
Mesozoic collection ; J. B. Reeside, Jr., custodian of Mesozoic collection.

Division of Vertebrate Paleontology: C. L. Gazin, curator; D. H. Dunkle, as-
sociate curator; Norman H. Boss, chief exhibits preparator; A. C. Murray,
scientific aid; F. L. Pearce, preparator.

Associates in Mineralogy: W. T. Schaller, S. H. Perry.

Associate in Paleonotology: T. W. Vaughan.

Associate in Petrology: Whitman Cross.

DEPARTMENT OF ENGINEERING AND INDUSTRIES:
Carl W. Mitman, head curator.

Division of Engineering: Frank A. Taylor, curator; K. M. Perry, exhibits
preparator.

Section of Civil and Mechanical Engineering: Frank A. Taylor, in
charge.

Section of Marine Transportation: Frank A. Taylor, in charge.

Section of Electricity: Frank A. Taylor, in charge.

Section of Physical Sciences and Measurement: Frank A. Taylor, in
charge.

Section of Land Transportation: S. H. Oliver, associate curator.

Division of Aeronautics: P. HB. Garber, curator.

Division of Crafts and Industries: W. N. Watkins, curator; F. C. Reed,
associate curator; E. A. Avery, museum aid; F. L. Lewton, research
associate.

Section of Textiles: M. M. Windhorst, assistant curator.

Section of Wood Technology : William N. Watkins, in charge,

Section of Manufactures: F. C. Reed, in charge.

Section of Agricultural Industries: F. C. Reed, in charge.
Division of Medicine and Public Health: Charles Whitebread, curator.
Division of Graphic Arts: J. Kainen, curator; BE. J. Fite, museum aid.

Section of Photography: A. J. Wedderburn, Jr., associate curator,
Vill ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

DIvISsION or History: T. T. Belote, curator; Charles Carey, associate curator;
M. W. Brown, assistant curator; J. Russell Sirlouis, scientific aid.
Section of Civil History: T. T. Belote, in charge.
Section of Military History: C. Carey, in charge.
Section of Naval History: C. Carey, in charge.
Section of Numismatics: T. T, Belote, in charge.
Section of Philately: C. L. Manning, assistant curator.

ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF

Chief, office of correspondence and records.—H. S. BRYANT.
Superintendent of buildings and labor.—L. L. OLIVER.

Assistant superintendent of buildings and labor.—CHARLES C. SINCLAIR.
Hditor—PavL H. OEHBER.

Accountant and auditor.—T. F. CLARK.

Photographer.—G. I. HIGHTOWER.

Purchasing officer.—A. W. WILDING.

Assistant librarian.—ELISABETH H. GAZIN.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART
Trustees:
Frep M. Vinson, Chief Justice of the United States, Chairman.
GEORGE C. MARSHALL, Secretary of State.
JOHN W. SNYDER, Secretary of the Treasury.
ALEXANDER WETMORE, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
SAMUEL H. KReEss.
FERDINAND LAMMOT BELIN.
DUNCAN PHILLIPS.
CHESTER DALE.
PauL MELLon.
President.—SAaMUEL H. KRxEss.
Vice President.—FERDINAND LAMMOT BELIN.
Secretary-Treasurer.—HUNTINGTON CAIRNS.
Director.—Davip HE. FINLery.
Administrator.—Harry A. McBrinpe.
General Counsel.—HUNTINGTON CAIRNS.
Chief Ourator.—JOHN WALKER.
Assistant Director.—MAcGIL. JAMES.

NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS

Director.—RvEL P. ToLMAn; G. J. MARTIN, exhibits preparator.

FREER GALLERY OF ART
Director.—A. G. WENLEY.
Assistant Director.—J. A. Popr.
Research Associate.—Grace DUNHAM GUEST.
Associate in Near Eastern art.—RicHARkD ETTINGHAUSEN.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

Chief.—MatTTHEW W. STIRLING.

Associate Chief—F8ANK H. H. Roperts, Jr.

Senior ethnologists.—H. B. Cotirys, Jr., JOHN P,. HARRINGTON, W. N. FENTON.
Senior anthropologists.—G. R. WiLLEY ; P. DRUCKER.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY ix

Coliaborator.—JoHN R. SWANTON.

Editor.—M. HErLrEN PALMER.

Librarian.—Mir1aM B. KETCHUM.

Illustrator.—EpWIN G. CASSEDY.

INSTITUTE OF SocIAL ANTHROPOLOGY.—G. M. Foster. Jr., Director.

RivER BASIN SURVEYS.—F RANK H. H. Roperts, Jr., Director in charge.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE

Acting Chief.—HARRrY W. DORSEY.
Chief Clerk.—D. G. WILLIAMS.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Director.—WILLIAM M. MANN.
Assistant Director.—ERNEST P. WALKER.
Head Keeper.—F Rank O. LOWE.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Director.—LoyaL B. ALDRICH.

DIVISION or ASTROPHYSICAL RESEARCH: Loyal B. Aldrich, chief; William H.
Hoover, senior astrophysicist ; Charles G. Abbot, research associate.

DIVISION OF RADIATION AND ORGANISMS: Earl S. Johnston, chief; Leland B.
Clark, engineer (precision instruments); Robert L. Weintraub, chemist
(biological) ; Leonard Price, junior physicist (biophysics); G. D. Talbert,
instrument maker.

NATIONAL AIR MUSEUM

Advisory Board:

ALEXANDER WETMORE, Chairman,

Mags. GEN. E. M. Powers, U. S. Army Air Forces.
Rear ApM. A, M. Prive, U. S. Navy.

GROVER LOENING.

WILLIAM B. Srovur.

CANAL ZONE BIOLOGICAL AREA

Resident Manager.—J AMES ZETEK.
big

rey
Way eae

| ww te ali a Suhth siombe * ree i cotaiat enmrersoureld a
Ri Cavite Abatigace ae hah i) antvndl ; SMaita eet Hohinevn
. pis Wodecg TS Ree Seely 2, Nei NR koh CAA COIR AL

ralionds, {gh wake vi ek tadeh sf, Caseute teh, vend folalontey). ,

‘ te oie gah ie ialeutd rotaut fash yinae

he parm ik stanort i
pan “4h hive ine hie ‘RHE
Meee ets Taina ) s -

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

ALEXANDER WETMORE
FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1947

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

GrenTLEMEN : I have the honor to submit herewith my report showing
the activities and condition of the Smithsonian Institution and its
bureaus during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1947. Appendixes 1 to
12 give detailed reports of the operations of the National Museum, the
National Gallery of Art, the National Collection of Fine Arts, the
Freer Gallery of Art, the Bureau of American Ethnology, the Inter-
national Exchanges, the National Zoological Park, the Astrophysical
Observatory, the National Air Museum, the Canal Zone Biological
Area, the Smithsonian library, and of the publications issued under
the direction of the Institution. On page 162 is the financial report of
the executive committee of the Board of Regents.

The purpose of the Institution, as stated in the will of its founder,
is “the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men.” The in-
crease of knowledge is accomplished by means of scientific research
and exploration, the diffusion of knowledge by its several series of
publications, its International Exchange Service, its museum and art
gallery exhibits, and various other means. As the Institution oper-
ates chiefly through the bureaus that have grown up around it as a
result of its early work, the year’s research and exploration will be
found recorded in the reports of those bureaus, particularly the Na-
tional Museum, the Bureau of American Ethnology, and the Astro-
physical Observatory. A complete account of the year’s publications
appears in the report of the chief of the editorial division, appendix 12.

The fiscal year here reported upon is the first in the Institution’s
second century of existence. At the beginning of a new era, it is
gratifying to report that a large part of the normal research and field
work that had to be suspended during the war is now being resumed
and, in certain lines, expanded. This is the first annual account in
which appear reports on the newly established National Air Museum
and on the Canal Zone Biological Area, recently placed under the In-
stitution’s administration. The number of visitors to the National
Museum, the Freer Gallery of Art, and the National Zoological Park

1
2 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

is back to prewar levels, as is the number of accessions to the Museum
collections. The International Exchange Service has made large
inroads into the great accumulation of material for foreign exchange
that built up during the war years, and the service will soon be again
on a wholly current basis.

The two greatest needs of the Institution as stated in my last report
are for more personnel and more building space. New buildings must,
of course, await more propitious economic conditions, but plans are
already outlined and the future outlook is hopeful. Strong presenta-
tions of the personnel shortage, particularly in scientific positions, are
being made to the Bureau of the Budget and to Congress, with promise
of relief in this direction also.

THE ESTABLISHMENT

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in 1846,
according to the terms of the will of James Smithson, of England, who
in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United States of America “to
found at Washington, under the name of the Smithsonian Institution,
an establishment for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among
men.” In receiving the property and accepting the trust, Congress
determined that the Federal Government was without authority to ad-
minister the trust directly, and, therefore, constituted an “establish-
ment” whose statutory members are “the President, the Vice President,
the Chief Justice, and the heads of the executive departments.”

THE BOARD OF REGENTS

During the year the following changes occurred in the personnel
of the Board of Regents:

January 17, 1947: Chief Justice Vinson was elected Chancellor of
the Institution.

January 27, 1947: Representative John M. Vorys, of Ohio, was
appointed to finish the unexpired term of Representative B. Carroll
Reece.

January 27, 1947: Representative Samuel K. McConnell, Jr., of
Pennsylvania, was appointed to finish the unexpired term of Repre-
sentative E. E. Cox.

The roll of regents at the close of the fiscal year June 30, 1947, was
as follows:

Chief Justice Fred M. Vinson, Chancellor; members from the Senate,
Alben W. Barkley, Wallace H. White, Jr., Walter F. George; mem-
bers from the House of Representatives, Clarence Cannon, John M.
Vorys, Samuel K. McConnell, Jr. ; citizen members, Frederic A. Delano,
Washington, D. C., Harvey N. Davis, New Jersey, Arthur H. Comp-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 3

ton, Missouri, Vannevar Bush, Washington, D. C., and Frederic C.
Walcott, Connecticut.

Proceedings.—The Board of Regents held its annual meeting on
January 17, 1947, with the following members present : Senator Walter
F. George, Representative Clarence Cannon, Dr. Vannevar Bush, Dr.
Arthur H. Compton, Dr. Harvey N. Davis, Frederic A. Delano, the
Secretary, Dr. Alexander Wetmore, and the Assistant Secretary, John
E. Graf.

The Secretary presented his annual report covering the activities
of the parent institution and of its several branches, including the
financial report of the Executive Committee, for the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1946, which was accepted by the Board. The usual resolution
authorizing the expenditure by the Secretary of the income of the
Institution for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1948, was adopted by
the Board.

The gift of Miss Annie-May Hegeman was mentioned last year
as amounting in total to $300,000, being one-half the amount from
the sale of the Porter property at the corner of Sixteenth and Eye
Streets NW. The Library Trust Fund Board of the Library of Con-
gress, which handled this matter, during the year forwarded a check
for $275,000 on this account, approximately $25,000 being held tempo-
rarily, pending settlement of claim for sales commission on the part
of real-estate brokers.

John A. Roebling made a generous gift to the Institution in further
support of the work of the Astrophysical Observatory.

On August 12, 1946, President Truman signed the act (Public Law
722) establishing the National Air Museum under the Smithsonian
Institution. Under this act there is set up an advisory board com-
posed of the Commanding General of the Army Air Forces, the Chief
of Naval Operations, the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution,
and two citizens appointed by the President. General Spaatz, Chief
of the Army Air Forces, has designated Maj. Gen. Edward M. Powers
to represent him; Admiral Nimitz, Chief of Naval Operations, desig-
nated Rear Adm. H. B. Sallada; and the President, early in December,
appointed Grover Loening and William B. Stout, both well known for
their work in aviation, as the citizen members of the board. Subse-
quently, Admiral Nimitz assigned Rear Adm. Sallada to other duties
and designated Rear Adm. A. M. Pride to represent him on the board.

The first meeting of the Advisory Board was held December 16,
1946, at which the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution was elected
Chairman. Discussions covered the scope, probable size, and location
of the Museum. It was the opinion that these could be determined
only after a complete survey of material of value for the Museum.
The Chairman was instructed to prepare estimates for the $50,000
4. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

authorized by the act for a survey, this to cover the latter part of the
fiscal year 1947, and the year 1948, and to include travel funds and
necessary assistance. In view of the great growth in aviation the new
agency is one of major importance for preservation of historical ma-
terial in aeronautics, both for public display and for study and exam-
ination by engineers and students of aerodynamics.

Under Reorganization Plan No. 3 of 1946, which became effective
July 16, 1946, the President placed under the direction of the Smith-
sonian Institution the biological laboratory known as the Canal Zone
Biological Area located in the Canal Zone, Panama. When Gatun
Lake was formed during construction of the Panama Canal, the im-
pounded waters flowed around hills that stood in the valley, changing
certain of them to islands. One of these, which became known as
Barro Colorado Island, was notable for its fine stand of primitive
tropical forest, and for the animal life confined on it by the waters
of the lake. On April 17, 1923, Gov. Jay J. Morrow of the Canal
Zone set aside Barro Colorado Island as a reserve, and on it there was
established a field laboratory at which investigators might live and
work on scientific problems concerned with a tropical jungle. This
laboratory has been supported by small contributions from various
agencies, including Harvard College, the University of Michigan, the
Smithsonian Institution, and various others.

So much valuable scientific work came from this laboratory that the
Congress set it aside permanently as a reserve under the name Canal
Zone Biological Area, in an act effective July 2, 1940, as an independ-
ent agency under a Board of Directors composed of the Secretaries of
War, Agriculture, Interior, and the Smithsonian Institution, the
President of the National Academy of Sciences, and three distin-
guished biologists appointed by the President of the National Academy
as Chairman of the Board. In the process of unification of govern-
mental agencies, the Canal Zone Biological Area has now become a
part of the Smithsonian, where it will be administered under the office
of the Secretary. The reorganization plan abolished the former Board
as the controlling body, but it has seemed desirable to continue this
as an advisory board composed of representatives of the departments
originally concerned, to secure desired support and cooperation for
the activity.

Barro Colorado Island has been the site of a wide variety of studies
and tests under tropical conditions. Those under way at the present
time include an extensive set-up for testing termite-proofing of wood
samples, tropical deterioration of plywoods, textiles, and packaging
containers, and the effect of fungi on optical glass. Biologists come
regularly to the island to make studies of the fauna and flora. Some
400 publications have been issued on research carried on here in the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 5

fields of entomology, forestry, and medicine, with special reference to
the control of termites, fruit flies, and mosquitoes.

The annual report of the Smithsonian Art Commission was pre-
sented by the Secretary and accepted by the Board. The Commis-
sion, at its meeting on December 6, 1946, accepted several works of
art, including 23 miniatures. A resolution was adopted to reelect
the following members for 4-year terms: John Taylor Arms, Gifford
Beal, and Gilmore D. Clarke. Vacancies on the commission were
caused by the resignations of Louis Ayres and Frank J. Mather. The
names of William T. Aldrich and Lloyd Goodrich, recommended by
the Commission, were approved to fill the above vacancies. The fol-
lowing officers were reelected for the ensuing year: Chairman, Paul
Manship; Secretary, Alexander Wetmore.

The bill that was introduced in the House of Representatives (H. R.
2015 and H. Res. 139, 78th Cong., 2d sess.) for the relief of the estate
of John Gellatly and/or Charleyne Whiteley Gellatly, his widow, was
referred by the House, mentioned above as House Resolution 139, to
the Court of Claims to ascertain the facts and make recommendations.
The Court of Claims in an opinion dated May 5, 1947, stated that “there
is no basis in law or in equity to set aside the gift or transfer and no
basis in law or equity to allow a recovery in behalf of the Gellatly
estate.”

The Secretary brought to the attention of the Board the proposition
to request the Civil Service Commission to extend the provisions of
the Federal Classification Act to Smithsonian employees paid from
trust funds. This proposal was approved by the Board under certain
conditions.

APPROPRIATIONS

Funds appropriated to the Institution for the fiscal year ended
June 380, 1947, totaled $1,632,912, allotted as follows:

General’administration:= ys. Sk 2ee8 bebe REN $88, 366
Nationally Museum. 222 $ret tiple fey tk eee ot ae 530, 068
Bureau of American Bthnology:#.- 2... ee eels 76, 366
Astrophysical, Observatory 22 6 2) tt 67, 596
National: Collection of, Fine: Arts. .=-==-- 22-2 24, 264
International Exchange Service_____--_-_-___-_____--__ 55, 632
Maintenance*andcoperation=—=2~.- 5-25 ee eee 632, 377
Serviceldivisions. L225. 4e Se ee ee er i eee Te 154, T49
Wnobhivated Sasi Aw ae ee Dee oe See a esa 3, 494

FR Cae sn Eile wae ee eee soe, Shee 2 oe ES A SZ 1, 632, 912

In addition, $883,920 was appropriated to the National Gallery of
Art, a bureau of the Institution but administered by a separate board of
trustees; and $432,500 was provided in the District of Columbia ap-
propriation bill for the operation of the National Zoological Park.
6 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

Besides these direct appropriations, the Institution received funds
by transfer from other Federal agencies, as follows:

From the State Department, from the appropriation, Cooperation
with the American Republics, 1947, a total of $139,589 for the follow-
ing purposes: Operation of the Institute of Social Anthropology, in-
cluding the issuance of publications resulting from its work; publica-
tion of a Spanish edition of Compendium and Description of the West
Indies, by Antonio Vazquez de Espinosa; and assistance in the pub-
lication of the Handbook of South American Indians.

From the Navy Department, $12,920 for scientific work in the Bikini
area In connection with Operation Crossroads.

From the National Park Service, Interior Department, $91,500 for
archeological projects in connection with River Basin Surveys. Of
this total, $64,500 was originally transferred to the Park Service by
the Bureau of Reclamation, and $37,000 by the Corps of Engineers,
U.S. Army.

SMITHSONIAN CENTENNIAL

In my last annual report I reviewed rather fully the features that
marked the Institution’s one-hundredth anniversary on August 10,
1946. These included a commemorative Smithsonian postage stamp;
an illustrated publication entitled “The First Hundred Years of the
Smithsonian Institution”; a convocation and reception at the Insti-
tution on October 23, 1946, to mark the occasion in a more formal
manner; a public statement released to the press by President Harry
S. Truman, who is ex-officio Presiding Officer of the Institution; and
a Smithsonian Centennial issue of the journals, Science and The Scien-
tific Monthly. In addition, many leading magazines and newspapers
carried full accounts of the Institution’s history and achievements, and
this type of public notice of the Centennial continued well into the
fiscal year 1947.

It has been particularly gratifying to the officials of the Institution
to receive on the occasion of the Centennial so many letters of con-
gratulation from distinguished scientists and educators in this country
and abroad. It is satisfying to feel that there is a general recognition
of the Institution’s earnest efforts to carry out its founder’s stipula-
tion for “the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men,” and
such recognition tends to stimulate greater zeal in furthering James
Smithson’s purpose.

FINANCES
A statement on finances, dealing particularly with Smithsonian

private funds, will be found in the report of the executive committee
of the Board of Regents, page 162.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 7

TRUST FUNDS’ EMPLOYEES INCLUDED UNDER FEDERAL RETIREMENT
SYSTEM

For many years employees of the Institution have been divided into
two categories: The first, and by far the larger group, consists of
civil-service employees paid from Federal appropriations; the second,
now numbering some 35 employees, consists of employees paid wholly
or in part from Smithsonian trust funds. The first group, of course,
has been covered by the Federal Retirement System; the second group
had up to 1939 no provision whatever for retirement. On July 1,
1939, the Smithsonian Retirement System was put into effect to pro-
vide retirement benefits for those employees paid from trust funds, but
the number of members was so small that the system was unable to
offer anything like as liberal benefits as the Federal System as
amended in 1942.

During the fiscal year 1947, the Civil Service Commission took under
advisement the inclusion of trust funds’ employees under the Federal
System, and pending a decision, the Board of Regents of the Institu-
tion at its annual meeting on January 17, 1947, passed the following
resolution :

Resolved, That the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution do hereby
consent to the officers and members of the Smithsonian Institution paid from
trust funds accepting the benefits and privileges of the Federal Retirement Sys-
tem, aS well as assuming the obligations and duties legally applicable to them
under that system as presently constituted; Provided further,

That the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution does not consent
to the application of the Federal civil-service laws, nor the Federal Classification
Act of 1923, as amended, to such officers and members paid from trust funds, nor
to the application of any other laws which would in any way contravene the act
of Hstablishment of the Smithsonian Institution approved on August 10, 1846,
with amendments thereto.

Resolved, That the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, if and when officers
and members of the Smithsonian Institution paid from trust funds are placed
under the Federal Retirement System, approve in principle the use of the funds
now held in the Smithsonian Retirement Fund for the benefit of the employees in
question, to secure for said employees the maximum protection under the Federal
Retirement Act to which their length of service in the Smithsonian Institution,
respectively, entitles them; and that the Secretary be authorized to work out
. the necessary plans to carry this into effect, with the approval of the executive
committee, to which is given full power to act in this matter.

A decision was reached by the Commission on May 16, and on May
22 I sent the following memorandum to the members of the Smith-
sonian Retirement System:

The Civil Service Commission has decided under date of May 16, 1947, that
Smithsonian employees paid from trust funds of the Institution are eligible for
inclusion under the Federal Retirement System. In accordance with the ap-

proval of the Board of Regents, the Smithsonian Retirement System is therefore
abolished, effective at the close of business May 17, 1947, except insofar as it

TT7488—48——_2
8 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

affects payments to members in annuity status on that date, which payments
will be continued by the Institution as provided by the Smithsonian Retirement
System.

Beginning May 18, 1947, retirement deductions from the pay of the Smith-
sonian employees in question will be made at the rate of 5 percent (the rate of
the Federal Retirement System) instead of 3.5 percent (the rate of the former
Smithsonian Retirement System).

Adjustment for back time on behalf of the individual members of the Smith-
sonian Retirement System will be determined with the approval of the executive
committee, as provided by resolution adopted by the Board of Regents on January
17, 1947.

On June 30, the last day of the fiscal year 1947, I submitted to the
executive committee of the Board of Regents a detailed recommenda-
tion regarding the conversion to the Federal Retirement System, so
that final action on adjustment for previous service will be deferred
until the next fiscal year. However, all employees of the Institution
are now on the same footing as to retirement benefits, thus remedying

a situation of long standing.
VISITORS

An increase of 237,784 visitors to the Smithsonian buildings was
recorded over the previous year, the totals being 2,353,377 for 1947
and 2,115,593 for 1946. August 1946 was the month of largest at-
tendance, with 318,325 visitors; April 1947, the second largest with
298,724. A summary of attendance records is given in table 1:

TABLE 1.— Visitors to the Smithsonian buildings during the year ended June 80, 1947

: Arts and Natural Freer
Seated Industries | History | Aircraft Gallery Total
Bldg. Bldg. g of Art
1946
Tuliyicd Sua oe Boa eale | Unpdes @ 61, 955 118, 106 64, 553 21, 964 10, 504 267, 082
AUIZUSGe see ere ee ee ei 62, 254 137, 857 81, 674 24, 005 12, 535 318, 325
September! hie: Be eh 45, 152 93, 356 55, 256 18, 525 9, 339 221, 628
October 3 ah ee ee 32, 052 63, 843 49, 016 13, 428 8, 939 167, 278
INO Vem Der saat nee Shae 28, 538 58, 667 42, 804 13, 054 7, 961 151, 024
December tsi a a 20, 292 34, 640 28, 335 8, 331 5, 865 97, 463
1947
Tantiany: shea oe 18, 492 34, 019 34, 553 8, 919 4,121 100, 104
Mebruaryos. ah dasa yori 16, 285 33, 240 28, 329 7, 876 4, 053 89, 783
ATCH: ocres aad ce ey 20, 037 47,114 37, 797 11, 336 7, 003 123, 287
EG 0) pA |g ae Miia lo a it Dae 55, 236 127, 665 76, 488 23, 541 15, 794 298, 724
Miatyer ah sr Reena awe ae 42, 372 111, 480 68, 480 19, 318 11, 625 253, 275
PT 0s ep oe on ey rs TL AU 47, 292 116, 179 70, 632 21, 803 9, 498 265, 404
PA OY a da te SE SN 439, 957 976, 166 1 637, 917 192, 100 107, 237 2, 353, 377

1 Not including 13,943 persons attending meetings after 4:30 p. m.

PHOTOGRAPHIC LABORATORY

In connection with the research and exploration of the Institution,
there is involved a large amount of photographic work which is han-
dled for the Institution and its branches by the Photographic Labora-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 9

tory, located in the Arts and Industries Building of the National
Museum. To show the quantity of work produced I will give a few
statistics: Negatives made, 2,449; prints, 14,521; enlargements, 2,082;
lantern slides, 264; cloth mounts, 174; also a smaller number of other
types of work involving photographic processes.

In addition to the routine operations of the laboratory, the staff
spent considerable time in assisting scientists of the Institution in ob-
taining photographic illustrations for their publications, as well as in
aiding representatives of other governmental agencies and private
individuals in their search for needed photographs.

The photographer in charge served as the Institution’s representa-
tive on the photograph supplies committee, Federal Specifications
Board. He attended monthly board meetings and conducted special
investigations for various subcommittees of the Board. While rep-
resenting the Institution at the annual convention of the Photogra-
phers’ Association of America in Chicago, the photographer in charge
visited the Chicago Natural History Museum in the search for im-
proved methods of photographing art objects, silverware, and glass-
ware.

The greatest needs of the laboratory are a complete catalog of file
prints, so that the large and valuable collection of negatives would be
more readily accessible to the Institution’s staff as well as to the gen-
eral public; certain items of modern photographic equipment; and the
fitting up of a room to be devoted to color photography.

BUILDINGS AND EQUIPMENT

Repairs and alterations—Among important projects in connection
with the several buildings, the following were completed during the
year:

Smithsonian Building: The metal finials on top of the northeast and
southeast towers were removed and new copper finials were installed;
removal of the wooden louvres on four sides of the flag tower (begun
in 1946) was completed and new copper louvres were installed in their
place; the rooms formerly occupied by the property clerk were dis-
mantled and converted into additional space for the accounting office.

Arts and Industries Building: Provision was made for office rooms
for the National Air Museum by partitioning off room 30, formerly
occupied by the division of engineering; major alterations and repairs
were made in the southwest and west south ranges to provide exhibit
areas for the section of manufactures and the section of aeronautics
(now the National Air Museum) ; a photographic dark room was con-
structed in the section of photography; the coin hall ceiling and walls
were repaired and repainted and all exhibit cases were revarnished.
10 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

Natural History Building: All alcoves in the foyer, where all
special exhibitions are held, were re-covered with monks cloth and
all exposed woodwork repainted; to provide storage and working
space for the coral collection, a section of the second floor at the
northwest corner was remodeled, including changing partition walls,
erection of a gallery, and painting of walls, ceiling, and storage
cases.

Freer Gallery of Art: The photographic studio and dark room
were constructed by remodeling a section of one of the existing stor-
age rooms.

Heat, light, and power.—HElectric current used during the year
amounted to 1,664,710 kilowatt-hours. This figure represents an
increase of 120,571 kilowatt-hours over 1946 despite the “brown-
out” during the period November 23 to December 9, 1946, for the
purpose of conserving coal during the miners’ strike. However,
this increase is not considered excessive because additional fixtures
were added and other improvements were made during the year.

Steam consumption was held to the absolute minimum require-
ments during the year, and despite the fact that heating temperatures
were reduced 5° twice each day during the period November 23 to
December 9, 1946, steam consumption increased 1,502,900 pounds
over 1946. This increase was due to lower outside temperatures dur-
ing the heating season. Total steam consumption for the fiscal year
was 54,902,700 pounds.

Ice production—The Smithsonian ice plant produced 186.7 tons
of ice at a cost of $1.16 per ton, exclusive of labor. The plant was
closed down 10 days during May 1947 for overhauling.

Fire protection —tThe fire hose, couplings, nozzles, and hose racks
purchased during fiscal year 1946 were received and installed in the
Smithsonian Building. Plans have been made to install a central
control station for valving the standpipe lines in this building dur-
ing the fiscal year 1948. Inspections of apparatus were made each
month, and all soda and acid extinguishers were discharged and
recharged.

Respectfully submitted.

A. Wermorsg, Secretary.
APPENDIX 1
REPORT ON THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the condition
and operation of the United States National Museum for the fiscal
year ended June 30, 1947.

COLLECTIONS

Nearly 757,000 specimens, about twice as many as last year, came to
the Museum’s collections during the year, these being divided among
the various departments as follows: Anthropology, 9,445; biology,
533,098; geology, 205,549; engineering and industries, 5,239; history,
3,539. Most of the accessions were acquired as gifts from individuals
or as transfers from Government departments and agencies. The
complete report on the Museum, published as a separate document,
includes a detailed list of the year’s acquisitions, of which the more im-
portant are summarized below. Catalog entries in all departments
now total 19,561,872.

Anthropology.—Archeological material came from many parts of
the world, especially noteworthy being about a hundred items from
Adak Island in the Aleutians; nearly 1,600 specimens from Mont-
gomery County, Md.; a tripod bowl from a ruin near Oaxaca, Mexico;
2 earthenware bowls from the Taino site of La Caleto, Province of
Trujillo, Dominican Republic; 2 Roman or Franko vessels from
Speicher, Germany; and 14 stone implements and fragments from
Larimer County, Colo.

In ethnology, the year’s accessions included collections from the
North American tribes of Alaska and the Aleutians, Eastern Wood-
lands, Great Plains, and the Southwest; the Indian tribes of México,
Panama, Venezuela, Colombia, Bolivia, and Brazil; the Oceanian
peoples of Hawaii and New Guinea; the aboriginal tribes of Australia;
the Indonesians of Java, Sumatra, and Bali; the Asiatic peoples of
India and Mongolia; and the African tribes of the Belgian Congo and
neighboring parts of West Africa. A collection of major importance
was received as a result of the bequest of the late Princess Abigail W.
Kawananakoa of Honolulu, comprising a well-documented group of
masterpieces of Hawaiian handicrafts which were heirlooms of the
Hawaiian royal family. <A valuable collection of American historical
Staffordshire china was received from an anonymous donor.

11
12 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

The most unusual accession in physical anthropology consisted of
unpublished anthropometric and other data collected by German
anthropologists in Poland during World War II, together with some
of their anthropological measuring instruments. The data had been
assembled for the Institut fiir Deutsche Ostarbeit and were trans-
ferred to the National Museum as a permanent loan by the War De-
partment. The material includes information on 356 Ukrainians,
1,466 Poles, and 162 Huzuls, with full measurements, photographs,
and personal, medical, and family histories of each subject.

Biology.—The most important mammalian accession was a series of
about 600 glass slides of sectioned hairs, collected and presented by
Dr. Ned Dearborn, expert on fur-bearing animals, who has made a
special study of mammalian hair. The W. L. Abbott fund made
possible three noteworthy avian accessions: 1,758 skins and skeletons
of birds from Colombia, collected by M. A. Carriker, Jr.; 453 bird
skins and 7 skeletons of Panama birds, collected by Dr. A. Wetmore
and W. M. Perrygo; and 556 birds from India, collected by Salim Ali.
Also from India came 1,500 bird skins resulting from the Smithsonian
Institution-Yale University Expedition, containing many forms new
to the Museum. Foremost among the year’s herpetological acquisi-
tions were 25 rare Brazilian frogs, 112 reptiles from Bikini, and 5
series of reptiles and amphibians from Colombia, Bolivia, Haiti, and
Guatemala.

Two large and outstanding collections of fishes were received as a
result of the Smithsonian’s participation in two federally sponsored
projects—about 38,700 fishes (representing over 300 species) taken
during Operation Crossroads at Bikini and in the northern Marshall
Islands by Dr. Leonard P. Schultz and Capt. Earl S. Herald, and
28,000 Guatemalan fishes obtained by Associate Curator Robert R.
Miller in continuation of the survey of the fishery resources of Guate-
mala begun last year under the auspices of the Guatemalan Govern-
ment, the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, and the Smith-
sonian Institution. The Pacific material, because of its extent, will
make it possible for the first time to make a study of anatomical varia-
tions among the various island fish populations, while the Guatemalan
material is one of the best collections of fresh-water fishes ever made
in Central America. In addition, smaller but important lots of fishes
came from Argentina, Baja California, Cuba, and the Tropical Pacific.

About 12,000 insects, in three accessions, came to the Museum as a
direct result of the war: 1,500 from the Philippines and New Guinea,
collected by Carl O. Mohr; 4,500 from the Philippines, collected by
Dr. Frank M. Young; and 6,000 mosquitoes, resulting from the in-
vestigations in the South Pacific by the Naval Medical Research Unit
No. 2. Another large insect accession was the gift of the H. G. Bar-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 13

ber collection of Hemiptera, amounting to 35,000 specimens and in-
cluding some types and paratypes. Other important entomological
material included over 2,500 insects from Colombia, collected by
Curator E. A. Chapin in 1946; about 2,000 insects collected by Dr.
J. P. E. Morrison as a part of Operation Crossroads biological investi-
gations; nearly 400 aquatic insects collected in Guatemala by Dr.
Robert R. Miller; about 16,000 specimens of Mexican and Canal Zone
insects collected by N. L. H. Krauss; and 65,000 specimens transferred
from the United States Department of Agriculture.

A great variety of marine invertebrates was received but the largest
accession in this division was the gift of the Horton H. Hobbs private
collection of crayfishes. Comprising about 11,000 specimens, it is by
far the most important series of these crustaceans ever collected from
the southeastern United States. The Operation Crossroads investi-
gations yielded over 8,000 miscellaneous marine invertebrates from
the Marshall Islands. A desirable personal collection of nearly
3,000 worms and crustaceans from various localities came as a gift
from the collector, Leslie Hubricht. The type collection of Foram-
inifera was increased by 706 slides, bringing the total in this col-
lection to 10,640 slides. In the division of mollusks the largest and
most important of the year’s accessions comprised about 200,000 speci-
mens collected by Associate Curator Morrison in the biological recon-
naissance of the Marshall Islands in connection with Operation Cross-
roads. The Naval Medical Research Unit No. 2 turned over to the
Museum 25,000 specimens, mainly of land and fresh-water mollusks,
from China, the Philippines, and the Marianas. Dr. A. R. Loeblich,
Jr., now a member of the staff of the department of geology, donated
1,200 marine shells from Okinawa.

Accessions in the division of plants (including diatoms) aggregated
nearly 44,000 specimens, from many parts of the world. About 4,800
plants came as a result of Associate Curator Morton’s botanical field
work in St. Vincent, Lesser Antilles, a region heretofore but scantily
represented in the National Herbarium. In transfers from the United
States Department of Agriculture, the Museum received 5,500 grasses
from Brazil, collected by Jason R. Swallen, and 1,500 specimens of
bamboos, collected by Dr. F. A. McClure. Several other large lots
came from South America, the West Indies, Japan and Formosa,
the South Pacific, and several parts of North America.

Geology.—The department of geology received about 41% times as
many specimens as last year, this increase being due largely to a great
influx of invertebrate fossils to the number of about 200,000.

Additions in mineralogy and petrology were somewhat fewer than
usual, though gifts, exchanges, and purchases brought some fine new
minerals, gems, and meteorites to the collections. Twenty-one meteor-
14 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

ites not previously represented in the Museum were received during
the year. Forty-four mineral specimens were purchased through the
Canfield fund.

Collecting trips by Dr. G. A. Cooper and Dr. A. R. Loeblich, Jr.,
yielded over 36,000 Paleozoic fossils for the invertebrate collections.
Several gifts received were important in helping to fill the study series
in invertebrate paleontology and paleobotany. Among these were 85
Mississippian ammonoids from Arkansas, numerous Lower Permian
specimens from New Mexico, extensive collections of Middle Devonian
invertebrates, excellent Eocene echinoids from Florida, 120 blocks of
Cambrian and Ordovician limestone with choice silicified brachiopods
from the Arbuckle Mountains, 275 Tertiary fossils from Florida, ex-
tensive sets of Paleozoic and Cretaceous inverterbrates, including many
micro-organisms and bryozoans, 375 specimens of unusual Cambrian
and Lower Ordovician fossils from Quebec, 4,000 Upper Devonian
fossils from New Mexico, and 2,000 Paleozoic invertebrates from
Virginia, and a similar collection from Georgia.

Resumption of field work following the war also brought increased
material to the division of vertebrate paleontology. Outstanding was
the discovery in one block in the Bridger Eocene beds of the skulls
and portions of the skeletons of two unusually large rodents of the
genus Paramys. Among other rarities in the season’s finds were jaws
and skeletal parts of the artiodactyl Helohyus, about five examples of
the minute insectivore Myctitherium, and remains of the marsupial
Peratherium. Other additions to the Bridger collections made by
Dr. C. L. Gazin were skulls of the large six-horned mammal Uznta-
therium, the titanothere Palaeosyops, and the rhinoceros Hyrachyus.
Among the materials transferred from the United States Geological
Survey was a nearly complete skull and jaws of a Triassic reptile, a
phytosaur, from the Petrified Forest of Arizona.

Engineering and industries.—In the division of engineering an out-
standing accession was the motor tricycle designed and built at Pitts-
burgh in 1897 by Louis S. Clarke, automobile pioneer, and claimed
to be the first Autocar. Several ship models received enhanced the
watercraft collection. Two accessions in the field of microscopy are
of unusual interest: The curious ruling machine with which Charles
Fasoldt, in the mid-nineteenth century, produced the ruled slides and
gratings prized over all others by many well-known microscopists;
and a group of microscopes and accessories collected by the late Dr.
Richard Halsted Ward, first president or the American Microscopical
Society, and his son, the late Dr. Henry Baldwin Ward, parasitologist.

A historically important accession in the division of crafts and
industries was one of the two original rubber masticators developed
by Thomas Hancock in England prior to 1830. The machine was in
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 15

continual use in rubber manufacture in England for more than 75
years. To the section of textiles there came many outstanding ex-
amples of new fabrics and fabric application and an exhibit showing
the manufacture and uses of nylon. In wood technology 964 exotic
woods were received as an exchange from the Forest Products Research
Laboratory of Great Britain, most of them heretofore unrepresented
in the section’s collections. In addition, 182 wood specimens were
received from the New York State College of Forestry and 561 photo-
micrographic prints of sections of Japanese woods from the War
Department.

In the division of graphic arts the most notable accession of the year
was a microengraving machine capable of engraving the Lord’s Prayer
781,250 times within a square-inch area. This miraculous contrivance
was constructed by the Rev. J. C. Crawford after the original machine
invented by W. Peters in London in 1852. Outstanding pieces of
motion-picture equipment received included a 60-mm. camera invented
in 1893 by George Demeny of France and manufactured by the Gau-
mont Co. around 1896; a 16-mm. Bell & Howell gun-type camera
adopted and used by the Navy to photograph the earth from a German
V-2 rocket fired at the Army Ordnance Proving Grounds, White
Sands, N. Mex., October 10, 1946; and a 1911 Pathé Fréres 35-mm.
hand-operated projector. Sixty glass negatives taken in the late nine-
teenth century by the photographer Robert Stead and 143 lantern
slides taken by the photographer Titus B. Snoddy, Sr., came as gifts
to the Museum. Five more etched copper plates were added to the
Charles W. Dahlgreen group for printing under the Dahlgreen fund.

Several interesting and desirable additions were received for the
division of medicine and public health, the most valuable one of the
year being a series of specially prepared transparencies illustrating the
subject of hospitalization. These were made and contributed by the
American Hospital Association as a memorial to the late Dr. S. S.
Goldwater (1873-1942). Historically important is a “Grosse Flamme”
X-ray machine with tube and tube stand, one of the earliest American-
made machines of its kind.

A number of desiderata found their way to the aeronautical collec-
tions, the most outstanding in point of historic importance being the
collection of parts remaining of original gliders devised by John J.
Montgomery between 1905 and 1911. From the standpoint of rela-
tionship to air warfare and particularly the devastating effect of
bombing as practiced in World War II, the Norden bombsight used
in directing the first atomic bomb dropped over Japan constitutes an
important accession. A series of 82 interesting scale-model World
War IJ airplanes were transferred from the Navy Department. Three
other aircraft models received were of an XFL-1 Bell “Airabonita”
16 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

made by Leroy McCallum, an F-6-F Grumman “Hellcat” made in the
Navy Department, and a rotary-winged craft named “Hiller-copter”
made by Stanley Hiller, Jr.

History.—Several interesting additions made to the costumes col-
lection include a waistcoat and knee breeches of mauve satin and a dark
blue and white silk waistcoat worn by Simon Serre in Cette, France,
as a page boy about the mid-eighteenth century; a child’s dress and
pair of shoes of about 18503 a black silk dress of about 1860, a trousseau
of 1875; and a white satin dress worn in the White House by Mrs.
John Quincy Adams during her husband’s administration as Presi-
dent. Added to the military collections were early nineteenth-century
chapeaux, epaulets, sash, coat, and trousers; a United States Marine
Corps officer’s sword of the early part of the present century; and two
Chinese scrolls that had been presented to Gen. James H. Doolittle in
commemoration of the American air raid on Tokyo in 1942. From
the White House there was transferred a historic passenger elevator in-
stalled in 1902. The numismatic collection was increased by 30 speci-
mens of 1946 United States bronze, nickel, and silver coins and by 400
pieces of German paper currency of the World War I period. About
3,000 stamps were added to the philatelic collection, about 1,300 more
than last year. Of particular interest was a sheet of 50 3-cent Smith-
sonian Centennial commemoratives, formally presented to the Institu-
tion by the Post Office Department at a special ceremony on August 10,
1946.

EXPLORATION AND FIELD WORK

One of the most encouraging phases of the Museum’s work during
the year was an opportunity to resume field work, interrupted by the
war.

Under a grant from Ernest N. May, it was possible for the curator
of ethnology, Herbert W. Krieger, to renew investigations of fifteenth-
century historic Indian village sites and some of the early Spanish set-
tlements in the West Indies. This Caribbean program developed from
an earlier Antillean project sponsored by the late Dr. W. L. Abbott
which began in 1928 and was terminated in 1988. Dr. Abbott’s inter-
est was aroused by the earlier discoveries there by W. H. Gabb in
1869-71 of kitchen middens containing deposits of animal bones and
aboriginal pottery fragments. While engaged in the development of
the ensuing Smithsonian project for the excavation of these cave
middens and of other former Indian village sites in the Greater An-
tilles and in the Bahamas, the need became apparent to the curator
for a chronological culture-trait analysis and for a more complete ori-
entation as to the location of historic Indian village sites, and also
for a study of Spanish settlements associated with the early colonial
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 17

period of the area. The cooperation of scientists and the governments
of the Bahama Islands, Haiti, Cuba, and the Dominican Republic was
readily obtained in the carrying out of the details of the project. From
January 16 to May 5, 1947, Mr. Krieger visited and made test excava-
tions at Indian village sites referred to by Christopher Columbus in
the journal of his first voyage of discovery. Mr. Krieger also exam-
ined the probable site of the first Spanish settlement, that of the sailors
of the wrecked Santa Maria at La Navidad near the town of Cap
Haitien on the north coast of Haiti. He later revisited La Isabela,
the first planned Spanish colony in the Western Hemisphere. The
ruins of the stone buildings of the town are still visible although
most of the stone walls of the large warehouse, church, fort, and other
buildings have been removed to the city of Puerto Plata, where they
have been used in the construction of modern buildings.

During the first 2 weeks of August 1946 Mr. Krieger attended, as a
delegate of the Smithsonian Institution, the First International Con-
ference of Archeologists of the Caribbean, which was convened under
the auspices of the Government of the Republic of Honduras. The
plenary sessions of the conference were held at the capital city of
Tegucigalpa, but as the work progressed meetings were held most
pleasantly under towering trees at the ruins of the eighth-century
Maya city of Copan, on the stone seats of the south section of the
Court of the Hieroglyphic Stairway. Ample facilities were provided
by the Honduras Government for the attending delegates, 60 in num-
ber, representing 14 American Republics and 36 educational and scien-
tific institutions. Visits were made by airplane to widely separated
sites where the prolific remains of Maya and other aboriginal cultures
are still visible in the form of pyramids, mounds, and ruins of aban-
doned Indian villages in the upland valleys of western Honduras.

The late Dr. Ale’ Hrdlicka, formerly curator of physical anthro-
pology, had planned to visit Guatemala in December of 1943 to take
measurements and observations on the Highland Maya, but he died
in September of that year. Dr. T. Dale Stewart finally undertook
this work during the first 3 months of 1947 under a grant from the
Department of State and in cooperation with scientists from Guate-
mala and the Carnegie Institution of Washington. In addition to
studying the living, Dr. Stewart examined also the available prehis-
toric skeletal remains, especially those recovered from the archeo-
logical sites known as San Agustin Acasaguastlan, Kaminaljuyi, and
Zaculeu.

The main objective of Dr. Stewart’s trip was to obtain information
about the living Highland Maya which would enable him to make
comparisons with the Lowland Maya of Yucatin. These two groups,
although rather widely separated geographically and exhibiting dif-
18 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

ferences in material culture, nevertheless belong to the same linguistic
stock. This linguistic stock, moreover, is remarkably homogeneous.
Since language is fairly resistant to change (more so than material
culture), considerable interest attaches to the question whether this
linguistic homogeneity reflects a similar status in physical type.

Dr. Stewart undertook the collection of data that would supplement
those already available and at the same time allow their fuller inter-
pretation. Since in Guatemala the municipio, being endogamous, is
the basic unit for ethnic study, he restricted his study to two municipios
within the Cakchiquel linguistic subgroup. First at Solola in the De-
partment of Solola, then later at Patztin in the Department of Chimal-
tenango, he secured comparable series of males—82 to 72, respec-
tively—and at Patztin, a series of 35 females. Altogether this is the
largest series from one highland linguistic group thus far studied.
In addition to the routine anthropometric measurements, observa-
tions, and photographs, the records obtained this season include blood
group (A, B; M, N), taste sensitivity to phenyl thiocarbamide, palm
and finger prints, and hair samples. In view of the success of this
first season, it is hoped that the experience thus gained can be utilized
for the extension of these observations elsewhere. It is important, for
example, to learn also to what extent in the highlands the barrier of
language is an aid in the formation of physical types. Furthermore,
if the records are made by one observer, they will be more uniform and
less subject to multiple personal biases.

Upon his return from Guatemala Dr. Stewart was detailed to stop
over in Mexico City in order to examine the recently recovered skeleton
of Tepexpan man. This important skeleton, found in what is consid-
ered by paleontologists as a Pleistocene stratum, may represent one of
the most complete skeletons dating from this early period in North
America. Subsequent to his visit the entire skeleton has been brought
to the United States National Museum by Sefior Javier Romero, who
is to work with Dr. Stewart in the restoration and reconstruction of the
skeletal parts. At the close of the fiscal year some progress has been
made in the restoration of the facial bones.

Dr. Waldo R. Wedel, associate curator of archeology, was on detail
to the River Basin Surveys and in charge of the Missouri River Basin
Survey from July 8 to October 18, 1946. He left Washington May 20,
1947, to resume this work. Joseph R. Caldwell, scientific aid, like-
wise was detailed to the River Basin Surveys from November 12, 1946,
to April 1,1947. (See appendix 5 for details.)

Members of the staff of the department of biology participated in
several important expeditions and a number of smaller field trips, all
of which returned valuable material to the collections. From other
expeditions in which the Museum personnel did not take part but
which were financed by the Smithsonian Institution or private con-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 19

tributors, many additional specimens were received. Foremost among
the expeditions was Operation Crossroads under the auspices of the
United States Navy to the northern Marshall Islands and Bikini.
Taking part in the biological investigations of this operation and rep-
resenting the Smithsonian Institution were Drs. Leonard P. Schultz
and J. P. E. Morrison, curator of fishes and associate curator of mol-
lusks, respectively, and Capt. Earl 8. Herald, whose detail the Navy
requested from the Army to relieve Dr. Schultz. Dr. Schultz re-
turned to Washington by plane on July 22, having left Washington on
the preceding February 13. Captain Herald returned to Washington
in mid-September. As ichthyologists, Dr. Schultz and Captain Herald
were especially concerned with the relative abundance of fishes on the
reefs and in the tidal zone before and after dropping the experimental
atomic bombs. In connection with the investigation they preserved
over 38,000 specimens for study and for the national collections. Dr.
Morrison, who left Washington on February 20 and returned August
25, gave his attention to both the vertebrate and invertebrate animal
life of the area, excepting the fish. He obtained specimens and data
concerning the arboreal, terrestrial, and intertidal animal communi-
ties and populations. Particularly complete was the series of birds
frequenting Bikini and the collections of mollusks of this and other of
the Marshall Islands group. On June 28, 1947, 2 days before the close
of the fiscal year, Drs. Schultz and Morrison accompanied by Frederick
M. Bayer, assistant curator of marine invertebrates, started on a re-
turn trip to Bikini for a resurvey of the faunal elements of the area
with which they were particularly concerned.

In continuation of the survey of the fishery resources of Guatemala
begun last year under the joint auspices of the Guatemalan Govern-
ment, the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, and the Smith-
sonian Institution, Dr. Robert R. Miller, associate curator of fishes,
spent some 10 weeks, March 7 to May 17, in Guatemala. Extensive
series of fish and associated animal life were obtained, the fish collected
to form the basis of an account of the fishes of that country.

On March 15, 1947, C. V. Morton, associate curator of plants, left
for a 12-week trip to St. Vincent, British West Indies, on a botanical
survey of that island with funds generously provided by Ernest May,
of Wilmington, Del. Although St. Vincent has an interesting flora,
it has been relatively neglected by collectors. Owing to the moun-
tainous terrain, there is still a great deal of untouched forested land
which provided ideal conditions for plant collecting. Mr. Morton
obtained 4,800 specimens on which he plans to base a checklist of the
flowering plants and ferns of the island.

The W. L. Abbott fund financed three different field parties during
the past year: M. A. Carriker, Jr., continuing field work in Colombia,
working for half the year in areas complementary to those already
20 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

covered previously, obtaining 1,758 bird skins; Salim Ali of Bombay
collecting birds in Gujerat and other areas in India, supplementing
the work of the Smithsonian-Yale University Expedition to India
and obtaining 556 birds; and Dr. A. Wetmore and W. M. Perrygo
making a rather short trip to the interior of Darién, Panama, and
returning with 453 bird skins, beautifully supplementing collections
made last year by the same collectors in adjacent areas.

The Smithsonian Institution-Yale University Expedition to India
under the direction of S. Dillon Ripley, assisted by E. C. Migdal!ski,
spent 6 months in various parts of India and in Nepal and made a
collection of approximately 1,500 birds, which added very signifi-
cantly to the Museum’s resources in the Asiatic field and will be of
great scientific value as much of it comes from old classical type locali-
ties.

Foster D. Smith, of the Socony Oil Co., Caracas, Venezuela, returned
to Venezuela early in the fiscal year and will again collect birds for
the Museum as time and opportunity allow; no reports regarding his
present efforts have yet been received.

Locally, in connection with a biological survey of the Patuxent Re-
search Refuge maintained by the Fish and Wildlife Service, Emery
C. Leonard, associate curator of plants, carried on field work on the
lower cryptogams, spending 6 days on the project and collecting about
800 specimens. This work will be continued during the coming year,
the collections to serve as a basis for a report on the cryptogamic flora
of the refuge. During August 1946, Drs. Remington Kellogg and
David H. Johnson, the curator and the associate curator, division of
mammals, collected fossil cetacean material from the Miocene beds at
Scientists’ Cliffs, Calvert County, Md. Paul S. Conger, associate cura-
tor, section of diatoms, spent 2 months at the Chesapeake Biological
Laboratory, Solomons, Md., continuing a survey of the Chesapeake Bay
diatoms, certain experiments on the growth of single diatoms under
natural conditions, and a study of diatoms as oyster food. In order
to secure material for the rearing of Hemiptera for the purpose of trac-
ing the development of structures useful in taxonomy and in the deter-
mination of phylogenetic relationships, W. E. Hoffmann, associate cur-
ator, division of insects, carried on considerable field work in and Pat
the city of Washington. i

The first field expedition of the year in the division of invertebrate
paleontology and paleobotany was carried on by Curator G. A. Cooper,
during the three summer months, in company with Dr. P. KE. Cloud,
Jr., of Harvard University. Several days at Batesville, Ark., yielded
excellent Silurian and Mississippian fossils. After a short time at
Muskogee, Okla., collecting Mississippian fossils, the party journeyed
to Marathon, Tex., where some 10 days were spent in getting out blocks
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 21

for etching of Permian limestone from the Glass Mountains. Next, at
Alamagordo and Silver City, N. Mex., Devonian fossils were obtained,
and from here the party proceeded to Eureka, Nev., to join Dr. T. B.
Nolan, of the United States Geological Survey, in mapping the Good-
win formation in Goodwin Canyon. The Devonian and Lower Ordo-
vician beds of some of the ranges west of Eureka were visited and the
field work ended at Salt Lake City.

Upon Dr. Cooper’s return, Dr. A. R. Loeblich, Jr., was engaged for
6 weeks in collecting Ordovician fossils in southern Virginia and
eastern Tennessee, in the region west of Nashville, and the Silurian
and Devonian in the classic areas of the valleys of the Tennessee River
in west Tennessee. On a short detail in August 1946 he spent several
days conferring with Dr. William H. Shideler at Miami University,
Oxford, Ohio, and a like period collecting Middle Ordovician and
Lower Devonian fossils in the Arbuckle Mountains, Okla. In late
April 1947, at the invitation of the Oklahoma Geological Survey, he
was occupied for 2 weeks in that State on stratigraphic work examin-
ing and collecting from the Silurian and Lower Devonian of the
Arbuckle Mountains.

In addition to the above field investigations, four short trips were
made by Drs. Cooper and Loeblich into the nearby Appalachians,
which resulted in good collections and blocks containing silicified
fossils for etching. The localities visited included the fine Middle
Ordovician exposures about 5 miles north of Harrisonburg, Va., the
Lower Devonian exposures on United States Highway No. 40 about
214 miles west of Indian Springs, Md., the Middle Ordovician at
Strasburg, Va., and the Silurian and Devonian at Keyser, W. Va., and
Cumberland, Md.

The 1946 summer field expedition in vertebrate paleontology, start-
ing in late May, continued well into the present year. The party,
composed of Curator C, Lewis Gazin and F. L. Pearce, first reexam-
ined the Paleocene and Cretaceous beds of central Utah and then de-
voted the greater part of the field season to prospecting and collecting
fossil mamma] remains from the Middle Eocene beds in the Bridger
Basin of southwestern Wyoming. Collecting from the Bridger for-
mation is part of a research program on the Middle Eocene faunas
begun prior to the war. Asa result of these expeditions, the National
Museum is building up one of the best research collections of Middle
Eocene mammals in the country and has succeeded in obtaining some
striking exhibition material representing this very primitive stage of
mammalian evolution. The party was successful in getting much
good material of the smaller, less-well-known insectivores, primates,
rodents, carnivores, and artiodactyls, as well as good skulls of such
animals as Hyrachyus, Palaeosyops, and Uintatheriwm.
22 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

The last 2 weeks of the season were spent in going over Lower
Eocene beds in the Wind River Basin of central Wyoming and in
examining and making a collection from an isolated occurreuce of
Duchesne River, Upper Eocene, beds in the northern part of the
Wind River Basin.

Associate Curator D. H. Dunkle, accompanied by F. L. Pearce, left
for field work near Lamy, N. Mex., prior to the close of this fiscal year.
There, assisted by G. F. Sternberg, they began quarry operations at a
Triassic locality for an exhibition slab of ancient amphibian skulls
and other skeletal parts belonging to the genus Buettneria, This has
now been quarried out and is ready for shipment to the Museum. If
the season permits, they expect to examine other localities and forma-
tions of still greater age for fossil fish and primitive tetrapods in the
general region of east-central New Mexico, with the hope of building
up a more representative collection of these forms for our study
collection.

The 5-month sojourn in Japan of Curator W. F. Foshag and
Associate Curator E. P. Henderson may well be considered a field
trip, since, whenever time permitted, studies were made on mineral-
ogical subjects, local universities were visited, and arrangements for
exchange of material were concluded.

PUBLICATIONS

Fourteen publications were issued during the year: One Annual
Report, three Bulletins, two Contributions from the National Her-
barium, and eight Proceedings papers. A list of these is given in the
complete report on Smithsonian publications, appendix 12.

The distribution of volumes and separates to libraries and other —
institutions and to individuals aggregated 34,952 copies.

MEETINGS AND SPECIAL EXHIBITS

The Smithsonian continued to make available the auditorium and
lecture room of the Natural History Building to educational, scien-
tific, welfare, and governmental organizations and groups for meet-
ings and lectures. During the year 275 groups availed themselves
of this opportunity. The foyer and adjacent space in the Natural
History Building were in constant use during the year for a series of
15 special exhibits sponsored by various groups, including the Smith-
sonian Centennial exhibit, which ran from August 10 to September
27, 1946. In addition, 23 special exhibits were held by the division
of graphic arts—12 of etchings, lithographs, and other prints by
various artists, and 11 of photographs.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 23
CHANGES IN ORGANIZATION

Through a reorganization in the department of engineering and
industries, a new unit under the division of crafts and industries—
the section of manufactures—was established effective September 16,
i946. The section of aeronautics was changed to a division on Jan-
vary 6, 1947, and at the same time the division of medicine and public
health was made an independent division reporting to the head
curator of the department.

Respectfully submitted.

ALEXANDER Wetmore, Director.

The Secretary,

Smithsonian Institution.

777488—48——_3,
APPENDIX 2
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

Sim: I have the honor to submit, on behalf of the Board of Trustees
of the National Gallery of Art, the tenth annual report of the Board,
covering its operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1947. This
report is made pursuant to the provisions of section 5 (d) of Public
Resolution No. 14, Seventy-fifth Congress, first session, approved
March 24, 1937 (50 Stat. 51).

ORGANIZATION AND STAFF

During the fiscal year ended June 30, 1947, the Board consisted of
the Chief Justice of the United States, the Secretary of State, the Sec-
retary of the Treasury, the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution,
ex officio, and five general trustees, Samuel H. Kress, Ferdinand Lam-
mot Belin, Duncan Phillips, Chester Dale, and Paul Mellon.

At its annual meeting held on May 6, 1947, the Board reelected Sam-
uel H. Kress as President, and Ferdinand Lammot Belin as Vice
President, to serve for the ensuing year. The executive officers con-
tinuing in office during the year were:

Huntington Cairns, Secretary-Treasurer.

David E. Finley, Director.

Harry A. McBride, Administrator.

Huntington Cairns, General Counsel.

John Walker, Chief Curator.

Macgill James, Assistant Director.
Donald D. Shepard continued to serve during the year as Adviser to
the Board.

On July 1, 1946, Lamont Moore was appointed Curator in charge of
education and resumed his duties in the Gallery after an absence of 3
years. During that time he served in the Army of the United States
in the European Theater and as Assistant Secretary to the American
Commission for the Protection and Salvage of Artistic and Historic
Monuments in War Areas.

The three standing committees of the Board, provided for in the
bylaws, as constituted at the annual meeting of the Board, held May 6,
1947, were:

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
Chief Justice of the United States, ex officio, Fred M. Vinson, Chairman.

Samuel H. Kress, Vice Chairman.
Ferdinand Lammot Belin.

24
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 25

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, Dr. Alexander Wetmore.
Paul Mellon.
FINANCE COMMITTEE

Secretary of the Treasury, ex officio, John W. Snyder, Chairman.
Samuel H. Kress, Vice Chairman.
Ferdinand Lammot Belin.
Paul Mellon.
Chester Dale.
ACQUISITIONS COMMITTEE

Samuel H. Kress, Chairman.

Ferdinand Lammot Belin, Vice Chairman.
Dunean Phillips.

Chester Dale.

David E. Finley, ex officio.

The permanent Government positions on the Gallery staff are filled
from registers of the United States Civil Service Commission, or with
its approval. On June 30, 1947, the permanent Government staff of
the Gallery numbered 305 employees, as compared with 298 employees
on June 30, 1946.

Throughout the year a high standard of operation and maintenance
of the Gallery building and grounds, and protection of the Gallery’s
collections of works of art, has been sustained.

APPROPRIATIONS

For salaries and expenses for the upkeep and operation of the Na-
tional Gallery of Art, the protection and care of works of art acquired
by the Board of Trustees, and all administrative expenses incident
thereto pursuant to the provisions of section 4 (a) of Public Resolution
No. 14, Seventy-fifth Congress, first session, approved March 24, 1937
(50 Stat. 51), the Congress appropriated for the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1947, the sum of $883,920. This amount included the regular
appropriation of $772,490, a supplemental appropriation of $101,000
primarily to meet the Gallery’s obligations under the Federal Em-
ployees Pay Act of 1946, and an additional appropriation of $10,430
to make up other deficiencies in the 1947 appropriation caused mainly
by the higher salaries paid returning veterans over war service in-
cumbents, in-grade promotions, and reallocations of positions by the
Civil Service Commission in 1946 and 1947.

From these appropriations the following expenditures and encum-
brances were incurred:

Personal, Services atic: 07 oe BT ct, Ben ee bobo As, $771, 508. 54
Printing. and, binding 28 20 3, 999. 72
SUPDUER Wequinment. etee 22 2) ee. 108, 382. 23
Unencumvered balance: 2 28 eee 29.51

DEAE! Seah tometer enw) EY PRR Ne die 883,920. 00
26 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

In addition to the above-mentioned appropriations, the Gallery re-
ceived the sum of $21,600 from the Department of State to cover ex-
penses during the fiscal year of the Inter-American Office of the
Gallery, for the promotion of art activities between the United Sates
and the Latin-American Republics.

ATTENDANCE

During the fiscal year 1947, there were 1,448,038 visitors to the Gal-
Jery building, an average daily attendance of 3,989. This attendance
figure shows a decline as compared with last year, when the total
number of visitors was 1,947,668. ‘The decrease is undoubtedly due to
the fact that during the first 6 months of the fiscal year there were
fewer men and women from the armed services in the city and normal
tourist traffic had not yet been resumed. Attendance during the last
3 months of the year has risen nearly to the 1946 level, visits of groups
of school children being unusually numerous.

The Sunday evening openings, featuring concerts in the Gallery’s
Kast Garden Court without admission charge, have continued to be
exceedingly popular throughout the year.

CARE AND MAINTENANCE OF THE BUILDING

It was necessary during the year to overhaul completely two of the
large refrigeration machines, and this was successfully accomplished
by the Gallery staff.

Considerable improvement has been made in the care of the grounds,
including the extension of the irrigation system, and the Gallery staff
is now growing a large portion of the smaller plants used for the
decoration of the two garden courts.

The staff also produced all the special exhibition cases and several
pedestals for the exhibition of Indigenous Art of the Americas (Bliss
Collection), as well as the special lighting effects required for this
exhibition.

INSTALLATION OF ADDITIONAL AIR-CONDITIONING EQUIPMENT

As stated in the annual report for the fiscal year 1946, the gradual
opening of additional spaces in the Gallery building and the con-
struction of six new galleries made it necessary to augment the air-
conditioning equipment. This was made possible by funds donated
for the purpose, and the installation of a fourth refrigeration machine
is now in the final stage of completion. It was anticipated that this
contract would be completed during the fiscal year 1946, but owing
to various difficulties the date of completion was necessarily delayed.
It is now expected that the installation should be completed and all
equipment ready for operation by November 1947.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY o7

PUBLICATIONS

The publishing program of the National Gallery of Art, under the
direction of the Custodians of the Publications Fund, has continued
its expansion. During the fiscal year the third edition of Master-
pieces of Painting from the National Gallery of Art, by Huntington
Cairns and John Walker, was published. Arrangements also were
made for the publication of an English edition. The Gallery has
initiated a series of National Gallery of Art handbooks, two of which
were issued during the year. These are: How to Look at Works of
Art: The Search for Line, by Lois A. Bingham, and Chinese Porce-
lains of the Widener Collection, by Erwin O. Christensen. Also issued
during the year was a small volume of color reproductions, entitled
“Favorite Paintings from the National Gallery of Art,” with accom-
panying texts prepared by the Curatorial and Educational
Departments.

Various articles by members of the Gallery staff were published dur-
ing the year. An article on Hobbes’ Theory of Law, by Huntington
Cairns, appeared in the 1946 issue of Seminar, and one on Leibniz’s
Theory of Law in the Harvard Law Review for December 1946. A
lecture by Mr. Cairns, delivered at Harvard University on May 3, 1947,
as part of a 3-day Symposium on Music Criticism, and entitled “The
Future of Musical Patronage in America,” will be published by Har-
vard University Press in book form. Mr. Cairns also contributed an
article, “Philosophy as Jurisprudence,” to Essays in Honor of Roscoe
Pound, published by Oxford University Press. A comprehensive
article on the National Gallery, its collections, installations, and his-
tory, prepared by J. B. Eggen, was issued at the close of 1946 as volume
57-58 of the International Museum Journal, Mouseion, Paris, France.

An article on American Painters and British Critics, by John
Walker, was published in the Gazette des Beaux-Arts, and a series of
12 brief articles on American paintings in the Tate Exhibition, also by
Mr. Walker, appeared in The Ladies’ Home Journal. Charles Sey-
mour, Jr., published an article on Thirteenth-Century Art, and another
in collaboration with Hanns Swarzenski on A Madonna of Humility
and Quercia’s Early Style, both appearing in the Gazette des Beaux-
Arts. James W. Lane contributed to Art in America, The College
Art Journal, The Catholic World, and other publications. Members
of the curatorial staff under Mr. Seymour’s direction also edited the
handbook of the Bliss Collection of Pre-Columbian Art, entitled “In-
digenous Art of the Americas,” the text for which was supplied by
Samuel Lothrop.

Books by members of the staff in preparation or in press at the end of
the fiscal year included The Limits of Art, by Mr. Cairns, an extensive
compilation of selections of poetry and prose that have been held to be
28 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

the greatest of their kind in critical literature from Aristotle to recent
times. A fully illustrated volume on the Gallery’s sculpture, designed
as a companion volume to Masterpieces of Painting, by Messrs. Cairns
and Walker, is being prepared by Mr. Seymour for publication next
year under the title “Sculpture in the National Gallery of Art.” A
book by Elizabeth Mongan on the Gallery’s print collection will appear
in 1949. A thesis on Jan Mandijn, by Charles M. Richards, will also
be published. A work entitled “Three Centuries of American Paint-
ing” has been prepared by James W. Lane. A comprehensive work on
the Index of American Design, tentatively entitled “Made in America,”
is being compiled by Mr. Christensen for publication in the near future.
Another book by Mr. Christensen scheduled to appear jointly in the
United States and England is entitled “Popular Art in the United
States.” A picture book on the paintings and sculpture in the Widener
Collection is now on the press, and five handbooks on the Widener
Collection of Decorative Arts have been prepared by Mr. Christensen.

Work on the revision and amplification of the Gallery’s original
preliminary catalog, published in 1941, has continued. For the re-
vised catalog of paintings, notes have been prepared on more than
three-fourths of the new paintings not previously cataloged. The
sculpture catalog, being prepared by Mr. Seymour, is also moving
rapidly to completion.

Other forthcoming publications by,members of the Gallery staff
include an article by Huntington Cairns on Robert Briffault and the
Rehabilitation of the Matriarchal Theory for An Introduction to
the History of Sociology, to be published by the University of Chicago
Press, and also an article on The Future of Musical Patronage, to
appear in the Atlantic Monthly. A second series of short articles
by Mr. Walker, on paintings in the Chester Dale Collection, will ap-
pear in The Ladies’ Home Journal. An article on Houdon by Mr.
Seymour is scheduled for publication in the Gazette des Beaux-Arts,
and an article on American Folk Art as Revealed in the Index of
American Design, by Mr. Christensen, will be published in Art in
America.

Miss Mongan has been made an editor of the Graphic Art section
of a new edition of the Encyclopaedia Britannica. Mr. Christensen
has reassembled and organized unbound copies of the Widener tapestry
catalog into portfolios for sale in the Information Rooms and distri-
bution to colleges.

The Publications Fund has continued to supply color reproductions
of fine quality but moderately priced, and it is rather interesting to
note that in one item—postcards of works of art—nearly 3,000,000
copies have been sold since the Gallery was opened in 1941.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 29

Publishers of large collotype reproductions of paintings in the Na-
tional Gallery have added 14 new titles to their lists during the fiscal
year 1947, and the Publications Fund is now able to offer a total of
52 of these large reproductions to the public.

CUSTODY OF GERMAN SILVER

Under date of February 21, 1947, the Secretary of War requested
the National Gallery of Art to provide space and safe storage for the
Hohenzollern silver service, following a ruling by the War Depart-
ment with the concurrence of the Treasury Department that the silver-
ware is the property of the United States. On April 11, 1947, the
Gallery received from the War Department 44 sealed cases, weighing
approximately 7 tons, said to contain silverware and glassware, and
placed the cases in a storage room for indefinite custody and storage.

ACQUISITIONS
GIFTS OF PAINTINGS AND SCULPTURE

On August 8, 1946, the Board of Trustees accepted the following
group of 19 French paintings from Samuel H. Kress and the Samuel
H. Kress Foundation:

Artist Title
Boucher: Francoisu22! 22-22 joes Allegory of Painting.
Boucher; Mrancois. ss a te Allegory of Music.
Boucher, Wrancois= 22 == 244 ee Madame Bergeret.
Drouais, Francois-Hubert_-__------_-_- Group Portrait.
Fragonard, Jean-Honore___________-. A Game of Horse and Rider.
Fragonard, Jean-Honore______-____-. A Game of Hot Cockles.
Fragonard, Jean-Honore____________. The Visit to the Nursery.
Greuze, Jean-Baptiste--____________-_ Monsieur de la Live de Jully.
iWatteau, Antoine== 222-3 Italian Comedians,
Chardin, Jean-Baptiste Simeon_____-_ Portrait of an Old Woman.
PL ING TTS OUL See Bee SFO EA Ae CE ae EN Landscape with Peasants.
Lorrain, Claude (Gellee, Claude) —_--- The Herdsman.
Nattier®.Jean-Mare: 2222S ne Madame de Caumartin as Hebe.
Poussin: (Nicolas 2222-2. s- + Sa The Baptism of Christ.
Rigaud: eyacinthe == == 8 President Hebert.
Vigee-Lebrun, Hlisabeth_____________ Marquise de Laborde.
Wattean;, Antoine== 222) 2 2 Te “Sylvia” (Jeanne-Rose Guyonne Benozzi).
Ingres, Jean-Auguste-Dominique____. Madame Moitessier.
Pater, Jean-Baptiste-Joseph_________. Fete Champetre.

The Board of Trustees on November 25, 1946, accepted from Samuel
H. Kress and the Samuel H. Kress Foundation the painting, “The
Laocoon,” by El Greco, and the portrait of Monsignor Diomede Fal-
conio, by Thomas Eakins, from Stephen C. Clark. On January 7,
1947, the Board of Trustees accepted from an anonymous donor a
30 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

portrait of Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower, by Thomas E. Stephens, to
be held for a National Portrait Gallery. On May 6, 1947, the Board
of Trustees accepted two paintings, “Love as Conqueror” and “Love as
Folly,” by Jean-Honore Fragonard, from Miss Jean Simpson; a por-
trait of Captain Charles Stewart, by Thomas Sully, from Mrs. Maude
Monell Vetlesen; and also resolved to accept a bust of John Muir, by
Edwin Keith Harkness, from Mrs. Ione Bellamy Harkness, to be
held for a National Portrait Gallery. The Board of Trustees also
on May 6, 1947, recorded their prior acceptance from Mrs. Frederica
R. Giles of a painting entitled “Ships in the Scheldt Estuary,” by
Abraham Storck.

GIFTS OF DECORATIVE ARTS

On November 25, 1946, the Board of Trustees accepted from Mrs.
Lessing J. Rosenwald a miniature painting, on ivory, of Maria Miles
Heyward, by Edward Greene Malbone, which was accompanied by a
pin with a painting of an eye of Maria Miles Heyward, by Malbone.

GIFTS OF PRINTS AND DRAWINGS

The Board of Trustees, on August 8, 1946, accepted a collection of
273 prints and drawings bequeathed by Mrs. Addie Burr Clark, a
further gift of 255 prints and drawings from Lessing J. Rosenwald,
and 3 prints, En Ballade, by Constantine Guys, Head and Bust of a
Woman, by Sir Joshua Reynolds, and Le Stryge, by Meryon, from
Myron A. Hofer. On November 25, 1946, the Board of Trustees ac-
cepted from Myron A. Hofer a print, Morgue, by Meryon. On January
7, 1947, the Board of Trustees accepted a further gift of 399 prints
and drawings from Lessing J. Rosenwald, and an engraved portrait of
Charles I of England, by Vorsterman, from Willis Ruffner. The
Board of Trustees on May 6, 1947, accepted from an anonymous donor
a mezzotint entitled “The Mill,” by Charles Turner, after Rembrandt.

GIFTS TO THE INDEX OF AMERICAN DESIGN

The Board of Trustees, on May 6, 1947, accepted from Albert Lewin
40 water-color drawings by Perkins Harnly for the Index of American
Design.

EXCHANGE OF WORKS OF ART

The Board of Trustees during the fiscal year 1947 accepted the offer
of Lessing J. Rosenwald to exchange an engraving by Schongauer en-
titled “Crucifixion,” two lithographs by Whistler entitled “Study” and
“Lady Haden,” and an engraving by Brosamer entitled “Christ on
Cross,” for superior impressions of like engravings and lithographs
now included in the Rosenwald Collection at the National Gallery of
Art.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 3
LOAN OF WORKS OF ART TO THE GALLERY

During the fiscal year 1947 the following works of art were received
on loan:
Particulars Artist
From Mrs. Ailsa M. Bruce, New York, N. Y.:
2 tapestries.
The Raising of Tabitha. =~ 25 es es Tournai, c. 1460.
The Conversion of the Centurion Cornelius_.__ Tournai, c. 1460.
From George Matthew Adams, New York, N. Y.:
124 drawings and etchings.
From Charles B. Harding, Laura Harding, and
Catharine H. Tailer, New York, N. Y.:

Portraitiof Victor-Guyet. 2. Goya.
From Mrs. Huttleston Rogers, New York, N. Y.:

Ther @ricyclec <2 =e 22.0 en aha st Monet.
ROSS pe ae A Es ee St Renoir.
‘The "Artist and the Widow =_-2-2.4._2su2 223) Forain.
Chemin dans Je Brouillard__-._.-..-__._.~.~— Monet.
ihe Tribunal de: Pontoise. 22 ts ae ies 2s Pissarro,
Be Jour diverts 2 Bay Se ene Sisley.
Roses in a Chinese Vase and Sculpture by

DS O21 a SS ae ae oe ee Vuillard.
Maternity 22382 6 Ws ie ee ee Gauguin.

LOANED WORKS OF ART RETURNED

During the year the following works of art loaned to the Gallery
were returned to the lenders:

Particulars Artist
Yo the French Government:
The entire collection of French paintings on
loan, with the exception of Mile. DuBourg
(Nimes Hantin-Latour)/ 222 se Degas.
To the Belgian Government:
12 of the 14 paintings on loan, leaving 2 pic-
tures belonging to M. Stuyck del Bruyere.
To the J. H. Whittemore Co., Naugatuck, Conn. :

Avant la Coursek2c-0 2246s 2 Degas.
To Col. Axel H. Oxholm, Washington, D. C.:

Mantha Washington =. 22-23 Soo Attributed to Ralph BH. Harl.
To Mrs. Huttleston Rogers, New York, N. Y.:

EROS CS eee a er Renoir.

The Artist and the Widow__________________ Forain.

Chemin dans le Brouillard__________________ Monet.

Ee: Tribanal de’ Pontoises Pissarro.

Weer JOUT Gpriy ere atte ee a es Sisley.

Roses in a Chinese Vase and Sculpture by

Maiilol 3 i seliis oe Poesy 3 reherk OCs ee ae Vuillard.
Maternityac. 3 0* 282 RE OO eee Gauguin.
oe ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

LOAN OF WORKS OF ART BY THE GALLERY

During the fiscal year 1947, the Gallery loaned the following works
of art for exhibition purposes:

Particulars Artist
To The Art Institute of Chicago, Chicago, Iil.:
3 rugs.
To M. Knoedler & Co., New York, N. Y.:
Ralph Waldo simerson22_ 22 ee es ae Thomas Sully.
To the National Collection of Fine Arts, Washing-
ton; D: ©: :
4 miniatures:
Louis de Bourbon, Prince de Conde_______ Petitot.
Henri Jules, Ducid}Albert2 422k ee Petitot.
Maria Miles Heyward__---____._-____._ Malbone.
Pin with painting of an eye of Maria
Miles) Heywardstt. 20s 2 Malbone.
To the Wildenstein Galleries, New York, N. Y.:
TeV eteVAG TKS By gfe a Oe 9 Aaa ae eae ious Ab) Lan Winslow Homer.
To the Society of the Cincinnati, Washington, D. C.:
Miexander Hamiltonesi@. 2s oe ee John Trumbull,
To the J. B. Speed Memorial Museum, Louisville,
Ky.:
Henry Clay. sles fore. 2) eee John James Audubon.
Henry “Laurens 22-35 Se dohn. Singleton’ Copley:
Andrew: Jackson 2243 tia rs) eae ye Ralph E. Earl.
VO WAit EG arto ry eee aa i ine John Wesley Jarvis.
Jane ‘Cutler’ Doane soos 20 See a ee Samuel King.
IW liana a as 2 at eee John Neagle.
General William Moultrie ..-.-- Charles Willson Peale.
George’ Washington soi 058 he a ey Rembrandt Peale.
Mas. Georze se oll] oc is ae Saal EN Gilbert Stuart.
Governor CharlesiRidgely. ==) 25. Thomas Sully.
James Monro eH sei 8 se ene yey Ler aaa John Vanderlyn.
NelE-Portraih co Uc cere nec wiae haanee nh RE Cy Benjamin West.
Mary Walton MOLris= ssn oy eee a John Wollaston.

To the Tate Gallery, London, England:
150 examples from the Index of American
Design.
To the U. S. Department of State, Blair-Lee House,
Washington, D. C.:

Dame Webstersnce =. on es eee ee a George P. A. Healy.
To the White House, Washington, D. C.:
Men of Progress 225" ethirs tn ae eee ee Schussele.
George Washington (porthole portrait)______ Rembrandt Peale.
Andrew Jackson. oes a Ory ae ee a Ralph EH. Earl.
EXHIBITIONS

The following exhibitions were held at the National Gallery of Art
during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1947:

Life of Christ as depicted in the etchings of Rembrandt. Prints from the
Rosenwald Collection and an anonymous lender, from May 14 to September 8, 1946.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 33

Audubon prints, “Birds of America.” Elephant folio set by John James Audu-
bon, from May 26 to July 28, 1946.

Music in prints. Prints from the Rosenwald Collection, from June 18 to Decem-
ber 8, 1946.

Made in America. One hundred and eleven water colors from the Index of
American Design, from August 4 to September 15, 1946.

American etchings, woodcuts, and lithographs. Prints from the collection of
the National Gallery of Art, from September 11 to October 2, 1946.

New acquisitions in the Rosenwald Collection. Additional prints and draw-
ings acquired by Lessing J. Rosenwald, from September 22 to December 1,
1946.

Sculpture, drawings, and prints by Rodin. From the collections of Mrs. John
W. Simpson and Lessing J. Rosenwald, from October 6 to December 12, 1946.

Paintings looted from Holland by the Nazis, returned through the efforts of
the United States Armed Forces. Forty-six paintings circulated under the
supervision of the Albright Art Gallery, Buffalo, N. Y.; scheduled for showing
at various museums throughout the country; shown at National Gallery from
December 7, 1946, to January 1, 1947.

Liber Studiorum, by J. M. W. Turner. Prints from the National Gallery
of Art collections, from December 10, 1946, to April 27, 1947.

The Christmas Story in prints. Prints from the National Gallery of Art
collections, from December 13, 1946, to February 5, 1947.

Prints and drawings by Alphonse Legros. Prints and drawings from the col-
lection of George Matthew Adams, of New York, from January 12 to February
16, 1947.

American paintings. Portraits from the collection cf the National Gallery of
Art, from February 23 to March 30, 1947.

Woodcuts, lithographs, and etchings by Paul Gauguin and Edvard Munch.
Prints by Gauguin lent anonymously, prints by Munch from the Rosenwald
Collection, from April 6 to May 30, 1947.

Indigenous Art of the Americas. Pre-Columbian art from the collection of
the Honorable Robert Woods Bliss, of Washington, D. C., from April 18, 1947,
to continue for an indefinite period.

Prints and drawings by William Blake. Prints from the National Gallery of
Art collections and loans, from April 29 to June 8, 1947.

Chiaroscuro woodcuts from the sixteenth through the eighteenth centuries.
Lent anonymously. Opened June 8, 1947.

Prints by James Abbott McNeill Whistler. Prints from the collection of the
National Gallery of Art, opened June 13, 1947.

TRAVELING EXHIBITIONS

Index of American Design. Exhibitions from this collection of
water colors, drawings, etc., have been shown during the fiscal year
1947 at the following places: Lyman Allyn Museum, New London,
Conn.; Seamen’s Bank for Savings, New York, N. Y.; Hood College,
Frederick, Md.; Dallas Museum of Fine Arts, Dallas, Tex.; North-
western University, Evanston, Ill.; Library of Congress, Washington,
D. C.; Lakeside Press Galleries, Chicago, Ill.; Philadelphia Museum
of Art, Philadelphia, Pa.; Massillon Museum, Massillon, Ohio; Col-
lege of Wooster, Wooster, Ohio; McMurray College for Women, Jack-
34 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

sonville, Ill.; Salt Lake City Junior League, Salt Lake City, Utah;
Palette Club, Ogden, Utah; Rockford Art Association, Rockford, I11.;
Speed Memorial Museum, Louisville, Ky.; N. W. Ayer Gallery, Phila-
delphia, Pa.; and the American Federation of Arts, Washington,
D. C., for circulation throughout the United States.

Rosenwald prints. During the fiscal year 1947 special exhibitions
of prints from the Rosenwald Collection were circulated to the follow-
ing places:

The Art Institute of Chicago, Chicago, IIL:

William Hogarth collection of engravings. October to November, 1946.
Duke University, Durham, N. C.:

Daumier loan exhibition. December 1946.
Philadelphia Museum of Art, Philadelphia, Pa.:

Survey of water color. Nine water colors, four miniatures, including Blake,
Fragonard, Gauguin, Rembrandt, Cameron, and McBey. February to
March, 1947.

The Mint Museum of Art, Charlotte, N. C.:

Daumier loan exhibition. February 1947.

California Palace of the Legion of Honor, San Francisco, Calif. :

Nineteenth-century French exhibition of drawings by Manet, Delacroix,
Daumier, Degas; from the Rosenwald and Hofer Collections. March 1947.

The University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, N. ©.:

Daumier loan exhibition. March 1947.

Detroit Institute of Arts, Detroit, Mich.:
Six centuries of prints. May to August, 1947.

Four exhibitions of Rosenwald prints were arranged and held at
Alverthorpe Gallery, Jenkintown, Pa.

VARIOUS GALLERY ACTIVITIES

During the period from July 1, 1946, through June 30, 1947, a total
of 52 Sunday evening concerts were given in the Kast Garden Court
of the Gallery. The concerts were free to the public, and were at-
tended by over 50,000 persons. During March 1947 five concerts were
devoted to American composers, comprising the Gallery’s Fourth
American Music Festival.

A total of 4,056 copies of press releases, 130 special permits to copy
paintings in the Gallery, and 107 special permits to photograph in the
Gallery were issued during the year.

Of the seven 16-mm. sound prints of the film, National Gallery of
Art, originally owned by the Gallery, three have been sent to foreign
countries. The first gift was to the National Gallery of Victoria,
Melbourne, Australia; another print was deposited with the Amer-
ican Embassy in Paris on indefinite loan, and later was given to the
Embassy; a third print was given to the American Embassy in Lis-
bon, Portugal.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 35

The film was made available to 16 institutions and individuals dur-
ing the year. One of the 16-mm. prints was on loan in South Carolina
for several months during the winter, in which time it was viewed
by approximately 3,000 people.

INDEX OF AMERICAN DESIGN

For the period from July 1, 1946, to June 30, 1947, reproductions
of Index material were used in a number of magazines, including
Fortune, Life, Antiques, The American Collector, Architectural Re-
view, and Art in America. There were 118 new users of the Index
this year, and 24 people revisited the collection. The great majority
of them made a special trip to Washington for the purpose of study-
ing Index material. They included a university class in American
art, designers, manufacturers, artists interested in design motifs,
authors, editors, publishers, etc. A total of 1,048 photographs of
Index designs were sold for use in commercial design by individuals
and by firms, for hobbies, for publications, for teaching purposes, for
publicity, and for reference and exhibitions. During the year 449
new slides were made of Index material for use in lectures.

INTER-AMERICAN OFFICE

During the fiscal year 1947 the Inter-American Office of the Na-
tional Gallery of Art has continued to devote its efforts to the circu-
lation of exhibitions in the other American Republics. These exhibi-
tions, two of original works of art and six consisting of photographic
panels, have been very well received in Latin America.

CURATORIAL DEPARTMENT

During the past year there were 1,510 new accessions by the Gallery
as gifts, loans, or deposits, including paintings, sculpture, prints, and
the decorative arts. These accessions were registered and the great
majority placed on exhibition, or in the case of prints, placed on file
and available to the public. A total of 161 works of art were brought
to the Gallery for expert opinion, and 92 visits were made to collec-
tions of private individuals in connection with offers of gift or loan,
or possible acquisitions for the Gallery. The curatorial staff made 290
written and 293 verbal replies to questions from the public requiring
research. During the year 17 lectures and 3 lecture courses were
given by members of the curatorial staff.

Other activities of the Curatorial Department include the follow-
ing: The collections of paintings and drawings belonging to the French
and the Belgian Governments were packed and dispatched to Europe
during this year; the collection of American paintings assembled by
36 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

the Gallery for exhibition at the Tate Gallery in England was re-
ceived, unpacked, inspected, and returned to its original owners; a
collection of 46 paintings from Dutch sources was received, exhibited,
and dispatched on its tour of the United States; and the Bliss Collec-
tion of Pre-Columbian Art was exhibited in a special installation ar-
ranged by the curatorial staff at the entrance of the central gallery.
The cataloging and filing of photographs in the Richter Archive is
now four-fifths finished.

RESTORATION AND REPAIR OF WORKS OF ART

With the authorization of the Board and the approval of the Chief
Curator the necessary restoration and repair of works of art in the
Gallery’s collection were made by Stephen S. Pichetto, Consultant
Restorer to the Gallery. All work was completed in the Restorer’s
studio in the Gallery.

EDUCATIONAL PROGRAM

The survey tours of the whole collection continue to be a vital part
of the Educational Department’s program, satisfying the demand of
the many sightseers and newcomers to Washington who feel the need
for a general introduction to the Gallery asa whole. More than 10,000
persons attended the General, Congressional, and Wing Tours, while
over 27,000 attended the Gallery Talks and the Picture of the Week.
Approximately 28,000 came to hear the lectures and other programs
in the auditorium. Special appointments, tours, and conferences were
arranged for 2,169 persons. The Educational Department has con-
tinued the publication of a printed monthly announcement of all the
Gallery’s activities. It has a circulation of 5,900 copies.

LIBRARY

A total of 1,076 books, 467 pamphlets, and 596 periodicals were
given to the National Gallery of Art; 20 books were purchased and
27 periodicals were subscribed to. A total of 59 books, 119 pamphlets,
and 393 bulletins were received on exchange from other institutions;
204 photographs and 80 slides were presented as gifts to the library.
Outstanding among the gifts were 75 American history books, par-
ticularly useful as background material for the Index of American
Design. This year, 2,054 books were borrowed and returned, 1,986 of
which were borrowed from the Library of Congress. For the remain-
ing 68, the Gallery is indebted to museum and university libraries and
public libraries.

PHOTOGRAPHIC DEPARTMENT

During the year the photographic laboratory of the Gallery made
17,111 prints, 506 black-and-white slides, and 1,729 color slides, in
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 37

addition to 2,170 negatives, and 87 X-rays, infrared photographs,
ultraviolet photographs, and color separation negatives.

OTHER GIFTS

During the year gifts of books on art and related material were
made to the Gallery Library by Paul Mellon, David K. E. Bruce, the
Victoria and Albert Museum, Chester Dale, Miss Fernande L. Herr-
man, and Dr. Herbert Friedmann. Gifts of money during the fiscal
year 1947 were made by Paul Mellon, Mrs. Maude Monell Vetlesen, and
David E. Finley. A sum of money was anonymously given with the
provision that the income therefrom will be available for the acquisi-
tion of contemporary works of art by American artists, and for prizes
and awards to American artists.

AUDIT OF PRIVATE FUNDS OF THE GALLERY

An audit has been made of the private funds of the Gallery for the
fiscal year ended June 30, 1947, by Price, Waterhouse & Co., public
accountants, and the certificate of that company on its examination of
the accounting records maintained for such funds will be forwarded to
the Gallery.

Respectfully submitted.

HountTineton Carrns,
Secretary.
THE SECRETARY,
Smithsonian Institution,
APPENDIX 3
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS

Str: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activities
of the National Collection of Fine Arts for the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1947:

THE SMITHSONIAN ART COMMISSION

The twenty-fourth annual meeting of the Smithsonian Art Com-
mission was held on Friday, December 6, 1946, having been postponed
from its regular date, the first Tuesday in December. The members
assembled at 10:30 a. m., in the Smithsonian Building to pass on the
works of art which had been offered during the year. The following
action was taken:

Accepted for the National Collection of Fine Arts

Oil painting, Self Portrait, by G. P. A. Healy (1813-94). Gift of Ruel P. Tolman.

Oil painting, A Morning in Summer, by Leonard Ochtman, N. A. (1854-1934).
Henry Ward Ranger bequest.

Plaster bust of Charles Henry Niehaus, by Adolph Alexander Weinman, N. A.
(1870- ). Gift of Miss Marie J. Niehaus.

Plaster plaque of Joseph Pennell, by John Flanagan (1865- ). Gift of Miss
A. Margaretta Archambault.

Raku tea bowl, made by Yanagisawa Kien (1703-58). Gift of Miss Catharine
McK. Ames,

Miniature, Portrait of a Man, by George Catlin (1796-1872). Gift of Bernard N.
Burnstine:

Twenty-two miniatures and one silver medal. Gift of Mrs. Henry DuPré
Bounetheau :

Mrs. Arthur Middleton (1791-1840) (Alicia Hopton Russell), by Henry B.
Bounetheau (1797-1877), after the original by Andrew Robertson, 1886.
Peter Bounetheau in Magistrate’s Robes (1742-98), father of the artist,
by Henry B. Bounetheau, after head of the Benbridge miniature.

Peter Bounetheau (1742-98), by Henry Benbridge (1744-1812).

Mrs. John Middleton (Mary Burroughs), by Henry B. Bounetheau, after
an English artist.

Self Portrait, 1867, after picture when 50 years old, by Henry B. Bounetheau.

Mrs. Henry B. Bounetheau (1822-69) (Julia Clarkson DuPré), by Henry
B. Bounetheau.

Henry DuPré Bounetheau, 1849 (1842-1901), by Henry B. Bounetheau.

Mme. Julia DuPré, about 1830, mother of Mrs. Henry B. Bounetheau, by a
French artist.

38
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 39

Henry Gourdin, of Charleston, godfather of the artist’s son, by Henry B.
Bounetheau.

Portrait of an Unknown Man, painted about 1838-42, by Henry B. Bounetheau.

Portrait of an Unknown Woman, painted about 1840-60, by Henry B.
Bounetheau.

Portrait of an Unknown Woman, by an English artist.

Napoleon as General, by Henry B. Bounetheau, after Sully, after Appiani.

King Lear in the Storm, by Henry B. Bounetheau, after Sir Joshua Reynolds.

George Washington, by Henry B. Bounetheau, after Gilbert Stuart.

Henry B. Bounetheau’s Aunt, c. 1804, by Edward Greene Malbone (1777-1807).

Portrait of an Unknown Woman, by an unknown artist.

Frances Anne Kemble (1809-93), by Henry B. Bounetheau, after Thomas
Sully.

General George Washington, by Henry B. Bounetheau, after the Trumbull
at Charleston, 8. C.

Napoleon Bonaparte, by Henry B. Bounetheau, after Favre.

Unmasked, by Henry B. Bounetheau, after a colored engraving by W.
Nicholas, after the painting by Mrs. Pierson, published in London, April
1, 1831, by J. Brookes.

Sleeping Beauty, by Henry B. Bounetheau.

Silver medal awarded to Mr. Bounetheau for the best miniatures on ivory,
by The South Carolina Institute, 1849.

Accepted for the Smithsonian Institution

Bronze statue, Ecstasy, by Francisco Albert. Gift of the sculptor.

Celadon vase, made by Makuzu Kozan. Gift of Milo EH. Hmmerson.

The members then met in the Regents Room, adjacent, for further
proceedings of the annual meeting. The meeting was called to order
by the chairman, Mr. Manship, at 11:25 a.m.

The members present were: Paul Manship, chairman; Dr. Alexander
Wetmore, secretary (member, ex officio) ; and Robert W. Bliss, John
N. Brown, George H. Edgell, David E. Finley, George H. Myers,
Archibald G. Wenley, and James E. Fraser. Ruel P. Tolman, Director
of the National Collection of Fine Arts, also attended.

The resignation of Louis Ayres was submitted and accepted with
regret. The secretary was instructed to write Mr. Ayres expressing
the appreciation of the Commission for his valuable services while
a member,

The resignation of Frank J. Mather, a charter member, was sub-
mitted and accepted with regret. The secretary was instructed to
invite Mr. Mather to all future meetings, and to inform him that the
Commission would consider him a member emeritus.

The Commission recommended to the Board of Regents the name
of William T. Aldrich to succeed Mr. Ayres, and Lloyd Goodrich
to succeed Mr. Mather.

The Commission recommended the re-election of John Taylor Arms,
Gifford Beal, and Gilmore D. Clarke for the usual 4-year period.

7T77488—48-—__4
40 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

The following officers were elected for the ensuing year: Paul
Manship, chairman; Robert Woods Bliss, vice chairman; and Dr.
Alexander Wetmore, secretary.

The following were elected members of the executive committee for
the ensuing year: David E. Finley, chairman, Robert Woods Bliss,
and Gilmore D. Clarke. Paul Manship, as chairman of the Commis-
sion, and Dr. Alexander Wetmore, as secretary of the Commission, are
ex officio members of the executive committee.

THE CATHERINE WALDEN MYER FUND

Nine miniatures, water color on ivory unless otherwise stated, were
acquired from the fund established through the bequest of the late
Catherine Walden Myer, as follows:

55. Portrait of an Officer, signed “Rockstuhl, fec.’; from James W. Lane,
Chevy Chase, Md.

56. Portrait of a Young Man, by unknown artist; from James W. Lane, Chevy
Chase, Md.

57. Portrait of a Gentleman, by Henry Inman, N. A. (1801-46), water color
on paper; from Mrs. Dorothy Draper Hamlen Sale, Parke-Bernet Galleries,
Ine., New York City.

58. Portrait of a Gentleman, by Thomas Seir Cummings (1804-94) ; from
Mrs. Dorothy Draper Hamlen Sale, Parke-Bernet Galleries, Inc., New York City.

59. Joseph W. Faber of Charleston, S. C., by Charles Fraser (1782-1860) ;
from Mrs. Dorothy Draper Hamlen Sale, Parke-Bernet Galleries, Inc., New
York City.

60. Alexander Rose, by John Ramage (before 1763-1802); from Mrs,
Dorothy Draper Hamlen Sale, Parke-Bernet Galleries, Inc., New York City.

61. Harriet Hampton, by Charles Fraser (1782-1860) ; from Mrs. Dorothy
Draper Hamlen Sale, Parke-Bernet Galleries, Inc., New York City.

62. Roger Brooke Taney (1777-1864), by unknown artist; from Mamie C.
Faulconer, Alexandria, Va.

63. Little Girl with Doll, by John Carlin (1813-91) ; from Hdmund Bury,
Philadelphia, Pa.

LOANS ACCEPTED

Two enamel miniature portraits of Louis de Bourbon, Prince de
Conde, and Henri Jules, Duc d’Albret, by Jean Petitot, the Younger
(b. 1653), with frames by Gilles Legare de Chaumont (1610-c1653),
and two miniatures on ivory, a Portrait of Maria Miles Heyward
(Mrs. William Drayton), and her “Eye,” by Edward Greene
Malbone, about 1803, were lent by the National Gallery of Art, with
the permission of the donor, Lessing J. Rosenwald, on March 6, 1947.

One miniature on ivory, Portrait of Robert Goodloe Harper (1765-
1825), by Benjamin Trott, was lent by the family of Robert Goodloe
Harper Speed, on June 27, 1947.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 41

WITHDRAWALS BY OWNERS

Two Bohemian glass vases, lent in 1928, were withdrawn by the
owner, Mrs. Robert Lee Preston, on August 2, 1946.

A collection of 22 pieces of porcelain and bronzes, lent in 1918, was
withdrawn by the owner, Mrs. Geraldine L. Hitchcock, on April 3,
1947.

An oil painting, Portrait of Mrs. Stephen Decatur (Susan
Wheeler), by Gilbert Stuart, and four crayon drawings on paper, by
Saint Memin, of Ann Decatur Pine, Capt. James McKnight, Capt.
Stephen Decatur, Sr., and Ann Pine McKnight Decatur, lent in 1948,
were withdrawn by the owner, Mrs. William F. Machold, on April 15,
1947.

An oil painting, Portrait of Hon. Charles Evans Hughes, by
George Burroughs Torrey, lent in 1936, and a marble bust of Hon.
Charles Evans Hughes, by Bryant Baker, lent in 1943, were with-
drawn by the owner, Mr. Hughes, on May 21, 1947.

Five oil paintings, Hildegarde, Poinsettia, Maternity, The Old
Miniature, and Study of a Young Woman, by Wallace Bryant, and a
photomechanical reproduction of The Age of Innocence, lent in 1916,
were withdrawn by the owner, Wallace Bryant, on June 6, 1947.

An oil painting, Portrait of Lt. Gen. Mark W. Clark, by M. Arnold
Nash, lent in 1944, was withdrawn by the owner, Mrs. Mark W. Clark,
on June 9, 1947.

LOANS TO OTHER MUSEUMS AND ORGANIZATIONS

An oil painting, Portrait of Stephen Decatur, by Gilbert Stuart,
was lent to M. Knoedler & Co., Inc., New York City, for their Wash-
ington Irving Exhibition, October 8 to 26, 1946. (Returned October
29, 1946.)

Two oil paintings, Old Church at Giverny, and La Vachere, by
Theodore Robinson, were lent to the Brooklyn Museum, Brooklyn,
N. Y., to be included in an exhibition of the work of the artist, Novem-
ber 12, 1946, to January 5, 1947.

Two plaster busts (bronzed), George Washington, and Thomas
Jefferson, by Houdon, and four vases, were lent to The White House
December 3, 1946, for an indefinite period.

An oil painting, Portrait of Herbert Hoover, by Edmund C. Tar-
bell, was lent to The Century Association for an exhibition of portraits
of members who were Presidents of the United States, January 9 to
February 16,1947. (Returned February 27, 1947.)

Two oil paintings, Entrance to the Harbor, and Groton Long Point
Dunes, by Henry Ward Ranger, and four miniatures, Mrs. Putnam
42 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

Catlin and Portrait of a Man, by George Catlin, and John Trumbull
Ray and Portrait of a Gentleman, by Thomas S. Cummings, were lent
to the Lyman Allyn Museum, New London, Conn., to be included in
their Fifteenth Anniversary Exhibition, Eighty Eminent Painters of
Connecticut, March 9 to April 20, 1947. (Returned April 28, 1947.)

An oil painting, The Signing of the Treaty of Ghent, 1814, by Sir
Amedee Forestier, was lent April 3, 1947, to the Committee on Un-
American Activities, to be hung in its committee room for an indefinite
period.

Two oil paintings, At Nature’s Mirror, and Sunset, Navarro Ridge,
California Coast, by Ralph Albert Blakelock, were lent to the Whitney
Museum of American Art, New York City, to be included in an ex-
hibition of paintings by the artist, April 21 through May 29, 1947.
(Returned June 6, 1947.)

LOANS RETURNED

An oil painting, Fired On, by Frederic Remington, lent to The White
House, June 7, 1945, was returned July 17, 1946.

THE HENRY WARD RANGER FUND

No. 69. South Dakota Evening, by Jes W. Schlaikjer, A. N. A.
(1897- ), previously assigned to Vassar College, Poughkeepsie, N. Y..,
was reassigned November 21, 1946, to San Joaquin Pioneer and His-
torical Society, Stockton, Calif.

The following two paintings were recalled for action on the part
of the Smithsonian Art Commission, in accordance with the provision
in the Ranger bequest. The Smithsonian Art Commission decided not
to accept the paintings and they were returned to the museums to
which they were originally assigned:

No. 7. The Shrine of the Rain Gods, by B. Irving Couse, N. A. (1866-1936) ,
assigned to the Toledo Museum of Art, Toledo, Ohio.

No. 112. Medieval Art, by Edwin H. Blashfield, N. A. (1848-1936), assigned
to the William Rockhill Nelson Gallery of Art, Kansas City, Mo.

THER NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINKE ARTS REFERENCE LIBRARY

A total of 405 publications (255 volumes and 150 pamphlets) were
accessioned. This number includes 162 volumes and 41 pamphlets
purchased, the priced auction catalogs of the Parke-Bernet Galleries
accounting for 44 volumes and 82 pamphlets. The other accessions
were publications received by exchange, gift, or transfer. The year’s
additions brought the total library accessions to 10,540, plus the vol-
umes of serials formerly accessioned by the Museum Library for the
National Gallery of Art, now the National Collection of Fine Arts.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 43
SPECIAL EXHIBITIONS

June 28 through July 21, 1946.—Exhibition of 33 pieces of sculpture
in bronze, marble, obsidian, wood, and stone, by Francisco Albert, of
Mexico, held under the patronage of His Excellency, Senor Dr. Don.
Antonio de los Monteros, the Mexican Ambassador to the United
States. A catalog was privately printed.

July 3 through 21, 1946—Exhibition of 72 Swedish wartime car-
toons, sponsored by the American Scandinavian Foundation and the
Sverige-Amerika Stiftelsen.

August 10 through September 25, 1946—Smithsonian Centennial
Exhibition. The National Collection of Fine Arts endeavored to
honor those who had contributed to its collections, with examples of
their gifts. About 50 specimens, covering 100 years, were shown.

October 3 through November 3, 1946.—An oil painting, Portrait of
President Harry S. Truman, by John Slavin, of Richmond, Va., was
shown in Gallery 2.

October 9 through 29, 1946.—The Fifty-sixth Annual Exhibition of
the Society of Washington Artists, consisting of 103 specimens of
paintings and sculpture.

November 6 through 29, 1946.—The Ninth Metropolitan State Art
Contest, held under the auspices of the District of Columbia Chapter,
American Artist’s Professional League, assisted by the Entre Nous
Club, consisting of 299 specimens of paintings, sculpture, prints,
ceramics, and metalcraft.

December 12, 1946, through January 12, 1947.—The Forty-fifth An-
nual Exhibition of Miniatures by The Pennsylvania Society of Minia-
ture Painters, consisting of 73 miniatures. Reprint of catalog used in
Philadelphia.

March 7 through 30, 1947.—The Fifty-first Annual Exhibition of
the Washington Water Color Club, consisting of 258 paintings and
prints. A catalog was privately printed.

March? through 30, 1947.—The Fourteenth Annual Exhibition of
The Miniature Painters, Sculptors and Gravers Society of Washington,
D. C., consisting of 144 examples. A catalog was privately printed.

April 10 through 30, 1947.—Exhibition of 18 paintings, 4 pieces of
sculpture, and photographs, by Hugh Almaraz, of Bolivia, was held
under the patronage of His Excellency, the Ambassador of Bolivia and
Sefiora de Martinez Vargas, and the Pan American Union. A catalog
was printed by the Pan American Union.

June 4 through 29, 1947. —Exhibition of 29 Hawaiian Flower Panels
in pastel, by Maurice Kidjel, was held under the patronage of the Dele-
gate to Congress from Hawaii and Mrs. Joseph R. Farrington. A
catalog was privately printed.
44 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

The writer, who for some years had been Acting Director, was ap-
pointed Director of the National Collection of Fine Arts on July 28,
1946.

Respectfully submitted.

R. P. Totman, Director.

Dr. A. Wermore,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 4
REPORT ON THE FREER GALLERY OF ART

Sir: I have the honor to submit the twenty-seventh annual report
on the Freer Gallery of Art for the year ended June 30, 1947.

THE COLLECTIONS
Additions to the collections by purchase were as follows:

BRONZE

46.18. Chinese (Ordos) ; Han dynasty (207 B. C.-A. D. 220). Hemispherical bowl
with slightly everted lip; brown patina with areas of malachite and
earthy encrustation; welded to one side is a flat horizontal handle on
which stands the figure of a mule cast in the round. 0.106 x 0.182 x
0.128.

46.31. Chinese, Shang dynasty (1766-1122 B. C.). Ceremonial vessel of the type
ting, light grayish-green patina with some encrustation; areas of mala-
chite, azurite, and cuprite inside; decorated with casting in intaglio and
relief ; inscription of three characters. (Illustrated.) 0.354 x 0.282.

47.1. Chinese, 4th-3d century B. C. Folding bronze tripodal stand in three
parts; decorated with gold and silver inlay. 0.574 (over all, folded).

GLASS

46.29. Chinese, T‘ang dynasty (A. D. 618-906). Oblate bowl with broad base
smaller mouth, thickened lip, and deeply concave base; thick green glass,
surface ground on outside except for small transparent area in center
of base; inside roughened and iridescent with deterioration; rust stain
on base. 0.080 x 0.147.

GOLD

46.20— Chinese, T‘ang dynasty (A. D. 618-906). Pair of Apsarases modeled in

46.21. the round in flying position with flowing robes; scarves and jeweled
streamers in filigree work around bodies; crowns and floral necklaces ;
extended hands hold lotus flowers; ears pierced for earrings; each on
an intricate filigree cloud pattern support. 0.087 x 0.088 x 0.027; 0.037
x 0.081 x 0.024.

46.22. Chinese, Six dynasties period (A. D. 265-589). Pair of plaques, each a
thin sheet of gold with a winged horse in repoussé relief; vine patterns
in background and double border of V pattern; fragments of plaster
adhering to reverse side of each. 0.075 x 0.120 x 0.019; 0.075 x 0.120 x
0.016.

JADE
47.10. Chinese, 5th-3d century B. ©. Cylindrical covered cup of Kotan nephrite ;
supported on three small feet; annular handle on one side; decoration

carved in relief and intaglio; three small coiled dragons on cover.
(Illustrated.) 0.170 x 0.098.

45
46

46.12.

47.2.

47.3.

47.4

47.6

47.7

46.13.

46.16

46.17.

46.26

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

MANUSCBIPT

Persian, A. D. 1556-1565. Haft Awrang (“Seven Thrones”), the sever
mathnavi poems of Jami; book of 303 folios plus 1 added folio ; 28 minia-
ture paintings in gold and color; illuminated headpieces, tailpieces, and
space fillers; margins of various colors with bird and flower patterns
in red and gold; repairs on some pages; lacquered binding 19th century.
0.342 x 0.232 (page size).

Armenian, A. D. 10th century. Page from a Gospel manuscript on parch-
ment; canon tables on both sides; brown-black writing and decorations
in red, yellow, and purple; torn and stained on edges. 0.828 x 0.246.

Armenian, A. D. 10th century. Page from a Gospel manuscript on parch-
ment; on reverse: canon table; on obverse: the four evangelists standing
in arches; brown-black writing and decorations in red, yellow, and
purple; torn and stained on edges. 0.384 x 0.251.

Armenian, A. D. 10th century. Page from a Gospel manuscript on parch-
ment; canon tables on both sides ; brown-black writing and decoration in
red, yellow, and purple; torn and stained on edges. 0.329 x 0.248.

Persian, A. D. 1557. Leaf from Yusuf u-Zulaikha by Jami; Persian text in
small nasia‘lig script; manuscript leaf inlaid in larger leaf of red-brown
paper with border designs in gold; recto: horses in rock landscape;
verso: floral scrolls with feline heads devouring antelopes; wormholes
and small tears along two edges. 0.251 x 0.248.

Persian, A. D. 1557. Leaf from Yusuf u-Zulaikhdad by Jami; Persian text in
small nasta‘lig script; manuscript leaf inlaid in larger leaf of grayish-
brown paper with border designs in gold; recto: floral scrolls and
arabesques; verso: lions, foxes, and birds in landscape; wormboles.
0.252 x 0.149.

PAINTING

Persian, A. D. middle i6th century. Winter scene: Sifi and courtier
conversing at a shrine; color; three lines of nasta‘ltg script in upper left
corner ; set in an old album mount with floral designs and writing in red
nasta‘liq script. 0.828 x 0.226.

Persian, A. D. 1341, Mongol (Il-Khian) period, Injii school. Leaf from a
manuscript of Mu’nis al-Ahrdr fi Daqd'iq al-Ash‘dr: The Moon and
Fish ; 12 different kinds of birds in two registers; text in black naskhi
seript; paper torn and colors rubbed in places; old repairs and modern
margin. 0.195 x 0.134.

Persian, A. D. middle 14th century, Mongol (Il-Khin) period, Injii school.
Leaf from a Shénadmah: Arzu, the jeweler’s daughter plays before Bah-
ram Gur; colors and gold; paint on three faces rubbed off; text in black
nashi seript; red rulings; marginal additions in nasta‘lig. 0.290 x
0.209.

Indian, Akbar period (A. D. 1556-1605), Mughal. Lion hunt in a moun-
tainous landscape; colors and gold; cut-out passages in nasta‘liq seript
around painting; on reverse: four lines of Persian poetry in nasta‘lig
script ; slightly torn; bits of paint chipped off. 0.186 x 0.106.

Persian, Timirid period (A. D. ca. 1425-1450), Samarquand school,
Ulugh Beg with ladies of his harem and retainers; colors and gold; six
lines of Persian poetry in nasta‘lig script in lower left corner; cuts and
breaks in paper. (Illustrated.) 0.317 x 0.241.
Secretary's Report, 1947.—Appendix 4 PLATE 1

46.30

RECENT ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTION OF THE FREER GALLERY OF ART
Secretary's Report, 1947.—Appendix 4 PLATE 2

46.31

RECENT ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTION OF THE FREER GALLERY OF ART
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY AT

46.27. Indian, Rajput period (A. D. 17th century), Rajasthani, probably Jaipur
school. Woman holding a vind and flower under a tree with a deer,
attracted by the music, in front of her; drawing in black on yellowish
paper ; on reverse: small drawing of bust of a woman in black and gold;
small stains, tears, and some flaking. 0.166 x 0.113.

46.28 Indian, Mughal period (A. D. ca. 1619), school of Jahangir. Durbar scene

of Jahangir ; colors and gold ; mounted on an album leaf; two inscriptions
and identification notes; slight flaking. 0.169 x 0.123.

47.5. Arabic (Mesopotamia), A. D. 1224. Baghdad school. Illustration from
an Arabie manuscript of the Materia Medica of Dioscorides; the Greek
physician Hrasistratos lying on a low bench with an assistant standing
in front of him; opaque colors and gold; text on both sides in naskhi
script; a few wormholes and tears. 0.322 x 0.248.

PAINTING AND MANUSCRIPT

46.15. Persian, A. D. 16th-17th century. Composite leaf consisting of a drawing of
Dancing Stfis by Ustad Muhammadi of Herat, a painting of A Cluster of
Primroses by Murad, a page of prose in nasta‘lig script, and a page of
poetry in nasta‘lig by Shih Mahmid; old album mounting with floral
decoration in gold. 0.450 x 0.303.

POTTERY

46.24, Chinese, Ch‘ing dynasty, Yung-chéng period (A. D. 1723-1786). Small
bottle-shaped vase with tall neck and flaring lip; white porcelain covered
with pale opaque blue-gray glaze called “claire de lune”; brown dressing
on raw footrim; four-character mark in underglaze blue on base.
0.101 x 0.070.

46.25. Chinese, Yiian dynasty (A. D. 1279-1868), Lung-ch‘iian. Wase with oc-
tagonal body, spreading foot, swelling body, and short tapering neck;
grayish-white porcelain covered with thick opaque gray-green crackled
glaze inset with 24 panels of reddish-brown biscuit showing human figures
and floral patterns molded in relief. 0.275 x 0.175.

46.30. Egyptian, Fatimid period (A. D. 11th-12th century). Bowl on low foot rim ;
soft, fine-grained reddish clay covered with white tin glaze; decorated,
inside: a dancing girl in yellow gold luster; outside: irregular circles and
markings in reddish luster now partly rubbed off; repairs, five missing
sherds replaced by painted plaster. (Illustrated.) 0.067 x 0.261.

47.8. Mesopotamian, A. D. 12th century, Rakka. Bowl with wide everted rim
and low foot; coarse whitish clay covered with transparent green glaze;
decorations under glaze painted in black on white slip showing a heron;
repairs, two pieces of rim missing. 0.076 x 0.266.

47.9, Persian, Mongol period (about A. D. 13800), Sultanabad. Deep bow] with
wide horizontal rim flange and foot rim; grayish medium-grained clay
covered with clear transparent glaze over decoration in black outline and
brown slip showing a running gazelle; lower body and foot unglazed;
two small repairs on rim flange. 0.148 x 0.270.

SILVER

46.19. Chinese, Han dynasty (207 B. C.—-A. D. 220). Plaque of solid, low-grade
silver; rough and tarnished; obverse shows a leaping wolflike dog cast
in relief; reverse is rough and pitted with bits of earth and malachite in
some cavities. 0.099 x 0.157 x 0.013.
AS ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

The work of the staff members has been devoted to the study of new
accessions, of objects submitted for purchase, and to general research
work within the collections of Chinese, Japanese, Arabic, Persian,
and Indian materials. The preparation of materials for publication
has continued. Reports, oral or written, were made upon 3,679 ob-
jects and 1,511 reproductions of objects submitted for examination;
and 3538 Oriental language inscriptions were translated.

REPAIRS TO THE COLLECTIONS

A total of 27 objects were remounted or repaired as follows:

Chinese’ calligraphy ;remounted= = eee a
Chinese ‘paintings'remounted 222 ae ee Fi
Japanese paintines@remounted ssh a ee 12
Hast Christian panting remounted== ==. eee al
Persian miniature \remounted) 2U oe Gwe ee Ane eee if!
Greek ‘manuscriptipages* repaired 02% Skt 2 ea eee eee 2
Indian paintings repaired soft sA i ae Mele Se ee ee ee eee ak
Japanese painting repaired. =. sa eee ee eee 1
Persian painting repaired tsa 2a ee se ee eee 1

CHANGES IN EXHIBITIONS

Eight hundred forty-four changes in exhibitions were made as
follows:

American arts:

ID TCHIN 2 Se eee ee oreo 15
1 OVE OVoy age 0) oS ee ee a eee 15
Byzantine arts:
COV Ks BA ee ee ee ee eee 24
ERO C1 CTY Cea ae a re 3
Bactrianvarts))MetalwoOrks= see ee ee ee eee 4
Chinese arts:
Bamboo wood\icatvin ge eee en ao ee ee 6
15 0) 0) 1< naa es le NGI oe ae eee Vn Dee oe ee ee ee 101
OF ois Dement ek ee ene ee eee ee ee 11
Tron and) 2010 ae eee ae re 2
AE (re ee ee eee eee 49
DW Yel hi (2) eee a et a ARLE OE Ce a eee a 3
sara Gir i ee eee a ee 124
POE COT yee a ea a 230
Sth (21 ann a A eee A ae 2
Stone: Sculpt a a Ee a ee ee +
YU => qm; Meee SR PUN See ee ae »
Christian arts:
Armenian manuscripts 32 ee ee 25
Armenian manuscript pagess2= == eee ae eee en 8
Coptic’ manuscript: pages222 2222 ee ee ee 6
Greek" manuscripts! 2. 235 ee ee eee een a eee 10
Greekmanuscript pagcese 22 eee eee eh ee a 18

Greek painting. oe ee eee seen eee eee 13
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 49

Indian arts:

GRY OY 0 72 Yes EIR Ted eR eR a) aed nn 9 oa eee eee eee al

IManUSCLIDE (02S Cs ete aie ne eee ee eee 2

DEERME NS eo oe eee ere 101

Stone seulp tures. ti ea Ts eee Ee Se 3
Japanese arts jPaintingsss? <i ote e se Bee seas eee Sele ess 6
ICOTEANY ALiS se ROtlery. 202 2 A. ee ee ts 2
Persian arts:

CE] ae a en re 2

VRE Sally OY a ee ere ee ee ge ee ees 14
Syrian arts:

SES 769 SS eee ele ae ee Re en ee 5

GLASS eee ES 2 AEP AARPNNN Aa SOS 2 oe a 8 Beh ee 13

In connection with the Centennial celebration of the Smithsonian
Institution a special exhibition showing representative examples of
Chinese art from the Neolithic age to the eighteenth century was
assembled in Gallery XIII from the material in the collections. A
special Gallery Book accompanied this exhibition.

In connection with the Symposium on Byzantine Studies held at the
Dumbarton Oaks Research Library and Collection a special exhibition
of late classical and early Christian art was assembled in Gallery VI
from materials in the collections.

STUDY COLLECTIONS

A notable addition to the study collections of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution was the material given by Dr. Ernst Herzfeld, of Princeton,
N. J. This gift, known as the Herzfeld Archive, was made to the
Smithsonian Institution with proviso that it be deposited in, and held
under the direction of, the Freer Gallery of Art, but not to be consid-
ered a part of the Freer Collection. Dr. Herzfeld’s letter of trans-
mittal to Dr. Wetmore was dated April 24, 1946, and the material
reached the Gallery on June 6; but the time required to unpack the
cases and make a preliminary check of the contents prevented its inclu-
sion in the annual report dated July 1, 1946.

The material was collected by Dr. Herzfeld between the years
1903 and 1936 in the course of archeological expeditions to the Near
East which included excavations at Samarra, Sistan, Pasargadae, and
Persepolis. While a detailed catalog has yet to be completed, the
following brief list suggests the scope and nature of the Archive:

1. 80 wooden boxes containing 50 negatives each. Catalog of the nega-
tives. 16 files of blueprints.

2. Several hundred large drawings, water colors, plans and maps of Oriental
buildings, sculpture, objects of art, ete. A number of squeezes of
inscriptions.

8. 45 sketchbooks of original surveys made in the field. A number of box

files with notes, texts of inscriptions, inventories, dummies for publica-
tions, etc.
50 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

4. 95 objects including pottery and metalwork of no special material value,
but of some scientific interest.

It is the donor’s wish that these materials be used for study and
publication by members of the Institution staff and other qualified
scholars, and that the objects be available for exhibition in the Institu-
tion at the discretion of the Director of the Freer Gallery of Art.

ATTENDANCE

The Gallery was open to the public from 9 to 4:30 every day
except Christmas Day. The total number of visitors to come in
the main entrance was 107,237. The weekday total was 80,031, and
the Sunday total was 27,206. The average weekday attendance was
256, the average Sunday attendance, 523. The highest monthly at-
tendance was in April with 15,794 visitors; the lowest, in February
with 4,053 visitors.

There were 1,915 visitors to the main office during the year; the
purposes of their visits were as follows:

Por veneralointorma tions. oe ea ee eee eee eee 1, 559
To‘see.stafl members22 222 ee eee 96
Mo read tthe Library ese lel ve leks es aE a7 ea 250
To make sketches and tracings from library books_______--_--_ 9
To.see building andsinstallations!{—-— === ee eee 18
To make photographs in Court and sketches in the exhibition
GET IES gS  R  R y A el n gea od pyo  eo 27
To examine, borrow, or purchase photographs and slides_____- 389
To ‘submit objects:for examination&.* 422 eee 471
To see objects in storage:
Washington Manuscripts2—_ -— 25) eee Stee es 49
Far Hastern paintings and textiles_____._____--__--__- 74
Near Hastern paintings and manuscripts___________-- 28
Tibetanwnaintings= Ss s= Se eee 5
Indian paintings and manuscripts_________---------- 9
American paintings ==" 228 seo eee 28
ATCT CAM AO COCT Yee ee ee  E aE OS Ne re 3
Wihistier prints 2242S ee 19
Oriental pottery, jade, bronze, lacquer, and bamboo_--- 83
Gold treasure and Byzantine objects__-_--_-_----_--- 15
FANT SCUID CUT Ce a ee ee eas 10
Syrianiandother glasss2= 2-0-2 se eee 4
— 327

DOCENT SERVICE, LECTURES, MEETINGS

By request, 10 groups met in the exhibition galleries for instruction
by staff members. Total attendance was 183.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY pl

On invitation, the following lectures were given outside the Gallery
by staff members:

JAN ZO ess ee Mr. Pope read a paper on A Chinese Lacquer Statue in the
Nepalese Style (45.4) before the Far Eastern Section
of the College Art Association at the Metropolitan
Museum of Art, New York. Attendance: 100.

Marl Oia wn tds Dr. Ettinghausen lectured on Basie Facts about Oriental
Rugs at the Women’s Community Club, Kensington, Md.
Attendance: 121.

14 Nes ky ee ees Se es Dr. Ettinghausen lectured on Persian Miniature Painting
at the Foxcroft School, Middleburg, Va. Attendance:
115.

Marp25iteel andl vs Dr. Ettinghausen lectured on Islamic Art: New Ap-

proaches in Research at the Princeton University Bi-
centennial Conference on Near Hastern Culture and
Society, Princeton, N. J. Attendance: 65.

Aprni@ius cette 14 Mr. Pope lectured on The Freer Gallery of Art and its
Collections at the American Association of University
Women, Washington, D. C. Attendance: 30.

The Auditorium was used for meetings as follows:

1946 :

OctsaG a4 +222 tbs Bureau of Economics, U. 8S. Department of Agriculture.
Attendance: 250.

Octs WO nee ees Bureau of Economics, U. 8S. Department of Agriculture.
Attendance: 275.

Oct aioe eee: Bureau of Economics, U. 8S. Department of Agriculture.
Attendance: 260.

ING Wages See eee Office of the Attorney General, Conference on the Control
of Juvenile Delinquency. Attendance: 63.

Nove 2k ate Office of the Attorney General, Conference on the Control
of Juvenile Delinquency. Attendance: 50.

DCC Ose esa ee Dr. John L. Keddy, Assistant Secretary, Smithsonian
Institution. Attendance: 28.

1947

1X0) ie eee et American Oriental Society, Annual Meeting. Attendance:
106.

Apr e163 2288 SS American Oriental Society, Annual Meeting. Attendance:
83.

7X0) Oa ee ee ee American Oriental Society, Annual Meeting. Attendance:
46.

Members of the staff traveled outside of Washington for professional
purposes as follows:

1946
Sept. 30—Oct. 23_____ Mr. Pope in Chicago, Kansas City, Minneapolis, Ann Arbor,
Boston, Cambridge, and New York to examine objects
belonging to museums, private collections, and dealers.
INOV2)4=1o oe ee Mr. Wenley in Chicago, Kansas City, Minneapolis, and
Ann Arbor to examine objects belonging to museums,
private collections, and dealers.
a2 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

1947

Jan. 28-Feb. 9__--__- Dr. Ettinghausen in New York and Boston to examine
objects belonging to museums and dealers.

Marit (—21 se ee Mr. Wenley in New York to examine objects belonging to
dealers.

Mar. 24-28. .—-._---- Dr. Ettinghausen attended Near Eastern Conference of the
University Bicentennial Celebration at Princeton Uni-
versity.

Mar. 31—Apr. 3_----- Mr. Wenley attended the Conference on Far Hastern Art
and Culture at the Bicentennial Celebration of Princeton
University where he served as Chairman of the Con-
ference on Chinese Painting.

Mar. 31—Apr. 3--__-- Mr. Pope attended the Conference on Far Eastern Art and
Culture at Princeton.

Apr, Biohh ote etre Mr. Acker attended the Conference on Far Eastern Art
and Culture at Princeton.

(ATS 21 see Dr. Ettinghausen in New York to examine objects belong-
ing to dealers.

Apri22-252. Ss Dr. Ettinghausen in Princeton, N. J., to attend conference
on Research in Fine Arts.

Apri 2425 22) sees Dr. Ettinghausen in Baltimore to attend opening of exhibi-
tion of Byzantine Art at Baltimore Museum.

May 42 sce eS Dr. Ettinghausen at Walters Art Gallery, Baltimore, to
examine objects in the collection.

May 232222028 sees Mr. Pope in Philadelphia to examine objects in the Phila-
delphia Museum of Art.

June 9=13 2 Mrs. Usilton, Librarian, attended annual convention of
Special Libraries Association, Chicago, Il.

Junev9=202 Mr. Pope at Fogg Museum of Art, Cambridge, Mass., to
study bronze forgeries and examine objects in the collec-
tion.

June 29-July 4----_- Mrs. Usilton attended annual convention of American

Library Association, San Francisco, Calif.

John A. Pope, Associate in Research, was appointed Assistant Di-
rector, July 1, 1946.
Respectfully submitted.
A. G. Wentey, Director.

Dr. A. Wermorr,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 5

REPORT ON THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the field
researches, office work, and other operations of the Bureau of Ameri-
can Ethnology during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1947, conducted
in accordance with the Act of Congress of June 27, 1944, which
provides “* * * for continuing ethnological researches among
the American Indians and the natives of Hawaii and the excavation
and preservation of archeologic remains. * * *”

SYSTEMATIC RESEARCHES

Dr. M. W. Stirling, Chief of the Bureau, spent the greater part
of the fiscal year in Washington, attending to administrative duties
and completing for publication reports on archeological field work
in southern Mexico. Two papers were completed entitled “An
Archeological Reconnaissance of the State of Tabasco, Mexico,” and
“Piedra Parada, a Chiapas Highland Site.” Considerable progress
was also made on a paper entitled “Additional Stone Monuments
of Southern Mexico.”

Several lectures were given during the year on anthropological
subjects. In April 1947 Dr. Stirling went to Houston, Tex., as
representative of the Smithsonian Institution at the Inauguration of
Dr. Wm. Vermillon Houston as President of Rice Institute.

Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr., Associate Chief of the Bureau and
Director of the River Basin Surveys, devoted the major part of his
time during the fiscal year to directing the program of the River
Basin Surveys. The latter is a cooperative project between the
Smithsonian Institution, the National Park Service, the Bureau of
Reclamation, and the Corps of Engineers, United States Army. Its
purpose is the recovery of such archeological and paleontological
information and materials as will be lost through the construction
of dams and the creation of large reservoirs in many of the river
valleys of the United States.

In directing the survey work Dr. Roberts recruited personnel,
arranged for supplies and equipment, established cooperation with
local institutions in various parts of the country, prepared over-all
plans for a Nation-wide archeological program, wrote progress re-
ports for the cooperating agencies, and aided in the preparation of
preliminary reports on the results of surveys in various reservoir

53
54 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

areas. He went to Atlanta, Ga., July 23-25, 1946, to confer with
representatives of the National Park Service and engineers in the
office of the Division Engineer for the South Atlantic Division, Corps
of Engineers, about the problems in that area. He went to Lincoln,
Nebr., September 24 to October 4, to meet the incoming field parties
from the Missouri Basin. At that time he received reports on the
explorations, discussed plans for future investigations, and assisted
in making arrangements for carrying on the work at the field head-
quarters during the fall and winter months. While at Lincoln he
made two trips to Omaha to confer with officials of the National
Park Service, Region 2, and engineers from the office of the Division
Engineer, Missouri River Division, Corps of Engineers. From De-
cember 26 to 31, he was in Chicago, Il., to take part in a symposium
on river valley archeology in which there were representatives from
the National Park Service, the American Anthropological Associa-
tion, the Society for American Archeology, the Committee for the
Recovery of Archeological Remains, and several universities. Dr.
Roberts’ report on the activities of the River Basin Surveys appears
in subsequent pages.

During the course of the year Dr. Roberts wrote several book
reviews for anthropological journals, annotated four books for the
United States Quarterly Book List, prepared a number of popular
articles on the work of the River Basin Surveys, and served as a con-
sultant on manuscripts on anthropology and archeology for several
encyclopedias.

Dr. Roberts was the General Department Representative on the
Efficiency Rating Board of Review for the Smithsonian Institution.
In this connection he attended the Civil Service Commission Institute
of Efficiency Rating Boards of Review. He represented the Smith-
sonian Institution at a meeting held in Washington, D. C., April 15,
1947, for the purpose of organizing a National Council for Historic
Sites and Buildings.

From July 1, 1946, to June 30, 1947, Dr. Roberts served as a member
of the executive committee of the Division of Anthropology and
Psychology, National Research Council.

During the absences of the Chief, Dr. Roberts was Acting Chief of
the Bureau.

The beginning of the fiscal year found Dr. John P. Harrington,
ethnologist, at Searchlight, Nev., from which point he traveled with
Murl Emery to a point above Cottonwood Island in one of the wildest
portions of the Colorado River where, according to Indian tradition, is
the house of Matavilya, principal deity of the lower Colorado region.
The house of Matavilya was discovered to be a natural formation con-
sisting of a butte about 200 feet high on the western side of the river,
and opposite this butte another, perhaps 500 feet in height, on the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY a)

eastern side of the river. These two buttes are interpreted by the
ancient Indians of the region as being what remains of the doorposts
of the house of Matavilya, and Indian tradition has evidently attached
itself to this place for many generations, probably for many centuries.

The interesting myth was obtained which recounts the destruction
of the house at the time of the cremation of Matavilya. Consider-
able time was spent in checking with surviving ancient Indians in
regard to the discovery of this important site, Dr. Harrington going as
far as Tehachapi, Calif., for this purpose.

On November 6, 1946, Dr. Harrington returned to Washington,
D. C., and the entire remainder of the fiscal year was spent in sorting
over and preparing various articles for publication.

The first of these undertakings was the preparation of an article on
the State Names of Mexico. This paper covers not only the state
and territory names of Mexico, but also the country names of Central
America and South America. Several of the etymologies are new,
notably that of the name of the Mexican State of Yucatan, which
is here seen to be derived perhaps from a hypothetical form Yucahtan.

The next item completed was an article on the Tewa language of
New Mexico. A paper on the Province Names of Canada was next
finished. Compilation for this work had long been in progress, part
of it done in Canada.

An extensive paper on the Aleutian language was next written,
embodying the results of previous field work in Alaska. Another
paper was prepared consisting of a detailed ethnogeographic descrip-
tion of the projecting rocks and islands off the coast of California.

A manuscript was completed with the title “Quirix is the Native
Name of San Felipe Pueblo.” This paper sets forth the unique thesis
that Bandelier is wrong in assuming that Quirix, which gives its name
to the Keresan linguistic stock, 1s Bernalillo, or any site in the vicinity
of Bernalillo, but that the recorded form is a Spanish spelling of the
Indian name of San Felipe. The Tewa of the Castafieda account of
the Coronado Expedition would then be Isleta, and Isleta is still called
Tewa in Keresan.

A number of short papers were also written, the titles being as
follows:

The Name Yucatan.

The Name Colorado.

The Three Harliest Mentions of the Turquoise Mines of New Mexico.
The Name Chuckwalla.

Rita, a Short-Cut for Saying Riito.

De Alarcon has the Name of Zunyi Salt Lake.

Olivella River, the Old Name of Santa Fe Creek.

Trail Holder.
H’aak’o, Original Keresan Name of Acoma.

T7TT488—48-——_5
56 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

Dr. Henry B. Collins, ethnologist, continued his investigations in
Eskimo anthropology. During the winter he completed the number-
ing and cataloging of his collection of some 7,000 archeological speci-
mens excavated at Cape Prince of Wales and other prehistoric Eskimo
village sites around Bering Strait.

At the February meeting of the Board of Governors of the Arctic
Institute of North America, Dr. Collins was elected vice chairman of
the Institute. His article, The Origin and Antiquity of the Eskimo,
tracing the Old World afiiliations of the Eskimo culture and race type,
will appear as one of the chapters of a general book on the Arctic to be
published by the Arctic Institute.

In May Dr. Collins was appointed Chairman of the Directing Com-
mittee for the Arctic Bibliography and Roster, two separate projects
which the Arctic Institute of North America is carrying out under
contract for the Office of Naval Research of the Navy Department.
In these projects the Arctic Institute is receiving active cooperation
and assistance from the Library of Congress and the National Re-
search Council. Officials of the latter organizations, and representa-
tives of the Navy, Army, and Board of Governors of the Arctic Insti-
tute comprise the directing committee, which serves as a policy and
advisory body with the responsibility of organizing and supervising
the work on the two projects. The bibliography project will be con-
ducted by four experienced bibliographers, with clerical assistants,
working in the principal libraries in the United States and Canada.
It will have as its objective the compilation of an annotated, fully
indexed bibliography covering the descriptive, geographical, and
other scientific literature on the Arctic from the earliest historical
writings to those of the present time. It is estimated that the bibli-
ography project will require at least 3 years for completion. The
Roster of Arctic Specialists, a 2-year project, is to be conducted by a
staff of three workers, headed by a former official of the National
Roster of Scientific and Specialized Personnel. The roster will be
patterned after the National Roster and the World Roster of Area
and Language Specialists compiled by the Ethnogeographic Board
during the war. Its purpose will be to assemble a comprehensive
record of the experience and specialized knowledge of scientists, ex-
plorers, writers, and Arctic residents who possess first-hand informa-
tion of value concerning the Arctic and sub-Arctic regions.

Dr. Collins wrote the article Anthropology for the 1947 Encycilo-
paedia Britannica Book of the Year. He also served as anthro-
pological consultant for the Encyclopedia Arctica, which is being edited
by Dr. Vilhjalmur Stefansson for the Navy Department. In this
capacity he organized the anthropological sections of the Encyclo-
pedia and contributed several articles on archeological subjects.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 7

In June Dr. Collins left Washington for Martha’s Vineyard, Mass.,
to conduct a 6 weeks’ archeological survey of the island.

Returning to a study of the social organization and ceremonial life
of the Seneca Nation commenced before the war, Dr. William N. Fen-
ton, ethnologist, established field quarters on the Allegany Reserva-
tion between July 1 and September 18, when he returned to Washing-
ton. Observations made 10 years ago were repeated at meetings of
two orders of the Medicine Society, and observing the Green Corn
Festival for the fifth time afforded information on social and cultural
change. At the behest of one of the chiefs, Dr. Fenton recorded from
Fannie Stevens, matron of the Heron clan, several hundred personal
names belonging to the eight Seneca clans. Recordings made in 1945
for a forthcoming album of Seneca music were played repeatedly to
the singers and interpreters to assure accuracy of texts. With a
possible documentary film in mind, 700 feet of 16-mm. Kodachrome
moving pictures were taken of various activities in the Coldspring
community. An additional week of field work from October 7 to 12
permitted verifying some of the personal names in genealogies taken
in 1933.

Cultural affinities between the northern Iroquoians and their
southern cousins, the Cherokee of the Great Smoky Mountains, have
occupied the attention of Bureau ethnologists since Mooney’s time.
At the invitation of Lester M. Hargrett, of Washington, the bibli-
ographer of Indian Laws, Dr. Fenton motored to Cherokee, N. C., in
early December. We owe a brief and intensive introduction to
Cherokee ethnology to Will West Long, who was 17 when James
Mooney came to Cherokee and whose name is associated with the work
of every field ethnologist who ventured into Big Cove settlement from
1887 until March 14, 1947, when Will passed away.

Dr. Fenton obtained information for contrasting the Boogah Dance
of the Cherokee with masked performances of the Iroquois False-face
Society, and some additional details were collected on the Eagle Dance,
a variant of the calumet ritual, which reached the Iroquois during the
eighteenth century by one documented line of diffusion from the
Catawba and Cherokee of the Southeast. When recordings of Cherokee
and Seneca Eagle Dance songs are compared, it will develop that
they are derived from a common source. Photographs were made of
the Cherokee mask-making process, and some portraits of Mr. Long in
characteristic Eagle Dance postures. A report of these findings has
been prepared for publication.

Two collections of Americana seen on this trip deserve mention. The
MacGregor Collection in the Library of the University of Virginia
contains some notable early items on American Indians. Dr. T. H.
Spence, Librarian of the Historical Foundation of the Presbyterian
58 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

Reformed Church, Montreat, N. C., called attention to an extremely
rare pamplet which describes Chickasaw and Choctaw towns, locates
certain mounds, and contains notes on pigeon roosts (A Brief History
of the Mississippi Territory ; to Which is Prefixed a Summary View of
the Country between the Settlements on Cumberland River, and the
Territory, by Rev. James Hall, A. M., Salisbury (N. C.) : 12 mo., pp.
(2) 70, printed by Francis Coupée, 1801).

The second conference on Iroquois research, which Dr. Fenton
organized in 1945, was again the outstanding event in Iroquois studies.
The conference, held October 4, 5, and 6, in cooperation with the Al-
legany State Park Commission at Red House, N. Y., brought together
anthropologists and historians interested in the Iroquois from the
Northeastern States, Canada, and the Middle West. Charles E. Cong-
don of Salamanca, N. Y., and Merle H. Deardorff of Warren, Pa., were
cchosts to the conference.

Dr. Fenton gave several lectures during the year on topics related
to his work; on September 10 to the L. H. Morgan Chapter, New
York State Archaeological Association, Rochester; October 15 to the
Anthropological Society of Washington; December 12 to the Arts
Club of Washington.

A chapter was completed for a forthcoming report of the American
Folklore Society: “Research in American Folklore: Plains, Eastern
Woodlands, and Contact Folklore between Indians and Colonial
Settlers.” Seneca Songs from Coldspring Longhouse was prepared
as program notes to an album of records which the Library of Congress
is publishing. Work was continued on a final draft of a report for
the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, A Cayuga Condolence
Cane with Pictographs Denominating the Founders of the Iroquois
League, a study which Dr. Fenton commenced several years ago at
the request of the Cranbrook Institute of Science.

As a member of the Committee on International Cooperation in
Anthropology, National Research Council, Dr. Fenton attended two
meetings in Washington, and prepared a report on Anthropology
during the War, VII: The Arab World (American Anthropologist,
1947, pp. 342-3843). He relinquished secretaryship of the Anthropo-
logical Society of Washington, becoming vice president, and continued
to give considerable time to the Journal of the Washington Academy
of Sciences, as senior editor during 1947.

Publications.—Place names and related activities of the Cornplanter
Senecas, V: The path to Conewango (Pennsylvania Archaeologist, vol.
16, pp. 42-56, April 1946).

Twi-yendagon (Woodeater) takes the heavenly path; on the death
of Henry Redeye (18642-1946), Speaker of the Coldspring Seneca
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 59

Longhouse (American Indian, American Association on Indian
Affairs, vol. 8, No. 8, pp. 11-15, 1946).

Integration of Geography and Anthropology in Army Area Study
Curricula (Bulletin American Association of University Professors,
vol. 32, No. 4, pp. 696-706, winter, 1946).

Area studies in American universities (Commission on Implica-
tions, Armed Services Educational Programs, American Council on
Education, xi+89 pp., Washington, 1947).

In addition, several reviews were prepared and published in the
United States Quarterly Book List, and in other journals.

Dr. Philip Drucker, anthropologist, returned to his official station
at Washington from Mexico at the beginning of the fiscal year. While
awaiting the arrival of the collections from San Lorenzo Tenochtitlan,
he began a study of the La Venta ceramic collections, excavated by
the National Geographic Society-Smithsonian Institution expedition
in the spring of 1942.

During the ensuing months he classified some 24,000 sherds from
the site of La Venta, recording descriptive data and stratigraphic dis-
tributions which will be embodied in the final report on the culture
represented at this key site of Olmec culture. At the conclusion of
his study of these materials he prepared a brief paper entitled “Some
Implications of La Venta Ceramics,” for the Smithsonian Miscellane-
ous Collections.

On February 8, 1947, he proceeded from Washington to Mexico on a
joint expedition of the National Geographic Society and the Smith-
sonian Institution. The purpose of this expedition was to make an
archeological survey of the Pacific coast of the state of Chiapas,
Mexico, From the time of his arrival in Tapachula, Chiapas, on
February 16, until his departure from Tonala, Chiapas, on May 24,
he tested 15 archeological sites, obtaining from each collections of
sherds ranging from 2,000 to 4,000 pieces on the average. Among
these sites were several whose ceramics indicated a relationship with
the Mixteca-Puebla area of the Highland, and which are probably to
be attributed to the late pre-Conquest intrusions of the Nahuatl-speak-
ing Pipil, colonies of whom penetrated as far southeastward as Nica-
ragua. Other sites yielded wares that indicate affiliation with more
ancient horizons, one such linking very definitely with the oldest ce-
ramic complex yet known from Guatemala Highland and coast: the
Miraflores horizon. One of the outstanding finds of the survey was the
discovery of a midden deposit over 3 meters in depth, containing pot-
tery in the upper 1.2 m., and no trace of ceramics below this point. This
site requires more extensive excavation than was possible during the
survey, but it is quite possible that it may contain the earliest remains
yet known from southern Mexico and Central America—perhaps pre-
60 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

ceramic and early ceramic horizons whose existence up to now has
only been suspected but never demonstrated.

In the month of March, during the survey work, Dr. Drucker made
a brief visit to Guatemala City where, through the courtesy of Drs.
R. E. Smith and Edwin Shook of the Carnegie Institution, he was
permitted to study pottery collections from the Guatemala Highlands
and coast, in the Carnegie Institution Laboratory.

From Tonala, Dr. Drucker proceeded to Mexico City to arrange for
the exportation of the collections.

On June 9 Dr. Drucker arrived in Washington, D. C., where he
was detailed to the River Basin Surveys project, under the direction
of Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr., Associate Chief of the Bureau of
American Ethnology. Atter a series of conferences with Dr. Roberts,
Dr. Drucker proceeded on June 16 to the Pacific coast to take charge of
archeological work in areas to be inundated by Bureau of Reclamation
and Corps of Engineers dams in that area.

From July 1 through September 1 Dr. Gordon R. Willey, anthro-
pologist, continued his field investigations, begun in March of 1946,
as a member of the Virii Valley Expedition to northern Peru. The
Virti program was a cooperative attempt, on the part of a group of
anthropologists and a geographer, to study thoroughly a single valley
of the Peruvian coast as a living unit through some 3,000 years of time.
Archeological, geographical, and modern community studies were
embraced in the project, which was under the direction of a steering
committee of the Institute of Andean Research. As one of the major
participants, Dr. Willey represented the Bureau on the steering com-
mittee. His own share of the research consisted of a survey of the
prehistoric settlement patterns of the valley.

At the close of field operations in August over 800 sites had been
studied from the point of view of community plan or settlement
pattern. These sites were selected from all sections of the valley, and
it is estimated that they represent a 25-percent sample of the total
sites in the valley. All types of sites were included in the sample—
cemeteries, dwelling units, fortifications, temples, and palaces. In
addition particular attention was paid to prehistoric irrigation canals,
evidences of past land utilization, and ancient roads. Preliminary
analysis shows eight cultural periods to be represented. The survey
was accomplished with the aid of jeep transportation and large-scale
air photo-maps. <A technique of site mapping, involving the use of
an epidiascopic projector, was worked out with the air photos. The
final report on this survey is now in preparation.

In addition to the settlement survey Willey also excavated at two
burial sites, one in the upper and one in the lower valley. A report
on the first of these sites has recently been published.

Karly in August Willey took part in the Conference on Peruvian
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 61

Archeology held at Hacienda Chiclin. At this time he presented a
preliminary summary of his field results.

After the work in Virii was terminated, Dr. Willey made a brief
visit to the Lambayeque Valley, north of the city of Trujillo, and
examined collections in the important but little-known Bruning
Museum. Returning south to Lima, he began a protracted trip by
automobile, going from Lima to Caamana and from there inland to the
Lake Titicaca region. From Puno, on the lake, he proceeded north to
Cuzco, Ayacucho, Huancayo, and returned to Lima. During this
trip, which consumed some 2 to 3 weeks during the month of Septem-
ber, he visited numerous archeological sites. The most significant of
these was the great architectural cluster at Huari near Ayacucho, the
presumed center for the Middle Period Tiahuanacoid diffusion
throughout Peru.

Upon his return to the United States in October Dr. Willey pre-
pared several short papers and began the initial work of organizing
notes, maps, and photographs on the Virti settlement-pattern study.
He was engaged in this until April of 1947. For the last 3 months of
the fiscal year he transferred his research interests toward the com-
pletion of a large monograph on the archeology of the Florida Gulf
coast. This latter work, which embraces earlier field work of the
author, as well as past field studies made by the Bureau in the Florida
Gulf area, is intended as an over-all archeological summary of the
region.

During the year Dr. Willey also served as assistant editor to the
professional journal, American Antiquity, and submitted various news
items on recent researches in archeology in South America. He held
a similar position with the Handbook of Latin American Studies for
which he prepared bibliographic extracts on some 50 titles dealing
with South American archeology and wrote a general summary of
recent archeological activities for the South American Continent dur-
ing the year 1945,

In April Dr. Willey visited the Public Museum at Rochester, N. Y.,
where he delivered a lecture on the Virti work before the annual meet-
ing of the New York State Archeological Society.

The following articles were written by Dr. Willey during the fiscal
year 1946-47:

1. The Virti Valley Program in Northern Peru. Acta Americana, vol. 4, No. 4,
1946.

2. A Middle Period Cemetery in the Virtii Valley, Northern Peru. Journ. Wash-
ington Acad. Sci., vol. 37, No. 2, 1947.

3. Ecuadorean Figurines and the Ceramic Mold in the New World. (In press.)
4. Growth Trends in New World Cultures. (In press.)
5. An Interpretative Analysis of Horizon Styles in Peruvian Archeology. (In

press. )

In addition, one book review was prepared for Science.
62 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

INSTITUTE OF SOCIAL ANTHROPOLOGY

The Institute of Social Anthropology was created in 1943 as an
autonomous unit of the Bureau of American Ethnology to carry out
cooperative training in anthropological teaching and research with
the other American Republics. During the past year it was financed
by transfers from the State Department, totaling $118,150, from the
appropriation “Cooperation with the American Republics, 1947.” The
major activities of the Institute of Social Anthropology during the
fiscal year 1947 are as follows:

Washington office—The Institute of Social Anthropology main-
tains headquarters in Washington for general planning, direction, and
servicing of field projects. Dr. Julian H. Steward, founder and first
Director of the Institute, resigned in September 1946 to accept a pro-
fessorship at Columbia University. He was succeeded by Dr. George
M. Foster, previously stationed in Mexico as social anthropologist of
the Institute of Social Anthropology.

Brazil_—Cooperation with the Escola Livre de Sociologia e Politica
began October 1, 1945, when Dr. Donald Pierson was assigned as rep-
resentative of the Institute of Social Anthropology to Brazil. In
February 1946 Dr. Kalervo Oberg was assigned as cultural] anthropolo-
gist to cooperate with the Escola Livre.

In effect, the Institute has taken over and expanded a program which
was begun under Dr. Pierson in 1940 and which has helped make the
Escola Livre one of the most important social-science centers in South
America.

During the fiscal year 1947 Institute of Social Anthropology scien-
tists have given seven courses in sociology and anthropology, to sup-
plement other courses given by local professors in the general field
of the humanities. Advanced students have been given field training
both in Mato Grosso among Indian groups, and among the rural
peoples in the State of Sao Paulo, some distance from the city. This
represents a very considerable educational advance, since for the first
time advanced Brazilian students in anthropology and sociology, as
a part of their regular courses, have been required to supplement
theoretical classroom training with actual field experience. A number
of papers by Smithsonian personnel and local students have been
published in scientific series or journals other than Smithsonian vol-
umes. Two monographs based on field work in 1947 are being pre-
pared for publication by Smithsonian personnel in Smithsonian series,
and Brazilian students also are preparing field notes for publication
in Portuguese.

Smithsonian staff members have continued to guide the program of
translating 200 articles and 13 books from English into Portuguese,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 63

mentioned in last year’s report. This work, financed by outside funds,
is of great importance as an aid to teaching.

Colombia.—Cooperation with the Instituto Etnolégico of the Uni-
versity of Cauca in Popayaén began December 1,1946. The Institute of
Social Anthropology is represented by Dr. John H. Rowe who is en-
gaged in cooperating with local personnel in the organization of this
new institution and in giving three courses in anthropology to stu-
dents. A short survey of the habitat of the Guambiano Indians has
indicated that this is a satisfactory region for field work, which begins
on a cooperative basis during the summer of 1947, with the participa-
tion of Colombian professors and students.

Mexico.—Cooperation with the Escuela Nacional de Antropologfa,
a dependency of the Ministry of Education, began June 1, 1944. Dr.
George M. Foster, social anthropologist, was replaced by Dr. Isabel
Kelly, when the former was transferred to Washington. Dr. Stanley
S. Newman, linguist, and Dr. Robert C. West, cultural geographer,
are the other two Institute of Social Anthropology representatives in
Mexico.

During the fiscal year 1947 these scientists have given five courses in
social anthropology, linguistics, and cultural geography. The scene
of field research was shifted in January 1947 from the Tarascan area,
described in last year’s report, to the Totonac Indian area east of
Mexico City. Two monograph-length papers dealing with the Taras-
cans have been submitted by Smithsonian personnel for publication
in the series of the Institute of Social Anthropology. A number of
student papers have appeared in Mexican sources, and longer mono-
graphs in Spanish are ready for publication.

Peru.—W ork began in Peru in January 1944, when that country had
no institution devoted essentially to social science teaching and re-
search. Subsequently a national center of social science, the Instituto
de Estudios Etnologicos, of the Ministry of Education, has been es-
tablished. Institute of Social Anthropology personnel cooperate with
this Institute. During 1947 the Institute of Social Anthropology was
represented in Peru by F. Webster McBryde, cultural geographer,
and Dr. Allan Holmberg, social anthropologist, who arrived in July
1946 to succeed Dr. Harry Tschopik, Jr.

A party of six students and one professor accompanied Institute of
Social Anthropology personnel to the Virti Valley in northern Peru
for ethnographical and geographical field work during the months
January to April 1947. Under the guidance of the Smithsonian scien-
tists this material is now being prepared for publication. Courses
also are being given in the Instituto de Estudios Etnolégicos. In ad-
dition, the cultural geographer has aided in the reorganization of the
64 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

Geographical Society of the University of San Marcos in Lima, and
in establishing the teaching curriculum of this department.

Publications—One monograph of the series Publications of the
Institute of Social Anthropology appeared in June 1947—Publication
No. 3, Moche, a Peruvian Coastal Community, by John Gillin. Publi-
cation No. 4, Cultural and Historical Geography of Southwest Guate-
mala, by Felix Webster McBryde, Publication No. 5, Highland Com-
munities of Central Peru: A Regional Survey, by Harry Tschopik,
Jr., and Publication No. 6, Empire’s Children: the People of Tzin-
tzuntzan, by George M. Foster, were in proof. Publication No. 7, Cul-
tural Geography of the Modern Tarascan Area, by Robert C. West,
and Publication No. 8, Sierra Popoluca Speech, Mary L. Foster and
George M. Foster, were edited and sent to the printer. Mrs. Eloise
B. Edelen of the editorial staff of the Bureau of American Ethnology,
did the editorial work on these publications.

RIVER BASIN SURVEYS

The River Basin Surveys were instituted in the fall of 1945 as a unit
of the Bureau of American Ethnology. ‘They were organized to carry
into effect a memorandum of understanding between the National
Park Service and the Smithsonian Institution. This memorandum
provided for surveys to determine the extent and nature of archeolog-
ical and paleontological remains occurring in areas to be flooded by
the construction of dams by the Bureau of Reclamation and the Corps
of Engineers, United States Army. The memorandum was signed
on August 7, 1945, by Newton B. Drury, Director of the National Park
Service, and on September 8, 1945, by Alexander Wetmore, Secretary
of the Smithsonian Institution, and was approved by Harold L. Ickes,
Secretary of the Interior, on October 9, 1945.

The first actual field work got under way in July 1946. A transfer
of $20,000 at the end of May 1946, by the Bureau of Reclamation
through the National Park Service, provided the necessary funds for
starting survey parties in the Missouri Basin. An additional $40,000
subsequently was made available by the Bureau of Reclamation for
work in this area during fiscal 1947. In September 1946 $27,000
was transferred by the Corps of Engineers, through the National
Park Service, for surveys outside of the Missouri Basin, and in March
1947 $4,500 was transferred by the Bureau of Reclamation for surveys
in the Columbia-Snake Basin. The Missouri Basin funds were for
use in both Bureau of Reclamation and Corps of Engineers projects.
The money provided by the Corps of Engineers was for Corps of
Engineers projects only, while the Columbia-Snake Basin money was
for use only in Bureau of Reclamation projects.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 65

The first survey parties were started in the Missouri Basin. These
were followed by investigations in Georgia, Virginia-North Carolina,
Texas, California, and the Columbia-Snake Basin. Supervision and
direction of the surveys in Georgia, Virginia-North Carolina, Texas,
and California were carried on from the main office in Washington.
Direction of the work in the Missouri Basin was from a field office
located at Lincoln, Nebr., and the Columbia-Snake Basin investiga-
tions were based on a field office established at Eugene, Oreg.

The Bureau of Reclamation and the Corps of Engineers made the
entire salvage program possible through the transfer of funds, but
in addition both agencies contributed in no small degree to the suc-
cessful inception of the surveys through their cooperation in other
ways. Division and District Engineers and Bureau of Reclamation
personnel did much to facilitate the work of the survey men in the
field. In some areas transportation was provided, in others, neces-
sary labor was furnished to aid in emergency excavations, and else-
where temporary office space and storage facilities were made avail-
able at project headquarters. The genuine interest and desire to assist
on the part of all with whom the members of the River Basin Surveys
staff were associated in the various reservoir areas greatly aided the
progress of the investigations. The planning of a Nation-wide arche-
ological survey on a scale hitherto not believed possible became feasible
with the transfer of funds. The cooperation of the National Park
Service has been of marked benefit to the program and much credit
is due to its officials for the obtaining of the the necessary funds and
for the pleasant relationship existing between all the agencies involved
in the program.

Washington office—Throughout the fiscal year the main office of the
River Basin Surveys continued under the direction of Dr. Frank H. H.
Roberts, Jr. Carl F. Miller, archeologist, joined the staff on Novem-
ber 6, 1946. Miss Madeleine A. Bachand was appointed clerk-stenog-
rapher on March 3, 1947, and continued to serve throughout the year.

Mr. Miller was preparing to leave for the Pearl River project at
Bogalusa, La., on November 13, 1946, when a request was received
from the district engineer to postpone this work indefinitely because
the project had been stopped. Mr. Miller was then assigned to the
study of proposed projects in the Middle Atlantic Division of the Corps
of Engineers. He devoted his time to searching the literature for
information about sites which might be involved by construction pro-
grams in Pennsylvania, Virginia, North Carolina, and West Virginia.
During this period he also assisted the director in obtaining informa-
tion about proposed projects of the Bureau of Reclamation in various
parts of the country outside the Missouri Basin. On February 11,
66 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

1947, he left Washington for Richmond, Va., to confer with the offi-
cials at the Region 1 office of the National Park Service. From Rich-
mond he proceeded to Norfolk, Va., on February 18, to confer with the
district engineer, Corps of Engineers, about a survey of the Buggs
Island project on the Roanoke River. He left Norfolk on February
14 and went to South Hill, Va., where he established headquarters.
From that date until May 4 he surveyed all the Virginia and part of
the North Carolina portion of the reservoir basin. He then returned
to Washington and devoted the remainder of the fiscal year to pre-
paring a preliminary report on the results of the survey and making
recommendations and estimates for an excavation program in that
area,

Missouri Basin.—The first steps in initiating investigations in the
Missouri Basin were the establishment of field headquarters at Lincoln,
Nebr., and the assembling of personnel to undertake the field sur-
veys. Dr. Waldo R. Wedel, associate curator of archeology, United
States National Museum, who had been detailed to the River Basin
Surveys for that purpose, left Washington for Lincoln, Nebr., on
July 8, 1946, and upon his arrival there began instructing the person-
nel recruited for the project and assembling equipment needed in the
field. Through the courtesy of the University of Nebraska, office space
was provided at the University’s Laboratory of Anthropology. Later,
additional space was made available for a laboratory. This arrange-
ment continued throughout the year, and on June 30, 1947, both the
field office and the project laboratory were housed in the basement of
the Love Memorial Library on the university campus.

Actual reconnaissance started on August 3, 1946, and continued for
a period of 7 weeks, at the end of which weather conditions made it
necessary for the men to return to field headquarters. During this
time, 3 parties of 2 men each, limited because of inadequate transporta-
tion, covered more than 13,000 miles and made preliminary investiga-
tions at 28 top priority Bureau of Reclamation projects and at 5 Corps
of Engineers reservoirs. Since complete coverage of each reservoir
basin was in no case possible, additional surveys were recommended for
most of the units visited. One field party returned to the Harlan
County Reservoir, Nebr., for a period of 5 weeks, October 16 to Novem-
ber 23, 1946, and with the aid of local labor tested a number of sites
and removed material which was being damaged by erosion or being
excavated by unauthorized collectors.

Dr. Waldo R. Wedel returned to Washington and to his regular
duties at the National Museum on October 18, 1946. At this time
Paul L. Cooper was designated as acting director for the Lincoln of-
fice and continued to serve in that capacity until May 21, 1947, when
Dr. Wedel, who had again been detailed to the Surveys, returned to
Lincoln and resumed his supervision of the Missouri Basin program.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 67

During the fall and winter months at Lincoln the staff members
prepared and completed preliminary appraisal reports covering 25 of
the projects visited during the 1946 field season. By June 30 most
of these reports had been distributed to the National Park Service, the
Bureau of Reclamation, and the Corps of Engineers, or were ready to
be mailed. A general paper entitled “Prehistory and the Missouri
Valley Development Program: Summary Report on the Missouri
River Basin Archeological Survey in 1946,” written by Dr. Wedel, was
published in April in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections,
volume 107, No. 6. Throughout this period the field laboratory
cleaned and cataloged more than 10,000 archeological specimens
gathered from 208 different sites, and in addition processed 426 photo-
graphic negatives and prepared approximately 2,200 prints for use in
the reports. Maps were drawn showing the location of sites in each
reservoir area, and the reports were mimeographed, assembled, and
made ready for distribution.

Field work was resumed in the latter part of April when three
archeological parties consisting of four men each and one paleontologi-
cal party consisting of one man, started for various reservoir projects.
The paleontologist subsequently was joined by a student assistant. In
addition to further investigations in reservoir areas visited during
the 1946 field season, other projects were added to the lst, and by
the end of the fiscal year a total of 44 Bureau of Reclamation and
6 Corps of Engineers projects had been surveyed. ‘They are located
in the States of Kansas, Nebraska, South Dakota, North Dakota,
Wyoming, and Montana. All parties were in the field on June 30
and expected to continue throughout the summer. During this
period Dr. Wedel directed operations in the Lincoln office and made
several visits to the field parties at the locations where they were
working. He also attended conferences between the regional officers
of the National Park Service and Bureau of Reclamation and Corps of
Engineers representatives.

The survey findings to date indicate that the Wyoming-Montana
area contains few pottery-bearing sites. There, as in the western
Dakotas, stone circles or “tipi-rings” are to be found in great num-
bers. Numerous outcrops of artifacts in strata exposed by stream
cuttings are plentiful and occur at varying depths below the surface.
Some of them give promise of containing material belonging to
early occupations, possibly even those of the Paleo-Indian, and they
may supply much needed data on that phase of Plains prehistory.
Throughout northern Kansas and northwestern Nebraska pithouse
villages attributed to semisedentary peoples predominate. Pottery-
bearing sites as well as “tipi-rings” occur on the tributaries of the
Missouri in North and South Dakota. Groups of mounds, village
remains, and former camp sites suggesting a more sedentary type of
68 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

occupation than that west of the Missouri occur in the Jamestown-
Devils Lake-Sheyenne area. Along the main stream of the Missouri
in the Dakotas are some of the largest and best preserved and most
impressive fortified Indian village sites in the United States. They
contain much of the story of the development of Arikara, Mandan,
and other upper Missouri cultures.

In many of the sites there is evidence of stratification and a se-
quence of cultures or a series of stages in cultural development.
Others contain the record of prehistoric floods, of silting and soil
erosion, of recurrent droughts, and fluctuation in climate. The ex-
cavation and the interpretation of the data contained in such sites
will contribute greatly, not only to the story of the growth and
development of the Plains Indians, but to our understanding of
conditions similar to those met and overcome by the aboriginal peoples.
For this reason the excavation and testing of several sites in three
Bureau of Reclamation reservoirs was recommended for the fiscal
year 1948, and for two important sites at one Corps of Engineers
project.

J. Joseph Bauxar, archeologist, joined the Missouri Basin staff
on July 15,1946. From that date until August 3 he devoted his time
to obtaining information on archeological remains in the Dakotas,
from reports on previous excavations and surveys in that area, and
in making preparations for work in the field. From August 3 until
September 22, in company with Paul L. Cooper, he engaged in a
preliminary reconnaissance of reservoir projects in Nebraska, South
Dakota, North Dakota, and Montana. In these reservoir basins a
total of 68 sites were examined, site locations and descriptions being
recorded and surface collections made. During the laboratory period,
from September 22 until April 24, 1947, Mr. Bauxar prepared pre-
liminary reports for seven of the reservoirs, Angostura, Box Butte,
Bronco, Crosby, Deslacs, Fort Randall, and Jamestown, and pre-
pared a technical report entitled “Notes on the Archeology of the
Upper James and Sheyenne River Valleys and the Devils Lake
Area.” Hrom April 24 until May 7 he joined Wesley L. Bliss in
preliminary surveys of three reservoirs in Kansas, one in Colorado,
and five in Nebraska. During this period 25 sites, none of which had
been recorded previously, were visited. From May 7 to June 2 the
time was spent in collaborating with Wesley L. Bliss and Theodore
Hi. White on a report entitled “Preliminary Appraisal of Archeologi-
cal and Paleontological Resources of the Proposed Reservoirs in the
Republican River Basin.” On June 2 Mr. Bauxar left Lincoln, as
a member of the field party under the direction of Paul L. Cooper, to
make a reconnaissance of the Fort Randall Reservoir in South Da-
kota. ‘This work was still in progress at the end of the fiscal year.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 69

Wesley L. Bliss was appointed to the Missouri Basin staff as an
archeologist on July 17, 1946. From July 17 to August 4 he was
occupied in making preparations for field reconnaissance in Wyoming
and Montana. He left Lincoln on August 4 and returned on Septem-
ber 22. In this period his party made preliminary surveys in six
reservoir areas in Wyoming, one which lies both in Wyoming and
Montana, and three in Montana. <A total of 74 archeological and pale-
ontological sites were found and recorded, and surface collections were
made from each. The fall and winter months, September 22, 1946,
until April 24, 1947, were spent at the Lincoln headquarters doing lab-
oratory and library research and in writing preliminary reports.
Reports were prepared for the Boysen, Tiber, and Medicine Lake Res-
ervoirs. In addition, Mr. Bliss prepared a draft of a paper entitled
“A Preliminary Appraisal of the Historic and Prehistoric Occupa-
tion of the Western Plains.” Some revision and the checking of some
material were needed to complete the paper. In the early spring of
1947 Bliss made several unofficial week-end visits with other members
of the staff to archeological sites along the Missouri, north of Kansas
City, and on the Big Blue River in Nebraska. These were for the
purpose of obtaining a wider knowledge of archeological manifesta-
tions in the area. In one case the trip was instrumental in stopping
the destruction of a group of mounds in the path of a real-estate sub-
division. From April 24 to May 7, 1947, Mr. Bliss, in association with
J. Joseph Bauxar, as previously noted, made a reconnaissance of nine
proposed reservoirs in Kansas, Colorado, and Montana. He assisted
in the preparation of the report on the Smokey Hill Sub-basin. On
June 10 Mr. Bliss left Lincoln in charge of a field party and proceeded
to the Glendo Reservoir in Wyoming where the remainder of the
month was devoted to an intensive survey. At the end of the fiscal
year, 30 sites had been located in addition to the ones noted during
the preliminary reconnaissance in the summer of 1946.

Paul L. Cooper, archeologist, became a member of the Missouri
Basin staff on July 15, 1946. Between that time and August 3 he as-
sisted in the preparations for work in the field and made two trips to
Omaha with Dr. Wedel for the purpose of consultation with members
of the National Park Service and the Corps of Engineers. On August
3 he left Lincoln with J. Joseph Bauxar to make preliminary surveys
at reservoir sites in Nebraska, South Dakota, North Dakota, and Mon-
tana. As previously noted, 68 archeological and paleontological sites
were located during the course of this survey. Mr. Cooper returned
to the Lincoln headquarters on September 22, and from October 7,
1946, to May 21, 1947, was in charge of the operation of the office and
laboratory. During this period he planned and supervised the work
of the project personnel, compiled monthly progress reports for the
70 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

National Park Service and the Bureau of Reclamation, assisted in the
setting up of record systems in the laboratory and in establishing
methods for issuing the reports based on the field work and laboratory
studies. Owing to a shortage of personnel, it was necessary for Mr.
Cooper to devote much of his time to direct supervision and to many
of the actual operations involved in mimeographing and distributing
the preliminary appraisals of the archeological and paleontological
resources of the various reservoirs. In May Mr. Cooper represented
the River Basin Surveys at a symposium on the River Valley program
conducted by the Nebraska Academy of Sciences. During the period
May 21 to June 2, 1947, Mr. Cooper prepared reports on Heart Butte,
Dickenson, Deerfield, Shadehill, Blue Horse, Sheyenne, and Garrison
Reservoirs, and on the Devils Lake area. Mr. Cooper left Lincoln on
June 3, 1947, in charge of a field party which was to undertake a pre-
liminary reconnaissance of the Fort Randall Reservoir on the Missouri
River in South Dakota. This reconnaissance was still in progress on
June 30, at which time 60 archeological sites had been located and
recorded.

Robert B. Cumming, Jr., archeologist, was added to the staff as
laboratory supervisor at the Lincoln headquarters on October 1, 1946,
Since the laboratory was then being moved to new quarters in the
basement of the Love Memorial Library building, Mr. Cumming began
work by assisting in the formulation of the laboratory plan and plac-
ing the equipment in order so that routine work could proceed. Dur-
ing the fall and winter months he assisted in planning and initiating
basic laboratory methods. A triplicate filing system was devised in
which information covering approximately 175 sites was filed in a site
file, a reservoir file, and a reserve file. A photographic file system
was organized wherein prints were mounted on 5- by 8-inch cards bear-
ing descriptive information and were filed in accordance with a stand-
ard trinomial system consisting of symbols for the State, county, and
site. The negatives were filed in a separate cabinet using the same
system for identification. Mr. Cumming also formulated the system
for cleaning, cataloging, and storing the specimens and assisted in
initiating an inventory procedure for equipment and supplies which
he maintained throughout the year. In addition, he assisted in super-
vising the maintenance of equipment. He also assisted in the work
and supervision of the preparation of illustrations, drafting of site
maps, typing, mimeographing, proofreading, and assembling of the
preliminary reports. During such times as the field directors were
absent from the headquarters office, he handled the business routine
in the office. At the close of the fiscal year Mr. Cumming was engaged
in processing the records sent in from the field for 50 sites located after
resumption of the survey work. Because the laboratory was under-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY TL

staffed during much of the year, it was necessary for Mr. Cumming
to perform tasks which should have been done by laboratory workers.
This condition was relieved somewhat during the last few weeks of
the fiscal year when several part-time workers were added to the staff.
This enabled Mr. Cumming to devote more time to the technical
aspects of the laboratory problem.

Jack T. Hughes, archeologist, was appointed to the Missouri Basin
staff on July 15, 1946. From then until August 4 he assisted in the
preparations for field work and received instructions as to the manner
in which the surveys were to be conducted. On August 4 he left
Lincoln with Wesley L. Bliss for a preliminary reconnaissance of
Bureau of Reclamation reservoir sites in Wyoming and Montana. He
returned to Lincoln on September 22 after having assisted in the ex-
amination of the 10 reservoirs previously mentioned in the discussion
of the work of Mr. Bliss. During the period from September 22,
1946, to May 3, 1947, Mr. Hughes engaged in library research, labora-
tory analysis of specimens, and the preparation of reports. Prelimi-
nary appraisals were written for the Glendo, Kortes, Boysen, Anchor,
Lake Solitude, and Oregon Basin Reservoirs in Wyoming, the Yellow-
tail Reservoir in Wyoming and Montana, and the Canyon Ferry Res-
ervoir in Montana. ‘Technical reports were also written for Glendo,
Kortes, Boysen, Anchor, Oregon Basin, and Yellowtail. From May
3 to May 12, 1947, Mr. Hughes participated with Marvin F. Kivett,
in a brief reconnaissance of seven proposed reservoir sites in the Lower
Platte Basin of Nebraska. After his return to Lincoln, he assisted
in the preparation of the preliminary appraisal of the archeological
resources of this group of reservoirs in the Lower Platte Basin of
Nebraska. On June 10 he left Lincoln with the field party under Wes-
ley L. Bliss and spent the remainder of the month at the Glendo
Reservoir in eastern Wyoming.

Marvin F. Kivett joined the Surveys staff on July 15, 1946, as arche-
ologist. On August 2 he left Lincoln to make a reconnaissance of eight
reservoir areas in Kansas, Nebraska, and Colorado, This work con-
tinued until September 20, 1946, when he returned to Lincoln. In the
course of 7 weeks spent in the field, a total of 75 archeological sites were
recorded in the 8 reservoir areas; 60 of these sites were unreported
prior to the reconnaissance. On October 16 Mr. Kivett went to the
Harlan County Reservoir, Nebr., where he carried on an extensive
survey until November 23. This included excavation in a prehistoric
ossuary and limited test excavations in four occupational areas, This
work produced much information on the nature of the archeological
remains in the area. From November 24, 1946, to May 2, 1947, Mr.
Kivett worked at headquarters in Lincoln writing preliminary ap-
praisals of the resources of the eight reservoirs visited during the

777488—48——-6
42 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

summer field season and in analyzing the data and specimens collected
and in preparing technical reports. The preliminary reports com-
pleted and mimeographed for distribution were on the Kirwin, Cedar
Bluff, and Kanopolis Reservoirs in Kansas; the Enders, Harlan
County, and Medicine Creek Reservoirs in Nebraska; and the Cherry
Creek and Wray Reservoirs in Colorado. Mr. Kivett left Lincoln on
May 38, 1947, in company with Jack T. Hughes. From then until May
19 they made a preliminary reconnaissance of six reservoirs in the
Lower Platte River Sub-basin. <A total of 19 previously unreported
archeological sites were located during this period. After his return
to Lincoln, Mr. Kivett prepared preliminary reports on the Lower
Platte River Basin including all the information obtained from the
six reservoirs visited. The period from June 1 to June 9 was spent in
preparing for a preliminary reconnaissance of the Garrison Reservoir
in North Dakota. Mr. Kivett and his party left Lincoln for North
Dakota on June 9, and at the end of the year they were engaged in a
survey of the Garrison Reservoir.

Theodore E. White, paleontologist, was appointed to the general
River Basin Surveys staff on April 15, 1947. From that date until
April 26 he devoted his time to studying collections of fossil material
from the Missouri Basin in the United States National Museum. On
April 27 he left Washington for Lincoln, Nebr., and on April 29 joined
the Missouri Basin staff. He left Lincoln on May 2 and spent 6 days
in a reconnaissance of proposed reservoir areas in the Lower Platte
Sub-basin in north central Nebraska. During this time he visited
seven reservoir basins finding fossil remains in only one. These were
reworked material of little scientific value. Dr. White returned to
the Lincoln headquarters on May 9 and left on May 18 to make a recon-
naissance of the Republican and Smokey Hill Sub-basins in south-
western Nebraska, Kansas, and Colorado. This work continued until
June 6, during which time he visited nine reservoirs in Nebraska, eight
in Kansas, and two in Colorado. Seven of these sites were recom-
mended for a more detailed survey on the basis of material found
and the extent of the exposures. From June 6 to June 13 Dr. White
worked at the Lincoln headquarters preparing reports and recom-
mendations for the various reservoirs which he had examined. On
June 13 he left Lincoln to examine proposed reservoir areas in the
North Platte Sub-basin in Wyoming, the Cheyenne River Sub-basin
in Wyoming and South Dakota, and smaller sub-basins in North and
South Dakota. This reconnaissance lasted until June 28, and during
the period three reservoirs were visited in Wyoming, six in South
Dakota and four in North Dakota. Three of the reservoirs were rec-
ommended for more detailed investigation. White returned to Lin-
coln on June 28 and at the end of the fiscal year was preparing to
start for further survey work in Wyoming and Montana.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 73

Several students were employed as members of the various field
parties for the Surveys beginning in June 1947. Robert L. Hall and
Warren L. Wittry left Lincoln on June 2 with the Cooper party for
the Fort Randall Reservoir in South Dakota, and at the end of the
fiscal year were occupied in the survey of that area. John L. Essex,
Gordon F. McKenzie, and Leo L. Stewart left Lincoln on June 9 as
members of the Kivett party to make a reconnaissance of the Garrison
Reservoir area in North Dakota. Mr. Essex had previously assisted
Mr. Kivett in the work at the Harlan County Reservoir, Nebr., in
November 1946. H. G. Pierce joined the Bliss party and left Lincoln
on June 10 to assist in the survey at the Glendo Reservoir in Wyoming.
He was still with the party at the end of the fiscal year. John C.
Donohoe was employed on June 27 to assist the paleontologist, Dr.
Theodore E. White.

Georgia.—Intensive survey of the Allatoona Reservoir area on the

towah River in Georgia was carried on during the period Novem-
ber 12, 1946, to April 1, 1947. This survey was made by Joseph R.
Caldwell, of the Division of Archeology, United States National Mu-
seum, who was detailed to the River Basin Surveys for that purpose.
Caldwell located 206 archeological sites representing a record of thou-
sands of years of diverse human cultures. Information obtained from
this survey has added materially to the aboriginal history of that part
of Georgia. Full knowledge, however, cannot be gained without ex-
cavation of some of the sites and the testing of others. In view of
this the preliminary report, prepared by Mr. Caldwell and distributed
to the National Park Service and the Corps of Engineers, recom-
mends the excavation of 10 sites and the testing of 33 others. A re-
quest for further funds for this purpose has been made by the National
Park Service to the Corps of Engineers, but at the end of the fiscal
year no response had been received to the request. The specimens col-
lected from the sites examined during the course of this survey were
transferred to the National Museum on April 17, 1947.

Virginia-North Carolina.—The archeological reconnaissance of the
Buggs Island project on the Roanoke River was carried on during the
period of February 14 to May 1, 1947. This work was under the super-
vision of Carl I’. Miller of the River Basin Surveys staff. During the
course of the investigations, 94 archeological sites were located, 2 of
which are extremely important as they appear to represent an eastern
phase of the so-called Folsom culture which flourished in the western
plains during the closing days of the last Ice Age. Other sites are pre-
Colonial and some date from the early Colonial period. The latter
are significant as they contain material characteristic of the late seven-
teenth-century contact with European culture and their investigation
would throw considerable light on this little-known era. Excavation
of 14 sites including the 2 eastern Folsom examples and the testing of
74 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

5 others has been recommended. A preliminary report on the Buggs
Island Reservoir was completed but had not been processed for dis-
tribution at the end of the fiscal year.

Texas.—River Basin Surveys were started in Texas in March 1947
when, through the kindness and cooperation of the authorities, a field
base and headquarters were established at the Department of Anthro-
pology of the University of Texas at Austin. A survey of the Addicks
Reservoir on South Mayde Creek, a tributary of Buffalo Bayou,
near Houston, got under way March 27 and was still in progress at the
close of the fiscal year. The Addicks project is not a reservoir in the
true sense of the word, but a flood-prevention dam which will not
retain water in its basin for more than 2 or 3 weeks at a time. As
a consequence, most of the sites located in the basin will be available
for study or excavation during most of the year. A series of nine
sites were found, however, which were being destroyed by stream ac-
tion, by construction work on the dam, or by indiscriminate and unau-
thorized digging. As a consequence, it was necessary to shift from a
reconnaissance type of survey to an intensive testing procedure to
salvage as much information as possible. Six of them were examined
by digging a number of test pits in various portions of the areas which
they covered, and subsequently two of the six were extensively excava-
ted. The cooperation of the district engineer, Col. D. W. Griffiths, in
supplying a crew of 10 men and a foreman for a period of several
weeks made these excavations possible. One of the excavated sites
consisted of a stratified midden containing a sequence of several cul-
tural horizons. Work on the site was started on May 29 and completed
on June 13. The second was started on June 16 and was still being
dug at the end of the fiscal year. The information and material from
these two sites will provide a fairly complete sequence showing the
development of aboriginal culture in this area over a comparatively
long period of time. During this period, the Indians progressed from
a simple hunting group to a sedentary agricultural and pottery-
making people. The data obtained are a significant contribution to the
hitherto little-known pre-Columbian history of this part of Texas.

The Hords Creek Reservoir on Hords Creek, near Coleman, was sur-
veyed during the period May 6 to May 17, 1947. Only eight sites
were found in the reservoir basin. Six of them were burned rock
middens and two were open camp sites. None gave indication of
being of sufficient importance to warrant further investigation. Com-
parable material is available elsewhere in locations which will not be
inundated. Unless construction work should reveal subsurface de-
posits of archeological material, no additional work will be required
in this reservoir.

The Whitney Dam area on the Brazos River north of Waco was
started on May 20 and was still in progress at the end of the fiscal
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 15

year. By June 30 a little over half of the basin had been covered.
Numerous sites had been located and recorded, and a number had
been trenched for additional information. Several small rock shel-
ters were excavated to salvage material which was being disturbed by
unauthorized collectors. Two laborers for digging test trenches and
for excavating in the shelters were supplied by the resident engineer.
The Brazos flows through an important archeological and paleon-
tological area in Texas and much information is contained in the sites
which will be flooded by the Whitney Dam. On the basis of data
already obtained by the survey, a number of key sites will be recom-
mended for excavation.

Joe Ben Wheat, archeologist, was appointed to the Surveys in Texas
on March 20,1947. He left Austin on March 25 for Galveston where
he conferred with the district engineer and obtained information
about the priority of various Corps of Engineer projects in Texas.
From Galveston he proceeded to the Barker Reservoir near Houston.
He found that the project was so near completion that there was no
possibility of salvaging archeological information from that area.
Construction on the Barker Dam had completely destroyed one large
mound and obliterated any evidence of occupation areas. As a con-
sequence he proceeded to the nearby Addicks Dam and began a sur-
vey of that area. After learning that much of the reservoir basin
would be under water only at rare intervals, Mr. Wheat turned his
attention to six sites in the immediate vicinity of the dam which
would be destroyed either as a result of construction or by erosion
from stream action. All these were tested, and from the information
thus obtained he concluded that two of them should be excavated as
they contained a sequence of materials showing a number of cultural
changes. In this connection he went to Galveston on May 20 and con-
ferred with Colonel Griffiths, the district engineer. As a result of
this conference, Mr. Wheat was furnished an excavation crew, trans-
portation, and the equipment necessary for conducting the excava-
tions. He returned to Addicks on May 22, and was able to begin
actual excavations on May 29. Digging was still in progress on
June 30.

Robert L. Stephenson, archeologist, joined the Surveys in Texas on
April 28. From that date until May 5 he worked at Austin, conferring
with members of the Museum staff at the University, studying collec-
tions of archeological material, and making preparations for field
reconnaissance. He left Austin on May 6 for the Hords Creek Reser-
voir. From May 7 through May 17 he examined the Hords Creek
Reservoir Basin, locating and recording eight archeological sites. On
May 18 he left Coleman for Waco where he conferred with Frank
H. Watt, of the Central Texas Archeological Association, obtaining
information about archeological sites along the Brazos River, and
76 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

particularly in the area to be flooded by the Whitney Dam. On May
19 he went to Whitney and conferred with the Resident Engineer.
On May 20 he began the actual survey of the Whitney Dam area and
continued with that work to the end of the fiscal year. During the
course of his investigations he interviewed numerous local residents,
obtaining all the information possible pertaining to the occurrence of
archeological sites, and studied collections of artifacts which had been
gathered from sites in the area. In addition he made note of various
historic remains and obtained such data as were available about them.
This information was forwarded to the regional office of the National
Park Service at Santa Fe, N. Mex., for the benefit of the Park Service
historians.

California——Archeological surveys were started in California in
May 1947. Through the cooperation of the Department of Anthro-
pology of the University of California, at Berkeley, headquarters for
the Surveys were made available. During the period from March 21
through June 28, 1947, six Corps of Engineers proposed reservoir
basins were surveyed. They were Pine Flat on King’s River, Terminus
on Kaweah River, Success on Tule River, Isabella on Kern River,
Folsom on American River, and Coyote Valley on the east fork of
the Russian River. A total of 59 sites were located, and of this number
8 have been recommended for excavation or partial excavation.

Some immediate contributions to the archeological knowledge of
California were derived from the surveys. Two aboriginal soapstone
quarries and three pictograph sites, none of which had been described
previously in archeological literature, were located. Surface collec-
tions of sherds of the unique and little-known Yokuts-Mona pottery
will permit a more extensive description of the type from archeological
sources than has previously been possible.

Franklin Fenenga, archeologist, was appointed to the California
surveys on March 21. He made all the surveys in the six reservoirs
listed above, prepared the preliminary reports on their archeological
resources, and made recommendations for further work. On June
28 Mr. Fenenga left Berkeley, Calif., for Eugene, Oreg., and at the
end of the fiscal year was starting a survey of the Detroit Reservoir
in the Willamette Valley.

During the course of the surveys in California Mr. Fenenga em-
ployed several student assistants. Stephen C. Cappannari served in
that capacity from May 8 to 11 inclusive; Francis A. Riddell, May
29-June 1, and June 12-15; Harry S. Riddell, Jr., April 17-20; and
Clarence E. Smith, April 1--6, May 1-4 and 19-25.

Columbia-Snake Basin.—The program for surveys in the Columbia-
Snake Basin was just getting under way at the close of the fiscal year.
Dr. Philip Drucker, anthropologist on the regular staff of the Bureau
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY LE

of American Ethnology, was detailed to the River Basin Surveys for
the purpose of directing the work in this area. On June 30 he had
established field headquarters at Eugene, where the Department of
Anthropology of the University of Oregon provided oilice and labora-
tory space. Two field parties left Eugene on the morning of June 30,
one to make a reconnaissance of the Detroit Reservoir, a Corps of
Engineers project on the North Santiam River, in the Willamette
Valley, Oreg., and the other to make investigations at the Cascade
Reservoir on the North Fork Payette River in Idaho. Plans for the
summer called for the survey of 4 Corps of Engineers and 12 Bureau
of Reclamation projects.

Dr. Drucker left Washington on June 17, 1947, for San Francisco,
Calif. He spent the day of June 18 at Lincoln, Nebr., studying the
operational procedure being used in the Missouri Basin surveys and
the laboratory arrangements for processing and cataloging specimens
received from the field. He arrived in San Francisco on the 19th and
spent the following 2 days in conference with the regional officers of
Region 4 of the National Park Service and members of the Department
of Anthropology at the University of California in Berkeley. On
June 22 he left San Francisco for Portland, Oreg., arriving on the
23d. At Portland he spent 2 days discussing plans for the surveys
with Regional Archeologist Louis R. Caywood of the National Park
Service, regional ofiicials of the Bureau of Reclamation, and repre-
sentatives of the district engineer of the Corps of Engineers. At this
time he also made arrangements for the field headquarters at Eugene.
He returned to San Francisco on June 24 and reported the results
of his trip to Portland to the regional office of the National Park
Service. He also recruited personnel for the field parties and made
arrangements for the shipment of equipment from Berkeley to Eu-
gene. He left Berkeley on June 28, arriving at Eugene, Oreg., on the
29th. He left Eugene on June 30 with the field party proceeding to
the Cascade Reservoir.

Clarence E. Smith, archeologist, was appointed to the Columbia-
Snake Basin surveys on June 25. He spent the following 2 days
assisting Dr. Drucker and Franklin Fenenga in making preparations
for the summer’s field work. On June 28 he left Berkeley in company
with Fenenga for Eugene, Oreg. They arrived at Eugene on the
29th and on the morning of the 30th left for the Detroit Reservoir.

Richard D. Daugherty, archeologist, was appointed to the
Columbia-Snake Basin staff on June 30, and left the same day for the
Cascade Reservoir in Idaho.

Francis A. Riddell joined the Surveys staff on June 26, as field
assistant. He left Berkeley, Calif., on June 28 and arrived at Eugene,
Oreg., on June 29. On June 30 he left Eugene in company with Mr.
Daugherty and Mr. Drucker for the Cascade Reservoir.
78 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

Cooperating institutions.—The River Basin Surveys have been for-
tunate in receiving wholehearted cooperation from local institutions
in many portions of the country. Not only has space for field offices
and laboratories been provided together with the assistance and advice
of members of the various staffs, as at the University of Nebraska, the
University of Texas, the University of California, and the University
of Oregon, but in a number of cases units in the survey program have
been taken over and are being worked by universities and local organ-
izations. This active cooperation has relieved the River Basin Sur-
veys of a considerable burden and has made for more rapid progress
throughout the country as a whole.

In Pennsylvania the Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Com-
mission helped with the program. The University of Kentucky as-
sumed responsibility for investigations at the Wolf Creek and Dewey
Reservoir projects in that State. The Alabama Museum of Natural
History conducted surveys along the lower Chattahoochee River Basin
in Alabama in areas which will be inundated. The Ohio State Mu-
seum at Columbus investigated Corps of Engineers projects in that
State. The University of Missouri, in cooperation with the Missouri
Resources Museum and the Missouri Archeological Society, started
surveys and excavations in that portion of the Bull Shoals Reservoir,
on the White River, which lies in Missouri and at several Corps of
Engineers projects on the Osage River. The Department of An-
thropology of the University of Chicago and the Illinois State Mu-
seum at Springfield agreed to cooperate in a survey of the Illinois
River Basin where 17 Corps of Engineers projects are proposed. The
University of Oklahoma examined and reported on two reservoirs,
one of which, the Wister, will inundate extensive and important
archeological material. The University of Nebraska cooperated both
in the search for and the excavation of paleontological material and
in archeological reconnaissance. The Nebraska State Historical So-
ciety assisted in the survey work and also did some digging in sites
which will be destroyed by construction work. The South Dakota
Historical Society did some survey work and also some excavation.
The University of North Dakota and the North Dakota Historical
Society cooperated in making a survey at the Heart Butte Reservoir
and in testing a number of sites in that area. The University of Colo-
rado assumed responsibility for a survey of eight reservoir basins in
the Colorado-Big Thompson project and for more intensive investi-
gation at the Wray Reservoir in eastern Colorado. The University
of Denver planned surveys of a number of reservoirs in the Blue
River-South Platte project and of two in the Arkansas River Basin
south of Pueblo. Western State College took over the examination
of a group of reservoirs along the Gunnison River in western Colorado.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 79

The Archeological Survey Association of Southern California, spon-
sored by a number of museums in that area, started the investigation
of a number of Corps of Engineers projects in southern California.
The University of Washington surveyed a number of proposed reser-
voir basins in that State and made all the information available to
the Columbia-Snake Basin group at Eugene. It also did some exca-
vation work.

The Reports of Progress prepared by the cooperating organizations
are sent to the River Basin Surveys for coordination and are then for-
warded to the National Park Service. All the information obtained
thus becomes a part of the record of the River Basin Surveys in
general.

EDITORIAL WORK AND PUBLICATIONS

The editorial work of the Bureau continued during the year under
the immediate direction of the editor, M. Helen Palmer. ‘There were
issued one Annual Report and one Publication of the Institute of
Social Anthropology, as listed below.

Sixty-third Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 1945-46.
12 pp.

Institute of Social Anthropology Publ. No. 3. Moche, a Peruvian Coastal Com-
munity, by John Gillin. 166 pp., 26 pls., 8 figs., 1 map.

The following publications were in press at the close of the fiscal
year:

Bulletin 143. Handbook of South American Indians. Julian H. Steward,
editor. Volume 3: The Tropical Forest Tribes. Volume 4: The Circum-Caribbean
Tribes. Volume 5: The Comparative Ethnology of the South American Indians.

Institute of Social Anthropology Publ. No. 4. Cultural and Historical Geogra-
phy of Southwest Guatemala, by Felix Webster McBryde.

Institute of Social Anthropology Publ. No.5. Highland Communities of Central
Peru: A Regional Survey, by Harry Tschopik, Jr.

Institute of Social Anthropology Publ. No. 6. Empire’s Children: the People of
Tzintzuntzan, by George M. Foster.

Institute of Social Anthropology Publ. No. 7. Cultural Geography of the Mod-
ern Tarascan Area, by Robert C. West.

Institute of Social Anthropology Publ. No. 8. Sierra Popoluca Speech, by Mary
L. Foster and George M. Foster.

Publications distributed totaled 7,948, as compared with 12,730 for
the fiscal year 1945-46.

LIBRARY

The Library of the Bureau has continued in charge of the librarian,
Miss Miriam B. Ketchum, assisted by M. L. Fiester, who was appointed
March 17, 1947.

The total accessions in the library as of June 30, 1947, were 34,462.
There were 148 new accessions during the fiscal year, by purchase, gift,
80 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

and exchange. Many of the foreign exchanges which lapsed during
the war have again resumed, and good progress has been made in filling
the gaps, brought about by the war, in periodical sets.

Cards on hand for domestic periodicals have been typed, and the
shelf list for this classification is now complete. A beginning has been
made on typing the cards for serial publications of domestic societies
and institutions, and this will soon be finished.

The labeling of sets of publications of domestic societies and institu-
tions and all the domestic periodicals has been completed, and the
labeling of the foreign serial publications has begun.

ILLUSTRATIONS

From late fall of 1946 up to June 30, 1947, E. G. Cassedy, illustrator,
spent most of the time, with the exception of time taken out to prepare
weather graphs, work for the Editorial Division, and miscellaneous
maps and plates, on the restoration of the old Indian negatives of the
Bureau of American Ethnology. With the help of Mr. Brostrup this
work has been progressing very satisfactorily and many negatives
which were important historically and which were about to be lost
have been preserved for coming generations.

ARCHIVES

Miss Mae W. Tucker continued the work of operating and cataloging
the manuscript and photographic archives of the Bureau. In addi-
tion to furnishing material for routine requests, some special requests
for photographic prints requiring urgent attention have been filled.
Visitors desiring to consult material in the archives have been given the
required assistance.

The greater part of the time has been given to work on the manu-
script catalog which is being prepared for publication, to include all
the unpublished manuscript material in the Bureau archives. The
data for this catalog has been typed on individual cards for each item
and is ready for final assembling.

A new file-print collection consisting of prints made from the re-
photographed and retouched negatives in the Bureau collection has
been started and will continue as the new prints are made. On Mr.
Cassedy’s recommendation, an extra set of prints is being made along
with the file prints, this set to be preserved for possible emergency use.

Some time is necessarily required for research work in connection
with both the manuscript material and the photographs.

SPECIAL PHOTOGRAPHIC RESTORATION PROJECT

The Bureau of American Ethnology ever since its inception in 1879
has maintained a collection of photographic negatives of North Ameri-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY Sl

can Indians. The file had its origin with the famous “Jackson” col-
lection of over 1,000 negatives which was brought to the Bureau by
Major Powell from the directorship of the United States Geological
Survey. This unique and vaiuable group has been supplemented by
about 11,000 additional negatives obtained from various sources in-
cluding the field trips of the first 40 years, the exposures made in
Washington of the visiting Indian delegations, gifts, and purchases.
Nowhere else in this country is there a more complete photographic
record of the Indians who figured prominently in peace and war
during the important opening of the West in the nineteenth century.
In several instances the only known photographs of important char-
acters of this period are in this collection.

The great bulk of this collection was made before 1900 in the early
days of photography, and often under extremely adverse field condi-
tions of heat and bulky weight. These factors have contributed toward
a deterioration of the negative image. ‘This deterioration fortunately
has started around the edges of the negative and is progressing toward
the center, still leaving the figure and facial characteristics quite legi-
ble. However, if allowed to go on unchecked this collection will have
disintegrated unto uselessness.

During this fiscal year it was determined to inaugurate a systematic
program of restoration and preservation of this unique collection. The
continuous demand for reprints from these negatives, especially those
being used for publication, made this restoration imperative.

In February 1947 the services of a photographer, John O. Brostrup,
were obtained. The photographer and the scientific illustrator have
begun the program of restoration and preservation of these negatives.
The following system was devised and is being used in this work:

(1) Chemical improvement and cleaning of the original negative.
(2) Making a uniform enlarged print from the original negative,
cropping out destroyed and objectionable background areas. (3) Res-
toration of missing areas, and improvement of backgrounds by the
scientific illustrator with the minimum alteration necessary to pre-
serve faithfully the original negative. (4) Copying the restored en-
largement to uniform 8 by 10 inch size. (5) Printing of permanent
file prints.

All the processing is being carried out with the intent of insuring as
great a degree of permanence as possible.

First priority is being given those negatives which are needed to
supply prints for pay orders, i. e., those for which there is an imme-
diate demand. Second priority are those negatives which are in the
most advanced stages of deterioration.

At the beginning of the work in February an inspection was made
of each negative, and those requiring early restoration were listed.
82 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

A file of restored prints is being built up, and inspection in the
offices of the Bureau of American Ethnology is invited.

COLLECTIONS

Collections transferred by the Bureau of American Ethnology to the
Department of Anthropology, United States National Museum, dur-
ing the fiscal year were as follows:

Accession No. Collection

176066. 65 ethnological specimens from the Rio Vaupés in Colombia and Brazil.
Collected by Paul H. Allen.

176157. 3 ethnological specimens from the Navaho Indians. Collected by Dr.
John P. Harrington, at Fort Defiance, Ariz., in 1939.

176347. 1 ceremonial cane from the Iroquois Indians of Six Nations Reserve,
Canada. Collected by J. N. B. Hewitt, June 1916.

MISCELLANEOUS

During the course of the year information was furnished by mem-
bers of the Bureau staff in reply to numerous inquiries concerning the
American Indians, both past and present, of both continents. Vari-
ous specimens sent to the Bureau were identified and data on them
furnished for their owners.

Respectfully submitted.

M. W. Stirurne, Chief.

Dr. A. Wrermore,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 6
REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE

Sim: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi-
ties of the International Exchange Service for the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1947.

Although shipping was suspended during September, October, and
November because of shipping and trucking strikes, the allotment for
transportation was practically exhausted by the end of March. There-
fore it was necessary to curtail sharply shipping during the last 3
months of the fiscal year.

The number of packages received for transmission during the year
was 703,798, an increase over the previous year of 163,296. The
weight of these packages was 773,975 pounds, an increase of 301,676
pounds. The average weight of the individual packages is approxi-
mately 1 pound, 2 ounces, as compared to the average of the previous
year of approximately 14 ounces—an indication that the institutions
are still shipping material held during the war. The material re-
ceived from both foreign and domestic sources for distribution is
classified as shown in the following table:

Packages Weight
Received . | Received
Sent Sent
abroad rom abroad from
abroad abroad

Pounds | Pounds

United States parliamentary documents sent abroad_____-__-_- 370,00) [2225-2220 LT f 22) loeseeeae =
Publications received in return for parliamentary documents--_-|---.-____- py (7 a eae 6, 421
United States departmental documents sent abroad__________.- 12910700 |e eee o een 199; 21b4 |e
Publications received in return for departmental documents-_--_}-----_-__- 6,573; |aece=ee— : 13, 996
Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications sent abroazd_-_-| 166,009 |_.-_-..__- 202,492 toon eccc css
Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications received from
abroad for distribution in the United States..._..._.....--_-_]--_-.----- 2a, SOOM aoee anes 84, 029
TDLO Lo Sate ae ene en ee ee ee eee ae Joe 670, 585 33,213 | 669, 529 104, 446
Cirandi total kena an oan = seen eee een ee Sees lu. 703, 798 778, 975

The packages are forwarded partly by mail direct to the addressees
and partly by freight to the exchange bureaus. The number of boxes
shipped was 2,578, a decrease of 539. Of the boxes shipped 638 were
for depositories of full sets of the United States Government docu-
ments furnished in exchange for the official publications of foreign
governments for deposit in the Library of Congress. The number of
packages forwarded by mail was 164,305.

83
84 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

Of the material accumulated at the Institution during the war, there
remained at the beginning of the fiscal year 196,082 pounds. This war
backlog was reduced to 69,020 but owing to enforced decrease in
shipments during the last quarter of the year the actual backlog at the
end of the year was 110,998 pounds.

Consignments are now forwarded to all countries except Rumania
and Yugoslavia. Shipments to these countries will probably be re-
sumed during the coming year. The notable resumptions of exchange
are with Germany and Japan, which were effected with the cooperation
of the Civil Affairs Division of he War Department.

FOREIGN DEPOSITORIES OF GOVERNMENTAL DOCUMENTS

The number of sets of United States official publications received
to be sent in return for the official publications sent by foreign govern-
ments for deposit in the Library of Congress is 93 (56 full and 37
partial sets). The depository for Germany has been changed as
indicated in the list and the set formerly sent to the League of Nations
is now sent to the United Nations.

DEPOSITORIES OF FULL SETS

ARGENTINA: Direccién de Investigaciones, Archivo, Biblioteca y Legislacién Ex-
tranjero, Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriories y Culto, Buenos Aires.
AUSTRALIA: Commonwealth Parliament and National Library, Canberra.
New Souta WALrES: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.

QUEENSLAND: Parliamentary Library, Brisbane.
SouTH AUSTRALIA: Public Library of South Australia, Adelaide.
TASMANIA: Parliamentary Library, Hobart.
Vicror1a: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.
AUSTRIA: National Library of Austria, Vienna.*
BELGIUM: Bibliothéque Royale, Bruxelles.
Braziz: Instituto Nacional do Livro, Rio de Janeiro.
CanapDs: Library of Parliament, Ottawa.
Manrropa: Provincial Library, Winnipeg.
OnTARIO: Legislative Library, Toronto.
QuEBEC: Library of the Legislature of the Province of Quebec.
CHILE: Biblioteca Nacional, Santiago.
CHINA: Ministry of Education, National Library, Nanking, China.
PrrPInc: National Library of Peiping.
CoLoMBIA: Biblioteca Nacional, Bogota.
Costa Rica: Oficina de Depésito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, San José.
CusA: Ministerio de Estado, Canje Internacional, Habana.
CZECHOSLOVAKIA : Bibliothéque de ’ Assemblée Nationale, Prague.
DENMARK: Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes Selskab, Copenhagen.
Heypr: Bureau des Publications, Ministére des Finances, Cairo.
Estonia: Riigiraamatukogu (State Library), Tallinn.
FINLAND: Parliamentary Library, Helsinki.

* Added during the year.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 85

FRANCE: Bibliothéque Nationale, Paris.
GERMANY: Offentliche Wissensechaftliche Bibliothek, Berlin,* *
GREAT BRITAIN:
ENGLAND: British Museum, London.
Lonpon : London School of Economics and Political Science. (Depository of
the London County Council.)
Houneary: Library, Hungarian House of Delegates, Budapest.
InpIA: Imperial Library, Calcutta.
Inecanp: National Library of Ireland, Dublin.
IvaLy: Ministerio della Publica Istruxione, Rome.
JAPAN: Imperial Library of Japan, Tokyo.’
Mexico: Secretaria de Relaciones Exteriores, Departamento de Informaci6n para
el Extranjero, Mexico, D. F.
NETHERLANDS: Royal Library, The Hague.
NEw ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.
NoRTHERN IRELAND: H. M. Stationery Office, Belfast.
Norway: Universitets-Bibliothek, Oslo. (Depository of the Government of
Norway.)
Peru: Seccidn de Propaganda y Publicaciones, Ministerio de Relaciones Ex-
teriores, Lima.
PHILIPPINES: National Library, Manila.*
PoLaND: Bibliothéque Nationale, Warsaw.
PorTUGAL: Biblioteca Nacional, Lisbon.
RuMANIA: Academia Romani, Bucharest.
SPAIN ; Cambio Internacional de Publicaciones, Avenida Calvo Sotelo 20, Madrid.
Swepben: Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm.
SWITZERLAND: Bibliothéque Centrale Fédérale, Berne.
TURKEY: Department of Printing and Engraving, Ministry of Education, Istanbul.
UNIoN oF SouTH AFkicaA: State Library, Pretoria, Transvaal.
UNION oF SOVIET SOCIALIST RePpuslics: Ali-Union Lenin Library, Moscow 115.
UKRAINE: Ukrainian Society for Cultural Relations with Foreign Countries,
Kiey.
UNITED NATIONS: Library of the United Nations, Geneva, Switzerland.
Urucuay: Oficina de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Montevideo.
VENEZUELA: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.
YUGOSLAVIA: Ministére de ’Education, Belgrade.

DEPOSITORIES OF PARTIAL SETS

AFGHANISTAN: Library of the Afghan Academy, Kabul.
Bortvia: Biblioteca del Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores y Culto, La Paz.
BRAZIL:

Minas Gersrs: Directoria Geral e Estatistica em Minas, Bello Horizonte.
BRITISH GUIANA: Government Secretary’s Oflice, Georgetown, Demerara.
CANADA?

ALBERTA: Provincial Library, Edmonton.

BritTIisH CoLUMBIA: Provincial Library, Victoria.

New Brunswick: Legislative Library, Fredericton.

Nova Scotia: Provincial Secretary of Nova Scotia, Halifax.

PRINCE Epwarp ISLAND: Legislative and Publie Library, Charlottetown.

SASKATCHEWAN: Legislative Library, Regina.

* Added during the year.
1Temporarily suspended.
86 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

CryLon: Chief Secretary’s Office, Record Department of the Library, Colombo.
DoMINICAN RepusLic: Biblioteca de la Universidad de Santo Domingo, Ciudad
Trujillo.
EcuabDor: Biblioteca Nacional, Quito.
GUATEMALA: Biblioteca Nacional, Guatemala.
HalrI: Bibliothéque Nationale, Port-au-Prince.
HONDURAS:
Biblioteca y Archivo Nacionales, Tegucigalpa.
Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Tegucigalpa.
IceLAND: National Library, Reykjavik.
INDIA :
Bena@aL: Library, Bengal Legislature, Assembly House, Calcutta.
BIHAR AND ORISSA: Revenue Department, Patna.
BomBay: Undersecretary to the Government of Bombay, General Depart-
ment, Bombay.
BuremMa: Secretary to the Government of Burma, Education Department,
Rangoon.
PunsaB: Chief Secretary to the Government of the Punjab, Lahore.
UNITED PROVINCES OF AGRA AND OUDH: University of Allahabad, Allahabad.
IRAN: Imperial Ministry of Education, Tehran.
Iraq: Public Library, Baghdad.
JAMAICA: Colonial Secretary, Kingston.
Liperia: Department of State, Monrovia.
Matta: Minister for the Treasury, Valleta.
NEWFOUNDLAND: Department of Home Affairs, St. John’s.
NicakAGUA: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Managua.
PANAMA: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Panama,
Paraguay: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Seccién Biblioteca, Asuncidén.
SALVADOR:
Biblioteca Nacional, San Salvador.
Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador.
Sram: Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok.
VaTIcAN City: Biblioteca Apostolica Vaticana, Vatican City, Italy.

INTERPARLIAMENTARY EXCHANGE OF THE OFFICIAL JOURNAL

There are now being sent abroad 71 copies of the Federal Register
and 65 copies of the Congressional Record. The countries to which
these journals are being forwarded are given in the following list:

DEPOSITORIES OF CONGRESSIONAL RECORD AND FEDERAL REGISTER

ARGENTINA :
Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Buenos Aires.
Biblioteca del Poder Judicial, Mendoza.’
Camara de Diputados, Oficina de Informacion Parlamentaria, Buenos Aires.
Boletin Oficial de la Republica Argentina, Ministerio de Justica e Instruccié6n
Ptblica, Buenos Aires.
AUSTRALIA :
Commonwealth Parliament and National Library, Canberra.
New SourH WALEs: Library of Parliament of New South Wales, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Chief Secretary’s Office, Brisbane.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Library of Parliament of Western Australia.

2 Federal Register only.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 87

BRazin:
Biblioteca do Congresso Nacional, Rio de Janeiro.
Imprensa Nacional, Rio de Janeiro.
AmMAzONAS: Archivo, Biblioteca e Imprensa Publica, Manfos.
Banta: Governador do Estado da Bahia, Sdo Salvador.
Espiriro Santo: Presidencia do Estado do Espirito Santo, Victoria.
Rio GRANDE DO Sut: “A Kederacio,” Porte Alegre.
SERGIPE: Biblioteca Publica do Hstado de Sergipe, Aracajt.
SAo Pave: Imprensa Oficial do Estado, Sio Paulo.
BrrtisH Honpvuras: Colonial Secretary, Belize.
QANADA:
Library of Parliament, Ottawa.
Clerk of the Senate, Houses of Parliament, Ottawa.
CUBA:
Biblioteca del Capitolio, Habana,
Biblioteca Publica Panamericana, Habana.’
Heyer: Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Egyptian Government, Cairo.’
FRANCE:
Bibliothéque, Chambre des Députés, Paris.
Bibliothéque, Conseil de la Republique.*
Publiques de l'Institute de Droit Compare, University de Paris, Paris.’ *
GREAT BriTain: Printed Library of the Foreign Office, London.
GREECE: Library, Greek Parliament, Athens.
GUATEMALA: Biblioteca de la Asamblea Legislativa, Guatemala.
HaltI: Bibliothéque Nationale, Port-au-Prince.
HoNnpugas: Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Tegucigaipa.
INDIA:
Civil Secretariat Library, Lucknow, United Provinces.’ *
Legislative Assembly Library, Lucknow, United Provinces.*
Legislative Department, Simla.
TRELAND: Dail Eireann, Dublin.
Iraty: International Institute for the Unification of Private Law, Rome.*
Mexico:
Direccién General de Informacién, Secretarfa de Gobernaci6n, Mexico, D. F.
Biblioteca Benjamin Franklin, Mexico, D. F.
AGUASCALIENTES: Gobernador del Hstado de Aguascalientes, Aguascalientes.
CAMPECHE: Gobernador del Estado de Campeche, Campeche.
CRIAPAS: Gobernador del Estado de Chiapas, Tuxtla Gutierrez.
CHIHUAHUA: Gobernador del Estado de Chihuahua, Chihuahua.
CoaHUILA: Periéddico Oficial del Hstado de Coahuila, Palacio de Gobierno,
Saltillo.
CoLimMA;: Gobernador dei Estado de Colima, Colima.
DuRANGO: Gobernador Constitucional del Estado de Durango, Durango.
GUANAJUATO: Secretaria General de Gobierno del Estado, Guanajuato.
GUERRERO: Gobernador del Hstado de Guerrero, Chilpancingo.
JALISco: Biblioteca del Estado, Guadalajara.
LOWeER CALIFORNIA: Gobernador del Distrito Norte, Mexicali.
México: Gaceta del Gobierno, Toluca.
MicHoacAn: Secretaria General de Gobierno del Estado de Michoacan,
Morelia.

2 Federal Register only.
*’ Congressional Record only.
* Added during the year.

777488-—48——7
88 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

Moretos: Palacio de Gobierno, Cuernavaca.
NayABiT: Gobernador de Nayarit, Tepic.
NvEvo Leon: Biblioteca del Estado, Monterrey.
OAXACA: Periodico Oficial, Palacio de Gobierno, Oaxaca.
Pursia: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Puebla.
QUERFTARO: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Seccién de Archivo, Querétaro.
Sawn Luis Poros{: Congreso del Estado, San Luis Potosi.
SinaLtoa: Gobernador del Estado, de Sinaloa, Culiacaén.
Sonora: Gobernador del Estado de Sonora, Hermosillo.
Tapasco: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Seccién 38a, Ramo de Prensa,
Villahermosa.,
TAMAULIPAS: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Victoria.
TLAXCALA: Secretaria de Gobierno del Estado, Tlaxcala.
Veracruz: Gobernador del Estado de Veracruz, Departmento de Gobernacién
y Justicia, Jalapa.
YuoaTAn: Gobernador del Estado de Yucataén, Mérida.
New ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.
Pegu: Camara de Diputados, Lima.
POLAND: Ministry of Justice, Warsaw.?
SPAIN: Diputacion de Navarra, San Sebastian.
SWITZERLAND: Bibliotéque, Bureau International du Travail, Geneva.’
UNION oF SOUTH AFRICA:
CAPE OF Goop Hops: Library of Parliament, Cape Town.
TRANSVAAL: State Library, Pretoria.
Urveuay: Diario Oficial, Caile Florida 1178, Montevideo.
VENEZUELA: Biblioteca del Congreso, Caracas.

FOREIGN EXCHANGE AGHNCIES

Exchanges are sent to all countries except Rumania and Yugoslavia.
The countries listed are those to which shipments are forwarded by
freight. To other countries not appearing on the list, packages are
forwarded by mail.

LIST OF AGENCIES

Austra: Austrian National Library, Vienna.

BELGIUM: Service des Fichanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Royale de
Belgique, Bruxelles.

CHINA: Bureau of International Exchange, National Centrai Library, Nanking.

CzECHOSLOVAKIA: Bureau des changes Internationaux, Bibliothéque de l’Assem-
blée Nationale, Prague 1-100.

Denmark: Institut des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Royale, Copen-
hagen K.

Eeypt: Government Press, Publications Office, Bulaq, Cairo.

FINLAND: Delegation of the Scientific Societies of Finland, Kasiirngatan 24,
Helsinki.

France: Service des Kichanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Nationale, 58 Rue
de Richelieu, Paris.

GERMANY: Offentliche Wissenschaftliche Bibliothek, Berlin.‘

2 Federal Register only.
£ Distribution under supervision of War Department.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 89

Great BriraslIN AND IRELAND: Wheldon & Wesley, 721 North Circular Road,
Willesden, London, N. W. 2.

Hunecary: Hungarian Libraries Board, Ferenciektere 5, Budapest, LV.

Inpra; Superintendent of Government Printing and Stationery, Bombay.

ITALY:

Ufficio degli Seambi Internzionali, Ministero della Publica Istruxione, Rome.

JAPAN:

International Exchange Service, Imperial Library of Japan, Uyeno Park,
Tokyo.*

NETHERLANDS: International Exchange Bureau of the Netherlands, Royal Library,
The Hague.

NEW SoutH WALES: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.

NEW ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.

Norway: Service Norvégien des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque de l’Uni-
versité Royale, Oslo.

PALESTINE: Jewish National and University Library, Jerusalem.

Potanp: Service Polonais des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Nationale,
Warsaw.

PoRTUGAL: Seccao de Trocas Internacionais, Biblioteca Nacional, Lisbon.

QUEENSLAND: Bureau of Exchanges of International Publications, Chief Secre-
tary’s Office, Brisbane.

RuMANIA: Ministére de la Propagande Nationale, Service des Echanges Inter-
nationaux, Bucharest.

SoutH AUSTRALIA: South Australian Government Exchanges Bureau, Govern-
ment Printing and Stationery Office, Adelaide.

Spain: Junta de Intercambio y Adquisicién de Libros y Revistas para Biblote-
cas Publicas, Ministerio de Eduecacién Nacional, Avenida Calvo Sotelo 20,
Madrid.

SWEDEN: Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm.

SwITzERLAND: Service Suisse des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Centrale
Iédérale, Palais Fédérale, Berne.

TASMANIA: Secretary to the Premier, Hobart.

TURKEY : Ministry of Education, Department of Printing and Engraving, Istanbul.

UNIon or Souta Arrica: Government Printing and Stationery Office, Cape Town,
Cape of Good Hope.

Union oF Soviet Socratist Repusiics: International Book Exchange Depart-
ment, Society for Cultural Relations with Foreign Countries, Moscow, 56.

Victoria: Publie Library of Victoria, Melbourne.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.

Yueostavia: Section des Hechanges Internationaux, Minisiére des Affaires
Etrangéres, Belgrade.

Respectfully submitted.
H. W. Dorsey, Acting Chief.
Dr. A. Waurnmorn,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

* Distribution under supervision of War Department.
APPENDIX 7
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Sm: I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera-
tions of the National Zoological Park for the fiscal year ended June
30, 1947.

The regular appropriation for the operations of the Zoo was
$393,420. A supplemental appropriation of $39,100 for salary in-
creases authorized by Congress was also available, making a total of
$432,500. Subject to minor changes in final bills, a total of $425,748
was expended for all purposes and an unexpended balance of $6,752
remains. Inability to fill many of the positions for considerable
periods resulted in salary savings which were available to apply on
salary increases that had been authorized by Congress, thereby reduc-
ing the amount that was needed in the supplemental appropriation.

During the war equipment had deteriorated and stocks of materials
and supplies had become seriously depleted in many instances. By
diligent search the Zoo has been able to replace or repair some of the
equipment and replenish some of the supplies and materials. The
close of the fiscal year finds the Zoo short as to many items, but as a
whole in a definitely better condition than prevailed a year ago as to
exhibition animals, personnel, equipment, materials, supplies, and
general condition of structures and grounds.

During the past year a slight improvement in the supply of animals
for exhibition has enabled the Zoo partially te replenish the stock.

Physical improvements included the completion of 870 square yards
of sidewalk; surface treatment of nearly all the main roads, a small
parking area opposite the large-mammal house, the road back of the
bird house, and the service road from the silver-gull cage to the bird
house. Excellent progress has been made in painting, which is a con-
tinuous operation in an establishment of the size and type of the
National Zoological Park. The general appearance of the grounds
has been very materially improved by pruning, clearing of under-
brush, cutting down weeds, and renewing and mowing lawns, all of
which had been seriously neglected during the war period. During
the summer of 1946 excellent progress was made in fighting poison ivy
by spraying with ammonium sulfamate. This procedure was con-
tinued during the summer of 1947, and already a great reduction in
this pest is noticeable. The fight against poison ivy was greatly

90
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY QO}

facilitated by the cooperation of the Department of Agriculture,
Bureau of Plant Industry, in lending a power spray. Before 1947
the Zoo has each year received numerous reports of ivy poisoning in
the Park, but up to midsummer of 1947 no cases have been reported.

NEEDS OF THE ZOO

A small addition to the personnel is needed to enable the Zoo to
carry on the work in an efficient manner and permit employees to take
the leave to which they are legally entitled. The Zoo hag been under-
manned throughout the entire period of its existence, and with the
adoption of the 40-hour week, the situation has become particularly
acute.

As the years go by the need becomes more pressing for new buildings
to replace antiquated, dilapidated structures that are still used to
house animals. Preliminary planning has been taken up with the
Public Works Administration for construction of these buildings
when economic conditions justify.

The condition of the Administration Building, which is now about
142 years old and has had no major improvements or rehabilitation
for many years, is such that it cannot be kept in presentable condition,
and the excessive dampness is injurious to equipment, records, photo-
graphs, negatives, and books, as well as to the health of the employees
who work in the building.

VISITORS

Before the war the attendance at the Park was much greater on
Saturdays and Sundays than on the earlier days of the week. Since
the war there has been a surprisingly uniform attendance throughout
the week, even Monday and Tuesday consistently showing good
attendance. Throughout the year it was noticeable that there was a
consistent increased attendance of visitors over the previous year, the
final tabulation showing an increase for the year of 858,341.

ESTIMATED NUMBER OF VISITORS FOR FISOAL YEAR 1947

July (A946) = ae ot O00 Pebruaty2 2 8 64, 100
ATI SUS Oe Se aie eS 280;,000) -Marcha.2 5-22 ee ss ==) “203, 225
September: 250s Sr re (OOOO. CATT Ls ce ee cee 374, 053
064 Rb) 1) ORC ea oe BOOV COO, 2 Nay 3 oes te eee ee 348, 800
Novemberseaes2 ae Be ZL, O00) JUNCi sense 2 ee 356, 400
December=— 22 93, 950 a
January (1047) eo ene 84, 950 4 a) 2) ce Ae eee See 2, 730, 678

Groups came to the Zoo from schools in 22 States, some as far away
as Wisconsin, Indiana, and Louisiana.
92 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

NUMBER OF GROUPS FROM SCHOOLS

Num- | Num- Num- | Num-

ber of | ber in ber of | ber in

groups | groups groups | groups
A ADAM ARt wets ce las Uk ie Eee 1 TSU New Jerseyicce sean ame ia a 24 1, 847
Connecticuts2 a eee 8 220th ING we Orke2)) sue Saat aaa 28 2, 580
ID STA Wareso2 ok Be Lue ee ee 8 324 1 North:Carolinas 22 swe es 7 2, 676
DistrictiotColumbiev2222 es 202 6,017 Pa (oa ESS BN Ae I EN a OM 36 981
Wloridawen suse Catan TL ele 1] § 13 || Pennsylvania. 2-22 eee 151 8, 109
GBeorgiqah Sahai a Snes 28'| 1,154 || South Carolina_.----.--2-2.22 22. 32 1,079
Noy ier ey 20 Nee ee eed 4) e521) ennessee iu tis ee ea 15 682
Woutsiana oo) eee eae ip is puted kee Wal WA gay: Souee Og EUROS HN ANE 282 | 14, 647
Mig ine Statin es OMEN ee Ek ag Fi Meeelaoll West Virginia. 222220 S ieee aii 17 659
Maryland a ienr iia ee Eee eae SOO) H 22007991 WASconsin v2 Sie Beye 1 85
IMassachusetiss 22262202 aaae nes 16 885 _—__
WY BC) ab Fd a lie ae Se PCN NY Ea 8 376 Totaled Ware _.---| | 1,303 | 65,081

About 2 p. m. each day the cars then parked in the Zoo are counted
by the Zoo police and listed according to the State, Territory, or coun-
try from which they came. This is, of course, not a census of the
cars coming to the Zoo but is valuable in showing the percentage of
attendance by States of people in private automobiles. ‘The tabula-
tion for the fiscal year 1947 is as follows:

Percent Percent
WashinetonsnD! ) Oy malice Bee 30. 6 | North <Caroling Are ree hase lbstes
Maryland ys cc baile ides Soiree 21.09 | West -Virginia________-_______= eZ
Mirginia® selec ile wy cot is eS DONA i Cala LO Prd acer see Oa ey oie Des niga!
Pennsylvania to i ee A 2 i New JCTSCYae tee 4 al Re alae
ING Wy EXOT este eae a DE i: UREN Gio eA er le 54)
51) og AUC Ea ha A OA A) BE © YA Hea 13 Coy ag a Fr GUM Manone ul Loc NAL Ip Ala N 9

The cars that made up the remaining 12.67 percent came from
every one of the remaining States, as well as from Alaska, Alberta,
Argentina, Australia, British Columbia, Canal Zone, Cuba, Hawaii,
Manitoba, Mexico, New Brunswick, Nicaragua, Nova Scotia, Ontario,
Panama, Quebec, Saskatchewan, and Sweden.

It is well known that District of Columbia, Maryland, and Vir-
ginia cars bring to the Zoo many people from other parts of the
United States and of the world, but no figures are available on which
to base percentages,

THE EXHIBITS

The quality of specimens on exhibition has been fairly satisfactory
during the year. The total number of specimens on hand June 30,
1947, was 454 more than on the corresponding date in 1946, the prin-
cipal increase being in the number of birds and amphibians.

The outstanding exhibits during the year were penguins. Four
species, the emperor, macaroni, rock-hopper, and adelie, were brought
from the Antarctic by the United States Naval Antarctic Expedi-
tion through the interest of Rear Adm. Richard E. Byrd and Ad-
miral Richard H. Cruzen. Two other species, the Humboldt and jack-
ass, were already in the Zoo or were obtained from other sources.
y¥ 1 ‘doradta [| 24s 01 IayT

‘IOATBM “d weuigy Aq ydussojoyd “Tole [ ‘Suly | ‘sseyonl Zz ‘tuorvorm Z “z

MUHVd WOIDO1OOZ IWNOILVYN NI WOON 3J9DVH¥OLS-A10D GALNOYA-SSV19D NI SNINONAd

|

€ ALV1d L xipusddy—*/ 6] ‘qaoday $ £18 ]2.1D9S
‘IDAIVM ‘dq yseuIgq Aq ydeis0j,0q 4
MYVd WOIDO1IOOZ IWNOILYN LY 100d YOOGLNO NI SNINONAd LOTIOSWNH OML GNV INOYVOVW SAIS

y ALWId L xipueddy— /p6| *‘jaoday $ A1¥49199G
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 93

Thirty-four ocellated turkeys were brought to the Zoo by Dr. D. 8.
Newill, who had obtained them in Guatemala. These turkeys have
been very rare in collections and make an interesting exhibit. Five
were retained and the rest distributed by Dr. Newill to other zoos.

Other interesting birds were two gray hornbills from India, the
first of the species to be exhibited in the United States.

Three specimens of Troost’s turtle, two albino and one norinally
colored, were deposited by James Nelson Gowanloch. All were
young, only about 2 inches in diameter, but were outstanding be-
cause of the extreme rarity of albino turtles. These are a beautiful
light cream color through which shows the pattern of the normal
coloration. They have pink eyes and a bright red spot on the neck
that is characteristic of the species.

Exhibits of very small creatures of more than ordinary interest
were three different species of tiny frogs: the green and black arrow-
poison frogs, red and black frogs, and yellow and black atelopus.

Other additions to the collection that were of unusual interest were:
A young great gray kangaroo, which was a gift from the people of
Australia to the people of the United States and was flown to Wash-
ington on a nonstop flight September 30-October 1, 1946, from Perth,
Australia, to Washington, D. C., by the United States Navy plane
Truculent Turtle; a young Alaska brown bear received through the
interest of members of the force of the Alaska Game Commission and
the Fish and Wildlife Service; an Arabian gazelle presented to
the Zoo by W. W. Shaffer; a spectacled bear from the Andes region,
obtained by purchase; a baby potto born to a pair that had been
brought to the Zoo by the Smithsonian-Firestone Expedition to Li-
beria in 1940; pigmy green cardinals; the short-legged lizard from
Cuba; five young specimens of the giant salamander of Japan, which
were received by the United States Army as a gift from the school chil-
dren of Japan to the school children of the United States, particularly
through the interest of Brig. Gen. John W. O’Brien, Chief, Scien-
tific and Technica] Division, GHQ, SCAP, and Dr. Austin Brues
and Lieutenant Kelly. These were collected through Dr. Tadamichi
Koga, Director, Uyeno Zoological Garden, Tokyo, Japan.

ACQUISITION OF SPECIMENS

Specimens for the Zoo collection are acquired by gift, deposit, pur-
chase, and births or hatchings. While depositors are at liberty to
remove the specimens that they deposit with the Zoo, many leave
the specimens for the rest of their lives,

During the year the Zoo received a number of shipments of live
specimens by air without a single loss. Some of these animals were
rare or delicate, and had they been transported by the usual means,
94 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

might have died en route. The experiences of other zoos and animal
dealers have been similarly successful, suggesting that shipment of
live animals by air may be the most satisfactory method.

DEPOSITORS AND DONORS AND THEIR GIFTS

Abrahamian, 8S. M., Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Acorn Pet and Gift Shop, Washington, D. C., 2 canary Xsiskin hybrids, 2 cockatiels.

Alaska Game Commission and U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Alaska brown
bear.

Allison, Mrs. BE. K., Washington, D. C., ring-necked dove.

Alston, Herbert, Washington, D. C., woodcock.

Australia, People of, through U. 8S. Navy, great gray kangaroo.

Bader, J., Washington, D. C., 2 domestie rabbits.

Baum, Louis, Alexandria, Va., 2 doves.

Beale, Mrs. S. H., Washington, D. C., 2 snapping turtles.

Benedict, Mrs. Jeanne, Washington, D. C., box turtle.

Berry, Lewis, Detective Bureau, Metropolitan Police Department, Washington,
D. C., 4 horned lizards.

Best, Mrs. Richard, Washington, D. C., sulphur-crested cockatoo.

Billoch, J., Washington, D. C., double yellow-headed parrot.

Blanchette, Richard, Takoma Park, Md., snapping turtle.

Boldridge, Dr. F. M., Chester, S. C., chain king snake.

Brady, Morris K., Washington, D. C., 13 red and black frogs.

Brewster, Kingman, Washington, D. C., 2 wild turkeys.

Brown, Rey. Dillard, Washington, D. C., 5 ring-necked doves.

Brown, Robert Y., Department of State, Washington, D. C., 46 little spotted
tinamou,* 5 great tinamou.*

Burr, Donald H., Washington, D. C., pine or fence lizard.

Calvin, Mrs. HK. F., Daniels Park, Md., 2 Pekin ducks.

Campbell, George R., Detroit, Mich., corn snake, chicken snake.

Carey, Maj. T. J., % Postmaster, New Orleans, La., douroucouli or owl monkey.

Carlson, R. 8., Edgewater, Md., Pekin duck.

Carson, James, Alexandria, Va., mole.

Cedar Hill Bird Farm, Landover, Md., screech owl, robin.

Chappell, Richard H., Chief, Probation Court, Washington, D. C., domestic
rabbit.

Clow, Jakle, Chevy Chase, Md., Pekin duck.

Coker, James L., Arlington, Va., horned lizard.

Cook, Jay E., Baltimore, Md., 32 African clawed frogs.*

Coolidge, Belle, Washington, D. C., domestic rabbit.

Cowell, Jerry, Greenbelt, Md., spectacled caiman.

Cox, T. S., Arlington, Va., alligator.

Cullen, Rey. U. G., Woodstock College, Woodstock, Md., copperhead snake.

Deese, Joe, Bethesda, Md., rhesus monkey,* woodchuck or ground hog.*

Dunitum, Gratz D., Alexandria, Wa., American coot.

Dunlap, Capt. S. A., U. S. Bmbassy, Buenos Aires, Argentina, Argentine tree frog,
18 grass paroquets.

Duryel, Dr. William R., Washington, D. C., 75 red salamanders.*

Hiler, A., Falls Church, Va., Pekin duck.

Fleming, A. L., Falls Church, Va., Mississippi mud turtle, pilot snake.

Foellmer, John and Richard, Washington, D. C., 2 Pekin ducks.

* Depowite
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 95

Fohel, Arthur, Williamstown, N. J., green grass snake.

Ford, B. F., Aspin Hill, Md., 2 sparrow hawks,

Fowler, James H., Chevy Chase, Md., Texas diamond-backed rattlesnake.

Freeman, Mrs. J. W., Washington, D. C., 2 Pekin ducks.

Gala, Mrs. M., Washington, D. C., Pekin duck Xmallard duck hybrid.

Garrett, William §., Richmond, Va., double yellow-headed parrot.

Gazin, Max, Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

George, Miss Jean, Washington, D. C., red fox.

Gildea, Mrs. James H., Arlington, Va., 2 Pekin ducks,

Glover, R. L., Washington, D. C., American bittern.*

Goddard, Don, Wilson Teachers College, Washington, D. C., 2 golden hamsters.*

Goeller, John, Washington, D. C., golden hamster.

Gowanloch, James Nelson, Louisiana Department of Wildlife and Fisheries, New
Orleans, La., 3 Troost’s turtles (including 2 albinos) .*

Greenberg, Albert, ‘Tampa, Fla., 6 climbing perch, 12 blind cave fish.

Guliek, Mrs. Dorothy, Silver Spring, Md., 8 Pekin ducks.

Haggenmaker, Charles, Suitland, Md., barn owl.

Hanwood, Mrs. Virginia, Washington, D. C., 2 Pekin ducks.

Harper, Donald W., Kensington, Md., pilot snake.

Harrell, R. O., South Boston, Va., rhesus monkey.

Hart, Joseph F., Washington, D. C., sparrow hawk.

Hartgroves, Bill, Kensington, Md., painted turtle.

Hayes, Mrs. William J., Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Hegener Research, Sarasota, Fla., 6 hutias.

Heinz, J. E., Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Hersey, Lt. J., Arlington, Va., yellow-headed parrot.

Hines, Mrs. M., Hyattsville, Md., diamond dove, Cuban ground dove, Cuban
tanager.

Hubbs, C. L., La Joula, Calif., 3 horned lizards.

Hughes, Charles, Silver Spring, Md., pilot snake.

Hughes, Thomas, Middletown, Del., sharp-shinned hawk.

Hummel, David, Arlington, Va., titi monkey.*

Ingham, Rex, Ruffin, N. C., Hastern chipmunk,* raccoon,* Swainson’s hawk.*

Jackley, A. M., Director, Reptile Control, Department of Agriculture, Pierre,
S. Dak., 2 northern horned lizards.

Jessup, Gordon L., Washington, D. C., pilot snake.

Johnson, Cleris, Washington, D. C., barn owl.

Jones, Mrs. R., Arlington, Va., weasel.

Kelley, Miss Karen, Alexandria, Va., opossum.

Kennard, Fred E., Hyattsville, Md., 2 muscovy ducks.

Kimbell, Charles Lee, Hyattsville, Md., 2 horned lizards.

Kincannon, W. Oliver, Chevy Chase, Md., 5 game fowl.*

Klemetsen, P. N., Washington, D. C., alligator.

Knop, P. T., Washington, D. C., 5 box turtles,

Koerdel, Dr. Manuel-Malduado, Mexico, 5 axolotls.

Kramer, Miss G. A., Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Latona, Richard J., Washington, D. C., painted turtle, Cumberland terrapin.

Lee, Jimmie, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Leibel, Mrs. Leroy, Washington, D. C., grass paroquet.

Leibold, Gordon M., Chevy Chase, Md., Florida king snake.

Lemieux, Jerry, Washington, D. C., muscovy duck.

Lund, Ruth and Diane, Washington, D. C., 2 Pekin ducks,

* Deposits.
96 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

Mackey, Helen N., Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Majawer, Mrs. Lilly, Washington, D. C., cardinal.

Markwith, Carl, Washington, D. C., domestic rabbit.

Mattingly, W. H., Washington, D. C., 4 bantam fowl.

Maurer, Misses Nan and Patsy Lou, Arlington, Va., 2 domestic rabbits.

Mayer, J. D., Silver Spring, Md., 2 Pekin ducks.

McCrassin, Broderick, Rockville, Md., 2 ring-necked pheasants.

McDonald, Erling, Takoma Park, Md., muscovy ducks, screech owl.

McKay, Raymond J., Washington, D. C., white-throated capuchin.

Melville, E., Falls Church, Va., 3 Pekin ducks.

Meyer, J. L., Silver Spring, Md., 2 Pekin ducks.

Michel, Mr., Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Miller, W. C., Front Royal, Va., 2 great horned owls.

Miller, William H., Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Milier, William W., Washington, Va., barn owl.

Milne, A. M., Bethesda, Md., Pekin duck.

Mitchell, Shirley J., Washington, D. C., rhesus monkey.

Moise, Lawrence L., Washington, D. C., sereech owl.

Montague, Mrs. Claude, Washington, D. C., 2 grass paroquets.

Moore, C. C., Washington, D. C., 14 grass paroquets.

Naval Research Center, Bethesda, Md., rhesus monkey.*

Nelson, Mrs. R. W., Coolidge High School, Washington, D. C., green tree frog.

Newill, Dr. D. S., Connellsville, Pa., 34 ocellated turkeys,* Reeves’ pheasant, red
jungle fowl, Swinhoe’s pheasant, Nepal kaleege.

Old, W. E., Jr., Norfolk, Va., 9 water moccasins, ~

Orndorff, Mrs. B. F., Berwyn, Md., 3 Pekin ducks.

Perkins, J. E., Back Bay Nationa] Wildlife Refuge, Pungo, Va., snow goose

Perry, Mrs., Washington, D. C., loggerhead turtle.

Poe, Mrs. H. C., Washington, D. C., domestic rabbit.

Poiley, S. M., National Institute of Health, Bethesda, Md., 20 golden hamsters,
cotton rat.

Potter, Lincoln, Chevy Chase, Md., opossum.

Prestor, Mrs. P. D., Gage School, Washington, D. C., 3 golden hamsters.*

Pupils of the Okayama-Ken Grammar Schools, through Brig. Gen. John W.
O’Brien, Chief, Scientific and Technical Division, GHQ, SCAP, and Dr. Austin
Brues and Lieutenant Kelly, collected through Dr. Tadamichi Kogo, Director
of the Uyeno Zoological Garden, Tokyo, Japan, 5 giant Japanese salamanders.

Quinter, M. G., Chevy Chase, Md., Pekin duck.

Raccie, Eugene J., Washington, D. C., golden pheasant.

Reed, Vernon, Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Remsen, Mrs. D., 2 skunks.

Riédel, Mrs. W. ., Hyattsville, Md., sparrow hawk.

Robert, Miss Alice B., water snake.*

Rowe, Mr. and Mrs. R. F., Washington, D. C., 2 ringed warbling finches.

Roys, Harold, Sheffield, Mass., 2 timber rattlesnakes,

Ruhe, Louis, New York, N. Y., rat snake, frog, eyra or yaguarondi.*

Ruhel, Miss Mary L., Washington, D. C., queen or moon snake.

Sakell, Ronald, Washington, D. C., 2 white mice.

Sardo, Mrs. William, Silver Spring, Md., Pekin duck.

Sawyer, T. R., Alexandria, Va., crab-eating macaque.

Scaramuzza, L. C., Habana, Cuba, short-legged lizard.

Schaefer, Ronald L., Washington, D. C., box turtle.

*Deposits.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 97

Schaub, Mrs. Anna E., Washington, D. C., double yellow-beaded parrot.

Shaffer, W. W., Hobbs, Md., Arabian gazelle.

Shannon, Mrs. Frank, Washington, D. C., 2 Pekin ducks.

Shields ,William 8., Greenbelt, Md., blue jay.

Shostick, Robert, Washington, D. C., green snake.

Silverman, Marion and Marlene, Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Simpson, Mrs. Lillie W., Washington, D. C., domestic guinea pig.

Slagle, Bobby, Lubbuck, Tex., 6 horned lizards.

Smith, Mrs. H., Washington, D. C., blue jay.

Smith, Margaret C., Washington, D. C., 11 hooded Jaboratory rats.

Snider, Mrs. George P., Silver Spring, Md., Pekin duck.

Snyder, Freeman W., Washington, D. C., 3 red foxes.

Spates, W. E., Jr., Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Spiney, Mr., Washington, D. C., tarantula.

Springer, Harriet R., Washington, D. C., 2 Pekin ducks.

Stone, Carl G., Silver Spring, Md., red-bellied woodpecker, 2 painted turtles, spot-
ted turtle, box turtle.

Stroman, H. R., Jr., Washington, D. C., 2 Pekin ducks.

Stultz, Robert, Falls Church, Va., pilot snake.

Taurman, Bert, Richmond, Va., 2 red-shouldered hawks.

Taylor, L. S., Bethesda, Md., 2 Pekin ducks.

Thirteenth Police Precinet, Washington, D. C., 2 chain king snakes.

Thomas, J., Washington, D. C., canary.

Thomas, Jeanette, Washington, D. C., 2 domestic rabbits.

Thomas, Dr. W. B. 8., Dover-Foxcroft, Maine, 2 garter snakes, 2 green frogs.

Three Oaks Bird Farm, Hyattsville, Md., 10 domestic pigeons.

Tinsman, L. T., Washington, D. C., white-tufted marmoset.*

Trible, W. E., Washington, D. C., 2 Pekin ducks.

Tureman, Dr. G. R., Sandston, Va., gray fox.

Turner, William, Westwood, Md., duck hawk.*

U.S. Antarctic Expedition 1946-1947, through Admiral Richard EB. Byrd, 2 emperor
penguins, 13 macaroni penguins, 6 rock-hopper penguius, 2 black swans.

U.S. 8. Mount Clympus, through courtesy of Admiral Richard B. Byrd and careful
care of Mr. Jack Perkins, collected by crew members of the U. 8S. S. Currituck,
under commana of Capt. J. E. Clark, 2 adelie penguins.

Walker, Mrs. C. G., Clifton, Va., pilot snake.

Wells, Mrs. Charles, Washington, D. C., oppossum.

Western, Lt. Comdr. O. C., U. S. N., Naval Medical School, Bethesda, Md., 2
horned lizards.

White House, Washington, D. C., domestic lamb.*

Widman, R. D., Washington, D. C., Cumberland terrapin, painted turtle.

Wiikius, O. L., Washington, D. C., black snake.

Williamson, C., Washington, D. C., hog-nosed snake, pilot snake, pigmy rattle-
snake.

Witt, Benton, Cabin John, Md., gray fox.

Wood, J. S., Washington, D. C., 2 Pekin ducks.

Young, Mrs. W., Takoma Park, Md., Pekin duck.

Zardus, Maurice, Riverdale, Md., eastern diamond-backed rattlesnake, 2 eopper-
head snakes, cottonmouth moccasin, coral snake, 2 water snakes, 4 pigmy rat-
tlesnakes.

Zetek, James, Balboa, C. Z., 53 yellow atelopus, 100 arrow-poison frogs, 10 basilisks.

Zinkham, Dr. and Mrs. A. M., Washington, D. C., horned lizard.

*Deposits.
98 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

BIRTHS AND HATCHINGS

MAMMALS
Scientific name Common name Number
ATTENVOULA GUE LCTOU <2 ae aah) tar ee a PNOUCACEIN ame Cerne Aree. eee 3
MACCE SPCC OS 8 et CN RLINL OAL Werner Om chee a AXISVU GET mmr ye SON he EN aPnAtS 2
BUGOS GO GUL LS = oO I OVE Sas Gaur ess cee CAN R th 1 ADU 1
PSeSOMOEBOM tees ene sn mea AU EOPs American DISONs sso Le ee 3
PSG SOUR R ee Lois Man aN De eee are British Park cattle... 1
Capromiys prlonidess = cr an een ee i ee ED Gig SG Set eer al eho ABE ANS 4
Cebus capuctnus. 225506) Lee Bie ee White-throated capuchin. _-__-_ 1
Cercopithecus aethiops sabaeus X C.a. Hybrid green guenon X vervet

pygerythrus. PUCHONE Maas Mase jak es Uae 1
Cervus CARAACStsee en te es ea American elko2 AUBa 4) eee 1
Cervus nipponis 2 2 oo Ses A Ne Japanese deere 272 va Ie at 1
Cheropsis libervensssie = 208 ee 1 IG, Gh a Pigmy hippopotamus---_.___-_ 1
CUnOmySTUdGvictanUseacn ee ee ee ae Plains prairie dog__..__-__---- &
DGMOCOMa 2 ORL NARS LS is Fallow deeriis 22222. <2 2Ube 2
IDES F RCE ITY 114 een aia dap a gk SERRE ed White fallow deer..._.--...- 2
Dasyprocta prymnolopha.-.-.------------- Agouti sje boa) eee eS 1
Pelisiconcoone cn aoe ne ee ee) FR Nee Pumas cos al seen Dib wh a0 3
Gerafia'camelopardaleste iy. WICES Doe Nubian’ giraffes ole Sn ee 1
Hippopotamus amphibius__._....--------- Hippopotamuse. 2222222 wees 1
LGMG Gama Guantcoe 52 eee ee ee ee Guanacolc seat’ Joo8 hee 1
Odocotleusivirginianus S250 DIYS es Virginis\déerw0u) 22. bean 2
Oves europaea: 3. s LAINE ee RO eRe) yeh Mouiloneie 22a si eee ee 1
Pervodiclicus poo. Soe ee eee Potto? cee ee 1
POECDRGGUSIOTUMNRTENS ee Ls aia Weaken 2 hima ie tem nO = Sea 1
IPR OCU ON TOLO Tt ere eas Ae ota oe a) ES Raccoons ht nae ee eee 2
Thalarctos maritimus X Ursus middendorfii Hybrid bear_-.------------- 2
BIRDS

Anas platyrhynchos: 228 [ls Saab see Mallardiducks 2sanueieie We et 45
Chenonea atrata ses yin al Genie ge an ate Bliackewanssehetope fhe BG 6
Pulsca amertcana as Le — akg ye ae eae American icoot 2 sche sys Sak 4
Gallisiap eee 0 ae eS ER oe Kighting fowls. 23- Ss sane ew 12
Gallus gallus SS Soe kt Se ae Red'jungle fowlsstese fees s 8
avatar tebatwa ter sate Eee tN ee) RENTS Peafowl 4.02 eh wats ae eae v
DUSUE TESONIUS xs 2 es Fee ee Ring-necked dove_.--------- 18

REPTILES
Agkistrodon bilineatus_.___....-----_----- Mexican moccasin_-___--_--- 17
TENtCrGlLeS CONCHTAG nO ty LN kak sy a Rainbowiboases2c. 2% e525 12
YN C0 Es a AN 0 RSE EMO LP OR LO ERY BE TRE) Gm Waterisnakes*2-ee lo. Sage 20
Scéloporus undulatue..o 02262 22ee 2 koe Pine or fence lizard_-.-_----- 6

MOLLUSKS
Achatsnaachatinas U2. Lien, Lue aed Nu Giantiland (snail. 22432 eu 5

The birth of the rainbow boas makes the third generation in the
Zoo, their grandparents having been brought from British Guiana
in 1931.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

ANIMALS IN THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK, JUNE 380, 1947

$9

MAMMALS
MARSUPIALIA
Scientific name Common name Number
Dide!lphiidae:
Didelphis virginiana_.....-.------------ OpossM.o-sulce see eo
Phalangeridae:
Petaurus breviceps_..---.-------- ie OS Lesser flying phalanger__. 2
Macropodidae:
Dendrolagus tiustue...cncsseoe ask 2 seas New Guineatreekangaroo.... 2
Phascolomyidae:
Vombatus ursinus......_=.----=<--=----- Flinders Island wombat. - -- - i
INSECTIVORA
Erinaceidae:
Erinaceus europaeus__.....-.~----------- European hedgehog...-...--- 4
CARNIVORA
Felidae:
HOLUSICN OLS nna oat er et es, eae VUMPLCtCR toes eee ee 1
WER CONCOIOT ee yee eee eee ccs ne PUT ge ee 7
Felis concolor patagonica___._------------ Patagonian puma____-___-.-- 1
Felis concolor X F.c,. patagonica__-.------ Hybrid North American X
South American puma..--.. 4
TELE UC aa i ee ae Oe, eg es ion. 4.4. 28222 532 ee 3
: JagUal ese eae eee 3
SE a a Ss oe TaOWa te Soe ee ee a 1
CUSED OT CALLUS in one a eas en ee Occlot=222-4425 3202 2
ere Indian leopard_..__---------- 1
ae as es ae Indian leopard __-..--- 2
Felas temmincktt ....-<-2-n02-5-5--c0-0= Goldemeatoress 222-5 eee ee 1
NU EIES 1 i Pee ae eee ee Bengal tigerss=2222ee62-2- 2
Felis tigris longipilis...........-------- Siberian tiger_______-- eens 1
Felis tugris sumatrae. 2 3. eco sn Sumatran tiger_......------- 3
Herpailurus yaguarondi__........------- Kyra or yaguarondi...-_---_- 1
Pie PUG ee Se oe he ae Bay Winks: 2224 2esoe ee i
Oncifelts geoffroyi...........-.--..----- Geotiroy’s eat- 2. 2222) 3
Oneslla pardineides.. 5 ac cna esa soca oS Lesser tiger cat.......-.----- 1
Viverridae:
Arctictis: binturong.. .-.<-<<deccs=--+---- BintironGvece+.acee eo 1
Cioetiectis cweiG. 22 oe ones cc useecs African:civets2 5-5 225-2 es== 1
Myonaz sanguineus..............-.--<- Dwarf <lvetwco.8555-5-52—-=5 1
Paradozurus hermaphroditus...-.-------- Small-toothed palm civet. —--- 3
Hyaenidae:
Crocuta crocuta germinans_....---------- Hast African spotted hyena..--. 1
Canidae:
Canes Ctngoe sao he te ae Dingos yoseteae heehee ook 2
Gants: latrans2e2 = ee ee tee OOyOte=4 et a he care ee 1
Canis latrans X familiaris_......-.----- Coyote and dog hybrid__----- 1
Canis lupus nubilus_..........------.-- Piging wolt. ....¢---2.-cene 2
Canis niger rufus..........---.-.------ Texas'red wolf 22 -..... 423 1
Cuon javanicus sumatrensis__...--------- Sumatran wild dog. -..------ 1
100 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

Scientific name Common name Number
Canidae—Continued
Dusicyon (Cerdocyon) thous...-.-------- south American fox__..__.___ 1
Nyctereutes procyonoides 222 Seat eS Raccoonidog Jf. eee 2
Urocyon cinerecargenteus._..- -. 2-2-2 2222 Grayioxiee foe cee 10
Vulpes fuloao io oo ane SAME, A i de Red foxse2 kag Nepean 11
Procyonidae:
INGSUG MOT UCG eis | yal in Mia aaa ea Coa tira Qi neath a a Nee 9
UNG SUGATUCS EQ 2, EM er hal 9 Shae NES NAAT a a Cae Redicoatimund 2) Sa ewees 1
Nasa nelsoniti dh darih eee ek ee Nelson’s coatimundi..__.___. 1
POs LAURE See Sat ts ch ae By ao 55) Aina} OU soe a ee he 5
Raccoon. cose ea ee 3
Procyonbloton: Sues tows Ree Sars Le Black raccoon. 22. 2ethaissies 4
Raccoon (albino) ies seas 1
Bassariscidae:
Bassaniscus asiutus.2 2222 = a ee ee Ring-tail or cacomistle_-_-_-___- 2
Mustelidae:
Grisonella hunonal LL MOAN oo Grison i. 42. 2X ONS Suga 1
Pur acanadenstsivaga. 2.2480 4S We ae Hloridajotterseet 2 aoe ae 1
Luira i (Macraonyz)icinerea. 22 2042 foro Small-clawed otter__...._.--- 1
Martes (Lamprogale) flavigula henriciti__.. Asiatic marten__.___.._..--- 1
Meles meles leptorynchus__..-.-.-------- Chinescibadgers 223 ens Nee 1
IVICHLAVOTATCEDCNSTS ae ee a te te iRatel ss aay see eee 1
Mephitis: mephites nigra == 1.2 222 keke ey Reuaan ieie ESP S S ee ee id
Mustela eversmanni_....--------------- Berke bie: Smee brie, Sew neenwes 1
Mustela frenata noveboracensis._..------- WWieA Se Ite io) chu Ss sh weld ek i 1
Tayraivarbara) barbaras) eres nai A NETTIE GG ate ce em LN eo 2
Wasjnaibarbararsentizsss 220s eek ee Gray-headed tayra__....---- 1
Ursidae:
Buarctos-amerscanusse.2 ets Pe ee Blackibears. sce stan esos 4
Euarctos thibetanus tc wee yee eh a al ek Himalayan bears. 222 uks aa 1
FHelarctos malayanus see an ee eee Malay onlsum bear 2220224222 1
Melursus:ursinus2 cls 208 EAL a Slothube ars miae eee aie 1
Thatarctos martimus ssa sek = eee Polaribears tans 2 eek oer 3
Thalarctos maritimus X Ursus midden-
DO URE ae Lats eee Da a en ete otal Eres RT ny bridybears2 see =o we. a 4
LU remancbOS OrNaluses ene ae eee ee Spectacledtbeart 32 52222 3.222 it
FOG EAR C1ng6 agli fost oe ape na Lt Spe aR ae aged Alaska brown bear-_...-_---. 1
WE SUSCE CLO S A AN EINE Ae Nee ils fd European brown bear___.---- 1
Ursus arctos meridionalis._.-..----.---- Caucasas brown bear____---- 1
CWrSUSKGYOSEA a ee ee ee Alaskan Peninsula bear__._-- 2
Grsusnmiddendoriiae se can = eee ae Sea Kodiakibear.eaers heen 2 sae 3
Ursus sttkensisa seen eet oa ERS) SOR i Sitka brownubear==s.2- 22222" 3
PINNIPEDIA
Otariidae:
Zalophus, californtanuseses 6 eb Sea Tiomiee cothoes ede Go sk ae 2
Phocidae:
Phoca vitulina richardii__.---.----- Pay Bs Pacific harbor seal__.._._-_-- 2
PRIMATES
Lemuridae:
Galaga. demidovrt ae ne le re ee Measthigalago oe Gases aoe i
iC MUT MONG Ogee eae elas eee tp Sa A HN Mongoose lemur__.--.-..--.. 2
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

Scientific name
Saimiridae:
Saimiri sciureus
Cebidae:
Aotus trivirgatus
Ateles geoffroyt vellerosus____..---.------
CEOS DELUGE eee tne es he een
CCOUSICONUCINUS = eee eae
Cebus fatuellus
Lagothriz lagotricha
Cercopithecidae:
Cer COCeUUS CleTniMNUSa2 sa = es Boe
Cercocebus fuliginosus
Cercocebus torquatus lunulatus_._--------
Cercopithecus aethiops pygerythrus___-----
Cercopithecus aethiops sabaeus
Cercopithecus aethiops sabaeus * C. py-
gerythrus.
Cercanuhecvs cophie.. oe a ee
Cercopithecus diana
Ceropithecus diana roloway__----------.-
Cercaninecia negleciis:. 2 20 ee
Cercopithecus nictitans petaurista.__.-_-_-
Cercopithecus sp
Erythrocebus patas
Gymnopyga maurus
Macaca-4rus mordat-. 2 3022 Ibs ose ees
NVUCCOCORLOSTOULS =e ae es lh ee oe

Macaca philippinensis_.........--------
WMicded Silene. 226 52 ee eee
ICR CUSEN US = Sores le eg SY
Hylobatidae:
PE IBDOLCS OI 6 on ee es
Hylobates agilis X H. lar pileatus..__._--
Hylodates hoolock._....----------------
THulovates lar pileqius_o0 = = 22 cee oe
Symphalangus syndactylus
Pongidae:
Pan troglodytes verus

RODENTIA

Sciuridae:
Citellus beecheyi douglasit......_.-.--__--
Cynomys ludovicianus_...---.----------
Funisciurus leucostigma......-----------
Glaucomys volans
Mormotauonats. o.oo tek
UGGS SU AOLUS 2. oh oa teen woe
Heteromyidae:
DINOCOMYS OTUs. ob ado bees a

Common name Nu

Douroucouli or owl monkey - -
Spider monkey_____-___-----
Gray capuchine..<22--2.5222<
White-throated capuchin_____
Weeping capuchin___________
Woolly. monukey22n.2222. 42.5
Black-crested mangabev__-_.-_-
Sooty mangabey
White-crowned mangabey. - _-
Vervet guenon
Green Puenon. 2226.22. cace
Hybrid green guenon X< vervet

SUeNONR. a oo ee
Moustached guenon
Diana monkey
Roloway monkey--_----------
De Brazza’s guenon_________-
Lesser white-nosed guenon.__
West African guenon_________
Pats Moneys 22s see
Moor monkey_----- Ee seeds.
Javan macaque_.__...-...--
Chinese macaque_.___-.-__--
Rhesus monkey
Pig-tailed monkey. -_---_-_.-
Philippine macaque____------
Wanderoo monkey_________--
Toque or bonnet monkey___-_
Crab-eating macaque

Sumatran gibbon... 2.0222 ..
Bybrid pibbon22..cos2-cece.
Toolock pibboniz 222 ee. 4222
Black-capped gibbon____-___-
Siamang gibbon____________-

West African chimpanzee__-_-_-

Douglas ground squirrel_-_---
Plains prairie dog_____.__---_-
West African bush squirrel -_ ~~
Flying squirrel_.._.._.__..---
Woodchuck or ground hog_--.-
Eastern chipmunk.______-__-

Ord kangaroo rat_..-...-..--

101

mber

bo

Ke NPN WR De RSE dee we oN re be KH WWHNM We

| el eel eel oe coed

he AT 09 > 09

i)
102 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

Scientific nama Common name Number
Cricetidae:
Mesocricetus auratus: = uso ei vo 22 Golden hamster.__.___------ 7
PeromiysCus leUucopuse ec cn. aU es White-footed or deer mouse.__ 7
Sigmodonheisprduss ued dome Cotton wats.) awd su ke it
Muridae:
Meriones unguiculatus_...._....-------- Mongolian gerbil__....--_-_- 1
Mus musculusss bated oatet ho oe oS White and other domestic
MICHA ee Un Mecahalh oe ah 12
Rattus norvegicus sc ire wiley eS Hooded laboratory rat______- 11
Hystricidae:
Acanthion brachyurum:.2-22-l2_....---- Malay porcupine__.._______- 3
ATR erurus OsnicamUs JoeB Hes Sele West African brush-tailed por-
CUPPING A Yh au ie we yn 3
Thecurus crassispinis sumatrae__...------ Thick-spined porcupine - -- --_- 1
Myocastoridae:
Muyocastorcoypusi. 12528 Jou heh sai Oe Coyput: spn cbis ocr ee 5
Capromyidae:
Canromiys piloridessua ine pe eo ok Hutias nie sus ans 5
Dasyproctidae:
Dasyprocta prymnolopha.....-....------ Agoutiow sete ouuuke sion sue 1
Dasyprocta; punctate Bene wh Speckled agoutinwcssss02e2L2 3
Chinchillidse:
Chinchilla: chinchiliaewere foie oo oe Chinchille 22 20.28 Baoan 4
Lagidtumivtscaccta es se ee eee Peruvian viscacha___.-.--..- 5
Caviidae:
Cariatponcellust semen mayne Guines pigs Saten Ste ee 3
Dolichotis'patagonaeeie we ely os. Patavonian: cavy2oeuen. eee 1
LAGOMORPHA
Leporidae:
Oryctolagusvcunieuluss Sse ee Domestic rabbitzes2 435 ee 5
Botninas ARTIODACTYLA
Ami mMOtrQgUsilenut cee ee eee Ee eas See Aqudsduse. 3.202 2u ee sane 17
AOC SETOUSONE IPN tL eas A RE Mountain anos... 2222828 1
Brbos ga urtign se: Wi i Gaurisue 5 oe ae eee 3
Biebn Bison f American bison....-.-----... 13
PLANT ch OUNEMIRER Leg ae |Albinosbisoné Jie usb eR iy
BOs indicts she hae leh SORBET ZeOpW ooo NR a PAA 4
FOS SE OUT UES he big ep hapeite i 2 Domestic cow (Jersey) --.-_-- 1
Bosilauniee oi cele kee West HighlandorKyloecattle. 4
BGS LAT ILG Se Se abil now yc olin RGN By Sena Ee Sh British Park cattle_.........- 6
BubalisrUbalese si ele yd AL ee Water buffaloes]. 2 a ke 2
Capravstbinicas 22.0. Sb shea of bre 2 ps ses ene 1
Cephatophus maxwelltis. 32242 3b 2 ees Maxwell’siduiker.. <=... 3200 1
Cephalophis ayeger Uke Sane, lye wo a Bilackwdurker! 7s San roe Sas 1
Cephalophus nigrifrons. 22 Sole. ae ee Black-fronted duiker___.._--- 2
Hemiutragusijemlahicusi ose 22) oe Pieler eres weer Ae 5
Orgaileucoryec ce oe 2 LA: Bee iia (Arabianvonyx a= ce. co ae ele 2
Oats aries SRI 1 OVO OUREL Sais Woolless or Barbados sheep... 1
Ovisieurondedsd so OO Ia a a rea Moufoneees: Oe). 5 ei 22 ah oars 4
Poephagus grunniens e220 ee a Soe hi) 2 5
Pseudots Noyaurn. 22 Pee MONE le ee Bharal or blue sheep.-------- u
DS U/TICET UES CO CT ae era OR I ie ad African buftalos.2 2022.) 2
2

\

Taurotragus oryt_.....-------.----- as CE Mland 006. as eee
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 103

Scientific name Jommon name Number
Cervidae:
Bin yc ae eee eae eee SE CR aR ee WS DO6E eat eee 5
Cervus canadensis... ..-.~s--.--.------< American elkL ccc.sonnecsee 5
CETUS ELI DNS a tee ee 2 see oes ec deet 2s ein 2 3 4
Ee TR Ly 6 1] 2 ( we ae ey ee pe Japanese deer_....---.--.--- 5
Cervus nippon manchuricus....---------- Dybowsky deer,....-_-_---- 2
Fn ees OO hes orate coy eee G0Gr san aa ee 13
ee ee ee ERB sig 6 > White fallow deer__.._.--_-. 15
Odocoileus virgintanus_.-.-------------- Virginia deer iwssoscucselecan 6
Giraffidae:
Giraffa camelopardalis__...------------- Nubian giraffe___..__..___-. 4
Girafja reticulatac.o5.25052.222.-2-52 .-- Reticulated giraffe...._....-- 1
Camelidae:
Camelus bactrianus2. <= Seo 232s csc ees Bactrian camel...........-.. 3
Camelusidr 0medariuse = s- ee Single-humped camel____-_-_-_ 1
LE OTTO) CTT CU as ea een ATR ooo cin Geeta a oi ae ae, il
Lama glama guanico......--~-----=---=<« GUBNRCO. coe ose ose 3
DL DOCNSe ns ame ee ees oe AIDACH seo os so tes Soe 2
Vicugnae vicugnd.-< 3. oi ee owes VWieuiis< 22sec. cheeses 1
Tayassuidae:
fechrs GUGUialuss. 228252 Sete Seles Collared peccary....-.------ 1
Suidae:
Babirussa babyrussa_........---..-~-.-- Babinusse. oe ee eee 2
Phacochoerus aethiopicus aeliani._-.----- East African wart hog_.___.- 2
SSIES BCTO) C2 tee ee Fe Ean en oe as European wild boar_...-.--.- 2
Hippopotamidae:
Choeropsts liberiensis.. = 22.0252 05245- Pigmy hippopotamus... _.---- 6
Hippopotamus amphibius....--..------- Hippopotamus. o.2--.s-escec 2
PERISSODACTYLA
Equidae:
Equus burchellii antiquorum..--..--- cd CnapMnn se Z60ras..0cane= = 2
Equus grevyt X caballus.........._...---- Zebra-horse hybrid__..-..--- 1
POGUE BGG eS Foe lo Asiatic wild ass or kiang______ 1
PUNE ONO ET ng oc a ee hn Onaper 2c 66 fcc eee 1
Pigite prrewWalshig ooo 2k eS ek an eh Mongolian wild horse. ....--- 3
VSGUUS BOUT ae 2 ot oer eo a Mountain zebra___..-_._.__- 1
Tapiridae:
ACTOCOGIG INACA os on eo ke Asiatic tapiricu2 02 Js sok 2
Rhinocerotidae:
Rhinoceros unicornis.....-------------- Great Indian one-horned rhi-
HOCEIOS= 35552 nee eee 1
PROBOSCIDAE
Elephantidae:
Elephas maximus sumatranus.....------- Sumatran elephant_.....---- I
Loxodonta africana oryolis_....-..------- African elephant... --..----. 1
EDENTATA
Dasypodidae:
Chaetophractus villosus___.........-------- Hairy armadillo. =...--..--.. i
Eniphractus sevcincluss suc c cc cll late Six-banded armadillo____---- 1
Myrmecophagidae:
Myrmecophaga tridactyla___..-...-.----- Giant anteater_.._._._--- ee |

7T7488—48——_8
104. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

BIRDS
STRUTHIONIFORMES
Scientific name Common name Number
Struthionidae:
SET ALERTO CO TVELUS ee Lye ee are ne see Oar ay Ostrich eee ices Bite eee aaa 2
RHEIFORMES
Rheidae:
PEREGO MET TCO OY Nau LOW TLN. Uhlan LS Common Thealt-2 ee. sone 3
CASUARIIFORMES
Casuariidae:
Casuarius casuarius aruensis..._----.---- ATU! CASSOWAT Yc eee ee see 1
Casuarius uniappendiculatus occipitalis__. Island cassowary -.--.------- 1
Casuarius uniappendiculatus uniappendi-
Cel of A RPM ia A Pay NUTR RSIS CS AES Sapa ee One-wattled cassowary---....-- 1
Dromiceiidae:
Dromiceius novaehollandiae.-...--------- Common emu 244552252255 2
SPHENISCIFORME
Spheniscidae:
“Amtenodytes, fonslent. — eee Oe. oe oS Emperor penguin____-------- 1
Budypies chrysovopnus seus. Ue es eo Macaroni penguin___--.----- 11
ERUAUDLES, CTUSTALUSH). Lie PUN aE a, Rock-hopper penguin_._----- 2
TINAMIFORMES
Tinamidae:
NOEL UROMINGCULOSC ee a ee es oe Wee ee Spotted tinamouwl2 2222 see 2
PELECANIFORMES
Pelecanidae:
PelecanwusyCOUcfonmeCies tiene iy ula Aa, en California brown pelican___-._ 2
Pelecanus erythrorhynchussc 042 2 ee te White pelican’! 22 ne wee 5
Pelecanus'occidentalisso a0 Ine ee a Brown pelican 2k) esse eae 3
Pelecanius TOseuseen aia eh Rene TE a Rose-colored pelican -_.------ 4
Phalacrocoracidae:
Phalacrocorax auritus alboctliatus___------ Farallon cormorant..-------- 1
CICONIIFORMES
Ardeidae:
SAR LECILGT OG LOS oe yan ae ate eae an Great blue heron_.__.------- 2
Ardetioccrdentalis == Jas. EL ee Great white heron_.__..------ 1
POP CLO URL oS La LL ae Lae ep a ge Snow yiegrets. oso aoe See 5
Hydranassa tricolor ruficollis_._._.._-__----- Louisiana heron_-_---.------ 1
Notophoyx novaehollandiae_------------- White-faced heron_---------- 1
Nyctanassa violacea cayennensis____------ South American  yellow-
crowned night heron___---- 1
Nycticorax nycticorax naevius_..------.-- Black-crowned night heron___ 30
Cochleariidae:
Gochlearzuscochicanitss2— 5 = oe ee Boatbill herons. 420 h ee 1
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

Scientific name Common name Number

Ciconiidae:
Digsound €niscOpuss= nce eee Woolly-necked stork_-_.-.---. 1
LOU CUNT CUSINS = Ba ae oe, Seo he ee IMalayistorks sess 52 ee 2
Jabiru. mayclertGs a5 Jabiru ose a Saree 3
Lepiopilus crumeniferus.x 32.3558 3-cs- Mara bot. 2: see el 1
EMO UUs GUUIUR ae rs aa oee eee ee Indian adjutant___.--------- 1
Lepiovinlus Javanicus 824 52522 22ne seo Lesser adjutant....__------- 2
MajctentavameriCana= == — ene eae eee Woodtibis's 22222542 2428222528 1

Threskiornithidae:
BY LIGETI 1 Mea ee ie lene Si Roseate spoonbill___._-.----- 4
Qua COLO Cea ee ee ee eee ee Wintte ibis. =] seee == =e eee 8
Guara alba X G. rubra... 22222.-25-.--- Hybrid white and scarlet ibis. 1
GUCAtLO UU serie ee a ee ee oXofene (21 all 0) (sys oye t
Threskiornis melanocephala__..---------- Black-headed ibis__._-.------ 4
Thresktornis spinicollig.. 2... .-.-..----=- Straw-necked ibis_....------- 2

Phoenicopteridae:
IPhoentcopierus Chvlensts_.o 22s aenks eens Chilean flamingo_.____------- 2
Phoenicopterus ruber_..-.-------------- Cuban famingos.22 252225225 1

ANSERIFORMES

Anhimidae:
Chaung chavartg22 = 6 ae eee White-cheeked screamer-___-_- 1
CRAUNG (OrjUuati. 4 2225. eh te odes Crested screamer___.__------ a

Anatidae:
Ae SPOTS 2 eek ca me ea Wood duck= 2222252) 2 ease se 8
Anas bahamensteo a. 6 oo eee eee Bahama pintail_..--...----- 2
VATIOESEOCONLESLU CO a ety ee ee Pekin duck=-2325.42.2 $222 52 51
Anas domestica * A, platyrhynchos____--- Pekin duck X mallard duck

Dy pride 22s ae ee 1
Ande lalythynchos.: 2 se) eS oe ce asa Mallard, duckls_ 22.2 = 2-25 _ 57
ANOS MULON? CS ate ee a ee eee MR ee Black duck: 222-152 22 2 92 6
PAVSCT CLUS) ONS ta eee ee American white-fronted goose. 1
Anser cinereus domestica____._..-_------ Toulouse goose. 22) oe 25k 2
Angeranus semipalmata______.---------- Australian pied goose_—~____-- 2
Branta canadensis_._-.......---.------- Canada goose____________--- 20
Branta canadensis occidentalis......_.___- White-cheeked goose________- 24
Branta canadensis X Chen caerulescens_._.. Hybrid Canada goose X blue
VOOSCLa = ano ease oe eee 2

branta hutchtnsi= 220) po Hutehin’s pooses. 2242-252 e 4
Branta hutchinsit minima_______-------- Cackling goose________.__---_ 6
Casranad moschatas= 228 oe ee eee Muscovy duck_.________---- 12
Cereopsis novaehollandiae____.._.._----- Cape Barren goose_._._____-- 1
Chen atlantiicd5 2 nets Se es eee Snow goose__________-__---- 4
Chen caerulescens___.____________-_---- Bhieyroosessee= =e. eee 3
Chenopisiairata’ 2. 62a se eee ee Black swan.-.-- 22-0 22.733 12
Chloephaga leucoptera___.._...__...------ Magellan goose__....._.._._._-. 1
Coscoroba coscoroba_._...._....-..------ COstOTONRe sac see. ee 2
Cygnopsis-cygnoidesssa: ed Pe 2 8 ke Domestic goose. - = --2=--.-— 1
Cygnus columbianus_.2__2_---4-=----.- Whistling swan____________-- 2
Cygnus melancortphus_..........------- Black-necked swan_________- 1
CYQtUs O16? = oo WE ee Miuteswan.. 2.622225 225-2- 2
Dafiigtacutaceees Bee eee swe oo Bintailii oo te kee Vat ee 10
106 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

Scientific name Oommon name Number

Anatidae—Continued
Dafila spinicaudas Soto. en wee Chilean pintaileincewiws swueee J
Dendrocygna arborea... 5.02.2 1.--..--.- Black-billed tree duck_.._____ 3
Dendrocygna viduata...--.LiL.-..-..-- White-faced tree duck_.______ 2
Dendronessa galericulata.-.........---.- Mandariniducks4 202 4a 4
Mareca americangs 922528 saab ei Baldpate.. ouster: Aue 1
Marla afiniss 2. 3554710) mona Ma do Lesser, scaupseiimssy ook 1
Marslaicollaris.), 2 2. gee ea RE en Ring-necked duck______.____ Z
Metopiana peposaca.. 2.2. econ Rosy-billed pouchard_-_____- 3
Nettion.carolinenselic ius Wee oe ee Green-winged teal__.________ 2
Wetizonjormostenis 22. Wage oe Baikal teal oi. hiya seth 3
INeroca pplsuit: Latics on Valter Hybrid) duckssek) Si uinaia aye 1
Noyroca eatieinertae 00h i aia oo Canvasback duck__-.__.____- 1
Philacte canagseg tt Ves wae ew bs Emperor goose__.__.-.._--.- 2
Querquedula, dtscors i niware oe ayer 2 ne Blue-winged teal. ......____- 2

FALCONIFORMES

Cathartidae:
CAtRGrLes ts Gar Rela Se a Turkey viltures2c os 1
Coragy ps Qiratus os oa eee ees Black:.vulture. 2 see ee 3
Sarcoramphus papa.._...........------ King: vultures. eon ee 2
MA TIRATE OA IH LM Nope NL Rae Ek eR Andean ‘condoms 355. 22 Yee 1

Sagittariidae:
Sagittarius serpentarius._......-.------- Seoretary) birdscieas weak? 2

Accipitridae:
Accipiter sirtatus velor2._--—-42---.---- Sharp-shinned hawk_-_--_---- 1
iButeo gamascensts)2 22 hs Se She es a Red-tailed hawk__..-.------- 6
Buteoilineatus, elegansenc. 22 Ol Southern red-shoulderedhawk. 1
Buteo leneatus lineatus. 22 toto 820 50 oS. Red-shouldered hawk.-___--- 3
Buteo melanoleucus eo Uh veo ce ees eo 8 South American buzzardeagle. 2
Buteo platypterua :— ous. b ae Broad-winged hawk_.-..----- 1
Buteopoectlochrousii< ewe oft Red-backed buzzard_._------ 2
Buteo §wainsont. sake sae eee Soe Swainson’s hawk.___._--..-- 1
Gypohteraz angolensis... .4.-4---------.- Fish-eating vulture.....-.--- 1
Gupe fuluus soo kee ee eS Griffon vulture). 2s ah 1
Gyps rueppellt.co hn Jeate eek cee Ruppell’s vulture__.--------- 2
Haliaeetus leucocephalus. —..-22.-------= Baldieaglet 4 eee cena aha 5
Haltastur tndusic 22) eee ee Brahminy kite s2oses2s50 oe 5
Barpia horpyascecees sucess ttes loll Harpy eagle. 2254225. obec 2
Milvago chimango_<a.2 2202824-.---.-- Chimangoue ee eae ee ee 3
Milous migrans parasitus_..------------ African yellow-billed kite___-- 2
Pandion haliaetus carolinensis__-------- Osprey or fish hawk__-------- 1
Parabuteo untcinetus. solide oe ee One-banded hawk-.---------- 1
Sarcogyns calwus 2 eu ee ee ee Indian Pondicherry vulture.-_- 1
Spiziastur melanoleucwees 20288 2 oe Black and white hawk eagle-_ 1
Toergos tracheltotuseo 2. 2 clase kel me 2 African eared vulture__._---- 1

Falconidae:
Dapirtus americanus 12sec see ee i Red-throated caracara__--.-- 3
Fateovwmericanuss see sus le ) Prairie falconsg-.- ea eae 1
Falco peregranus;anatumas e208 oe Duek'hawke el seus oh ee 1
Foleo sparcertus.-< .eese se 86 ae Sparrow hawk... .2c-g2ke ll
Falco sparverius interaedius....---.----- South American sparrow hawk. 1

1

Polyborus: nianeus to. oo oe See eee South American caracara-.- -.-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

GALLIFORMES
Scientific name Common namo Number
Cracidae:
OM OR COU 2 ae en = eke Crested curassow......------ 2
GRATED ee OR I ee A Panama curassow-..---__-___ 1
BUG LAT OA ego eee ee a ee Razor-billed curassow_.-_-.-- 2
Phasianidae:
WAG TES ECL IULL SU CLT QULS ee ee aye ee Argus pheasant....-..-...--- 2
Gatreus wallichtts. 222-2 ones o Cheer pheasant___--.--____- 1
Chrysolophus amherstiae_.-------------- Lady Amherst’s pheasant_... 1
ORPBOIODRUS MICHIB ae 52 oe 2 Golden pheasant..-._._____- 4
Colintus crietatusoc fone ek at Crested quail__.........-___- 1
Crossopition aurtium._....2<---..-~-+-=-- Blue-eared pheasant. -..--_-- 1
GOUUS SG uy) 2a Se oo ene ogee a acs Bantam chicken__..___..__-- 4
CONUS Ree gen ee See eis Game fowls 2. osteo 8
GOlUe Sede Sate oo hs SS Se See Oriental silky bantam fowl__. 6
COMME RUE tana a Me ISS cae Fighting fowl_......-.-____- 8
CELDT A) 0 ene oR ae me Long-tailed fowl.....-..-.--- 1
UNV, GOMES SS at ae Oe ae ee Red jungle fowl____._________ 9
Gallus gallus hybrid-_.-2.2-2..-..-..-< Hybrid red jungle fowl X
bantam fowl.sec=Js4.2 2222 4
GOUAISTLO) CCL eee eee ees Ceylonese jungle fowl___.___- 1
Gallus ’sonnenatit— 32522 ek en ceeds Gray jungle fowl_._____.__ _ I
Gennacug alboenistatus2228 eo ee ee White-crested kaleege_..-____ 2
Gennaeus leucomelanus_-.-.------------ Nepal kaleege__._...-.---.--- 2
Gennaeus nycthemerus_..--------------- Silver phessant.2.% j225 202 3
Haeropndsts Swine sees 2 Sho Swinhoe’s pheasant.._________ 2
Lophophorus impeyanus_..---------...-- Himalayan impeyan pheasant_ 1
POO ChIUMGINE 3 t ose see eee asds asses Pesfowl. 2.0) =o hoe 2 2 ee 8
Phasianus torquuius. 3S 5s eee Ring-necked pheasant__..._--- 3
Polyplectron napoleonis.__..-..---------- Palawan peacock pheasant_... 1
Syrmaticus reevest_........-...-.-.-.--- Reeve’s pheasant____.-..___-_ 2
Numididae:
Acryllium vulturinum. ooo osc ese ale Vulturine guinea fowl__.___-- 1
IN OT an ee en ae ea Guines: [OW 245.225. 23ce.c5 2
Meleagrididae:
Agriocharts ocellata_.......-.---.-...-.- Ocellated turkey_____._____- 4
Meleagris gallopavo. _...--------------- Wild turkeyos sete eee 2
Meleagris galloparo var___------------~- Domestic turkey. -.________ 1
Gruidae: GRUIFORMES
Anthropoides i790... -...-2---—5---- sce Demoiselle crane. ..-.---.--- 2
Balearica pavonina_....-..------------- West African crowned crane... 2
Balearica regulorum gibbericeps-_-..------ Fast African crowned crane... !
Grus leucauchen =. 220 cs oc ee eee cee White-naped crane_._----__- H
Grusilencogeranue. 2-5 cow Se Siberian. crane.......-..+-<s- 2
Psophiidae:
SO DUAGICUCO MELO <5 eo ee so White-backed trumpeter._._._.. 2
Rallidae:
Amaurornis phoenicurus...-.--.-------- White-breasted rail_....____-_ i
Aramides cajanea___._..-----.--------- Wood rail ee eee es 2
DUlcG GMETMOnO cence as oe ae oS American coot.......-...--- 14
Gallinula chloropus cachinnans_..-.------ Florida gallinule__.._._.____-
Gallinula chloropus orientalis.....---- --- Sumatran gallinule__...-___- 1
Porphyria poliocephalus___.------------- Gray-headed porphyrio___..._ 23
108 |§ ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

Scientific nume Common name Number
Cariamidae:
Cartame CHISLALG sas Bee en Cariama or seriema_______.-- 2
CHARADRIIFORMES
Burhinidae:
WS UTRINGSOUSLNTALUS Hee en ee ee South American thick-knee_.. 2
Haematopodidae:
Haematopus osiraleques: 2222 Vue eee Ae European oyster catcher____-- 1
Charadriidae:
IBeclanomlenusichvlensys an oe ec ae a Chilean lapwing ay Sen 2
Laridae:
TS OFUSHGATOCNLGLUS SO ee Lena Aegis erring. (onlin eer ener aan 2
TSQTAUSNACLAMOTENSTS © Mu men Lane nuns LEUNM AH aah Ring=billed te wel eu i
TEC USRLOMLILUCA TALS aaa Mee ants Hel yo Moca eee) Stee mip eer at 2
Earussnovaehollandiges so 3 joN ene ee Luin ee Silvert pully See mak eo v
Glareolidae:
Glareola qiratincola a) Om fe now) es [ese Collared pratincole_—-_------- 1
COLUMBIFORMES
Columbidae:
Colamoavleviciiis ©) 5 otis allies eo abe el Domesticipigeonl = 2 242 u 22s 12
DLC UL AROS IEC eeu Mw Maes een ae os hI a Green imperial pigeon________ 1
Gallicolumoba. luzonicasls aa) Boas a) ke Bleeding-heart dove________-_ 1

Gallicolumba luzonica X Turtur risorius___ Bleeding-heart dove X_ ring-

necked dove hybrid_.____-- 2
GeO Relea CUMECEES 2 inna tag al UN os Diamond dovevws ses 2 sakes i
Gomnayer chor vie ap win pl ae all cab ioe 1 Victoria crowned pigeon______ 1
Deptotitaisarfocilaeeis) werd wht NE Le Scaled; pigeon ace 2 asec ceeks 1
MuUscadivones PAulingte. 2 ses enshey aol Ve Celebian imperial pigeon __~--_ 1
Stremiopeliachimensisus sate uiete! oe Asiatic collared dove_______-- 2
Streptopelia chinensis ceylonensis___-_-_-- Lace-necked or ash dove_ _-_-_- 1
Streptopelia tranquebarica___._.-...------ Blue-headed ring dove_____-- 2
Teirlern mesOncies ans auioi gs Wades Ni Uy Cue ce a Ring-necked dove. .-__-_-_-- 30
LET GLAG\ GUT AC ULE 25 ea a NAY UL South America mourning dove. 3

PSITTACIFORMES
Psittacidae:

BA SUD OT TEVS HULL UCLTL CLG i ats es a alate ao CANE NT Peach-faced love bird______-- 3
A TUOZONGVACSULDG Le cree enue, oaper ile seeas Ke Blue-fronted parrot________-- 1
VAL ZONME CULO DANIALG,.. 2 TN Le nae a Yellow-naped parrot_____-_-- 3
Amazone ochrocephala. (20200) \ Maus Yellow-headed parrot. _-_- Se es
AE ZONGNON LENT es Pa CACM NE ISN Double yellow-headed parrot.. 5
Anodorhynchus hyacinthinus_......------ Hyacinthine macaw____--_---- 1
WAU Ra ACOA ROK RORY H (Na Hee ale Ng aga Pag pS Pay ae ea Yellow and blue macaw__---_-_- 2
LANE COO reer Re ath ed fea ee en ee) a eee Red, blue, and yellow macaw_- 1
PENRO HE (2B ADKOY 4 PB ay EU ath SE el ape Camp adhe Cuban conures es. 2222 ae 1
PA OL LIUG NOONE TOC ei ape Aas Sata Gray-headed conure----_-_-- 1
Calyptorhynchus magnificus_____-.-_-_-- Banksian cockatoo___._____-- 1
Conmeopsrsnstcgna nn Utes ee aie eae Lesser vasa parrot_._._._-_-- 1
CYANODSTULACUSES DILI tN Le On eae Me Spix Ss macsw esses ose eee i
DUCOnOsTe SAnGulneuse: lata. ee se ee A Bare-eyed cockatoo_.____.--- 2
HE CLCCL USA DECLONGLLS Met aie ete Eee ae Hiclectus parrots e222 = eee 1
Holophusirosercapiuluss 22 Roseate cockatoo._-.-.222 2-2 1
Kakatcerqone sero. cee sit a eee ee White \cockatoos <2. eee 2
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

Scientific name
Psittacidae— Continued

Common name

KOKGUS CUCTONG 282 adicte eceeonaor sews Solomon Islands cockatoo-_--_-_
USC QUOERO CLT ee ee Large sulphur-crested cocka-
COO ak ee Si a ie ene
Kakatioe leadbeatert__.........---------- Leadbeater’s cockatoo____-_--
Kakatee molitccensis = = 2 2 8 | Great red-crested cockatoo____
IERCIGCULGERSUIUD) LUT CC te ne er Lesser sulphur-crested cocka-
TOO joe = ape a ae es or
Wi OTtUS QOMCEUG 82 = Sa ee ea ALOR sa a a eh
POTASH CUNO ULL Soe ee ash RedMonye =.= see a- eee
Melopsittacus undulatus__......--------- Grass paroducts=-2 a. oe
Miyopsuta monachius-<- 2. eo Quaker paroquet.-__._-_-_--
UNCSEGT 01011 CG a ee ee f=: ae ee PRS oe ce Re
Nymphicus hollandicus.......---------- COCKAUIEl =. onc uienoaGee aes
FLOM es COTUNOM ETI =e ee ee Amazonian caique_..._-_----
eSTILGGULCMEUUD ONL 1a = Se Se Red-shouldered paroquet---_--
PESTULACULG ANAM eee ae eee = eee Kramer’s paroquet___--_----
Psittacula longicauda____.-.------------ Long-tailed paroquet___.----~-
CUCULIFORMES
Cuculidae:
Eudynamis scolopaceus_..-.------------ Koel 4.32.30 Sseeeacs eae
STRIGIFORMES
Tytonidae:
Tyto alba pratincola._._._..-.-.-.------ Bains 0 Witenes  eee
Strigidae:
BUDO AMT OURO US ian 2 Oa Oe ee Great horned owl__..__------
USGEETUD CHAKCELLL 1) eee ee ee se me ee Malay fish owl__._.______-_--
UNI CEE O70 1) Cl Chen ene ee ere ee ee DROW OW sa
OL TESECLS1 Oe er he ny pe ane ho aa DCreeCn OWlwess oe Be
DINO VATIG 0ONTG— 2 een Lee ae Barred owls 5 222.2. 0usaeS
TROGONIFORMES
Trogonidae:
Pharomachrus mocino....-.-.-.-.------ Quetzal ee ee eee
CORACIIFORMES
Alcedinidae:
LDC CEUONGT OCS ee te nd ee, ee ee ee Kookaburra se se. see. sae
POLCNON SONCIUG <2 ine She oo ain ee Sacred kingfisher. ..__.-_----
Coraciidae:
Anthracoceros coronatus._......-..------- Pied hornbill. 22-22 ke
OCKUS OU OSUTT Se Se ee Gray hornbill__.._..-...._.-
Momotidae:
Momoius lessont..< <2 =---22-54-4-.---< Moto tae] sae ae
PICIFORMES
Ramphastidae:
Aulacorhynchus sulcatus sulcatus...._-~-- Groove-billed toucanet___-_--
Pteroglossus anacart= onc 2 2 BS aS Black-necked aracari_____._--
Pieroglossus torquatuss.2 2. + 225. Aracati -toucan... £2. {222-222
Ramphastos carinatus__.......-.-------- Sulphur-breasted toucan____-_
Ramphastos piscivorus.__....-.---------- Toco (CUCAN Sse Sass e ae

109

Number

2

—

Ree Ee De SY eK De

One rE 6

nN bo
110 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

PASSERIFORMES
Scientific name Common name Number
Cotingidae:
Rupicola rupicolas 32 sesh eso eases Cock-of-the-rock___--.------ 2
Pittidae:
Pittavmoluccensig2 2 oe eke eee Moluces pittase on). 3 ae 2
Corvidae:
Callocitia Formosae ys So eee Bs eS Mexican jaye sv ecw le 1
Ciera CRINenste ee ee ree UL ea Chinese! cissale tera nee 2
Cissilophasyucatanica si.) ot ee Yucatan: blue jay..-+ 0. = 4
Ores GLOtUS Mes eer Da es aU a White-breasted crow---_------ 2
Corvus brachyrhynchos a AmericCan (CrOW. S222 2 ie 3
Corvus coraz principals... 202 ee fe INorthermiravene cece ee ae 2
Conus Corset wet Te Dee Sas Hooded! crows ese Se ae nt
Corvus ony pioleucusel ek White-necked raven__..._--- 1
@orvusisnsolens 252/22 oo oe a. oe Indian crow! 2s Ae es 2
Cyanoctitasertsiata. oi! eda 2 ae a BUC Ry eke ee ee es 2
Cyanocorax chrysops 60 3 es eee WITSCA TAY oe 2 es ei 1
Cyanopicd CYANGs 2 Lava ssa seule cose Azure-winged pie___--------- 1
Dendroctita vagabunda..-.-----=-------- Rufus tree piessu24= 5 se ee 2
Garrulusdanceolatug 2 ae ee eo esse Black-throated jay_--------- 1
Gymnorhina hypoleuct___.._- si 2.-2-.-=- White-backed piping crow---- 1
Peo) PICO NUOSORI COs eee Sa ee ee American magpie_..-.------- 3
Wrocissa.cocrulcaso . sa eee eee ss Formosan red-billed pie_----- 2
Wrocessa occtpualiss 22252 os oe oT Red-billed blue magpie-----.-- 1
Paradiseidae:
Atluroedus crasstrostris..- --. 5-2-2222 25- Australian catbird_.....----- 1
Ptilonorhynchus violaceus._------------- Satin bowerbirds-.-2 2 eee 1
Timaliidae:
Garrulaz aloigularts 2s] 2 oe ete ee ee Asiatic laughing thrush______-_ 2
Garrulag bicolor 222 Soe a eee eee White-headed laughing thrush. 2
Garrulax pectoralis picticollis...---.----- Chinese collared laughing
thrushe {oc Cees ee eee 1
Pycnonotidae:
Pyenonotus analta.- eee ss Yellow-vented bulbul__---.-- 1
Mimidae:
Melanotes cacrulescensss-22 22 Sey iew eae Bineseat birdies saa ayes ee 1
Mimus polyglotios leucopterus_.._--------- Western mockingbird_------- 1
Turdidae:
Platyerchlaavtpes Sees eae nee Yellow-footed thrush_____---- 1
PUT OS GPG Ube so ee Lee Bonaparte’s thrush_.-------- il
Purdusimigratorsusssec oe oo ee eS Hasterntrobingeese 2 = eos 2
TuUrdus MUpUENTIss co eee ee eee. Argentine:robine 22222 22 Yee 1
Sturnidae:
Galenyearisalvadorit nS ase ee Crested starling..<---..----- 1
Graculaineligvesa ess et ee Hillmynahe Sess. ke ee i
Graculipica melanoptera.__...------------ White starling.—.-...-222.-2 1
Pastor roseustiss oa eae sae oe ee Rosy pasters.4. 204. so4ec8 1
Sturnsamalabantege 5 20 ee oo Piedimynahe 222. 22 Sooo 2
Sturnus yulgaruss. ooh no-k Pu 2 Soe OUATUN Gs Voaats a. oe ae 1
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 111

Scientific name Jomimnon name Number
Ploceidae:
Aidemosyne cantans....-------.-------- Tawny Wax: coool Sect 4
Aidemosyne malabarica..--------------- Indian silver-bill....._-_-_.. 2
Aidemosyne modesta...----------------- Plum-head finch=.=.2....25<. 2
Alastenanusicencluse= nt oe ee Parson finchs-eo=+=-555.4-25 2
RUAN JOSIE Pt Se oe esas Cut-throat weaver finch-_--_-- iv
Amandava mandava_.....-.-.-..-------- Strawberry finch___..___-_-- 3
COUleNNA DiC arees eae toe se ees Painted finches ==- -22e2-26=— 1
Distropura proce 22 oo oe Sec Sete Giant. why dale. Le 2
PGA SD e cesses ace oS ee Red-eared waxbill___..-___-- 8
Weirildacrnenedcneo te eee ease ee token eS Common waxbill__........-- 25
Bipplectes franciscana.. 2 2 S53 eens Bishop weaver_.---.-------- 8
Hypochera ultramarina_..-_-.--.-+.---- Combasou or indigo bird_---- 3
Lagonosticta senegalla._....._-.--------- African fire finch....._._-_-- 2
Lonchura leucogastroides...-.-.--------- Bengalee finch.....-_..-_-_-- 3
DUI LOA 5 See Ee De ee oe a tea White-headed munia__.__.-- 2
Muned Malaccd. 220s Sees ee Black-throated munia__-_-_-. 1
Munia oryzword.2 22-22. 302s eo 2K Java SpatrOW soe e 2s ae 3
DENI PUN CULAIG 22 ee Ae a era Spice fin cles. <0. 2 SaC oe 3
Neopoephila personata__..-------------- Masked finches (222220054 cns 2
Pigceus Vad ee ee ee Se ee es es Daya weaver. coc teen oes 3
PiIgeeus lermedtisc.- sea ssc eos Black-eheeked weaver__._---~- 2
Plocetseviellinus es ee ee eee ee Vitelline masked weaver_-_-.--. 4
Poephila acuticauda_.....2------------- Long-tailed finch__..__.---~- 4
Poephila gouldige.. 222 322 255 sco esse Gouldian finch............-.- 4
CALL Trig] 11 eee ge aga ey, ee ee Red-billed weaver__...-_.--- 5
Quelea quelea lathami__...--..---------- Southern masked weaver
PNcGhyn.5 2. oSeeco messes 2
Sporaeginthus melopodus_._-.-.-----.--- Orange-cheeked waxbill__-..- 60
SlEQUNUTO DUTAGISEG oa Se os ns Paradise whydah..__...-.--- 18
Stictoptera bichenovit__...-------------- Binchenov’s finch_.....------ 2
Daentonyg1d COMGRONE...028 25 oShoo5 a5 Zebra finches oo) ae ee eee 4
Uraeginihus bengalus_...-.-.---.------- Cordon blue finch. _.--..---- 60
Icteridae:
PAUCLOTNS CASTE ae aoe See Cuban red-winged blackbird_. 1
Amblyrhamphus holosericeus...--.------- Scarlet-headed blackbird - ~~ -- 1
Gymnomystax mexicanus_..------------- Giant oriole 22.2 2c 225-25 = :
clerus DUlOCK asec et eek ce el cee Bullock’s troupial__.._------ 1
INOWUODSUN CUrdesUS = 2225 5)2 0. nee eo Chilean blackbird_..__------ 2
DRUMS GORIDD tao sees ae ee Military starling._._..._---- 4
Xanthocephalus canthocephalus__..------- Yellow-headed blackbird ---- 2
Thraupidae:
RAMmpiocelus CO700 22222 oon case Silver-beaked tanager_-__-_--. 4
Ramphocelus dimidiatus__..------------ Crimson tanager_...---.---- 2
Ramphocelus flammigerus__.-..--------- Yellow tanager.........----- 5
Ramphocelus passerint...--------------- Passerini tanager._..-------- 1
Tanagre dervint.co ae sooth oes e Darwin’s tanager._._.------- 2
TRLGUIAS CONGeseee doe cde tow acececee Blue tanager__--- We mine one 3
112 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

Scientific name Common name Number

Fringillidae:
Garpodacus mecicanusics soe eee eS Soe Mexican house finch__.---_-- 4
Cyanocompsa argentina....--.---------- Argentine blue grosbeak___-.. 2
Ducat AsuCas Hoke ee Beh OS ee Diucafin chy aes wy See eas 14
Jameouyemalisi.. . tn ped sept Mer) Se Slate-colored junco___.------ 1
Lophosningus pusilusssaceo aye ooo Black-crested finch_.__.__--- 2
Melopyrrha nigraseh- see eee ee Cuban; bullfinche so 2 lee 2
Melospiza, melodia see Weve ute 22 ke Song sparrow. 24 Areal eee 1
Paroar.avcucwllatah tote. Bost 2 ee Brazilian cardinal... 222-2... 1
Paroaria gularzs nigro-genis._..--------- Black-eared cardinal________- 2
Passerella, Vigo ius eee als ee Box sparrows Bawls etal i
IPOSSETINGIGINGENG oo ae ernie os Se Lazuli bunting 208 2005 1]
IPGSSerenaCYyONed ee ae We tue ee be Indigo) bunting on. 4). oe es 2
Passerina leclanchert. oe ae boee 2 lt Leclancher’s bunting-__-__-_- 2
IPOSSETING VENSLCOLOT a aytene tae eal ee ee Blue bunting hye) ee 2
IP ReUctiCus GUTCOVENITISE a > Meet. Ae Black and yellow grosbeak.... 2
Phrygeus alaulinos ios od ase oS Chilean Jark finch; 24.50.22. 1
PORT GUs iMUveelt ae coe sete oe Mourning finch. 242-2542 4
DR CUS GGG ees Un De Se aS Gay’s gray-headed finch_..--_ 1
(ROOSDUCOMLONOUGLO= = hae ee ee eee Ringed warbling finch__.___~- 2
TeuichMonding. cardtnans...o. Jue 22 ne Cardinale. 2235. ks ee cee 3
SETENUS CONOTUUS tates a IOS SL Canarye226527 erties ee 4
Serinus canarius X Carduelis mexicana... Canary X siskin hybrid eo karate 2
ISELUIUUSHE CLE TLL Sea ce ee yee Green singing finch_.______~- 3
SCCOIUS ONeOl den tie A eee eee Miystodineh2 = 424 0n ee ee 3
ISUCOLUSsL ULC OLGS eye es 8 ee 2 a ee Sattronufinch 206 = 22 es eee 3
SDINUSMUTOPYOG 8222 oo eka oH Sos Chilean:siskini ows. 2h so ee 1
Sporonnrlavurttge : 2 ee or a eee Hick’s seed-eater___-.------- j
Dporophilavquisuralisie 8) 13h ota Yellow-billed seed-eater- -_---- 2
Sporophila melanocephala__------------- Black-headed seed-eater_----- 2
TiGrtSiOlVACG Wain. ype eee yeni se eee Mexican grassquit.__...-.-.- 5
Volatenia facarinist) 2c a i ee Blue-black grassquit_.------- 1
Zonoinichia albicollse. 242 ee eee White-throated sparrow------ 4
ZONROUICNIO COPENSt8 28 foc. oe ee Chingolo! 2. o3-ssad eens eek 1

REPTILES
LORICATA

Crocodylidae:
Alligator mississtprensis{. Ul223 0 2a Alligatorss22 ube sis eee 28
Alleqator sinensis oS ESO ete tet Chinese alligator_...-.-.---- 3
Caiman: latinosints ee ei ee oes sao ee Broad-snouted caiman ---_---- 1
Caiman sclerops = oc..32 soe = ee eee Spectacled caiman__-_.-----.- 3
Crocodylus cataphractus._._---.--------- Narrow-nosed crocodile- ~~~ -_- i
Crocodylus niloticus... 222i l.2 2.25 =e African crocodile________--_- oy
Crocodylus-palustriseule 2 25uo 4. ee ‘Toad? crocodiles.) SC 22a es 2
Crocodylus porosigyos) 2S Mee eee Salt-water crocodile__.-___--- 1
Grocodylus:nhombiferua 2 ol See ees Cubanyerocodile: S232 2 as 1

Osteolaemusitetraspts so te ee ee Broad-nosed crocodile__------ 3
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

113

SAURIA

Scientific name Common name Number
Tguanidae:

ESCUSTUUSCUSHULLLCLLILS cam eee ot eae ine ets eh IB asilis keys seek gee ee ee 7

li MOS OMG, OT CUITOStn Os i ae Northern horned lizard_-_-_---- 1

Phrynosoma cornutum_..--------------- Horned lizard____-_-_-.. --- 6

Sceloporus undulatus.....-------------- Pine or fence lizard_________- 6
Anguidae:

Oplasar us VeniMlts 2 = on eae a sae Legless lizard or glass ‘‘snake”_ = 2

Celesius ecorgeét. 2... 88 ean Sond Baerasskinkso- 22 eau e 1
Agamidae:

Uromastixz acanthinurus_......---------- North African spiny-tailed

lizarde seas cee wens eee see 1

Helodermatidae:

Heloderma horridum__......------------ Mexican beaded lizard______- 2

Pielodérna suspeciuins <2 2 oe a Se ne Gils monster: -.-.222.55.255 5
Teiidae:

Tupinambis nigropunctatus.__....-------- Black tegues = 22s eee eee 5
Scincidae:

Fumeces fasciatus_.....0.-.-.--.-.-.-=- Blue-tailed skink..__._.__--- 2

Tiliqua scincotdes_............-------.- Blue-tongued lizard__._-.__-_ 2
Varanidae:

Varanus komodoensis_.._.__------------ Komodo dragon_....2.-2.-.- 1

VATOnUs MONON 2s Ostet bese Gea Indian monitor_._._._____-__- 1

Voranus salvator.. 24. 322s tenes Sumatran monitor_____---_-- 3
Zonuridae:

AOTUPUS GICONICUS.{. 25 son ee oS ee eck African spiny lizard__......... 2

SERPENTES

Boidae:

Constricior constrictor 2-254 eee Bow Conetnictor2.324545045 1

Constrictor tmperator__.......---.------ Central American boa____-.-. 8

Fipicrates cenchrts......<-=-..-2<.2.--2 Rainbow boases2..2 cee ee 3

PUDUCL GIES ChACR eee Sse Fe oe a Saigmaniains 2622 Bele 1

Ppierates streglus = 2. le to SO ee aihian bates =. ees aes 1

BYinectés MuUrinus 222 2s ses bce eee Anacondas.225. 21 see wal dgal

PewInOTe MOVs sae enn es See 2 38 Serie Indian rock python________-- |

Be LILO TR OUCUER een ae ses ee Se ee Ball python 2.222233 242-cse 1
Colubridae:

Boiga blandingt__..............----.--- Brown tree snake__________-_- il

Diadophis punctatus__._.....-..--------- Ring-necked snake____.__..__. 2

Dinodon semicarinatum_..-.--.--------- ARAMAtANY (2s eee 1

ETUC IVR ELL Ot Coe eee Cormmensgkes. 26535.4--20eec8 Pe

Hlgpie OUSOlIA 24 ooo. ot ene So Pilot snakere 20... case 5

Elaphe quadrivitiata_...........-----_-- Chicken snake. ___.__._.----- 2

Lampropeltis triangulum triangulum____-_ Milk snake or spotted adder__ 1

UNCLES TCE (te aa, ese ee Water snake___.____________-_ 2

UNCUT COCR TS COLO ta ein aig eeepc a en <P Water snake________________ 1

Dy EY Gy ( te a Banded water snake_______-_- 8

Opheodrys vernalis._._......----_------- Green grass snake___________ 1
114 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

Scientific name Common name Number
Colubridae—Continued
Oxybelisiacuninatugen es oe ee Pike-head snake__.______.___ 2
TAELUO DIES COLER TET ray oe a Me nly ey a at Western bull snake. ___.____- 1
Pituophis melanoleucus_.....-.--------- Bull’enakeveu tase es ee 2
PU RSRINUCOSUS Eos cee er te Indian rat snake___________-_ 1
LOR CELAIOCK NS Boshi = ee oer ore DewKay’stsnakevs. 22 Tee 4
Thamnophis macrostemma_.......------- Mexican garter snake________ 1
Thamnophis ordinoides...........-.---- Western garter snake____.___ 3
TREMNODRIS OGUTNUS ee ee Ribbonmenakersesn 200 H
Thamnophes strides ee eee ae Garterisnake tern 650 ae, U.
Hlapidae:
DEVON OCS DORIS eens so es eee ee Black tree snake or black
mambasavwewe wou oe & 1
Dendroaspis viride es Nb Green’(mamba soy t ore 4
DISPUTES UL ULUR ee eee Coralienakew eae ene eae 1
INGIOUMELGNGIEUCE LE ee on West African cobra_________-_ 3
Crotalidae:
Agkistrodon bilineatus_......_..._.___-- Mexican moccasin__________- 14
Agkisirodonimokesons 222 2 ke Copperhead snake__________- 3
Agkisinodon piscivorus. —. Cottonmouth moccasin....... 6
Cr Otalesyatroe SOO ee cee Se Texas diamond-backed rattle-
Snake s222 2 2a 1
Crotalus horridua tec ees ha ee ee Eastern diamond-backed rat-
tlesnnkettwwn ne eee 1
Trimeresurus flavoviridis.....-.-.-------- Habutviperc ese aoe ee 3
Sistrurus catenatus catenatus__._._____-_- Miassasauigal sues Ve ete e 7
SASUHUGUS TIGRIS cee eee Pigmy ratilesnake..________- 2
TESTUDINATA
Chelydidae:
BGUOCREMYE NAGLE Si soe See South American snake-necked
turtles. 2.) aw be 4
1G UT OL ROE Wi) TNC) 0 ee eae Se mn ma a Te RR Cigado or South American
snake-necked turtle..__-~-- 1
Hydromedusa tecttfera 2 es a South American snake-necked
BUT Ge ee eee te 18
Platemys platycephala_.-8 ee Flat-headed turtle-._.____._- 1
Pelomedusidae:
POGOCNEMiS ECDGNER. = = ek South American river tortoise. 1
Kinosternidae:
Kinosternon subrubrum....-..224----=_- Musksturtiems seine. oe woe 6
Chelydridae:
Cheltydra serpentina...3_ ee Le Snapping turtle._._._______- 8
Macrochelys temminckti_......-_-------- Alligator snapping turtle.____. 1
Testudinidae:
Chrysemis Piclas oe Wee oe eee me Paintediturtie.2-2 2 ae a
Clem yitja Quite ks ieee Spotted turtle... oo es 6
Glemmys sneculpiae 5 se ee eee Wooditurtie: 2 Neen ee 3
Cyclemys amboinensis__...........------ Kura kura box turtle._.-___- 1
Graplemys barbourts. 22.222. 2 sL oe ee Barbour s turtle.2 22) - Jase 6
Malaclemys ceniraia..™_._........----- Diamond-back turtle. ...--__ 8
Pelomedusa galeatas. 2.2). 3 3 eee Common African water tor-

—
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 115

Scientifio name Common same Number
Testudinidae—Continued
Pseudemys concinna_.__....-.---------- Cocterseee ne ss es oe: 1
Pseudemys rugosa__...--..------------- Cuba terrapmose. 6225.0 1
Pseudemys scripta troostit_...-----.----- tee be Senet .
Troost’s turtle (albino)_______ 2
Pseudemys troosttt_...2.222 2 25205o0-2 Cumberland terrapin_.-..____ 4
WerVaNeneCOTORNO 22 on oe so eek Box turtles. 22 eee eee 50
err ODEN ewUjOT ae ae oe ae ee ee Florida box turtle. .--------- 4
Testudo ephippitum..-..-.----+--------- Duncan Island tortoise__-_---_- 2
Pestudo hoodensiSase 2 a ae oe eee Hood Island tortoise___._.--- 2
TGRTUEGO MODALLONG = = 2s Sat Sette as Sess re char oes South American tortoise___- ~~ 1
DESLULOO LOCNIET I ws we eS ho esaos Soft-shelled land tortoise -__~- 1
Destao MCING ot ot Fk ae eace Albemarle Island tortoise--_-- 5
Trionychidae:
AU POL OTLS oie ee ie Se ae Be Soft-shelled turtle__--------- 6
Anyda UtUunguien cone oat 2 te West African soft-shelled tur-
1] (pee a eS URE NPE an 1
AMPHIBIA
CAUDATA
Salamandridae:
Truss DYrrnOgaslera. sa csan ce ance ese Red Japanese salamander__.. 77
Tertius LOT 08s Se oie Bees ena coe se Giant mewt=-- eee) == ee 2
THGUTUS VUINOTIS oes oa bee sneak Common European salaman-
COR see w awoke tee ane 3
Ambystomidae:
Ambiysiome lacusirie. i252 esse ees Mexican axolotl___..._._----- 3
Ambystoma opacum...-.---------------- Marbled salamander_____--_-- 1
AmMmoystome ligritum oss. fshes ee eeS AXOlLOte sees ae 32
Cryptobranchidae:
Megalobatrachus japonicus_------------- Giant Japanese salamander_-. 2
SALIBNTIA
Dendrobatidae:
Alclovus UGTIUS ChUCIGCT nm. ote ewes Yellow atelopus_-.-..------- 34
Dendrobates auratus._._...--.----------- Arrow-poison frog._.._------ 160
Dendrovates witieys- =o a eee eee Red and black frog__..----_-- 1
Bufonidae:
TRU OTREP ICONS eee tee ee LES, Common toad_--...-----.=.- 1
WB 58 (GA VO) ett eee a any Pen Sapo de concha___---------- 4
TRUS MUtNhUs oo pee eee eee ose Nariie t0sd. es ee 4
Buse Peldcepnales 225 ssc see cetera Cuban giant toad_-.__-._---- 3
Ceratophrydae:
Ceratophrys ornate... 2%. 22222-04222 Homed 00.2.2... eee j
Ceratopnrys varie 2282 te Homed fops2 ose oe 1
ED er eee ee ee ee ee a Tree [rome s hes ee ee 1
Pa crete ee ee ea Tree {POOU= 2 ooo ssc see oe 2
Pipidae:
FADO Pipe ede dee SAE eee eco Sed Surmiam toads o2.5s2es254e25 6

EX PILOTHIS: LUCULR ae! see ta Bea ea ee oe African clawed frog__.------- 12
116 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

Scientific name Common name Nuinber
Ranidae:
iRanaxcatesbevana= == noe seer ene Bullfrog a Ae Aa ee pera 2
Ranaclamitanss. suo 2a ee BAe ee Green frogie WN | Eten 2
RONG: PUPTENS Os Re MN Petra BS ees iheopardiirog cu tot ele oes 10
Rana sylvatica. o2 2s Us ie Mee ha WOOGIE OR Meee uie Ih Sik oars ya 1
FISHES
Wnabasutestiud meus ees ee en ats ee Se ee Climbing perch 2222 5 Se 5
VAN ODLCKINYSYOTAGNT Eames haan e seh e ee Blind icharacimne sesso. 12
Barbus ecercltyes 2 eel MRASE AE wkics bee Clown barb sks sree rr) Senn 8
Barbus anti Penta Zong erma ine Wa nua aelea ea Banded: barbossnse oes ee 20
SACU AATTORTETITO nam mia meal a tie alin teat Ral ace) a ae Zebra danio# sno ee 3
Car asstusaural nso ee ek! Se II RNS | oa del be Goldfish e242 sea un eee Sess 10
Chamnarastalica sees ee be ease Snakehead fishus2 ue a ereeee 2
Cichlasomanfesivumn ee te ee a Hlacrcichlide2ss0 ssa 225 eee 1
Condor Gskaeneusters sae bea Seeman Drinidadicathishsas a] v= es ees 5
Daniovmatlabaricus2 225 2.02 Uie we saa eee Blue danion 2 = wet eee 2
Gymnocorymbus tennetgt. 2 oe ek Blackitetrass jeue 2s Ae as 4
ETelostOMOAMCMMUNCKUGne eran tee ee Kissing gourami or gorami__.. 2
EDU DRESSOTOGUCOMNLTIVES Uta ae ee ee Neon tetra see asa we ee 3
[Kira pltopienusiOUcirnnts =| aes oe a eee Glass cathishies 2) cee sy 1
WGebrsteswnetyculatius eos Se eee SAU Ua as Guppy ass ee ee ee 100
Lenidostreni paradox = S252 Bee Sen eS South American lungfish_...-. 2
Eamassoritata a] See ETS Se Shade 2 Cuban Jimiagess22 Sr eee ee 10
IMolivenesra sphenope 220 Wee Oe er Le Victorymmolly2s222 2.3) ae 12
Monocirrhus polyacanthusii. 0 be Beatwishia wet. 820 ae Rees 1
OCCT CLUS A TENUS 2c e ET UT IE Sas Sect Sucker catfishyl2) Uo os 2s 22 6
Platypoeciluss Se oe Ate sk RUNES ack Nelle Red moons shar sue eer 3
eristell Gitta le tae ns Nike SA a Tettaess 22 Fo NS eee 10
Protoptertusvannectens: 20 Gales ee es African lungfish) sss2 son eae 2
Pierophayllumvecatare sot Se OS eae Angel fishe2 2025 Subs Sous 1
ARACHNIDS
TSUTU DELMAS) a a Ss La rete eh Nae ae Tarantulac. se ee eee 1
INSECTS
Blab eras pice a ks a a pee EN Ota Giant cockroach= 222 22s ese 100
SUMMARY
Animals on hand \Jully: W046 oy sa ae a alee Re Ee ae 2, 553
Accessions during the: year ie seco kL eared ste a apa pe 1, 462
Total number of animals in collection during the year___--------- 4,015
Removals for various reasons such as death, exchanges, return of animals
ODIGEDOSIT! CGC ee ib eaten ve 2 2a Za er Ae aang Sa 1, 008
Tnscolleetion on June! 30), VO (oo esas eee eee ee ae 3, 007

Among the important losses of the year were three emperor pen-
guins. Two of them had lived here for 5 years and 11 months; the last
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 117

one to die, for 6 years and 8 months. These, of course, are outstanding
records for life in captivity for these interesting birds, but the loss
was a heavy one.

STATUS OF COLLECTION

Indi- Indi-

Class Species] vid- Class Species] vid-
uals uals
Wisin alsa eee ene eee 189 G00) | PMs hS2oeeas eee es oa ees 24 316
ECS eee eee ene OS Sa =< Se 2 336 Tp2so! WeMNSOCtShoes casos nee ee 1 100
RG DULLES ssn see ee Soe oe een ee 04 O60 | sArachnidsi=. 2222-2202 ese 1 1
Arn phibianSsess-e. 249 oo eee 24 365
PROCS] eee ee een | 669 3, 007

Respectfully submitted.
W. M. Mann, Director.

Dr. A. Wrermorge,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 8
REPORT ON THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera-
tions of the Astrophysical Observatory for the fiscal year ended June
30, 1947:

The Observatory has two divisions: (1) The original Division of
Astrophysical Research, engaged primarily in a study of solar radia-
tion, and (2) the more recently established Division of Radiation and
Organisms, engaged in a study of the effects of radiation on organisms.

Both divisions of the Observatory helped to celebrate the one-
hundredth anniversary of the founding of the Smithsonian Institution
by participating in a special exhibit illustrating the activities of the
Institution. Mechanical working models were displayed showing
typical instruments as used by the Observatory at Camp Lee, Va., and
also showing types of research in the Division of Radiation and Organ-
isms, with emphasis placed on the role of light in the growth and de-
velopment of plants.

(1) DIVISION OF ASTROPHYSICAL RESEARCH

Work in Washington.—As in the past, our first concern has been to
appraise the solar-constant values received from our field stations and
to plan and develop improvements in instrumental equipment and
methods. Our plans have seemed unduly slow in fulfillment, but by
way of anticipation we may state that in the near future at one of our
field stations we expect to try several innovations. These include an
improved vacuum bolometer, a fused quartz prism, and aluminized
mirrors in the optical path in place of stellite. The resulting large
increase in ultraviolet deflections should permit a more accurate study
of the day-to-day changes in this important region.

Our second concern has been the work at Camp Lee, Va., under con-
tract with the Office of the Quartermaster General, described in last
year’s report. The records of the Camp Lee measurements of sun and
sky radiation have been compiled and prepared for publication in a
series of 11 reports to the Quartermaster General. The maintenance
of the equipment and observations at Camp Lee, and the preparation
of the reports have all been under the direction of William H. Hoover.
With the close of the fiscal year we have completed 18 months of con-

118
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 119

tinuous observations at Camp Lee. These records give the sun and
sky radiation in calories per square centimeter, for each hour of each
day divided as follows:
(1) Total intensity on a horizontal surface.
(2) Total intensity on a surface inclined 45° to the east.
(3) Ultraviolet intensity on a surface 45° to the east.
(4) Visible intensity 45° to the east.
(5) Infrared intensity 45° to the east.
(6) Intensity under a vycor filter which transmits all radiation, inclined 45°
to the south.
(7) Intensity under a black filter (Corning 2540) which cuts off the ultra-
violet and visible, and transmits the infrared, 45° to the south.
(8) Intensity under a yellow filter (Corning 3385) which cuts off the ultra-
violet and transmits the visible and infrared, 45° to the south.
(9) Ultraviolet intensity on a horizontal surface measured with a special
photoelectric ultraviolet meter.

The measurement and reduction of these voluminous records have
been tedious and time-consuming. Integrating devices which will
greatly simplify the work are being studied by Mr. Hoover and L. B.
Clark, and several such devices are under construction in our shops.

It is now 13 years since Dr. C. G. Abbot and the Director last deter-
mined the standard scale of solar radiation on Mount Wilson. In
anticipation of a new determination of this scale in the near future,
the double-barreled water-flow pyrheliometer used successfully in
1934 has been partially rebuilt. Rubber joints within the instrument
have been eliminated, copper-constantan thermojunctions replace the
former nickel-platinum junctions, and the thermoelement arrangement
is made more simple and efficient.

Dr. Abbot, research associate of the Observatory, has continued his
studies of the effects of solar changes on weather. He has also experi-
mented with a small solar engine, and has made preparations for a
further study of the energy spectra of stars which he will undertake
soon with the aid of the Mount Wilson 100-inch telescope.

At the request of Dr. Henryk Arctowski, and with the cooperation
of Dr. Abbot and the Secretary of the Institution, Dr. Alexander
Wetmore, arrangements were made for John McLean Hildt to come
to Washington to assist Dr. Arctowski for 1 year. Mr. Hildt, form-
erly meteorologist for the American Overseas Airlines, began work
with Dr. Arctowski on June 2, 1947. He will help organize and pre-
pare for publication the large amount of material which Dr. Arctowski
has accumulated.

Work in the field —In October 1946 Mr. Hoover and Paul Greeley
went to New Mexico and packed for shipment the entire equipment
of our Tyrone station, closed since February 1946. Arrangements
were made for the sale and disposal of the buildings and for the return

777488489
120 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

of the site to the custody of the Forest Service. The equipment was
sent to Miami, Fla., and stored pending the completion of a building
suitable for temporary solar observations at this sea-level location.

In further development of their studies of the causes of tent dete-
rioration, the Quartermaster Department decided to extend the Camp
Lee work to include measurements and exposures at a wet, sea-level
station and also at a dry, high-altitude station. Fortunately, in Miami,
Fla., the General Motors Corp. maintains a test field for the exposure
and testing of various materials. At the suggestion of Dr. S. J.
Kennedy, of the Military Planning Division, Office of the Quarter-
master General, a cooperative program was arranged between the
General Motors Corp., the Quartermaster Department, and the Smith-
sonian Institution. General Motors generously undertook to build a
special observing shelter at their test field, to house our spectrobolo-
metric equipment formerly in operation at Tyrone, N. Mex. This
building, a most satisfactory, well-insulated structure of cement brick,
was completed in April 1947. On May 1 F. A. Greeley, recently
director at our Montezuma, Chile, station, took charge of the installa-
tion of our equipment. Spectrobolometric observations are planned
for a period of 1 year.

During the war years our field stations were unavoidably under-
manned. It is therefore a satisfaction to state that each of the stations
now has two competent observers, as in prewar days.

During the fiscal year, a generous gift to further the work of the
Division was received from John A. Roebling. The staff of the
Observatory is sincerely grateful to Mr. Roebling, and to Dr. Abbot
through whose kindly interest the gift was received.

(2) DIVISION OF RADIATION AND ORGANISMS
(Report prepared by Harl S. Johnston, Chief of the Division)

General.—Members of the Division were consulted as usual by out-
side individuals and organizations regarding problems arising in the
field of radiation, its measurement and its effect on living matter.
Individual members also participated actively in the affairs of national
and local scientific organizations.

Research.—During the year the research of the Division of Radiation
and Organisms was concentrated under two projects: (1) Photosyn-
thesis, and (2) plant growth and development as influenced by light.

(1) Photosynthesis—The purpose of this project is to determine
the role of light, especially the wave-length effects, on the fixation of
carbon by green plants. Included in this project are studies (a) to
determine a more complete photosynthesis-action spectrum by use of
the special spectrographic method for the determination of carbon
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 121

dioxide as developed in this laboratory; () to determine chlorophyll
formation in the different regions of the spectrum; (¢) to investigate
the wave-length balance associated with optimum plant production

Many instrumental problems have arisen in connection with this
CO,-measuring method which have prevented the full use of the ap-
paratus in many of the planned experiments. New heat exchangers
have been installed for better temperature control and other improve-
ments made. After making 67 test runs, each of which required from
5 to 6 hours, all but two of the problems have been overcome.

The Division has recently obtained a suitable spectrophotometer
with which to continue its studies on chlorophyll formation. Work in
the study of wave-length balance and optimum plant growth has been
continued.

(2) Plant growth and development as influenced by light.—The pur-
poses of this project are (a) to determine the mechanism of dormancy
in light-sensitive seeds, and (6) to study developmental physiology
of grass seedlings.

Role of light in seed germination—It has long been known that
germination of many species of seeds under certain conditions is very
markedly stimulated by, or entirely dependent upon, irradiation.
About 10 years ago a cooperative investigation carried out in this
laboratory (Flint and McAlister) demonstrated that only certain por-
tions of the spectrum are stimulatory to germination whereas other
regions are inhibitory. The mechanism of these effects of light has
remained completely obscure, however.

Subsequent discoveries by other workers have suggested new ex-
perimental approaches to this problem which has been taken up again.
These discoveries are (1) that certain chemicals have the ability to
evoke germination in darkness and thus appear to act as substitutes
for light, and (2) that other chemicals act as germination inhibitors
in darkness but that light tends to overcome the inhibitory action.

A considerable variety of compounds has been tested for ability to
promote germination of lettuce seeds in darkness at temperatures
which, in the absence of specific stimulations, permit germination only
in light. A number of active substances have been found. The tests
are being continued in an attempt to correlate the physiological potency
with molecular architecture.

The light-sensitive inhibitory effect produced by coumarin does not
appear to be specific, being exhibited also by several other compounds
among the many which have been examined. Thus there is little
support for the suggestion made by other workers that coumarin, or
a chemically closely related substance, is responsible for the natural
light-sensitivity of lettuce seed. A report of this work is now being
prepared for publication.
122 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

Evidence has been obtained, however, that dormancy and germina-
tion in this species is regulated, or at least influenced by an endo-
genous inhibitory substance. The nature of this inhibitor and the
mode of its action are being studied.

A critical review of the literature dealing with germination of
lettuce is also in preparation.

Effect of light on development of grass seedlings. Various phases
of this project have been carried forward as time permitted. A com-
parative investigation of the action spectrum for inhibition of meso-
cotyl growth in several species has been published. Tests on the
influence of several seed-disinfection treatments on subsequent seed-
ling development have been completed. Additional experiments have
been made on the effects of various salts on growth of etiolated oats.
In order to explain the observed gross morphological effects of light
and other environmental factors on mesocotyl elongation, a histologi-
cal study of this organ is in progress. A large number of slides have
been prepared and are being examined. It is planned to resume the
experiments on the interrelation between light and temperature as
affecting coleoptile and root growth as soon as the necessary equip-
ment, now being constructed, is available.

Volatile plant-growth inhibitors. It was observed that in a wooden
growth chamber, of which the interior had been varnished, the germi-
nation of several species of seeds was completely checked or greatly
retarded, although all the commonly recognized environmental con-
ditions were favorable for development. On removal from this cham-
ber normal development was resumed promptly. As the plants were
not in direct contact with the original box it appeared that a volatile
substance of great physiological activity was present. A large
number of subsequent tests showed that volatile inhibitors are indeed
produced, presumably as the result of oxidation processes, by films of
varnishes, drying oils, unsaturated fat acids, and by several species of
wood. The rapid and complete reversibility of the inhibition is espe-
cially remarkable. An agent with these properties might conceivably
be of considerable value both in plant physiological experimentation
and in practical plant culture. Studies on the identity of the respon-
sible substance, or substances, are in progress.

PUBLICATIONS

The following publications relating to the work of the Observatory
were issued during the year:

ABBOT, C. G., 1946-47 report on the 27.0074-day cycle in Washington precipitation.
Smithsonian Mise. Coll., vol. 107, No. 3, March 1947.

Ansot, O. G., The earth and the stars. D. Van Nostrand Co., Inc., New York.
1946. 288 pp.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 123

ABEoT, ©. G., The sun’s short regular variation and its large effect on terrestrial
temperatures. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 107, No. 4, April 1947.
Assot, C. G., Astrophysical contributions of the Smithsonian Institution. Science,
vol. 104, No. 2698, August 1946.
AvpricH, L, B., and associates, Reports on Camp Lee studies, submitted to the
Office of the Quartermaster General, as follows:
Textile Series, Office of Quartermaster General, Report 17, Tent Research
Report 3, pp. 53-99.
Reports 2 to 11, Smithsonian Institution to Office of Quartermaster
General.
JOHNSTON, Wary §., The Division of Radiation and Organisms: Its origin and
scope. Scientific Monthly, vol. 63, pp. 371-380, 1946.
JoHNsTON, Haru 8., An establishment was established. Journ. Washington Acad.
Sciences, vol. 37, pp. 837-40, 1947.
WEINTRAUB, Rosert L., and Pxrick, LEONARD, Developmental physiology of the
grass seedling. II. Inhibition of mesocotyl elongation in various grasses by
red and by violet light. Smithsonian Misc. Coll, vol. 106, No. 21, May 1947.

Respectfully submitted.
L. B. Auprica, Director.
Dr. A. WETMORE,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 9
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL AIR MUSEUM

Sm: On August 12, 1946, President Truman approved an act of
the Seventy-ninth Congress (H. R. 5144) establishing, under the
Smithsonian Institution, a bureau to be known as a National Air Mu-
seum. The act, now referred to as Public Law 722, stipulates that
this bureau shall be administered by the Smithsonian Institution
“with the advice of a board to be composed of the Commanding Gen-
eral of the Army Air Forces or his successor, the Chief of Naval Op-
erations or his successor, the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, and two citizens of the United States appointed by the President
from civilian life, who shall serve at the pleasure of the President.”

The purpose of the National Air Museum is to “memorialize the
national development of aviation; collect, preserve, and display aero-
nautical equipment of historical interest and significance; serve as
a repository for scientific equipment and data pertaining to the de-
velopment of aviation; and provide educational material for the his-
torical study of aviation.”

After the passage of the act, Dr. Wetmore discussed with Gen-
eral Spaatz and Admiral Nimitz the designation of appropriate rep-
resentatives of the Army Air Forces and the Navy to the Advisory
Board. As a result, General Spaatz appointed Maj. Gen. E. M.
Powers, and Admiral Nimitz appointed Rear Adm. H. B. Sallada.
The latter was replaced on May 1, 1947, by Rear Adm. A. M. Pride.
On December 3, 1946, President Truman appointed Grover Loening
and William B. Stout to be civilian members of the Advisory Board
as provided in the law.

On December 16 the first and organizational meeting of the Ad-
visory Board was held at the Smithsonian Institution in Washington.
At this meeting Dr. Wetmore was unanimously elected chairman. A
general discussion of the preliminary plans for an aeronautical
museum then followed, the Board calling attention to the danger of
losing valuable historical and technical material unless prompt action
were taken. Toward this end, Dr. Wetmore was requested to com-
municate immediately with leaders in all branches of aeronautics
requesting that such material be preserved for future review by the
Board.

The Board also discussed section 3 of the act which calls on the
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution with the advice of the Ad-

124
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 125

visory Board “to investigate and survey suitable lands and buildings
for selection as a site for a national air museum and to make recom-
mendations to Congress for the acquisition of suitable lands and build-
ings for a national air museum.”

At this meeting, too, the preparation of estimates of appropriations
to implement the $50,000 authorized by the Congress for the purposes
of the act was discussed in detail, and Dr. Wetmore was advised by
the Board to submit the request to the Bureau of the Budget. This
was done, and on March 21, 1947, President Truman transmitted to
Congress “A Supplemental Estimate of Appropriation for the Fiscal
Year 1948 in the Amount of $50,000 for the Smithsonian Institution”
(H. R. Doc. No. 181). On April 30, 1947, Dr. Wetmore appeared
before the Independent Offices Subcommittee on Appropriations and
presented a brief statement on the origin of the National Air Museum
and on the need for the requested appropriation.

Following this initial meeting of the Advisory Board, approxi-
mately 200 letters were addressed to aeronautical interests through-
out the Nation. These letters called attention to the establishment
of the National Air Museum and urged the recipients to advise the
Board of any aeronautical items which in their estimation should be
considered for inclusion in the future National Air Museum. The
letter also requested that such materials be carefully preserved until
such time as the Board could make a study of them. The response
to these letters has been large and indicates the existence at this writ-
ing of much valuable museum material in private hands scattered
throughout the Nation. Both the Army and Navy, too, are assem-
bling and holding large quantities of valuable aeronautical material
of the recent war years. <A portion of these collections, and several
private collections, were inspected toward the close of the year at the
Institution’s own expense.

The major problem involved in the advancement of the National
Air Museum project is the acquisition of a storage depot for the tem-
porary assembly of the museum material. This is most essential to
prevent the permanent loss of material and to enable the Advisory
Board to determine and recommend to Congress suitable lands and
buildings for the new bureau. At the close of the year this vital
problem was still unsolved, nor had the Congress appropriated the
$50,000 authorized and requested for use in the fiscal year 1948.

Respectfully submitted.

C. W. Mirman,
Assistant to the Secretary for the National Air Museum.
Dr. A. Wetmore,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 10
REPORT ON THE CANAL ZONE BIOLOGICAL AREA?

Sim: It gives me pleasure to present herewith the annual report of
the Canal Zone Biological Area, for the fiscal year ended June 30,
1947, As in past reports, there are included data regarding rainfall,
temperatures, relative humidity, and other data which are invaluable
to those coming to the island for study.

REGARDING THE ISLAND

As this is the first report published in several years, it is desirable to
include here some of the data that appeared in the earlier Barro
Colorado Island Biological Laboratory Reports—particularly so, be-
cause so Many new readers will want this information.

The island was reserved for scientific purposes by Governor J. J.
Morrow on April 17, 1923; hence in 1948 the island and its unique labo-
ratory will celebrate its twenty-fifth anniversary. It is located in
Gatun Lake, about halfway between Gamboa and Gatun. Its width is
8.1 miles, its length 3.4 miles, and its area 3,609.6 acres, or 5.64 square
miles. Its coast line exceeds 25 miles. It is larger than the combined
areas of the familiar islands of Taboga, Taboguilla, Urava, Otoque,
Bona, Morro, Chamé, Estiva, Melones, Venado, Mandinga, Tabor, En-
sena, Patterson, Tortola, Naos, Culebra, Perico, and Flamenco.

The shore line of Gatun Lake is on the average 85 feet above sea
level, and the highest point on the island, 537 feet. There are 24
trails, marked off into 100-meter sections, so that not only are all parts
of the island available with ease, but the 100-meter designations give
it a sort of cross index; thus, for example, Wheeler-6 has a very definite
location. And since all trails eventually lead to the main laboratory,
no one has ever been known to be lost on the island.

As to buildings, there is a two-story main building 32 by 55 feet,
the lower floor including a dining room, and the upper floor lodging
rooms. There are two buildings 12 by 24 feet with two rooms each,
the ZMA and Barbour Houses, the latter with a large porch for labora-

1'Phis is the first report to be published since the Canal Zone Biological Area was placed
under the administration of the Smithsonian Institution. The first to the sixteenth reports,
for the years when the organization was known as the Barro Colorado Island Biological
Laboratory, were issued in mimeograph form, the last in 1940. During the war, owing to
military restrictions and other considerations, no reports were issued.

126
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY Lae

tory space. Then there is the Chapman House, also 12 by 24 feet, with
a wide porch; the lower floor is screened in and serves as a splendid
laboratory unit. The Eastman Kodak Co. has a building for its serv-
ice, deterioration, and corrosion tests, the lower floor serving as
workshop. There is a three-room library, and another building used
by the Resident Manager. The upper part of the kitchen is used as a
dormitory.

There are buildings at the end of the Barbour Trail, the Drayton
Trail, the Pearson Trail, the Zetek Trail, and at Burrunga Point, all
available for the use of scientists. At least two can live comfortably
in these houses.

Inquiries should be addressed either to Dr. Alexander Wetmore, Sec-
retary, Smithsonian Institution, Washington 25, D. C., or to James
Zetek, Resident Manager, Drawer C, Balboa, C. Z. Accredited scien-
tists receive an annual card pass on the railroad, and authority to pur-
chase in the commissaries. Living conditions on the island are very
comfortable, and working conditions good. Owing to the precautions
taken, the malaria hazard is nil, and the water supply is safe.

As the island force looks after the dormitories and the meals, it
means that the scientists are relieved of all housekeeping duties. Thus
their entire time is available for their research problems. Those who
have worked in the Tropics where such facilities are not available,
where drinking water must be boiled and malaria precautions taken
daily, know what it means to be relieved of these chores. Furthermore,
in many tropical localities good medical facilities are not within easy
reach, whereas on Barro Colorado Island the scientist is never more
than an hour from a Panama Canal dispensary, or an hour and a half
from Gorgas or Colon hospitals, where one finds the very best in medi-
cal or surgical services.

With rapid air mail and air express service the island is in very close
touch with the United States, and being under the United States flag,
it is almost like being in the States. On the other hand, the isolation
provided by an island does away with the many distractions so common
on the mainland.

THE ISLAND LITERATURE

Since the laboratory was established in 1923 as the Barro Colorado
Island Biological Laboratory, there have appeared 603 individual
published articles and books relating to studies made on the island.
This is an enviable record, equaled by very few institutions of this
sort. The field covered is vast, even including papers on studies made
here on cosmic rays. Many of the papers on physiology have paved the
way to other studies that have solved problems relative to certain
human diseases. A 3- by 5-inch card record is kept of these individual
128 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

books and papers. One index is alphabetical by authors, the other by
subjects.

The war halted the preparation and publication of many papers, as
it also curtailed the number able to come to the laboratory for studies.
During the war the laboratory was, of course, very active on problems
relating to the war, particularly deterioration, corrosion, fungi, chemi-
cal problems, and related matters, but very few of these findings will
appear in print. It is also known that papers have been published of
which we have no record. It is a difficult task to cull all the litera-
ture, and probably the index is only 80 percent complete. Neverthe-
less, it is an amazing record.

SCIENTISTS AND THEIR STUDIES

Dr. T. C. ScHNEIRLA, curator of the department of animal behav-
ior, American Museum of Natural History, perhaps the highest au-
thority living on the behavior pattern of army ants, spent from Feb-
ruary 7 to June 16, 1946, on the island, continuing his studies. A
summary of his findings follows:

“These studies on army-ant behavior and its biological basis were
begun on the island in 1932, and were continued in the rainy-season
periods of 1933, 1936, and 19388. The work began as an attempt to
analyze the complex behavior system of these ants as a case study of
‘instinct,’ but as it went along inevitably led into other special prob-
lems, such as the social organization of the army ants, and the rela-
tionship between reproductive processes and behavior.

“To investigate the last problem in particular a project was planned
for 1942; however, the war interfered. Since all the preceding studies
had been made in the rainy season, it was especially desirable to ob-
tain evidence on the activities and adaptations of the Ecitons in the
dry months. Plans for an intensive investigation under dry-season
conditions were resumed in 1946.

“The basis of the study was the surveying of activities and condi-
tions in two colonies, one of Hetton hamatum and one of /. burchell,
for as long a time as possible in the dry months. Other colonies of
these two species were kept on record as far as possible for briefer
periods, and supplementary field and laboratory tests were carried out
on relevant problems. The object was to learn as much as possible
about what changes may occur in the activities and in the brood pro-
duction of these ants in the dry season.

“Tf there is any other situation in the world today where such a
project involving correlated field and laboratory studies can be carried
out advantageously, I have yet to learn of its existence. The results
of this project illustrate the island’s advantages. On the day of my
arrival, February 7, I found a colony of Z. burchelli bivouacked on
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 129

Shannon trail just beyond No. 2, and this colony was kept on record
until just before departure on June 15—about 125 days in all. A
colony of Z. hamatum, found a few days later, was on record for nearly
as long. Approximately 50 other colonies of these 2 species were
studied more or less intensively during the 4 months.

“The findings, first of all, showed in convincing ways that the
periodic behavior changes (regular alternation of nomadic and
statary—i. e., sessile—colony behavior) that I have found invariable
for these ants in the rainy season also hold through the dry season.
Regular phases were found as follows: For £. hamatum, about 17 days
nomadic and about 20 days statary in alternation; for EB. burchelli,
about 12 days nomadic and 21 days statary in alternation. An inten-
sive study of colony brood-production, paralleling the behavior studies,
revealed that in colonies which survive the dry season with their queens,
new broods are produced at very regular intervals as in the rainy sea-
son. Further evidence was found that this regular brood-production,
based of course upon a very regular delivery of successive batches of
eggs by the queen, provides the causal basis for the described regularity
of colony behavior. For example, the queens of 2. hamatum produce
new batches of eggs at about 36-day intervals. This island study of
1946 shows that this remarkable performance ordinarily is continuous
throughout the year.

“The production of male individuals, it was found, occurs in the dry
season, at times characteristic of the species. Evidently in colonies
that produce males, only one brood of males per season is produced,
otherwise the broods are immense worker broods as in the rainy season.
The production of males was studied, from early larval stages to ma-
turity and dissemination by flight. A brood of (about 3,000, as a rule)
winged males requires about 3 weeks for its complete exodus through
nightly flights, after emergence. Results indicate that most of the
males that survive the flight reach other colonies (evidently through
chancing upon and following raiding trails to the bivouacs). The
flight evidently operates against adelphogamy, although some evi-
dence was obtained for occasional returns of males into their colonies
of origin. From this 1946 work a considerable part of the virtually
unknown problem of Eciton mating can be sketched in. More of it,
and especially how the wingless queens are produced, we hope to learn
in 1947-48, when a project is planned for studying transitional condi-
tions in the Ecitons from rainy to dry season months.”

Dr. James B. Hamizron, professor of anatomy, Long Island College
of Medicine, and one of the foremost authorities on hormones, initiated
a most interesting and promising line of research dealing with the
matter of baldness, a subject on which he has already published im-
portant papers. His experimental approach was through the three-
1380 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

toed sloth, the male of which has on its back a prominent bald area or
“tonsure.” This sloth, and some of the large apes, appear to be the
only animals that resemble man in that the adult males develop com-
mon baldness.

His observations thus far are in total agreement with the idea that
a bald spot of increasing size develops upon sexual maturation of the
male. It is still too early to report on his study of the anatomical
material he obtained on the island. The sloths used were obtained
through the cooperation of Mr. Shropshire and Lieutenant Keenan of
the United States Army Sanitary Corps. If the studies corroborate
the views outlined, then it will be important to study the pathogenesis
of this condition. Its etiology is apparently identical with that respon-
sible for other important pathological conditions, for example, hyper-
trophy and cancer of the prostate.

His present studies are only the beginnings of further ones. No
one so far has made this approach through the sloth, and while quite
a number of males and females received male hormone treatment, it is
necessary to follow the experiment through on a large scale. This
involves also a study of the sloths themselves, to learn how to keep
them alive in captivity for at least 6 months. In captivity the sloth
is not hardy, and no one as yet has made a serious study of the food
habits and other characters of these animals. hey are ideal for such
studies.

R. J. Kowat, entomologist in charge of the Gulfport, Miss., Labora-
tory of the Bureau of Entomology and Plant Quarantine, and Ento-
mologists Samuel Dews and Harmon Johnston, of the same regional
laboratory, began their studies about 4 years ago, upon the initiative of
Kowal. The object was to obtain information on effective methods of
preserving wood against deterioration due to termites and other organ-
isms, as well as to rot. To quote Kowal: “The severity of conditions
conducive to deterioration, and the excellent facilities for scientific
study, make the island an ideal location for such investigations.”

The studies began in 1943 when funds were made available through
the United States Forest Service, and the Coordinator of Inter-Ameri-
can Affairs. Proposals for this work came as an outgrowth of requests
for information from the Public Roads Administration, the War and
Navy Departments, and other agencies engaged in the war effort.
Briefly stated, the Inter-American Road became an urgent need, steel
for bridges was hard to get and its transportation a problem, and to
erect wood-preservation plants with creosote on the list of critical
materials was out of the question. Could we not poison soils at the
bridge abutments so as to eliminate the termite and rot hazard, and
could we utilize native resistant trees by the additional process of
sap-stream impregnation ?
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 13h

In the spring of 1943 two types of experiments were established, one
to test the value of soil poisons in preventing damage by termites;
the other to determine whether tropical tree species could be impreg-
nated with water-soluble wood preservatives by the sap-stream method
of impregnation. Soil poisoning had been previously tested on a
small scale particularly in the treatment of soil along building founda-
tions to prevent the entrance of termites into wood structure. The
relative value of different soil poisons was not known, however, nor
was information available on their effectiveness under tropical condi-
tions. Thirty-nine different treatments were applied on Barro Colo-
rado Island, each treatment being replicated 10 times. The procedure
consisted of removing and treating 2 cubic feet of soil, replacing it,
and driving a stake into the center of the treated area. After 3 years’
exposure it was apparent that treatments by means of the so-called
“saw-kerf banding” and bore-hole techniques were the most effective.
In the case of several of the tree species, intake of the chemical was
not satisfactory and preservation consequently was poor.

In 1946 the Division, in cooperation with the Corps of Engineers
of the War Department, began investigations on problems of de-
terioration of wood and wood products confronting the Army. The
studies deal mainly with problems under military conditions, and
research is pointed toward development of practical methods of pre-
vention and control which can be readily applied by the Army using
materials immediately available on location. Several types of soil-
poisoning tests were established on Barro Colorado Island in Novem-
ber 1946. An experiment similar to that described above was installed
using numerous soil poisons and different dosages. Variations of the
method were also tested, one being the surface application of chemi-
cals and another the bore-hole method. A soil-poisoning experiment
known as the “platform test” was also established. In this test poisons
are applied to the soil surface by spraying or sprinkling, and the board
or “platform” to be protected is laid on the treated area. Dosages in
this test are considerably lighter than in tests described above. The
experiment is designed with the object of developing a method of
preventing damage to materials in storage dumps and similar
installations.

The above experiments conducted in cooperation with the War
Department comprise a total of approximately 100 treatments; all
have been replicated 10 times.

Experiments on impregnation of seasoned wood with preservatives
have been established in order to determine the methods and chemicals
most satisfactory for the protection of wood from insect attack. The
experiment, like those above, is designed to provide a reasonable
degree of preservation by practical methods using chemicals readily
132 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

available to the Army on location. Ten different chemicals and chemi-
cal mixtures were used in the experiment. Stakes 12 inches long were
treated by instant dip and by dips of 3 minutes, 1 hour and 12 hours.
Ten replications were made of all treatments. AJ] stakes were driven
into the soil to a depth of 6 inches.

A small amount of treated fabrics, conduit, and insulation is now
under test, and it is planned that more such material will be tested
in the future. In addition, experiments will be conducted to develop
methods and materials that might be of value in preventing attack
of wood by marine organisms.

Tueropors J. Martin, technologist of the Forest Products Labora-
tory at Madison, Wis., made several trips to the island in connection
with the installation and inspection of the various tests of plywoods,
glues, paints, resins, and other materials. Since most of this is covered
in the report of Mr. Middleswart, little need be added here.

It is always a great satisfaction to be able to give tribute where it
is due. The thoroughness of Mr. Martin’s work, his attention to
details, his ability to see and appreciate what too many would not note,
all were apparent during his work on the island.

Mrs. Exizaprra G. Hartmann, of New York City, spent a short
time on the island studying the bird life, preparatory to a more ex-
tended trip into Costa Rica. The abundance of life on the island, in
addition to the birds, crowded each day with no end of new experiences
and information and made her stay all too brief.

Dr. ALEXANDER Wermorn, Secretary, Smithsonian Institution,
epent 2 days and 1 night, all he could spare on his return from Jacqué,
and his urgent need to be back again in Washington. While all too
brief, the period was spent in discussions with the Resident Manager
of the island’s more urgent needs.

G. E. Errxson, of the graduate school of Harvard University, spent
some time on the island in connection with his research problems on
the higher mammals.

C. C. Sorgr, chemist for Eastman Kodak Co., and in charge of their
research laboratory in Panama City, initiated and conducted on the
island the most varied studies in connection with deterioration and
corrosion of practically all the materials that enter into photography.
The outcome of these studies means, of course, better results for those
who do photographic work. Mr. Soper’s investigations dealt not only
with corrosion of lenses and its elimination, but also with the proper-
ties and keeping qualities of film, particularly color, papers, and other
photographic supplies, and also with the matter of packing and pack-
aging. It is the first really serious study of these multiple problems.
The upper floor of the building built this year is used for these tests
and studies.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY Leo

Mr. Soper, through his knowledge of photography and photographic
processes, has been extremely helpful to scientists on the island. It
is hardly necessary to point out here the difficulties, as well as losses,
incurred during the past war, because of the lack of previous studies
of this nature. It is to the point to emphasize the soundness of the
decision made to go to the humid Tropics to make these studies, rather
than to depend on tests made in the continental United States by
simulating conditions in the Tropics. It is possible to duplicate tem-
peratures and humidities, but it is not possible to duplicate the often
rapid changes, and certainly not the action of micro-organisms.

The past war has shown the wisdom as well as the urgency for
conducting in the Tropics studies on corrosion, deterioration, packing
and packaging, and similar problems, and particularly the need to
study and test the great number of new materials which still lack sufti-
cient service tests to show the true limits of their best usage.

Dr. GraHam Bett Farrcuip, medical entomologist to the Gorgas
Memorial Laboratory, whose splendid work during the past war is
so well known, made several brief visits to the island in connection
with his entomological studies.

Dr. Cuas. F. QuAINTANCE, spent a little over 8 months of his sab-
batical leave on the Isthmus, a few months thereof on the island. As
head of the biology department of Eastern Oregon College, his main
objective was to learn as much as possible about the plants and animals
of the Tropics, and particularly the environmental conditions. To
supplement his notes and collections, he also took a great number of
kodachrome photographs for use in his teaching.

It is one thing to read about the Tropics and then pass on this
second-hand knowledge to students. But it is only when one sees,
feels, hears, tastes, and smells that which is the humid Tropics that
one is able to really teach about them. The past war emphasized the
paucity of men who have had actual experience in the Tropics.

Dr. Tuos. E. Snyper, senior entomologist of the Division of Forest
Insect Investigations, Bureau of Entomology and Plant Quarantine,
United States Department of Agriculture, and one of our greatest
authorities on termites, came for a few weeks to discuss with the Resi-
dent Manager the extensive termite studies conducted on the island
since 1928. ‘The clearing of a piece of the immediate forest just behind
the present laboratory buildings, to provide needed space for buildings
and for water storage, necessitates the removal of several thousand of
the termite exposure tests to a new area.

During his stay he examined all the trail-end buildings, which are
also termite tests. A report on this is given elsewhere. The great
value of the island for such tests and studies has been attested and
emphasized so often that any repetition here becomes redundant.
134 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

Dr. Grover C. Prrrs, Naval Medical Research Institute at Bethesda,
spent a very short period on the island because of difficulty in geiting
off in the midst of important research at that great Medical Center of
the Navy. Hastily, he writes as follows:

“Tet me review my objectives and results in visiting the island. By
profession I am a physiologist with strong leanings toward natural
history. Consequently, the purpose of my short visit was to gain
some familiarity with a tropical fauna and flora and to explore the
possibilities of making studies in comparative physiology there. A
secondary object was to determine what the island might have to offer
the 'Naval Medical Research Institute for purposes of field research.
Though I am now out of the Navy, I continue my affiliation with
NMRI as a civilian.

“Some results were obtained with regard to each objective. I iden-
tified and gained some familiarity with the following organisms, all
new to me: 52 species of birds, 14 species of mammals, 5 species of
reptiles, and an undetermined number of species of plants and inver-
tebrates.

“This is at least some indication of what a worker can accomplish
who desires to gain familiarity with the tropical biota and has only
1 week at his disposal.

“With regard to the opportunities for studies in comparative physi-
ology, they are legion. More studies in temperature control of the
type that Peter Morrison did are indicated. In the past I have done
some work on diurnal rhythms in various physiological functions.
The island with its many dirunal, nocturnal, and crepuscular crea-
tures offers boundless material for this type of study. One would
have to bring most of the specialized equipment needed, but the
usual laboratory facilities are available. I hope to pursue one of
these problems when time and finances provide the opportunity.”

A. V. Reenter, Jr., of Little Rock, Ark., visited the island for the
purpose of preparing a motion picture of the wildlife, preparatory
to a much longer stay later on. He exposed some 1,200 feet in color
during the 3 weeks. He also included 2 weeks in Chiriqui, where
he went in quest of the beautiful quetzal. Mr. Regnier reports:

“The finished film with titles and animated maps is about 900 feet
in length. The sequence on the island opens with the launch coming
in to the landing followed by a view of those arduous steps. Then
in quick flashes, the mango, banana, coconut, lime, lemon, and
orange trees. Following are scenes of Erikson and myself walking
along one of the trails looking up at the air plants on one of the
giant Bombacopsis trees. Other subjects are the tamandua, tree for-
micaria, three-toed sloth, marmosets, howlers, toucans and other birds,
the sensitive mimosa, the zebra swallowtail, the Heliconia, the beau-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 135

tiful blue princess Morpho, and of course, the coatis. My still photo-
graphs include many of the above subjects.

“As I mentioned on my arrival in the Zone, my trip was one of
examination to discover material for a full-length educational film.
In Chiriqui Province at the foot of El Volein de Chiriqui, I found
what I was looking for in the quetzal bird—they breed in March in
that region and are said to be easily accessible at that time. So far, I
believe only two persons have photographed them in color—Wolfgang
von Hagen and Luis Marden of the National Geographic. I hope to
make a complete film in color on the nesting habits of this beautiful
bird.

“Returning to the film which I made last summer, I have presented
it to several clubs and groups along with my own narration, and it
has been very well received. It has aroused a great deal of interest
in Panama in general and in Barro Colorado in particular.”

E. L. Mippieswart, technologist of the Forest Products Laboratory
at Madison, Wis., and at present with the State Commission of
Forestry of South Carolina, showed an intense interest in the life
of the island. His report follows, and it must be understood that it is
still too early for final conclusions. The fact remains that the island
certainly has all that is needed for tests of this sort.

“We were endeavoring to find a plywood which would withstand
tropical jungle conditions. We had some 1,500 samples of plywood
14 inches square made of 4 different species of wood (red gum, douglas
fir, cottonwood, and birch) glued with 12 different glues and glue
mixtures, and given 5 different surface treatments on exposure on the
island. One-half of the samples were placed on racks in the sunlight
and the other hali were placed on racks in the deep jungle to give a
comparison between the two conditions. The samples were made at
the laboratory in Madison, Wis., and flown to the Zone by the Army
Air Forces. They were placed on exposure in January 1946.

“The laboratory also sent the plywood wing-section panels for
exposure on B. C. I., which came shortly after I left the Canal Zone.
These wing sections were also sample sections of plywood used in
studying the effects of tropical weather conditions upon various glues
and woods used in making the plywoods and to find which glues and
woods are the most satisfactory for use in the Tropics.

“This covers the high points of our work there. I might add that
the conditions were most nearly ideal on B. C. I. for this study. It will
be some time before the results are compiled.”

Wuu1m KE. Lunpy, of the paymaster’s office of the Panama Canal,
and also secretary-treasurer of the Panama Canal Natural History
Society, spent 3 days during the rainy season on the island, and being
deeply interested in natural history, and a keen observer, his brief

777488S—48—10
136 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

report is of much interest. It shows what others, who are much more
versed in zoology, can expect to find. And since these animals on the
island are as nature has them, not in cages, but in the open, to see and
observe them is to know them as they really are. To the ecologist, to
the student of animal behavior, to the general naturalist, it is to see,
smell, hear, feel, and touch that which is life. It is something that
books can only feebly portray. We have the orderly sequence of ex-
ternal nature, we have the living organism moving about in this
environment inhabited by other species, and we have that continuous
adjustment which constitutes life.

This is what Lundy saw in but 3 days: 10 bands of howler monkeys,
3 of the white capuchins, 2 of marmosets. He saw any number of the
coatimundi, peccary, squirrels, 2 deer, many nequi, 1 tayra, and best of
all, 1 night monkey (Goldman’s Aotus zonalis). He came across 10
“armies” of army ants, and one huge bivouac of these most interesting
ants. Among the birds he saw large numbers of toucans, parrots, and
guans, also the tinamou, pileated woodpeckers, ant-shrikes, motmots,
two king vultures, many of the other vultures, the scarlet-capped mani-
kin, Ghiesbrecht’s hawk, and others. Among the insects, perhaps the
most spectacular were the large metallic blue Morpho butterflies,
another butterfly with transparent front wings and pink hind wings,
and the graceful large “helicopter” dragonfly.

COMMENTS OF SCIENTISTS

“Life at the Island was a pleasant experience and I am telling my
associates about conditions there. It seems to me to be an ideal place
for the conduct of experimental studies of many types, and I would
like to thank you for the opportunity to work there. The research
station is certainly a well-run place.”—Dr. James B. Hamiuron.

“My report is incomplete, of course, since it includes no statement
of how thrilling and how great a privilege it was to return to the island
to continue my work where f left it off, to meet and talk with you
again, and to enjoy once more directly the countless emotional and
perceptual satisfactions that come from hiking and strolling around,
and from just standing in the many well-remembered Jandmarks,
probably I had best leave the sentimental part of the return unsaid; at
least the above sentence is sufficiently full of rushing verbal chaos to
represent how I felt on February 7, 1946, and all of the days I was
there.”—Dr. T. C. ScuHnerrua.

“The severity of conditions conductive to deterioration and the ex-
cellent facilities for scientific study, make the island an ideal location
for such investigations.”—JosrpH Kowat.

“As for the Naval Medical Research Institute, the island would be a
most useful proving ground for many of the things developed here.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 137

These include insecticides and repellents, warm-weather clothing and
footgear, a new type of salt tablet for men perspiring profusely, etc.
In addition to all of the above, the island is a wonderful place for a
boreal biologist to broaden his outlook.”—Grovmr C. Prrrs.

“With reference to my visit to B. C. L., I certainly want to put in my
plug. I surely enjoyed my visit there, not only with reference to my
work, but with reference to the many, many other phases of study
adapted to the area. I certainly had my eyes opened as to jungle con-
ditions and the flora and fauna therein. I have never been in a place
where so many phases of biology in general could be so interestingly
studied and all from the same roof. The beauty of the flowers and
colorful birds still stands out in my memories of B. C. L., not to forget
the hours I sat and watched the busy little monkeys playing in the
trees.

“The fellowship which I experienced with the fellow scientists work-
ing and visiting the island, as well as the friendly reception of the
native people welcoming me to B. C. I., is an experience never to be
forgotten.”—Eucens L. Mippteswarr.

“To the visitors of the Barro Colorado Laboratory! May they get
from the trails in the rain forest such an inspiration as will last them
through life and make them ardent protectors of the tropical forests
of the world, for without their aid these marvels of beauty will surely
disappear forever.”—Davip Fatrcu i.

“T take up my pen with the greatest of pleasure to record the out-
standing impressions left by my recent visit to Barro Colorado Island.
When I recall the expeditions I have made into Central American
jungles, the great expense involved, and the meager equipment per-
mitted by pack-mule transportation, the difficulties encountered and
the usual sequellae of tropical malaria and dysentery, it is only natural
that I should be struck first of all by the propinquity and safety of
Barro Colorado Island.

“Just to think that one can drop off a chair car at a railway station
in a civilized community, and after half an hour’s launch ride find
one’s self in the heart of virgin tropical forest, is to feel a wave of
admiration for the foresight of those who secured the reservation of
this great tract to scientific purposes. It is a biologist’s fantasy come
true, and I hope as time goes on that more and more of our scientific
institutions will come to its support, so that the potentialities of the
laboratory can be developed in all directions, and utilized to the full at
all times of the year.

“TY believe there is nothing like it in the world. There are great
botanical and zoological gardens in the Tropics which represent an
attempt to facilitate man’s acquaintance with tropical nature by trans-
porting the flora and fauna to some easily accessible place. Barro
138 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

Colorado Island has the opposite aim, of enabling man to transport
himself into the midst of tropical nature and to live there for any
period of time in comfort and safety.

“Nature lovers as well as scientists can enjoy this unusual experience.
My wife was as excited as I was on our morning walks, at the hundred
and one novel things she had read about but never seen. We were
equally lucky in sighting mammals and birds before they took alarm,
while the trees and plants always stood still to be admired. I was
struck by the intelligence and alertness of our Panamanian guide
Silvestre, and his knowledge of jungle life.

“In short, I am enthusiastic about Barro Colorado and I will not
fail to endeavor to communicate this feeling to my friends.”—Dr. L. W.
Hackett, Rockefeller Foundation.

“As the result of my recent visit to Barro Colorado Island I feel
impelled to write you to express my gratification with what is being
accomplished. J remember my pleasure when the isolation of this area
by the waters of Gatun Lake was first foreseen, and the decision was
made to make it a permanent preserve for native life. Yet I can see
now that I had a very inadequate idea of the realities of nature in
that area; and an equally inadequate idea of what might be attempted
in the way of scientific observation, experiment, and systematic record.
I had, indeed, a general idea of the abundance of life in the jungle,
but the scope of your records was a revelation. This means, partly,
that the number of species is vastly greater than would be guessed,
even by most scientific men. It also means (you must allow me to
say this) that the work is being directed with wisdom and pushed with
energy. That such records as I saw should be even attempted would
seem to indicate the presence of a considerable staff, yet I could not
help seeing that it is largely your own work. It is greatly to be
hoped that your work will not only be continued, but augmented by
further cooperation.”—Nervin M. FENNEMAN.

“T find it difficult to say anything about my general impression of
Barro Colorado that does not sound exaggerated, trite, or exactly like
something I have read somewhere else. Perhaps you will know how
I feel when I say that I wish (financial considerations aside) that a
stay on Barro Colorado could be required of every candidate for the
doctor’s degree in either botany or zoology. You may be amused to
know that about a week after we returned to Chicago we went to
Warren Woods, a beach-maple forest about 70 miles east of Chicago.
It was very hot, 96° F., and the mosquitoes were indescribably thick.
It was impossible to accomplish much, and we left after about 20
minutes. We both agreed then that we would a thousand times rather
have the ticks and red bugs of B. C. I. than the mosquitoes of our
temperate forests. In fact, when I begin to recount the virtues of that
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 139

little island it seems almost too good to be true. Of course we realize
that the virtues of Barro Colorado Island are not entirely the result of
its natural equipment. The well-marked trails, the laboratory, the
library, the excellent living accommodations, the trail-end houses, and
all the rest are the end results of a lot of patient planning and unending
attention to detail. The summer of 1939 was the most stimulating and
happiest one of our lives.”—RatpH and Miiprep Bucussaum.

“The island is better than ever; and after knocking about in parts
of the world where it is very difficult to organize one’s work, I appreci-
ate more keenly than ever the possibilities Barro Colorado offers for
profitable natural history studies which can be begun immediately
upon arrival.”—ALEXANDER F’, SkutcH.

“All light talk aside, I have not seen any place in my travels which
compares with Barro Colorado Island in point of excitement of the
field-naturalist kind. In Java and Sumatra the Dutch have built
palatial Jaboratories, but these are far removed from the new, fresh,
wild jungle. In Ceylon the British have an agglomeration of build-
ings like the United States Department of Agriculture, but it is
surrounded on all sides by tea plantations. Everywhere it is the
destructive activity of man that is clearing off the jungle and replacing
the gorgeous forest with weedy growth or plantations of rubber trees
in rows. Hold the virgin character of Barro Colorado at all costs.

“Tell the visitors to take it from one who has just been there that
the conditions for studying tropical plants and animals are better at
Barro Colorado Island than anywhere I went in Sumatra or Java.”—
Davin Farrcu.

“Barro Colorado Island is one of the most astounding places I have
visited in any part of the world. Its value is tremendous for scientific
research, even for research that has economic importance. I sincerely
hope the day never comes when any of the land is devoted to investiga-
tions such as are now being carried on in many agricultural forest and
range experiment stations. The virgin character of Barro Colorado is
sufficient asset and I hope you will fight every move that may be made
to change this condition.” ——F rank EK. Eater.

“T must confess I was amazed at the systematic way in which the
trails are laid out and posted, the filing system in the library and the
many other modes and ways of doing things. I doubly appreciate
this because I have been places where such systems were not followed,
much to everyone’s disadvantage.”—Grorcr W. Prescort.

“Never again shall I make a trip like this one for merely 5 weeks.
If I cannot make a trip next summer I am certainly going to make
every effort to get down the following one. Caylor too, wants to get
back to Barro Colorado Island and go through with our contemplated
project of preparing a flora of the ferns of the region. We have a siz-
140 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

able collection of ferns now on hand. In my algae collection I find 250
samples, many of which are simply loaded with species and I have no
idea how many will appear in the final list. I think 500 would be a
very modest estimate and very likely there will be many more than
that when the diatoms are included.”—Groraz W. Prescort.

“Even without special precautions, the island would seem to be safer,
hygienically speaking, than most areas of like size in the United
States.

“Certainly all of the minimum requirements for successful labora-
tory work are fulfilled on the island. In addition to these minimum
facilities the laboratory possesses a remarkable versatility of equipment
as well as adequate laboratory space. And while it is obvious that
special equipment to suit the needs of the individual scientist must be
supplied by him, it is comforting to know that many laboratory necessi-
ties are accessible in a small clearing in a tropical rain forest.”—PauL
D. Voru.

“The island is more than ever a paradise for the biologist. Living
conditions are excellent, the food is fine, the resident staff efficient and
courteous. The forest offers a pageant of life which is the ideal labora-
tory for the study of the principles of biology. Not only has it proved
to be of great value for the undergraduates, but its worth for the
teacher has hardly been realized by morethanafew. very university
and college ought to send the members of its staff in the biological
sciences for a sojourn on the island, not once but periodically. It
would be an economical investment in the improvement of teaching.
This is especially true now when all emphasis is on the experimental
side with the result that so many workers know very little about the
organisms with which they work. The island will be an excellent place
for studies in plant and animal physiology. The rapid growth rate of
plants would aid such work tremendously.”—Rosrerr N. Woopworrtu.

“In addition to the value of publications based on work on Barro
Colorado, who can estimate the influence of observations, studies, and
photographs which have formed the basis of unnumbered addresses
in lecture hall and classroom, or the educational value of museum
exhibits depicting island life? In brief, during their 15 years as a
laboratory, the 4,000 acres we know as Barro Colorado have contrib-
uted more to our knowledge of tropical wildlife than any other area
of similar extent in America—perhaps in the world.”—Franx M.
CHAPMAN.

THE SPECIES INDEX
A 5- by 8-inch card index is kept for each species of plant and animal

definitely known from the island. Each card lists the scientific name,
the major division to which it belongs, and the family name; also the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 141

name of the collector, the name of the person who made the determina-
tion, when and where collected, and other pertinent details.

These cards are indexed first according to the major phyla—mam-
mals, birds, reptiles, amphibians, fish, arthropods, etc.—which are
further subdivided into superorders, orders, etc., and finally by fam-
ilies. Under each family the genera are in alphabetical order, and
the species for each genus are also in alphabetical order.

This index is invaluable to the student. It isa unique record of the
life of the island. In 1940 the index covered a total of 4,924 species
of plants and animals, representing 2,805 genera. In plants alone
there were 747 genera and 1,487 species. Since 1940 new entries have
been made, but no count has been made of the present number, owing
to pressure of other duties, especially those concerned with the war
effort. A conservative estimate is about 7,000 species.

Extensive collections have been made of algae, fungi, and lichens, but
because of the war, reports on these have not yet been published.
Lesser collections were made in other groups. A conservative estimate
would be fully 700 species.

THE ISLAND HERBARIUM

The herbarium consists of 1,533 mounted specimens, representing
806 species, not including the mosses. These sheets are in genus
covers, and the collection is arranged in four major groups, the crypto-
gams, ferns, monocotyledons, and dicotyledons. In each of these
groups the genus covers are grouped according to the families, and
these, for convenience in handling, are alphabetically arranged. There
are on hand more than 2,500 additional named specimens as yet un-
mounted and these will probably swell the number of species to close
to 1,200.

The herbarium is a most valuable adjunct to a laboratory such as
ours. It does more than supplement the botanical library. Too often
botanical literature is of little help to one not a trained botanist, and
for this majority of students, the herbarium is what is needed.

NEEDS

The most urgent needs are for a concrete water tank to replace
wooden tanks now in bad condition; new septic tanks; painting of all
buildings, inside and out; herbarium and other storage cases; replace-
ment of bedding and purchase of additional furniture; and miscel-
Janeous repairs to buildings: It is estimated that these present most
urgent needs could be met at a cost of $10,000.

Other needs that should be met promptly are for a more adequate
supply of electricity; a new fireproof building to house the library,
photographic equipment, herbarium, and records; and adequate
142 §ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

animal cages to keep various creatures in captivity during scientific
investigations.

TERMITE-FREE BUILDINGS IN THE TROPICS

Is is possible to build comfortable, well-ventilated houses of lum-
ber and not have a termite hazard? The answer is “Yes.” However,
few architects go to the trouble of getting the necessary information.

We have 57 known species of termites in Panama and the Canal
Zone. Of these, 45 species occur on Barro Colorado Island. Two of
the most destructive in the world occur here, one of which is known
to eat through the lead sheathing of electrical cables. The rapidity
of destruction by some of the species is incredible. Some even work
in living trees, and we have records of fruit orchards destroyed by
them.

And yet on Barro Colorado Island we have buildings where we let
the termites do whatever they wanted to do—eat up the building
overnight if they could—and yet these buildings are in excellent
shape.

In 1926 we built a test house at the end of Drayton Trail, 16 feet
square and 10 feet high, set on wooden posts extending 3 feet into
the ground. The timber used was pressure treated with coal-tar
creosote and with zine chloride. The wallboard is treated with chro-
mated zine chloride. In the May 1947 number of Wood Preserving
News Dr. Thomas E. Snyder, senior entomologist of the Bureau of
Entomology and Plant Quarantine, published all details and results
of his inspection in February of this year, showing no damage any-
where due to termites, and yet termites tried to get a hold. The build-
ing is in excellent condition after 21 years. It is true that pressure
treatment increases the original cost of the timbers, but it is cheap in-
surance. A building of untreated timbers would have been destroyed
in less than a year.

At the end of the Pearson Trail we have the Fuertes House, built
in February 1931, 16 years ago. It is set on nine posts; hence there
is good ventilation under the house. With the exception of the shin-
gles, which are of red cedar (and need replacement), all the wood and
timbers, including posts, were treated with zinc-meta-arsenite. The
tables and chairs are also so treated. There is no damage anywhere to
the treated wood. The wallboard also was zinc-meta-arsenite treated.
It likewise is free of any termite damage. Test stakes of untreated
wood half-buried in the ground near the building were destroyed
within 8 months.

Furthermore, this zinc-meta-arsenite treated building is free of
cockroaches. No steps are taken to keep termites out of the building,
and no termite shields are used—hence, termites have absolute free-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 143

dom to work if they can. Yet the building is in as excellent shape
as when we first put it up. Here again, treated lumber costs perhaps
50 percent more, but as it gives freedom from termites, in a few years
it pays for itself.

The above two cases show that with treated timbers you can build a
termite-free house even where termites are extremely abundant and
active.

Tests on the island also show that one can build of untreated timbers
and have no termite hazard, provided a few simple precautions are
taken. The main requirement is to build a good thick concrete floor
which will extend out at least to the line of the eaves. The floor must
be well made, with no cracks. The secret is to make an inspection at
least once a week around this concrete floor, and if termites have
built any covered runways, introduce into these runways either pow-
dered calomel or finely powdered paris green. In this way the colony
is poisoned, and by watching a treated runway, it can easily be deter-
mined whether or not the job was well done. It takes so little time
and does not need superior knowledge. Of course there must be no
leaks, either in the roof or in the plumbing.

Of course, by the use of properly made termite shields, properly
installed, it is possible to keep termites out of buildings. Where it is
possible to install them, termite shields are cheap protection, but not
all buildings lend themselves to the use of shields. Soil poisons also
are the answer for some type of buildings, but vigilance is always
necessary, and inspection cannot be perfunctory.

Circular 683, United States Department of Agriculture, “Effective-
ness of Wood Preservatives in Preventing Attack by Termites,” by
Snyder and Zetek, gives a good picture of the extensive termite tests
on Barro Colorado Island since 1923. The annual progress reports by
Hunt and Snyder in the Annual Reports of the American Wood Pre-
servers’ Association give details of the more important of these tests.
Nearly 4,000 tests are involved, in addition to the Kowal-Dews-John-
ston series noted elsewhere in this report.

LIST OF THE TERMITES OF PANAMA AND THE CANAL ZONE

In this, the latest list, 57 species are represented, and of these, 45
are known from Barro Colorado Island (indicated by the initials
BCI). There are 13 new species which will be described in the near
future by Dr. Emerson. The Kalotermitidae are those commonly
known as the “dry-wood termites.” The Rhinotermitidae are the bad
actors, Coptotermes niger and Heterotermes tenuis being especially
noted for their destructiveness. Some of the Termitidae are also very
destructive. This list is by no means final. We feel that at least 15
more species will be discovered.
144 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

KALOTERMITIDAE (15)

1. Kalotermes (K.) clevelandi Snyder.

2. Kalotermes (K.) marginipennis (Latreille).

3. Kalotermes (K.) tabogae Snyder.

4, Kalotermes (Neotermes) holmgreni Banks (BCI).

5. Kalotermes (Neotermes), n. sp.

6. Kalotermes (Neotermes), n. sp.

7. Kalotermes (Rugitermes) isthmi Snyder (BCI).

8. Kalotermes (Rugitermes) panamae (Snyder) (BCI).
9. Kalotermes (Cryptotermes) breviarticulatus Snyder.

10. Kalotermes (Cryptotermes) dudleyi Banks.

11. Kalotermes (Lobitermes) longicollis (Banks).

12. Kalotermes (Calcaritermes) brevicollis (Banks) (BCI).
18. Kalotermes (Oalcaritermes) emarginicollis (Snyder) (BCI).
14. Kalotermes (Glyptotermes) augustus Snyder.

15. Kalotermes (Glyptotermes), nu. sp. (BCI).

RHINOTERMITIDAE (5)

16. Coptotermes niger Snyder (BCI).

17. Heterotermes tenuis (Hagen) (BCI).

18. Heterotermes convevinotatus (Snyder) (BCI).
19. Prorhinotermes molinoi Suyder (BCI).

20. Rhinotermes (&.) longidens Snyder (BCI).

TERMITIDAE (37)

21. Cornitermes (C.) agignathus silwestri, var. Walkeri Snyder (BCI).
22. Armitermes (A.) armigera (Motsch.) (BCI).

23. Armitermes (A.) chagresi Snyder (BCI).

24. Armitermes (Rhynchotermes) peramatus Snyder (BCI).
25. Nasutitermes (N.) columbicus (Holmgren) (BCI).

26. Nasutitermes (N.) cornigera (Motsch.) (BCI).

27. Nasutitermes (N.) ephratae (Holmgren) (BCI).

28. Nasutitermes (N.) pilifrons (Holmgren) (BCI).

29. Nasutitermes (Subulitermes) kirbyi Snyder (BCT).

30. Nasutitermes (Subulitermes) zeteki Synder (BCI).

31. Nasutitermes (Subulitermes), n. sp. (BCI).

32. Nasutitermes (Obtusitermes) panamae Snyder (BCI).
33. Nasutitermes (Convexitermes) clevelandi Snyder (BCI).
34, Nasuiitermes (Uniformitermes) barrocoloradoensis Snyder (BCI).
35. Oylindrotermes macrognathus Snyder (BCI).

36. Amitermes (A.) beaumonti Banks (BCI).

387. Amitermes (A.) medius Banks foreli Wasmann (BCI).
38. Anoplotermes (A.) gracilis Snyder (BCI).

89. Anoplotermes (A.) parvus Snyder (BCI).

40. Anoplotermes (A.), n. sp. (BCI).

41. Anoplotermes (A.), n. sp. (BCI).

42. Anoplotermes (A.), n. sp. (BCI).

43. Anoplotermes (A.), n. sp. (BCI).

44. Anoplotermes (A.), n. sp. (BCI).

45. Anoplotermes (A.), n. sp. (BCI).

46. Anoplotermes (A.), n. sp. (BCI).

47. Anoplotermes (A.), n. sp. (BCI).
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 145

48. Anoplotermes (A.), n. Sp.

49. Anoplotermes (A.), 1. sp.

50. Anoplotermes (speculitermes), n. sp.

51. Microcerotermes arboreus Emerson (BCI).

52. Microcerotermes exiguus (Hagen) (BCI).

53. Termes (T.) hispaniolae (Banks) (BCI).

54. Termes (T.) panamensis (Snyder) (BCI).

55. Termes (T.), 0. sp. (BCI).

56. Orthognathotermes wheeleri Snyder (BCI).

57. Capritermes (Neocapritermes) centralis Snyder (BCI).

RAINFALL, TEMPERATURES, AND RELATIVE HUMIDITY, 1946

In the 22 years of record, 1946 was the third driest year. The rain-
fall amounted to only 87.38 inches, showing a deficiency of 21.48 inches.
This deficiency was most pronounced in the wet season, amounting to
17.93 inches. Only 2 months, July and September, had an excess,
which, however, was very slight—0.77 and 0.20, respectively. ‘There
was a total deficiency of 3.50 inches in the dry season, January to April,
inclusive; only March showed a small excess—0.25 inch. February
was the driest month (0.32 inch) and November the wettest (14.98
inches). Table 1 gives the total yearly rainfall, and the station aver-
age, for each year from 1925 to 1946, inclusive.

TaBLE 1.—Annual rainfall, Barro Colorado Island, Canal Zone

Total Station Total Station
Year: inches average Year: inches average
NG 20m ees ee & LO4 ots abe aeeee 193632. 32227) 93. 88 108. 98
NO 2 Gees ee 118. 22 113. 56 1 fie eonena, tet 124. 13 110. 12
1° Py (a ls ae 116. 36 114. 68 193 See: aa ees 117. 09 110. 62
G2 Seow eee ogee 101. 52 111. 35 LOSO= aera. Se. Bes. 115. 47 110. 94
192 Goes 87. 84 106. 56 940 Sete 22 f2 86. 51 109. 43
LOS OMe = 76. 57 101. 51 TQ AEh Sees ey ae 91. 82 108. 41
LOS eee 123. 30 104. 69 DD) ee pan een oer 111. 10 108. 55
bE fa ae 118. 52 105. 76 1943222 Ue ee 120. 29 109. 20
is ee oe ee 101. 73 105. 32 19442 en ere ee 111. 96 109. 30
OS Ai as Pat ees 122, 42 107. 04 1945cL 2 eee es 120. 42 109. 84
OSD ene 143. 42 110. 35 1946222222 Leese 87. 38 108. 81

Table 2 gives the rainfall by months for the years 1945 and 1946, the
station average for each month, the excess or deficiency for each month
and the accumulated plus or minus, and also the maximum rains each
month for 5 and 10 minutes, and 1 and 24 hours. These maximum
values are consecutive wherever that maximum occurred; hence the
24-hour record is not necessarily from midnight to midnight.

Table 3 gives the number of hours of rain each month for 1946
and the total amount in inches, and then these data separated into
the four 6-hour periods. These data are of interest in that they indi-
cate when most rains may be expected. From 6a. m. to noon there is
less rainfall than from noon to 6 p. m.
146 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

TABLE 2.—Comparison of 1945 and 1946 rainfall; and muwimum rains for short

periods
Total i" | Maximum rains
Vee REALE eae CCUM =| UEMU No ie Ds) ke ee
Month Siete ea oa |
2 E. or D. | 5 min- | 10 min- thourtiothours
1945 1946 rites nites ou }
January-- 2.89 45 1.91 21 | —1.46 —1. 46 10 aN oes ee 16
February 67 32 1,23 21 —.91 —2.37 09 LOS Lae A 20
March... 27 nial 1. 46 21 ++. 25 —2.12 15 19 42 69
April=-- = 1.59 1, 41 2.79 22 | —1.38 —3. 50 21 25 37 73
1 i eA ES 13. 55 8.05 11.13 22 | —3.08 —6.5 25 40 65 92
SUL WY, a ape 10.17 7. 94 11, 27 22 | —3.33 —9.91 35 53 iealk: 1,69
ly ws ee ee 13, 87 12. 58 11,81 22 +.77 —9.14 33 60 1,35 2.41
August sce 12.32 10. 50 12. 56 22 | —2.06 —J1. 20 34 60 2.00 4.91
September ----_-_-- 10. 07 10. 67 10. 47 22 +. 20 —11,.00 .33 62 1.83 2.50
October 222-22 10. 02 9.00 13.17 22 | —4.17 —15,17 . 40 . 60 . 80 1, 20
November_-__----- 20. 60 14. 98 19. 30 22 | —4.3 —19.49 . 60 1.05 2, 29 4.51
December-_---_--- 24, 40 9.77 11.71 22 | —1.94 —21. 43 . 46 .82 1.18 3.42
Wear-222ti8 120, 42 87.38 5108781) 22 Pees eee CD Ma 3 5 ee ap | a te ee [AN 3 | ee
Dryis2642 eek 5,42 3.89 WA BQM, SS 2e eA Sia ate == 5500) [ae Sek et oe Se Ee | eae

TABLE 3.—Rainfall 1946. Total number of hours of rain and amount in inches
for the daily 6-hour period

Midnight to 6 6p.m.to mid-| Midnight to
a.m.

6am.tonoon | Noon to 6 p.m. night midnight

Month PROMS See een 2 LeWel Se Pk S| ote aoe
Hours ;|Amount} Hours ;Amount} Hours |Amount} Hours |Amount} Hours |Amount

Janwaryses.- wees 9 212 3 . 20 5 - 05 3 . 08 20 45
Mebruary. -..- 25925 8 .18 3 «13 1 SOWA OS Woe See e ee 12 .32
March 222 5 Le ee 10 19 18 55 12 94 3 03 43 alecAl
Aprile eves socks 2 9 32 4 . 25 6 73 8 il 27 1.41
Maye Joe tae 11 2. 97 12 . 69 20 4.31 5 08 48 8.05
JUNG Hern yews & 19 84 10 2. 41 32 4,08 11 61 72 7. 94
JULY Ree ees 26 1. 63 15 219 48 6.13 19 2. 63 108 12. 58
August_.__ 19 54 20 2.70 29 6. 84 16 42 84 10. 50
September 25 1. 64 16 1. 46 38 5. 88 i) 1. 69 88 10. 67
October_ 25 1. 22 22 1.98 38 4.03 19 Ly Ye 104 9. 00
November_- 34 5. 29 24 2. 44 29 5. 41 27 1, 84 114 14. 98
December 37 2. 44 21 1, 92 31 3. 78 23 1. 63 112 9.77
MCAT eo es 3 232 | 17.38 168 16. 92 289 | 42.19 143 | 10.89 832 87. 38
Dryers i See 36 28 1,13 24 1,73 14 22 102 3. 89
Wietete seco care 196 | 16.57 140 | 15.79 265 | 40.46 129 | 10.67 730 83. 49

Table 4 gives a summary and analysis of the 1946 rainfall for the
entire year and for the dry and wet seasons, both as to hours and days,
percentage of the total possible hours (if it rained every hour), and
these data are significant. With so much less rainfall in the dry
season, and particularly with so high a deficiency, the animals have
a hard time getting food. The peccary in the dry season is noticeably
thin—very different from his condition in the wet season when food
is more plentiful. The effects of moisture are profound. This strug-
gle for food is also reflected in the rate of reproduction in certain of
the mammals. <A bad year, deficient in rainfall and in food, increases
the rate of reproduction, and conversely, a year of abundant rainfall,
an abundance of food, shows in some mammals a falling off in this
rate.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 147

Taste 4.—Summary and analysis of the 1946 rainfall for the year, and for the
dry and wet seasons

ENTIRE YEAR

TO CAFO UTS: O keer ada ears Se ees rs Se es ee oe ee ee 832
Percenta ze’ of total’ DOSSID G@vRoUrS2 5225225522 22 ee 9.50
AVC GEC) Sy, Si O Leia Sai YN se ee a Ee rs 2 ee A Se ee cn 233
Percentage of total possible days______ Dig atin oles Se Ae 63.84
DRY SEASON
Rotalhours: Of Taine 2 we ee BEES SY ot A eee 102
Percentage of total possible hours___---______--_-_---__-__ eer een on ns este 3.54
PROT CLAY Sig 0 tet elu Nee ee ee mee ree nar a es ee Sd ee 44
Percentage of total possible days_______-__----___-_ Se ee ee eee 36.67
PATNIOUING Ole sr Vin. WE UNCC SS ees ee ee ee 3.89
Percentage of total rainfall for year__________----_.___--__._--__----___ 4.45

TNO GREEN OUTS 20 Le Rail Ti cen ae eee ae kt Se as Bia ge 730
Percentage of total possible hours________-____________---___ 12.42
PRO CAS Chey Se Okan cui eee eee ee eee ee ee ee 189
Percentage o£ total possible gays... - ee ee 77.14
AMOUNT OL Tay NPN CHGS ae Sask ee eee ee ee ee 83.49
Percentage of total rainfall for, year.2---o4.- 2 ee 95.55

In table 5 are given (1) the number of hours and the amount of
rains of 0.40 inch or more per hour, for each of the four 6-hour periods,
and (2) the three heaviest rains each month (midnight to midnight).
Rains of 0.40 inch per hour, if rather evenly distributed, will not
seriously hamper field work, but if such rains come down in 5 minutes,
it is another story.

TABLE 5.—The three heaviest rains each monih and number of hours and amount
of rains of 0.40 inch or more per hour for 1946

Midnight|6a.m.to] Noonto |6p.m. to

aa a g |toéam. noon 6p.m. | midnight
ee a @ | & phe rains
on = we] + b ot ~ be oI midnight to
A 1eys (218121 8 2] 8 [2] 8 | “mieneny
‘3 B 5 g cS) 8 o 8 i) 8 S
3 a o 158] 8 is! ais | 51 4
a Qa Hiai-<+liai/4{24 <{ 24|<
JaNUary = oS: Jo oea5 45 il ZA) | een | ere || args (Eee eS |S Deere emrnes| peerereten .14 + .08 05
February... --.-_- +32 if i 4 a par | rae (a et Ree (Ee |S | HS -16 .06 .04
Warchoes eo fe oe WA 14 is eee eee en | eee ed | ee |e -68 58 10
NS 4) 9 | gute re ea Sea 1.41 12 ”{fga) eee Sree (Dene aes | eames (ue a ees y |G | old (629 17
BY sen Sena ofan sek 8.05 16 48 2) 1090) OF /2eeeee 4 200) |eee2|Sseene 2.99 1.14 .85
JUNG. 2 boobs See 7. 94 21 (fe ees (er 3. | 11063: |) 3) |) 22237 fe oe oe 1.71 1.69 .95
FL vib ga anieene ae nee Se 12. 58 24 if) ee eee 3} 1.50) 3] 2.48 2] 1.68 | 2.48 1.91 1.38
August____- --}| 10. 50 PY fel Viale sh | eee 1/ 1.65] 4 BO408 ene |e ae 4.40 1.77 .91
September. _ --| 10. 67 26 88 1 - 46 1 -50 | 4] 3.51 2]; 1.52 | 2.14 1.67 .96
October______- = 9. 00 25 iy Sg ee eee 1 -90 | 2 1. 28 1 eOl | U25. 91 6.82
November--__________ 14. 98 29 114 4 | 3.80 1 40} 3) 3.45 1 -41 | 2.54 2.49 2.12
December--_.--..._.- 9.77 21 112 J 47 1] 25105}. 2) 60 1 .67 | 3.35 1.18 1.05
oY Carer sess 87.38 | 233 832 | 8 | 6.32 | 11 | 7.68 | 25 | 21.89 | 7 | 4.79 122.47 13.77 9.35
5 8) 3 ee es 3. 89 44 102 | 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Tile 101536
Wiebe sc ens eee 83.49 | 189] 730 | 8 | 6.32 | 11 | 7.68 | 25 | 21.89 | 7 | 4.79 |20.76 12.76 9.01
148 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

During the dry season, there were no rains of 0.40 inch per hour
during 1947, and only 51 such hours in the wet season, amounting to
40.68 inches, or 46.6 of the total rainfall for the year. And these
40.68 inches fell during only 6.1 percent of the total hours we had
rain. This means that the balance, 46.70 inches, fell during 781 hours,
or an average of only .06 inch per hour. The three heaviest rains each
month amounted to a total of 45.59 inches in only 36 days. This leaves
only 41.79 inches for the remaining 197 days.

Considering now these three heaviest rains each month (midnight
to midnight), we have the following interesting data:

Dry season: 12 days, 3.08 inches, or 79.2 percent of the dry season total.

Wet season: 24 days, 42.53 inches, or 50.9 percent of the wet season total.
The year: 36 days, 45.61 inches, or 52 percent of the year’s total.

The remaining days when it rained show:

Dry season: 32 days, 0.32 inch, or an average of 0.01 inch per day of rain.
Wet season: 165 days, 40.96 inches, or an average of 0.248 inch per day of rain.
The year: 197 days, 41.79 inches, or an average of 0.212 inch per day of rain.

For comparison, the following tables are presented, covering the
rainfall for other localities in the Canal Zone and Republic of Panama
data on temperatures, relative humidities, barometric pressures, etc. ;
and the maximum and minimum yearly rains of record for 19 impor-
tant localities. These data are taken from the reports of the Chief
Meteorologist of the Panama Canal. They givea better understanding
of the climate, and it is only to be regretted that comparable data are
not available for a great many more localities in the Republic of Pan-
ama. To an ecologist, these data are of inestimable value.

TABLE 6.—Annual rainfall at other Panamdé stations, in inches

Total, Station | Excess or | Years of
1946 average | deficiency | record

(Ba DOa sean oe ae ee Ee ee epee 50. 06 68. 84 —18. 78 48
IPAGTONVMISTAlsoe ee see re eek i Ae eo) me 63. 18 80. 14 —16. 96 39

[BB a abo reser et SO I TES Ne SN ie ed OE OY 9 OI re ase 76. 00 86. 94 —10. 94 23
GamPoae ise a a ee ee ee ee eee 65. 37 88. 86 — 23.49 64
Madden: D armai]2 oes Oe ee ee iis Bee SIN 79. 62 97. 86 —18, 24 47
1 8 Yo) (ci OR oe si PST eR <P Te MN: EY 94.39 106, 64 —12.25 35
ES OIG ea ee eS ee ee ee 99. 67 95. 14 +4. 53 29
Mrinidadivs fa0c2 S005 Ce eee Roe 88. 61 110. 03 —21. 42 23
Montersinigs 2 ene Nes Soe i ee eee 95. 43 118.71 —23. 28 39

Btu. Se es ae en a a ee eee ae 121, 83 125. 30 —3.47 42
Ofistobal® 12s oe Aen STO A i Pe ies eae ee 126, 52 130. 37 —3.85 76
PORTO CLIO tei tere te aot Perens a aetna nS oe cree on eee 170. 53 160. 78 +9. 75 35
PortovArmuelles et fo ese Ne RE ee he as ee 62, 21 92. 46 —30. 25 17
StacvRosa fire to ei ae ea 54. 06 68.17 —14.11 21
Salamanca tse Sh Se As ee he ae ee eee 90. 30 100. 74 —10, 44 35
QOBDID AITO eae as See a se DS Es ee 80. 12 97. 81 —17. 69 35
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 149

TABLE 7.—Mazximum and minimum rainfall, Barro Colorado Island, 1925 to 1946

Mazimum Minimum Maximum Minimum
JADURIY cae wee os 4. 60 eo ATT Goto fe eee 21. 44 5. 93
February ---.------- 5. 91 . 05 | September______---- 19. 96 6. 07
Wareie. 32. 2 5 5. 54 #19) @etoberuoo02 oe Doe 6. 06
y.\6) | a a ee 7. 61 . 10 | November... _-___-- 41. 59 teak
10 een er ene 19. 02 3. 09 | December__-__-_-_~_ 28. 15 1. 88
June eee oe ee 19. 31 5. 43 + —
DULV oe Seon a A 28. 58 5. 52 LYiCac Sane 1438. 42 76. 57

TABLE 8.—1946 pressure, temperature, relative humidity, etc.

Balboa Madden
Heights Dart Cristobal

Pressure (reduced to sea level):

Ui a xin inter i Se e ae oh foes eee ee eae ee were Se ee 30. 010 29.990 30. 010
Win imme = tee oe kee eens se 8 Be ee ee 29. 680 29. 660 29. 680
Anviral’mean: (binourly)=.2-=2- 92 2" 2-5-2 es eee ee 29. 831 29. 817 29. 843
Temperature (Fahrenheit):
PASTITIVIGU TIGA Tine ee eee ee oe 79.6 77.9 79.9
A bsolutemaximum:s--2 2822-222. 2 Ssss-) cca ee 97 96 90
Meanidally maxim WMs2- 25522202 one oS en eae SS 88. 2 87.3 83.8
IAIDSOnte miniminms S25. Yast 2S 2 sek send os sees 69 64 i
Wieanidatlyaminim Taso. 45 ee ee eee 74.0 q20 76.5
Greatest dallyiran ce. oss - 2228 So Se eee eee ee 23 26 16
Mean relative humidity (percent) ._...-..-.-.-.---------=-=-~------ 82. 8 82.8 82. 2
Meannweb thermometer 1s. 225s tae en ooo he ee ee ese 74.1 73.9 75. 4
Meant dew: point Io s25 222s ee oes te eee eet eo ska ces 73.1 72.9 73.8
IVI@SNVADO DIOSSHred 22, S25. ee ocean eee eee ak etia sean eoag . 814 . 807 835

1 Mean of 8 a. m. observations except Cristobal which is the mean of 8 a.m. amd 8 p. m. values. Mean
relative humidity is bihourly mean.

TABLE 9a.—Mazimum amounts of precipitation in inches (years of record)

5 minutes | 10 minutes 1 hour 24 hours Year

133:\ hole): eee eee eee ee ee eae 2 . 90 1.68 4.78 7. 57 93. 06
PS SI DOR EL OIE US 2 sence eee ee - 69 1. 27 4.49 7. 23 91.42
Pedro WMieie) = 552-2262 e ee ecco Boveses ve) 1.23 8. 85 8.53 110. 57
Wadden ames 22 et Ces 68 1.20 4.19 9.31 152. 04
(Gaim DOSE ee snes ae eee eee 65 Poe 3.85 7.48 136.19
Raj Vg ayl O10} Ce): ¥0 (0 eeemere ee mye Sepa ee Se ee 85 1.40 3. 57 10. 48 143. 42
Gatun... 2-2-2 Se ee eres eee ee eee . 68 1,36 5. 68 12. 25 164.19
@©ristobalis2ce5 22522 ee en eer ae . 66 1.20 6.16 13. 60 183. 41

TABLE 9b.—Mazvimum amounts of precipitation in inches (1946)

6 minutes | 10 minutes 1 hour 24 hours

TB SDOR erent ies edt ed hes ok ere de eS ~45 .80 2. 54 3.19
Balboa Heights____..___-._-_-_.-_---_2----_--- Wamone | .49 88 3. 26 3. 92
Pedro Miietiel! 2222. - 2-56 an a ee ea eee 45 85 2.00 3. 92
Madden Dam.__-_-___- Ss ee Oe ee es ae ee 65 1.15 3. 55 4.87
Gam boas 2 ta a et te . 62 95 2.14 3. 99
Barro WO OlOTACG sana ee ee . 60 1.05 2. 29 4.9)

AUN ce eee oe ee eet os oh ecen cu sc cece cee emcee . 59 1.00 2.1 4.74
Oristopaleeeeens a a ee Ut 245 80 3. 30 8.41

150 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

TasLe 10.—Temperatures (Fahr.) and relative humidity, Balboa Heights
(B. H.) and Cristobal (XBal), 1946

Maximum Minimum a
fe I De es ee L elative
Monthly mean humidity
Bae Xbal B.H Xbal

1946 B.H.} Xbal| Abs. | Mean} Abs. | Mean | Abs. | Mean | Abs. | Mean | B. H.| Xbal
PANUALY = 2 52s eee 78.7 | 80.4 90 | 88.0 88 84. 4 69 72.4 73 76.9 | 78.1 75.6
MODrUary. sven s levees 79.2 | 79.7 92 89. 4 87 83. 5 69 72.6 75 76.8 | 73.0 75.1
Marchikcsii sicko! 80.3 | 79.8 93 $0. 6 88 83.7 70 73.4 74 Vie a Se) 75.8
Nf 0) ol eae eee ak ony) 81.7 | 81.1 97 92,2 87 85.1 70 74.7 77 78.2 | 72.8 76.8
Mia yee ewe ate ed 80.9 | 80.8 96 89.0 90 84.7 72 75. 5 71 77.6 | 83.3 83.3
JUNO22 sore eee 80.5 | 80.6 94 75.4 87 77.4 72 75.4 70 77.4 | 85.8 86.0
Julye tS 8 a els, 80.3 | 79.8 92 88.3 86 83. 5 72 75. 5 72 76.7 | 86.0 87. 2
ATI SUSE een ee sake ae 79.4 | 79.8 92 86.9 86} 82.7 69 74.7 70 76560 | 87.6) )) (S721
September__-_-_------ 78.9 | 79.1 91 86.4 88 | 83.4 71 74,2 72 75.5 | 89.5 87.4
October! 2c sh sacl res 78.2 | 79.0 89 86.0 90 84.0 71 73. 2 72 74.9 | 88.3 $4.1
INovembere) fia! 78.0 | 78.9 90 85.9 90 83. 2 71 72.7 71 74.7 | 89.1 83.3
Decembers 22582 4S 78.9 | 79.6 90 86.8 86 82.9 70 73.1 71 75.9 | 87.6 84.1
SViGQP: 2 Wists nly 2 79.6 | 79.9 97 88. 2 90 | 83.8 69 74.0 70 76.5 | 82.8 82.2

DD ny 32 Sie 80.0 | 80.3 97 90.1 88 84. 2 69 73.3 73 77.3 | 74.0 75:

Wietterlon er esau 79.4 | 79.7 96 | 85.6 90} 82.7 70 | 74.3 70 | 76.2 | 87.2| 85.3

Taste 11.—Mavimum and minimum annual rainfall of record, in inches (1946)

Mazi- Mini- Mazi- Mini-

mum mum mum mum
BY | OYoy: We aren ain ns a al 93. 06 48.94 Cristobal 4__......_ 183. 41 86. 54
Pedro Miguel !____-- 110. 57 08: 31" Porto Bello 4222 a2" 237. 28 118. 04
Summitees 1TIN25 67.57 Puerto Armuelles
Gamboai2s 204 cue 136. 19 62. 02 (Chiriqui) 22s 2222 13232 58. 93
Madden Dam? ____ 152. 04 71.95 Santa Rosa (Cocle). 77. 20 48. 58
Frijgoleg/2n2s4ac so 138. 36 78.906 Tonosi (Los Santos). 141. 03 H25
Barro Colorado 2___ 143. 42 76.57 Salamanca 3_______ 1€0. 46 69. 06
Trinidad)se225 22 u 144. 48 SiG Chilibrillo 222 ee 134. 23 72. 63
Monte Lirio ?_____- 179. 73 85.:15 Candelaria *.—..__ 184. 98 101. 79
Gatun farses 2k 164. 19 SONS Rel icas tees ee ae 179. 64 91. 14

1 Pacific drainage.

2 Gatun Lake drainage (Gatun Lake area),

3 Gatun Lake drainage basin (Madden Lake watershed).
4 Atlantic drainage.

FISCAL REPORT

During the fiscal year 1947, $16,095.88 was available, none of which
was appropriated by Congress. Of this amount, $13,140.29 was spent,
leaving on hand $2,955.59 to begin the new fiscal year. In addition to
this, $3,183.96 is still on deposit, representing local collections, a total
of $6,139.55, to which will be added the few table subscriptions, an
amount inadequate to take care of running expenses.

During the year $4,403.96 was collected as fees from scientists for
board and lodging, fees from visitors, and similar items. It is hard
to say how much will be collected during the 1948 fiscal year, but it is
almost certain that it will not be sufficient to carry us through the year.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY Tok

The organizations listed below continued to aid materially in the
support of the Laboratory through the payment of table fees:

American Museum of Natural History_-__________--_--__________-__. $300. 00
Ha Sola ne COO Hike OM Pe Tyee re en = ee ee ee 500. 00
PAE VATC aU MVE SIG yes ee a se el ES Oe ee te ee ee 300. 00
ING wWavork: ZO00lOSi CASS OCG UYyr= == ee ee ee ee 300. 00
SMILNSOn amen StL GI One aes 2 ee od he ee eee 300. 00
Wniversitysot. Chicagoans = iia Re es OR ee sews 300. 00

It is believed that more scientists will now be able to come to the
island, and it is therefore imperative that more institutions and uni-
versities should help support the laboratory through table subscrip-
tions. It is gratifying to report that Eastman Kodak Co. increased
their subscription to $1,000 a year.

Respectfully submitted.

JAMES ZATER, Pesident Manager.

Dr, ALEXANDER WETMORE,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

777488—_48—_11
APPENDIX 11
REPORT ON THE LIBRARY

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activities
of the Smithsonian library for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1947:

In this second postwar year of rehabilitation the work of the library
was not greatly different in kind or amount from that of the previous
year. Books are integral parts of the world of practical affairs as well
as of ideas, and their production, distribution, and use, as well as their
conception, follow the changing times. With the coming of peace
there began a rise, not as yet very sharp, in the number of new books and
serials important for the library to acquire. Prices rose and are still
rising. The purchasing power of the inelastic allotment of book funds
has correspondingly decreased. Paper shortages continued to lmit
the size of editions, and not a few new books went so quickly out of
print as to make it difficult to get those for which prepublication orders
had not been placed. Many fine and desirable works came into the old
book market but prices were too high and funds too small to make it
possible to buy more than a few of those most immediately important to
the work of the Institution.

Among the more noteworthy of the 1,693 purchased books were the
following: Description Méthodique du Musée Céramique de la Manu-
facture Royale de Sévres, by Alexandre Brongiart and others, 1845;
Mammals of Amazonia, by Eladio da Cruz Lima, volume 1, 1945;
A Monograph of Oriental Cicadidae, by William Lucas Distant, 2
volumes, 1889-92; Histoire de la Locomotion Terrestre, les Chemins
de Fer, by Charles Dollfuss and Edgar de Geoffroy, 2 volumes, 1935;
Illustrationes Florae in Insularum Maris Pacifici, by Emmanual
Drake del Castillo, 6 portfolios, 1886-92; The Royal Commentaries of
Peru, written originally in Spanish by Garcilaso de la Vega, el Inca,
and rendered into English by Sir Paul Rycaut, 1688; Histoire et
Technique de la Montre Suisse de ses Origines 4 Nos Jours, 1945; The
Etched Work of Whistler, Illustrated by Reproductions in Collotype
of the Different States of the Plates, compiled, arranged, and described
by Edward G. Kennedy, 1 volume of text and 3 portfolios of plates,
1910; The Artists of America, a Series of Biographical Sketches of
American Artists, with Portraits and Designs on Steel, by C. Ed-
wards Lester, 1846; The New World; the First Pictures of America,
made by John White and Jacques Le Moyne and engraved by Theodore

152
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 153

De Bry, with Contemporary Narratives * * * edited and an-
notated by Stefan Lorant, 1946; Thomas Nast, his Period and his
Pictures, by Albert Bigelow Paine, 1904; Denmarks Fugle, by E. Lehn
Schigler, 3 volumes, 1925-31; De Vogels van Nederlandsch Indié, by H.
Schlegel, 3 parts in portfolio, 1863-66 ; The Voyage of Gregory Shelek-
hof, a Russian Merchant, from Okhotzk, on the Eastern Ocean, to the
Coast of America, in the Years 1783, 1784, 1785, 1786, 1787, and his
Return to Russia, from his own Journal, 1795; Fregatten Eugenies
Resa, 1851-1853, under Befil af C. A. Virgin, by C. J. A. Skogman,
2 volumes in 1, 1854-55.

Gifts of the year came from 230 different donors and included
some of the most useful additions to the library. Reprints and
separates on special subjects from scientific and technical serials are
indispensable working tools of the different divisions of the Institu-
tion, and the gifts of Dr. Ray S. Bassler and of A. B. Gahan of their
personal collections of some 1,500 pamphlets each, on geology and
on Hymenoptera, respectively, were most appreciated additions to the
sectional libraries of geology and of insects. Paul Garber’s gift of
147 books and pamphlets on aeronautics greatly strengthened the h-
brary’s working collection of material in that field. As usual, the pub-
lications generously turned over by the American Association for the
Advancement of Science and by the American Association of Museums
supplied considerable material not received from other sources, and
furnished numbers of useful duplicates as well. The library is deeply
indebted to all its friends at home and abroad who have so kindly
made contributions to its collections.

The total number of publications recorded by the accessions di-
vision for the year was 62,137. Of these, 14,607 came through the
International Exchange Service, almost three times as many as in the
year before. With the gradual return to more nearly normal condi-
tions it is gratifying to find in how many cases the continuity of sets
of foreign serials published abroad during the war will not be broken
in the library because of the care with which they were reserved,
stored, and later shipped by the institutions with which we were in
regular exchange before the war. This encouraging aspect of the post-
war situation, however, does not mean that there are not, unavoidably,
a distressing number of series that ceased publication altogether dur-
ing the war, some of them probably never to be resumed.

The filling of gaps in serial sets, foreign and domestic, current and
old, requires eternal vigilance, and most of the 6,812 pieces received
in response to our 589 requests were numbers of periodicals needed to
fill such gaps, and were obtained chiefly in exchange. New exchanges
arranged were 290.
154 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

Of the current accessions, 7,265 were cataloged or entered as addi-
tions to the Smithsonian Deposit in the Library of Congress, and most
of these were additions to the great Deposit sets of publications of
scientific institutions and learned societies, so important to research.
Some of them were continuations of series that formed part of the
original Smithsonian Deposit in 1866. In addition, all documents,
dissertations, and other publications on subjects not found to be of
immediate interest to the Institution were sent directly upon receipt
to the Library of Congress, and they numbered 13,422.

Most but not all of the 10,749 publications transferred to the Depart-
ment of Agriculture, the Army Medical Library, the Geological Sur-
vey, and other libraries of the Government, had been received during
the year.

Our large collection of duplicates continued to be drawn upon in
aid of destroyed libraries abroad, and 31,781 pieces were turned over
to the American Book Center for this purpose.

The cataloging of currently received material was well kept up on
the whole in spite of the handicaps of inadequate staffing of this
vitally important part of the library’s work. There is always the
problem of the huge “backlog” of poorly or completely uncataloged
older material, which is not only serious in itself but which inevitably
slows up some of the work of cataloging new material which is related
to it.

The bad housing of the library continues to be the most obvious
and distressing of its problems. The progressive deterioration of its
fine collections caused by overcrowding and lack of funds for binding
is deplorable, while the inadequacies of its reading and reference rooms,
the scattered and inconvenient locations of its shelves and stack rooms,
and the absence of proper work rooms for the staff, all make its
service to the Institution increasingly difficuit.

SUMMARIZED STATISTICS

Accessions
et
recorde

Volumes volumes
June 30, 1947
Astrophysical Observatory (including Radiation and Organisms) ___.______-__- 323 12, 243
Bureau of American Ethnology. 20s. £00. ei ee eer area eT) 148 34, 462
Rreen GalleryiotArt: sate 2 So. SEO 2 Die Bae: ieee ee Ce ey SS Sah 430 22,127
NationaliGollectioniof- Hine ’Artss- 192222 2) ee a ee ee ee 405 10, 974
ING Vale at NN Reba 1 aba e ne ana eee BO ele RR GAR RS Cee Sr Te rer ee 2, 851 239, 167
National Zoologicalveark= ¢ P52) Serie Sule SPSe Nee heat ae eee tie ea ee Te 24 4, 166
Smithsonian Deposit at the Library of Congress_-.--..------------------------ 1, 243 578, 673

Smithsonian (@ fics) see Se ee ae a er 220 32, 185

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY Loa

Neither incomplete volumes of periodicals nor separates and reprints
are included in these figures.
Hzchanges
ING We SORIA SC Soe UT ATO ee aa ao Be SR oh Te ee Sl 290
91 of these were assigned to the Smithsonian Deposit in the Library of
of Congress.
Specially requested publications received_______-_____________-______-- 6, 812
1,056 of these were obtained to fill gaps in the Smithsonian Deposit
sets.

Cataloging
Volumes and pamphlets cataloged______..--_________-___--___-______--_ 6, 614
Cards added to catalogs and shelf lists________-_______________________ 35, 763
Periodicals
ECHIOCICAy pants sen LCLCG sess =e ae oe een ee ee ee 16, 481

Of these, 4,709 were sent to the Smithsonian Deposit.

Circulation
ogmsO© books and: periodicals -2 oe hess 9, 534
This figure does not include the intramural circulation of books and
periodicals filed in 31 sectional libraries, of which no count is kept.

Binding
Volumes sent tothesbinGerys Se ok oe es ee ee ee 616
Volumes: repaired in ‘the Museum: 9-0 es 1, 057

Respectfully submitted.
Leria I. Crarn, Librarian.
Dr. AtExANDER Wermore,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 12
REPORT ON PUBLICATIONS

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the publi-
cations of the Smithsonian Institution and its branches during the year
ended June 30, 1947.

The Institution published during the year 26 papers in the Smith-
sonian Miscellaneous Collections, 1 Annual Report of the Board of Re-
gents and pamphlet copies of 22 articles in the report appendix, 1 An-
nual Report of the Secretary, and 3 special publications.

The United States National Museum issued 1 Annual Report, 8 Pro-
ceedings papers, 3 Bulletins, and 2 separate papers in the bulletin se-
ries, Contributions from the United States National Herbarium.

The Bureau of American Ethnology issued 1 Annual Report and 1
Publication of the Institute of Social Anthropology.

The Freer Gallery issued 1 pamphlet, 1 paper in its Oriental Studies
series, and 1 paper in its Occasional Papers series.

Of the publications there were distributed 158,129 copies, which in-
cluded 35 volumes and separates of Smithsonian Contributions to
Knowledge, 50,353 volumes and separates of Smithsonian Miscellane-
ous Collections, 20,880 volumes and separates of Smithsonian Annual
Reports, 9,008 War Background Studies, 23,235 Smithsonian special
publications, 22 reports on the Harriman Alaska Expedition, 34,952
volumes and separates of National Museum publications, 7,948 publi-
cations of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 257 publications of the
Institute of Social Anthropology, 5 catalogs of the National Collec-
tion of Fine Arts, 2,561 volumes and pamphlets of the Freer Gallery
of Art, 20 Annals of the Astrophysical Observatory, 374 reports of
the American Historical Association, and 8,479 miscellaneous publi-
cations not printed by the Smithsonian Institution (mostly Survival
Manuals).

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS

In this series there were issued 1 paper and title page and table
of contents in volume 104, whole volume 105, 18 papers and title page
and table of contents in volume 106, and 6 papers in volume 107, as
follows:

156
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 157

VOLUME 104

No. 23 (end of volume). The Cedartown, Georgia, meteorite, by Stuart H.
Perry. 3 pp., 4 pls. (Publ. 3844.) Aug. 1, 1946.
Title page and table of contents. (Publ. 3891.) Feb. 11, 1947.

VOLUME 105

World Weather Records, 1931-1940, by H. Helm Clayton and Frances L. Clayton.
x+646 pp. (Publ. 3803.) Apr. 4, 1947.

VOLUME 106

No. 1. The birds of San José and Pedro Gonzilez Islands, Republic of Panama,
by Alexander Wetmore. 60 pp.,4 pls. (Publ. 3845.) Aug. 5, 1936.

No. 2. The vegetation of San José Island, Republic of Panama, by C. O.
Erlanson. 12 pp.,2 pls.,1 fig. (Publ. 3846.) July 18, 1946.

No. 5. Echinoderms from the Pearl Islands, Bay of Panama, with a revision
of the genus Encope, by Austin H. Clark. 11 pp.,4 pls. (Publ. 3849.) July 18,
1946.

No. 6. The nonmarine mollusks of San José Island, with notes on those of
Pedro Gonzidlez Island, Pearl Islands, Panama, by J. P. E. Morrison. 49 pp.,
3 pls. (Publ. 3850.) Sept. 12, 1946.

No. 7. Mammals of San José Island, Bay of Panama, by Remington Kellogg.
4pp. (Publ. 3851.) July 18, 1946.

No. 8. Turtles collected by the Smithsonian Biological Survey of the Panama
Canal Zone, by Karl Patterson Sehmidt. 9pp.,1 pl. (Publ. 3852.) Aug. 1, 1946.

No. 9. The species of Platycopia Sars (Copepoda, Calanoida), by Mildred
Stratton Wilson. 16 pp., 2 figs. (Publ. 38538.) Aug. 23, 1946.

No. 10. A reexamination of the fossil human skeletal remains from Melbourne,
Florida, by T. D. Stewart. 28 pp., 8 pls., 7 figs. (Publ. 3854.) Aug. 9, 1946.

No. 13. A new carnivorous dinosaur from the Lance formation of Montana,
by Charles W. Gilmore. 19 pp.,4 pls. (Publ. 3857.) Sept. 12, 1946.

No. 14. A new dussumieriid fish of the genus Jenkinsia from Bermuda, by
Luis Rene Rivas. 4pp.,1pl.,1 fig. (Publ. 8859.) Nov. 22, 1946.

No. 15. Ladybeetles of the genus Hpilachna (sens. lat.) in Asia, Europe, and
Australia, by G. H. Dieke. 183 pp., 27 pls. (Publ. 3860.) Jan. 20, 1947.

No. 16. New birds from Colombia, by Alexander Wetmore. 14 pp. (Publ.
3862.) Dec. 30, 1946.

No. 17. Some new Cambrian bellerophont gastropods, by J. Brookes Knight.
ll pp.,2pls. (Publ. 3865.) Jan. 3, 1947.

No. 18. On the evolutionary significance of the Pycnogonida, by Joel W. Hedg-
peth. 53 pp.,1 pl.,16 figs. (Publ. 3866.) Mar. 24, 1947.

No. 19. The lamina terminalis and preoptic recess of Amphibia, by Albert
K. Reese. 9pp.,4pls. (Publ. 3867.) Jan. 27, 1947.

No. 20. A monograph of the West Atlantic mollusks of the family Aclididae, by
Paul Bartsch. 29pp.,6 pls. (Publ. 3868.) Feb. 24, 1947.

No. 21. Developmental physiology of the grass seedling. II. Inhibition of meso-
cotyl elongation in various grasses by red and by violet light, by Robert L. Wein-
traub and Leonard Price. 15 pp., 5 figs. (Publ. 3869.) May 8, 1947.

Pl 22. Solar cycles, by H. H. Clayton. 18 pp., 9 figs. (Publ. 3870.) Mar. 5.
{(-

Title page and table of contents. (Publ. 3899.) June 11, 1947.
158 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

VOLUME 107

No. 1. The Ethnogeographic Board, by Wendell Clark Bennett. 135 pp., 2 figs.
(Publ. 3889.) Apr. 14, 1947.

No. 2. The thoracic muscles of the cockroach Periplaneta americana (1L.), by
C.S.Carbonell. 28pp.,8 pls. (Publ. 3890.) May 8, 1947.

No. 3. 1946-1947 report on the 27.0074-day cycle in Washington precipitation,
by C.G. Abbot. 2pp. (Publ. 3892.) Mar. 17, 1947.

No. 4. The sun’s short regular variation and its large effect on terrestrial tem-
peratures, by C.G. Abbot. 388pp.,12 figs. (Publ. 3893.) Apr. 4, 1947.

No. 5. The dates and editions of Curtis’ British Entomology, by Richard E.
Blackwelder. 27 pp.,4pls.,15 figs. (Publ.3894.) June 12, 1947.

No. 6. Prehistory and the Missouri Valley development program: Summary
report on the Missouri River Basin archeological survey in 1946, by Waldo R.
Wedel. 17 pp.,2pls.,1 fig. (Publ.3895.) Apr. 23, 1947.

SMITHSONIAN ANNUAL REPORT

Report for 1945.—The complete volume of the Annual Report of
the Board of Regents for 1945 was received from the Public Printer
December 4, 1946:

Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution showing
the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the year ended
June 30, 1945. iv+484 pp., 80 pls., 28 figs. (Publ. 3817.)

The general appendix contained the following papers (Publs. 3818-
3839) :

Our revolving “island universe” and its spiraling counterparts, by William T.
Skilling.

Medical uses of the cyclotron, by F. G. Spear.

Drinking water from sea water, by W. V. Consolazio, N. Pace, and A. C. Ivy.

Plastics and metals—competitors or collaborators? by G. K. Seribner.

The mineral position of the United States and the outlook for the future, by
Elmer W. Pehrson.

Japanese earthquakes, by N. H. Heck.

Conquest of the Northwest Passage by R. C. M. P. schooner St. Roch, by J. Lewis
Robinson.

The New England hurricane of September 1944, by Charles F. Brooks and Conrad
Chapman.

Conserving endangered wildlife species, by Hartley H. T. Jackson.

Living with the boll weevil for fifty years, by U. C. Loftin.

The indispensable honeybee, by James I. Hambleton.

The importance of plants, by William J. Robbins.

Fungi and modern affairs, by J. Ramsbottom.

The introduction of abacd (Manila hemp) into the Western Hemisphere, by H. 'T.
Edwards.

Growing rubber in California, by E. L. Perry.

Thinking about race, by S. L. Washburn.

A unique prehistoric irrigation project, by Henry C. Shetrone.

Concepts of the sun among American Indians, by M. W. Stirling.

Human problems in military aviation, by Detlev W. Bronk.

Blood and blood derivatives, by Edwin J. Cohn.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 159

The microbiotics, by John N. McDonnell.
A brief summary of the Smithsonian Institution’s part in World War IT.

Report for 1946.—The Report of the Secretary, which included the
financial report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents,
and which will form part of the Annual Report of the Board of
Regents to Congress, was issued January 7, 1947:

Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution and financial report
of the executive committe of the Board of Regents for the year ended June 30,
1946. ix+184 pp., 2 pls. (Publ. 3864.) 1947.

The Report volume for 1946, containing the general appendix, was
in press at the close of the year.

SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS

The first hundred years of the Smithsonian Institution, 1846-1946, by Webster
P. True. viiit64 pp., 41 pls. (Publ.C.) Aug. 10, 1946.

The Smithsonian Institution edition of etchings and drypoints by Charles W.
Dahlgreen. Catalogue. 19 pp., 71 illustrations. 1946.

Classified list of Smithsonian publications available for distribution Decem-
ber 1, 1946, compiled by Helen Munroe. 53 pp. (Publ. 3858.) 1946.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

The editorial work of the National Museum has continued during
the year under the immediate direction of the editor, Paul H. Oehser.
There were issued 1 Annual Report, 8 Proceedings papers, 3 Bulletins,
and 2 separate papers in the bulletin series, Contributions from the
United States National Herbarium.

REPORTS

Report on the progress and condition of the United States National Museum
for the year ended June 30, 1946. iii+113 pp. Jan. 14, 1947.

PROCEEDINGS : VOLUME 95

Title page, table of contents, list of illustrations, and index. Pp. i-vili, 615-647.
Mar. 24, 1947.
VOLUME 96

No. 3200. Hight new species of chalcid-flies of the genus Pseudaphycus Clausen,
with a key to the species, by A. B. Gahan. Pp. 311-327, Nov. 22, 1946.

No. 3201. New cerambycid beetles belonging to the tribe Disteniini from Cen-
tral and South America, by W. S. Fisher. Pp. 329-333. Nov. 26, 1946.

No. 3202. Machaeroides eothen Matthew, the sabertooth creodont of the
Bridger Eocene, by C. Lewis Gazin. Pp. 335-347, pls. 45-46. Dee. 16, 1946.

No. 3203. Review of some chalcidoid genera related to Cerocephala Westwood,
by A. B. Gahan. Pp. 349-376, pls. 47, 48. Dee. 31, 1946.

No. 3204. A revision of the genera of mullets, fishes of the family Mugilidae,
with descriptions of three new genera, by Leonard P. Schultz. Pp. 877-895,
figs. 28-82. Dec. 5, 1946.

No. 3205. The phorid flies of Guam, by G. HE. Bohart. Pp. 397-416, figs.
338-48. Feb. 17, 1947.
160 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

VOLUME 97

No. 8209. New cerambycid beetles belonging to the tribe Rhinotragini, by
W.S. Fisher. Pp. 47-57. June 6, 1947.

BULLETINS

No. 50, part 10. Birds of North and Middle America. Families Cracidae.,
Tetraonidae, Phasianidae, Numididae, Meleagrididae, by Robert Ridgway and
Herbert Friedmann. Pp. i-xii, 1-484, figs. 1-28. Dec. 18, 1946.

No. 191. Life histories of North American jays, crows, and titmice, by Arthur
Cleveland Bent. Pp. i-xi, 1-495, pls. 1-68. Jan. 27, 1947.

No. 192. The operculate land mollusks of the family Annulariidae of the
island of Hispaniola and the Bahama Archipelago, by Paul Bartsch. Pp. 1-264,
pls. 1-38. Oct. 3, 1946.

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL HERBARIUM

VOLUME 29

Part 3. The American species of Hymenophyllum, section Sphaerocionium,
by C. V. Morton. Pp. i-viii, 189-201. Apr. 16, 1947.

VOLUME 30

Part. 1. A botanical bibliography of the islands of the Pacific, by Elmer D.
Merrill. Pp. 1-322. A subject index to Bimer D. Merrill’s “A Botanical Bibli-
ography of the Islands of the Pacific,” by Egbert H. Walker. Pp. 323-404.
Feb. 25, 1947.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

The editorial work of the Bureau has continued under the immedi-
ate direction of the editor, M. Helen Palmer. During the year the
following publications were issued:

Sixty-third Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 1945-1946.
12 pp.

Institute of Social Anthropology Publ. No. 3. Moche, a Peruvian coastal com-
munity, by John Gillin. 166 pp., 26 pls., 8 figs., 1 map.

FREER GALLERY OF ART

The Freer Gallery of Art issued three publications, as follows:

The Freer Gallery of Art. 16 pp., 7 pls.,3 figs. January 1947.

A descriptive and illustrative catalog of Chinese bronzes acquired during the
administration of John Ellerton Lodge, compiled by the staff of the Freer Gallery
of Art. Oriental Studies, No.3, 108 pp., frontispiece and 50 pls., 47 figs., 2 maps.
(Publ. 3805.) 1946.

The Grand Empress Dowager Wén Ming and the Northern Wei Necropolis at
Fang Shan, by A. G. Wenley. Occasional Papers, vol. 1, No. 1, 28 pp., 7 pls., 3 figs.
(Publ. 3861.) Feb. 1, 1947.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 161
REPORT OF THE AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION

The annual reports of the American Historical Association are
transmitted by the association to the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution and are communicated by him to Congress, as provided by
the act of incorporation of the Association. The following report
volume was issued this year.

Annual Report of the American Historical Association for 1945. Vol. 1, Pro-
ceedings and list of members. 1947.

The following were in press at the close of the fiscal year: Annual
Report of the American Historical Association for 1945. Vol. 2,
Spain in the Mississippi Valley, 1765-1794, pt. 1, The Revolutionary
period, 1765-1781; vol. 3, Spain in the Mississippi Valley, 1765-1794,
pt. 2, Postwar decade, 1782-1791; vol. 4, Spain in the Mississippi Val-
ley, 1765-1794, pt. 8, Problems of frontier defense, 1792-1794.

REPORT OF THE NATIONAL SOCIETY, DAUGHTERS OF THB
AMERICAN REVOLUTION

The manuscript of the Forty-ninth Annual Report of the National
Society, Daughters of the American Revolution, was transmitted to
Congress, in accordance with law, October 30, 1946.

APPROPRIATION FOR PRINTING AND BINDING

The congressional appropriation for printing and binding for the
past year was entirely obligated at the close of the year. The appro-
priation for the coming fiscal year ending June 30, 1948, totals $100,000,
allotted as follows:

General administration (Annual Report of the Board of Re-

gents; Annual Report of the Secretary) ~-_----_-----_----_- $18, 500
INA OMe Vi Se rina eeeee eens eee ee a eee ee 41, 000
Bureau of American Ethnology_________________-______--___-_ 15, 500
IN AON ane A ae VIS CU) eee ea eg ee ee 950.
Editorial Division (Annual Report of the American Historical

ASSOCcIation blank forms) 2222222. 2 ee 13, 500
Reserve (preferably for binding) —--—_-. === = = 10, 550

100, 000

Respectfully submitted.
W. P. True, Chief, Editorial Division.
Dr. A. WEeTMorgE,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF
THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITH-
SONIAN INSTITUTION

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1947

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

Your executive committee respectfully submits the following report
in relation to the funds of the Smithsonian Institution, together with a
statement of the appropriations by Congress for the Government
bureaus in the administrative charge of the Institution.

SMITHSONIAN ENDOWMENT FUND

The original bequest of James Smithson was £104,960 8s. 6d.—
$508,318.46. Refunds of money expended in prosecution of the claim,
freights, insurance, etc., together with payment into the fund of the
sum of £5,015, which had been withheld during the lifetime of Madame
de laBatut, brought the fund to the amount of $550,000.

Since the original bequest, the Institution has received gifts from
various sources, the income from which may be used for the general
work of the Institution. These, including the original bequest, plus
savings, are listed below, together with the income for the present year.

ENDOWMENT FUNDS
(Income for unrestricted use of the Institution)

Partly deposited in United States Treasury at 6 percent and partly invested in
stocks, bonds, ete.

Income pres-

Investment ent year
Parent fund (original Smithson bequest, plus accumulated savings) --------- $728, 876. 85 $43, 705. 93
Subsequent bequests, gifts, ete., partly deposited in the U. S. Treasury and
partly invested in the consolidated fund:
Avery, Robert S:and ‘Lydia; bequest fund 22222222 see eee see 54, 019. 08 2, 409. 11
mndowmoent (und: 2... 20.2 = oe a een ee 315, 080. 70 12, 120. 32
MabelwDres: jbequest funds) ence 8 en ee eee 500. 00 30. 00
Hachenberg, George P. and Caroline, bequest fund__-------------------- 4, 074. 69 156. 60
Hamilton? James. bequestifund! 2. noses oe oe ee eee 2, 908. 99 165. 71
Wenry,:Caroline, bequestiiundss: 286... = ee ae ee 1, 225. 34 47.07
Hodgkins, Thomas GQ. (general), gift______-- 146, 377. 67 8, 127. 52
Porter, Henry Kirke, memorial fund___- 290, 162. 47 10, 860. 78
Rhees, William Jones, bequest fund____- 1, 069, 31 53. 79
Sanford Goorger., memorialftande.. oe eee oe ne ee ee 2, 001. 92 100, 63
Witherspoon, Thomas A., memorial fund 130, 748. 49 5, 025. 26
Special fund, stock in reorganized closed banks..------------------------ 2, 280. 00 144, 00
Totals. 22228 Se ee eo ease e eon toe 950, 448. 66 39, 240. 79
Grand total. 226220 2o a a ee a soe cne 1, 679, 325. 51 82, 946. 72

162
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 163

The Institution holds also a number of endowment gifts, the income
of each being restricted to specific use. These, plus accretions to date,
are listed below, together with income for the present year.

Income,
Investment present year
Abbott, William L., fund for investigations in biology__..__---_.-_---------- $108, 401. 17 $4, 202. 60
Arthur, James, fund for investigations and study of the sun and lecture on

afstaaXe pen ~ eee ee a ea eee ee ee 40, 519. 67 1, 557. 36
Bacon, Virginia Purdy, fund, for traveling scholarship to investigate fauna

of countries other than the United States___..-_._------_.----------------- 50, 760. 18 1, 950. 95
Baird, Lucy H., fund for creating a memorial to Secretary Baird____--.---_- 24, 393. 69 937. 56
Barstow, Frederick D., fund, for purchase of animals for Zoological Park____ 1, 012. 92 38. 94
Canfiold Collection fund for increase and care of the Canfield collection of

TMINOTaISeSe Sea a ee ed oes eee acacia usee aes 38, 750. 42 1, 489. 35
Casey, Thomas L., fund, for maintenance of the Casey collection, and pro-

motion of researches relating to Coleoptera_---___._-----...---------------- 9, 292. 84 357.15
Chamberlain, Francis Lea, fund, for increase and promotion of Isaac Lea

collection ofieems and mollusks=222 225 eee See oe ee eee eee 28, 531. 11 1, 096. 58
Eickemeyer, Florence Brevocrt, fund, for preservation and exhibition cf the

hotographic collection of Rudolph Eickemeyer, Jr_---_.--_--------------- 513. 98 19. 73
Hillyer, Virgil, fund, for incroase and care of Virgil Hillyer collection of light-

A ODI CCUG ses ao ee ee eran eee Ace pase eee ueoeece cele estae 6, 658. 71 255. 91
Hitchcock, Dr. Albert S., library fund, for care of Hitchcock Agrostological

N09 0) ste eee my ee reece aa ee ga oe ge OO epee 1, 598. 68 61. 43
Hodgkins fund, specific, for increase and diffusion of more exact knowledge

in regard to nature and properties of atmospheric air__--._._.-.-_-____.-___- 100, 000. 00 6, 000. 00
Hrdlitka, Ale’ and Marie, fund, to further researches in physical anthro-

pology and publication in connection therewith. -_-.-_.-.-.--------------- 18, 633. 01 716.12
InGUIO KANG DOCLA le seen eran Serene een ee ene er 12, 500. 00
Hughes, Bruce, fund, to found Hughes alcove 19, 393, 22 745. 34
Long, Annette and Edith C., fund, for upkeep and preservation of Long

collection of embroideries, laces, etc.......-.---.--------.---.-----.----.--- 550. 14 21.12
Maxwell, Mary E., fund, for care, etc., of Maxwell Collection _.___.._______- 9, 988. 40 95. 98
Myer, Catherine Walden, fund, for purchase of first-class works of art for the

use and benefit of the National Collection of Fine Arts._.....______-__---- 19, 205. 20 738. 12
Strong, Julia D., bequest fund, for benefit of National Collection of Fine Arts_ 10, 130. 05 389. 32
Pell, Cornelia Livingston, fund, for maintenance of Alfred Duane Pell

COG Chonan ae nae eee So eee re a eee owen eenes ene Sees 7, 510. 01 288. 62
Poore, Lucy T. and George W.., fund, for general use of the Institution when

principalamounts'to/$250,0002-- 5-226 8 ees ee ees 105, 985. 13 4, 648. 64
Rathbun, Richard, memorial fund, for use of division of U. S. National

Museum containing CONSTR COR eee nea Sa eee et 10, 775. 93 414. 16
Reid, Addison T., fund, for founding chair in biology in memory of Asher

WMISs Joan ssa sns ot ech ece sea acas seen a ese eso ose aot ck Se cee we see te 30, 244. 04 1, 451. 68
Roebling Collection fund, for care, improvement, and increase of Roebling

Colleciiommoion inion ls ees een ae eee ese 122, 276. 63 4, 699. 63
Rollins, Miriam and William, fund, for investigations in physics and chem-

ISR pes spose ee ee er Oe een ee ee nen ce eabaaeeubeeeae se 95, 136. 99 3, 657. 02
Smithsonian employees’ retirement fund_____-___.___-_--.----.2-_-__--- 22 e- 80, 277. 80 3, 085. 45
Springer, Frank, fund, for care, ete., of Springer collection and library___-__- 18, 168. 84 698. 28
Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux, research fund, for development of

geological and paleontologica] studies and publishing results thereof_____- 430, 819. 07 15, 891. 98
Younger, Helen Walcott, fund, held in trust 50, 125. 12 2, 684. 58
Zerbee, Frances Brincklé, fund, for endowment of aquaria_-- 961. 02 36. 94

FT OLE cee ere te ore a Soe eee ee eet ee ae nee See eee eee 1, 453, 113. 97 58, 230. 54

The above funds amount to a total of $3,182,489.48 and are carried
in the following investment accounts of the Institution:

U.S. Treasury deposit account, drawing 6 percent interest________ $1, 000, 000, 00
Consolidated investment fund (income in table below) ___________ 1, 859, 686, 86
eaILeCSTALe. MOnLCAZCS, seClCs = ee a ee. a ee ee 208; Holato
Special funds, miscellaneous investments___--_______--_--______ 52, 234. 83
WMI VeStCUe Cap liallsesss sane oe 2 ae ee 11, 746. 06

asf boa ah ene ee ae ee Ea 3, 132, 489. 48
164 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

CONSOLIDATED FUND

This fund contains substantially all the investments of the Institu-
tion, with the exception of those of the Freer Gallery of Art; the deposit
of $1,000,000 in the United States Treasury, with guaranteed income
of 6 percent; and investments in real estate and real-estate mortgages.
This fund contains endowments for both unrestricted and specific use.
A statement of principal and income of this fund for the last 10 years
follows:

i Per- Per-
Fiscal year Principal Income cent- Fiscal year Principal Income | cent-
age age
hOSSee ea is $867, 528. 50 |1$34, 679. 64 4900))||(RLOs3 22s Ae me $1, 316, 533. 49 |$50, 524. 22 3.83
93 OF Senate so a Ree. 902, 801.27 | 30, 710. 53 S24 Op Ne OS ane serie ap ee 1,372, 516.41 | 50, 783.79 3. 69
104 0 xetesee 2 oe poe 1, 081, 249.25 | 38, 673. 29 Bic yee eee ee eee 1, 454, 957. 73 | 50, 046. 67 3. 50
O41 ose aE 1, 093, 301. 51 | 41, 167. 38 SeikOu||| (104 60ee 22 a2 See es 1, 559, 215. 25 | 57, 612. 38 3. 69

1 Df Scere ee 1, 270, 968.45 | 46, 701. 98 Gacy fll |p bey Seles ees 1, 871, 432.92 | 74, 836. 55 4.00

CONSOLIDATED FUND

Gain in investments over year 1946

Investments made from gifts and savings on income_— $314, 400. 71
Less loss on salesiof/securities._ 2 52 = 2,188. 04

Poteale <= se “al COs Las Ay aah hohe ete 312, 217. 67

FREER GALLERY OF ART FUND

Early in 1906, by deed of gift, Charles L. Freer, of Detroit, gave to
the Institution his collection of Chinese and other Oriental objects of
art, as well as paintings, etchings, and other works of art by Whistler,
Thayer, Dewing, and other artists. Later he also gave funds for the
construction of a building to house the collection, and finally in his
will, probated November 6, 1919, he provided stock and securities to
the estimated value of $1,958,591.42, as an endowment fund for the
operation of the Gallery.

The above fund of Mr. Freer was almost entirely represented by
20,465 shares of stock in Parke, Davis & Co. As this stock advanced in
value, much of it was sold and the proceeds reinvested so that the fund
now amounts to $6,069,845.32 in a selected list of securities classified
later.

The invested funds of the Freer bequest are under the following
headings:

Court and grounds fund2-2- 22522 Ss Geel ee $679, 970. 31
Court and grounds maintenance fund____-_----_---___ 170, 756. 06
Curator, fund... ..2 2222. ee eee 691, 983. 14
Residuary legacy fund) eee eens 4, 527, 135. 81

Total 2220) 32S eee ee 6, 069, 845. 32
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 165

Statement of principal and income for the last 10 years

Fiscal year Principal Income as
LOSS perenne aan mec SS Re A el ak nn dee $4, 820, 777.31 | $255, 651.61 5.30
1030 Mice Sil a Bt oS ce eee ne Se Ea Wee ee ead 5,075,976.76 | 212, 751.78 4.19
4 (men maiie RRNGN EG Mek TE MA i eat Sees Re A 6, 112,953.46 | 242, 573. 92 3.96
LOcTEEMn Nase SE TS nw Se 6, 030, 586.91 | 233, 079. 22 3.86
[04 ME IN ins, We MRS PP Ree So a eee ee Ned 5, 912,878.64 | 241, 557.77 4,08
Tiss OE ee ie ae a eee eae cae eee PREIS 5, 836, 772.01 | 216, 125.07 3.70
TIE). eo Oe, mea eg ee ieee Le ee 5,881, 402.17 | 212,395. 27 3. 61
1194 5 Rane AE piles tas ST SC Pid Wine Eten _--| 5,864,061.73 | 212, 552. 69 3. 62
O46 Demme SANs ee os Te een ae eee eae 5, 994,394.31 | 220,818.86 3. 68
194 7m areas. PME AKTEEL FBO) 2 ee ce se en 6, 069, 845.32 | 242,471.02 4.00
FREER FUND
Gain during present year from sale, call of securities, ete__-______- $75, 451. 01
SUMMARY OF ENDOWMENTS

Invested endowment for general purpoSes____----______-__----_- $1, 679, 325. 51
Invested endowment for specific purposes other than Freer endow-

PET Gir ae een ee er ee Oe ee ee eee 1, 453, 118. 97

Total invested endowment other than Freer endowment___ 3, 182, 489. 48

Freer invested endowment for specific purposes_________-__---- 6, 069, 845. 32

Total invested endowment for all purposes_____-________- 9, 202, 284. 80

CLASSIFICATION OF INVESTMENTS

Deposited in the U. S. Treatury at 6 percent per annum, as

authorized in the U. S. Revised Statutes, sec. 5591_-_---____-__- $1, 000, 000. 00
Investments other than Freer endowment (cost or market value at

date acquired) :

Bonds (20 different groups) __----------------- $706, 418. 10

Stocks (50 different groups) _----------------- 1, 276, 348. 59

Real estate and first-mortgage notes___------- 13%, $26. 73

Wninvested Gapitale = ease a eee 11, 746. 06
——————_ 2, 182, 439. 48

Total investments other than Freer endowment__-___------ 3, 182, 489. 48

Investment of Freer endowment (cost or market
value at date acquired) :

Bonds (27 different groups) —-.---._-_.---— = $2, 783, 575. 97
Stocks (53 different groups) -._..__.----------- 3, 240, 824. 22
Real estate first-mortgage notes__-------_---- 1, 000. 00
Uninvested + capital. =. 2-22-2224 22S 44, 445. 13
6, 069, 845. 32

TOTAL IMVESCIMCNtS =. 2a See ee 9, 202, 284. 80
166 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

CASH BALANCES, RECEIPTS, AND DISBURSEMENTS DURING FISCAL

YEAR 1947*

Cash balance on hand June’ 30) 1946-22-25) ee

Receipts:
Cash income from various sources for general
work: of the Institution. 22a
Cash gifts for general work of the Institution
(for dinvyestment) > Sse. ee ea ee
Cash gifts and contributions expendable for spe-
cial scientific objects (not for investment) —--__
Cash income from endowments for specific use
other than Freer endowment and from miscel-
laneous sources (including refund of tempo-
TailtVe. AOVaNCes)) 2 of. ee ani
Cash capital from sale, call of securities, etc. (for
investment) | 222245 eee eee

Total receipts other than Freer endowment________-___-_--

Cash income from Freer endowment_-------~----
Cash capital from sale, call of securities, ete. (for
IMVESGIME Mt) ee ee ee eee

Total receipts from Freer endowment___..._--_________-__

1S V0) 3 Me) ee RD RISR eSCT eate J by OE ee ee pee ee ae

Disbursements:

From funds for genera) work of the Institution:
Buildings—care, repairs, and alteration____
Kurniture andunmcires=2 2 See ae eee
General aaministration== 22 —2 = 1 oe ae ee
TORT eg ee a a CNS ee
Publications (comprising preparation, print-

Inf -andeaistelbuUtlOon) 222s aaa ee ee
Researches and explorations_____-______~- Aza

From funds for specific use other than Freer en-
dowment :

Investments made from gifts and from sav-
ings’ on: Income... = ae ee
Other expenditures, consisting largely of re-
search work, travel, increase and care of
special collections, etc., from income of en-
dowment funds, and from cash gifts for
specific use (including temporary ad-

WAT COS 7 Pe a st i eee eee
Reinvestment of cash capital from sale, call
OfWsecurities, “etC las sus See ee
Cost of handling securities, fee of investment
counsel, and accrued interest on bonds pur-
Chase ies emir 2s or eee aie ae Oe

$98, 761, 91
290, 500. 00

66, 150. 80

155, 903. 83

212, 294. 20

242, 471. 02

952, 838. 45

312, 217. 67

148, 330. 32

195, 046. 45

3, 478. 27

2, 826, 330. 66

$807, 410. 45

823, 610. 74

1, 195, 309. 47

85, 005. 47

659, 072. 71

1 This statement does not include Government appropriations under the administrative

charge of the Institution.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 167

Disbursements—Continued
From Freer endowment:

Operating expenses of the Gallery, salaries,

fleldexpenses,, etC25- 2222 se ee $79, 218. 52
Purchase of art objectS=2-2—-- ss 0 ee 124, 790. 00
Reinvestment of cash capital from sale, call

ofitsecurities,: (etc. 21s soe wee 954, 000. 95

Cost of handling securities, fee of invest-
ment counsel, and accrued interest on

bonds. purchased eee 21, 786. 82
$1, 179, 796. 29
Oasht balancer Une 0 wl G4 (2 eae =e ee eee ee 902, 456. 19
ETS Ot sa) Se Bade eet ng ne Ee des ee — 2,826, 330. 66

Included in the above receipts was cash received as royalties from
sales of Smithsonian Scientific Series to the amount of $28,539.80.
This was distributed as follows:

Smithsonian Institution endowment fund_-__--_____-_______-______ $12, 608. 21
Smithsonian Institution emergency fund_______-_-_--___--_________ 3, 152. 05
Smithsonian Institution unrestricted fund, general_________________ 9, 456. 16
DS SASL ETS CS eee eee ea eres, eee oe ee a A 8, 323. 38

28, 539. 80

Included in the foregoing are expenditures for researches in pure
science, publications, explorations, care, increase, and study of collec-
tions, etc., as follows:

Expended from general funds of the Institution:

UD ET CAO TS ee re ee Re ee ee $19, 186. 21
Researches and explorations_-____________________ 22, 682. 26
$41, 868. 47
Expenditures from funds devoted to specific purposes:
Researches and explorations______________________ 64, 917, 41
Care, increase, and study of special collections______ 3, 186. 41
PUpICR TONS =e eee ee See 10, 996. 61
79, 100. 48
DDG) a7 We al patents ph a ily ol Uae enar UeeRa r LA ge OR 120, 968. 90

The practice of depositing on time in local trust companies and
banks such revenues as may be spared temporarily hag been continued
during the past year, and interest on these deposits has amounted to
$642.64.

The Institution gratefully acknowledges gifts or bequests from the
following:

The Viking Fund, Inc., New York City, for Iroquois research.

Ernest N. May, for scientific exploration, particularly in the West Indies.

John A. Roebling, as a further contribution for research in radiation.
T77488—_48——_12
168 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

Mary E. Maxwell, for care, preservation and additions to Maxwell collection of
jewelry, ete.
Miss Annie-May Hegeman, for Henry Kirke Porter Memorial Fund.

All payments are made by check, signed by the Secretary of the
Institution on the Treasurer of the United States, and all revenues are
deposited to the credit of the same account. In many instances de-
posits are placed in bank for convenience of collection and later with-
drawn and deposited in the United States Treasury.

The foregoing report relates only to the private funds of the In-
stitution.

The following appropriations were made by Congress for the Gov-
ernment bureaus under the administrative charge of the Smithsonian
Institution for the fiscal year 1947:

Sallaries/and’ expensesiiue 2b 0 BOs. De ee eee $1, 632, 912. 00
National Zoological Park 22. .=--2-2252-. Se eee ee 4382, 500. 00

In addition, funds were transferred from other Departments of the
Government for expenditure under direction of the Smithsonian In-
stitution :

Cooperation with the American Republics (transfer from State

Department’) i. es ee ee ta eM Bees Wee $139, 589. 00
Working fund, transferred from National Park Service, Interior

Department, for archeological investigations in Missouri River
DB YSI] 5 re as ee ee eso RRNA A MRNA A NPA BES. a LENT Ny BS 71, 500. 00

The report of the audit of the Smithsonian private funds is given

below:
SEPTEMBER 17, 1947.
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE, BOARD OF REGENTS,
Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C.

Sirs: Pursuant to agreement we have audited the accounts of the Smithsonian
Institution for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1947, and certify the balances of cash
on hand, including petty cash fund, June 30, 1947, to be $904,356.19.

We have verified the records of receipts and disbursements maintained by
the Institution and the agreement of the book balances with the bank balances.

We have examined all the securities in the custody of the Institution and in
the custody of the banks and found them to agree with the book records.

We have compared the stated income of such securities with the receipts of
record and found them in agreement therewith.

We have examined all vouchers covering disbursements for account of the In-
stitution during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1947, together with the authority
therefor, and have compared them with the Institution’s record of expenditures
and found them to agree.

We have examined and verified the accounts of the Institution with each trust
fund.

We found the books of account and records well and accurately kept and the
Securities conveniently filed and securely cared for.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 169

All information requested by your auditors was promptly and courteously
furnished.
We certify the balance sheet, in our opinion, correctly presents the financial
condition of the Institution as at June 30, 1947.
WILLIAM L. YAEGER,
Certified Public Accountant.
Respectfully submitted.

VANNEVAR Busou,
CLARENCE CANNON,
Executive Committee.
\

frites! ‘

ee

“a 8 nu
d

sitemdlia liane

aah Rare wow

GENERAL APPENDIX

TO THE

SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1947

171
ADVERTISEMENT

The object of the Grnrrat Appenprx to the Annual Report of the
Smithsonian Institution is to furnish brief accounts of scientific dis-
covery in particular directions; reports of investigations made by
collaborators of the Institution; and memoirs of a general character
or on special topics that are of interest or value to the numerous
correspondents of the Institution.

It has been a prominent object of the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution from a very early date to enrich the annual
report required of them by law with memoirs illustrating the more
remarkable and important developments in physical and biological
discovery, as well as showing the general character of the operations
of the Institution; and, during the greater part of its history, this
purpose has been carried out largely by the publication of such papers
as would possess an interest to all attracted by scientific progress.

In 1880, induced in part by the discontinuance of an annual sum-
mary of progress which for 30 years previously had been issued by
well-known private publishing firms, the Secretary had a series of
abstracts prepared by competent collaborators, showing concisely the
prominent features of recent scientific progress in astronomy, geology,
meteorology, physics, chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zoology, and
anthropology. This latter plan was continued, though not altogether
satisfactorily, down to and including the year 1888.

In the report for 1889, a return was made to the earlier method of
presenting a miscellaneous selection of papers (some of them original)
embracing a considerable range of scientific investigation and discus-
sion. This method has been continued in the present report for 1947.

172
LARGE SUNSPOTS?

By SerH B. NICHOLSON

Mount Wilson Observatory
Carnegie Institution of Washington

[With 2 plates]

Nearly 16,000 groups of sunspots have been recorded since 1874
when the Greenwich Observatory began to catalog the spots observed
on daily photographs of the sun. These groups range in size from
small clusters of tiny spots a few hundred miles in diameter to huge
groups nearly 200,000 miles long, containing individual spots as large
as 80,000 miles across. Many spots are seen for only a day or two
before they disappear, some develop to moderate size, a few grow
into groups large enough to be seen without a telescope, and a very few
into huge groups like the one which was visible from March 30 to
April 18, 1947.

The area of every group is given for each day in the Greenwich
records, the unit of area being one-millionth of a solar hemisphere,
or 1,174,000 square miles. Of the 16,000 groups observed since 1874,
only 27, less than one-fifth of 1 percent, attained areas as great as
2,500 millionths of a solar hemisphere (about 3,000 million square
miles). These 27 groups are listed in table 1, with their maximum
areas as measured by the Greenwich Observatory or the United States
Naval Observatory. The areas are given to only two figures because
the irregular outline of a spot seldom permits greater accuracy.
Measures by different observers of several of the groups listed differ
by as much as 15 percent. Of the spots recorded before 1874, three
at least were large enough to have been included in the table. One
of these appeared in August 1859, at heliographic latitude 20° N.; the
second in July 1860, at 26° N.; and the third in August 1860, at 24° S.
All the groups listed in table 1 were conspicuous objects with the un-
aided eye, if the sun was dimmed sufficiently by fog, smoke, or dark
glasses.
~ 1 Reprinted by permission, with revisions (as of September 1947), from Astronomical
Society of the Pacific Leaflet No. 207, May 1946.

173
174 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

TasLe 1.—The largest sunspot groups

Date Latitude; Area! Date Latitude} Area!
° °

Usk Pe 02) 0 he: (7 Lea ee —28 3 000K M926 Jan nee. ee ee +21 3, 700
SOS IRANIOS (esc 22 Je eee S —18 25600), | (1928 Sept 27iaces 22S —15 2, 600
1SO4Octy Si =. 4.- 222-5. ee —12 25500 LOS Caan volo ane 2 ee ee —10 2, 500
1896) Septs 1725-2 so oo +13 2500! TOS Te Jil y 20 sas se oo eene ee ne +32 2, 806
TSO Wane Ooo co ete oslo —7 200M MOS TeOct. boo 2en +9 2, 700
1905; Neb: 4.2. 8 sul —15 3, 800: || 1938, Jan. 182-2 _ 2-2 +17 3, 100
1905; Mar j8i i ee +10 2,600 || 1938, July 15_-___--- —11 2, 500
1905; ;OCtrQ0 222 2222 ee +14 3) 0001" 1988 VOCt. W2E ee +17 3, 000
ROOT she DS Dee eee ee —17 22600) [51989 Sep tidliaa eo eae —15 2, 600
LOO (UNO 20 eee eee —14 2.600 ||||"51939" Septios.. 2-0 ee —15 2,

IONS Ds Ose ee See a —16 3600s 1046; Rebi be 25 ca a es +28 4, 900
IOV AUG SION ee +16 35 200M L950, SULY 20 tea ce ae cnn ne +23 3, 950
1920; Mar00is ie ar ees —5 2 OOM 1947 iar IO keie eee eee See —23 2 4,300
1925S Dees 20a teen eek +23 2-Q00UI LOA Avo 7c te eee ea —24 15, 400

ne peenths of a solar hemisphere. To express the area in million square miles increase these figures
* The large group in April 1947 was probably identical with the one in March, both being in the same
region on the sun. They have been considered as one group in this article.

The great spot group of April 1947, which was the largest ever
recorded, developed from some small spots first seen on February 5,
1947, at the east limb of the sun in latitude 23° S. These spots grew
rapidly until by February 7 they formed a group large enough to be
seen without a telescope. When, after a solar rotation, the group
reappeared at the east limb on March 8, it had changed considerably,
being much larger and more compact than in February. In March
the group was composed primarily of one huge spot, which had appar-
ently developed from the preceding (western) members of the Febru-
ary group, the following members of which had disappeared. When
it reappeared on March 380 for its third transit, the huge group al-
though breaking up had increased in area. When largest it covered
more than 1 percent of the solar disk, its area being 6,300,000,000
square miles, 5,400-millionths of a solar hemisphere. On its fourth
and last return the group was much smaller. The preceding part,
which had always been the smaller, disappeared on May 7. The fol-
lowing part passed around the west limb on May 11 and did not return.

The large spot of March 1947 was the largest single spot on record
with an area of 5,000,000,000 square miles, 4,300-millionths of a solar
hemisphere. Before 1874, visual observers sometimes published the
over-all length and breadth of a group instead of its area. From this
data the area cannot be computed because the group may have been
composed of several unconnected spots. A long spot group observed
in September and October 1858 has been cited in several popular books
on astronomy as the largest group ever recorded. H. Schwabe, a
noted observer of sunspots, gave its east-west diameter as 32173,
which is equivalent to 143,000 miles or one-sixth of a solar diameter.
Someone, interpreting this figure as the diameter of a huge circular
spot, computed its area as one thirty-sixth that of the solar disk, or
14,000-millionths of a solar hemisphere. This figure has since been
LARGE SUNSPOTS-—-NICHOLSON 175

quoted in many books as the area of the largest group on record.
Actually that group was a long, narrow stream of spots with an area
less than 1,000-millionths of a hemisphere.

Plate 1 shows the great group of 1947 as it crossed the disk of the
sun in March and April. Plate 2 shows four other large spot groups,
all to the same scale. A spot group, composed of individual spots of
various sizes, is usually elongated in an east-west direction. Each
sunspot is composed of an irregular shaded area, sometimes nearly
circular, called the penumbra, which is cooler than the sun’s surface
(the photosphere). Inside the penumbra are smaller, darker areas
called umbrae. In large spots the umbrae cover about one-seventh of
the area of the spot. Even the umbrae are not black but only less
bright than the photosphere; the contrast between the photosphere and
the umbra of a spot is actually less than the reproductions of the photo-
graphs would indicate. The temperature of the photosphere is about
10,000° Fahrenheit, that of the penumbra about 9,000°, and that of the
umbra about 7,500°. Not all umbrae have the same temperature and
the largest are not always the darkest and coolest. The radiation from
the umbra of a large spot is between one-fourth and one-half that from
the photosphere, from the penumbra, between two-thirds and three-
fourths. In the large group of 1947, the area of all the umbrae was
about 700-milhonths of a solar hemisphere, that of the penumbrae
about 4,700. As seen projected these areas were, respectively, 0.13 and
0.90 of 1 percent of the solar disk. The total solar radiation was there-
fore reduced less than one-half of 1 percent by the presence of the
large spot group.

Every group listed in table 1 except those of October 1894 and Sep-
tember 1928, were observed for more than one solar rotation. Groups
which attain their maximum area while visible are generally formed
on the invisible side of the sun, and those born on the visible side are
generally carried out of view before their maximum area is reached.
Only 4 of the 27 largest groups were born on the visible half of the
sun. ‘Two of these, February 4, 1905, and February 12, 1907, died on
the visible hemisphere; their ages were 91 days and 98 days, respec-
tively. The group of February 1946 lasted more than 99 days; how
many more is not known because it developed and disappeared on the
invisible hemisphere. Smaller groups have been recorded which lasted
longer than any of these. Eleven of the twenty-seven groups in table 1
returned only once, nine came back twice, and five returned three times.

A sunspot is recorded to have been observed for 18 months in 184.0-41.
The original record of this group has not come to my attention, but it
is doubtful whether a spot or a group of spots ever retained its identity
for so longa time. Although the same region on the sun may remain
active for many months, the continuity of activity is usually due to a
succession of spot groups. Sunspots have a habit of reappearing in
176 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

the region where an old group has been, sometimes not even waiting
for the old group to disappear. ‘The group of January 24, 1926, may
have been a return of the group of December 29, 1925; certainly both
were in the same region of the sun. A small round spot closely follow-
ing the large group of January 1926 was probably identical with the
largest spot of the December 1925 group. The large spots of the
January group, however, behaved like new spots which had developed
near the waning members of the December group. The two groups
were therefore probably not actually identical. The groups of March
and April 1947 may not be identical but their relationship seems closer
than that between the groups of December 1925 and that of January
1926.

Large sunspots or, more precisely, the solar activity associated with
them, definitely affect the earth. The obvious direct terrestrial effects
are confined to the ionosphere, that high region of the atmosphere in
which electric currents can flow and from which radio waves are re-
flected. The most spectacular effects are brilhant auroras (northern
and southern lights). Closely associated with auroras are changes in
the electric currents in the ionosphere, which produce marked fluctua-
tions in the earth’s magnetic field (magnetic storms). These disturb-
ances can be so violent that long-distance telegraph lines and cables
are affected, making communications difficult or impossible. Other
terrestrial effects are produced simultaneously with very intense solar
“flares,” phenomena which nearly always appear in or near large spot
groups. Intense flares produce minor changes in the earth’s magnetic
field and also cause high-frequency radio waves to be absorbed so that
long-distance short-wave communication is impossible on the daytime
part of the earth while a flare is in progress. These effects are in all
probability due to an increase in ultraviolet radiation from the sun at
the time of the flare. Although the change in solar radiation due to
the presence of a large sunspot must affect the earth’s lower atmosphere,
and therefore the weather, such effects are very small and are difficult
to measure and interpret.
Smithsonian Report, 1947.—Nicholson PLATE 1

a - - El
1947 MAR.3 1947 MAR.3I
1947 APR.1

OVERCAST MAR.4

APR.13

THE LARGEST GROUP OF SUNSPOTS EVER PHOTOGRAPHED

Daily photographs showing the great sunspot group of March and April 1947, being carried across the solar
disk by the sun’s rotation.
Smithsonian Report, 1947.—Nicholson PLATE 2

1926 JAN. 24

A

i947 APRIL 7

THE FOUR LARGEST SUNSPOT GROUPS

The last two photographs are of the same group showing its development during one solar rotation.
ATOMIC ENERGY?

By A. E. JOHNS

McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario

INTRODUCTION

Our topic for this evening is timely. Whether we are fully conscious
of the fact or not and whether we like it or not, we stand at the open-
ing of anew age—the atomic age, or the age of atomic energy. Atomic
energy has always been present in the universe, but only now is it
becoming available to man. The secrets of the atom are being
unlocked before our eyes and life for mankind can never be the same.

Your presence here in such large numbers on such a rainy night
indicates your interest in this topic. We are all interested and want
to know the underlying principles of atomic energy. It is my hope
that some of these will be more clear in an hour’s time. But I warn
you that I bring little that is new. Mark Antony’s words at Caesar’s
funeral sum up the situation; “I am no orator, as Brutusis; * * *
I only speak right on; I tell you that which you yourselves do know.”
The lecture will be in informal classroom style. Few teachers can
proceed long without a blackboard ; so I have already listed the topics I
hope to treat and for two reasons. First it will help to guide me, and
second it will comfort you. At any stage you can see how the lecture
is progressing, and when thoroughly bored, can say “That much at

least is over.” You note with pleasure that the introduction is already
finished.

FOUNDATION THEORY

During the eighteenth century man discovered that great law, the
Law of the Conservation of Matter. According to it, no matter is
ever created or destroyed. The total amount of matter in the uni-
verse remains the same. ‘True, matter may be changed in form.
Water may be heated into steam or frozen into ice, but its mass remains
constant. Matter may be shifted about in the universe. The moon
may lose its atmosphere or a meteorite from the bounds of the solar
system may fall at our feet, but the total amount of material in the

1 Address of the retiring president, annual At-Home of the Royal Astronomical Society

of Canada at Toronto, January 24, 1947. Reprinted by permission from the Journal of
the Royal Astronomical Society of Canada, vol. 41, No. 3, March 1947.

WW i 4
178 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

universe remains the same. In any chemical action the final products
weigh just as much as the constituents entering it. On one scale of a
balance put the coal you throw into your furnace, and pile on, if you
can, all the oxygen used in combustion. On the other scale put all
the ashes, and all the smoke and gases resulting from the fire. The
scales balance.

In the nineteenth century was stated another great law, the Law of
the Conservation of Energy. No energy is ever created or destroyed.
Its form changes, its amount is unaltered. The sun’s energy in the
form of light and heat comes racing down to us. It dries up (at
least we hope it will tomorrow) our sodden streets. The water, lifted
into the clouds, has the potential energy of a raised weight. The
winds carry it over Lake Erie and it falls as rain, losing some of its
energy in heat, but it is still higher than the Niagara Gorge. It enters
the turbines of the Ontario Hydro Electric Commission and its re-
maining energy is transformed into electrical energy and distributed at
high voltage all over Ontario. It runs our streetcars and lights
our cities. It enters our homes, runs our washing machines, our radios,
our refrigerators. It cooks our meals, toasts our bread, and heats
our bath water. It begins as heat, undergoes many transformations
and ends upas heat. None is lost.

Nothing of him that doth fade
But doth suffer a sea-change
Into something rich and strange

The twentieth century saw the two lawscombined. In 1905 Einstein
propounded his theory of relativity which has revolutionized all our
thinking in the scientific realm ever since. He claimed that these two
conservation laws are two aspects of one more fundamental law, for
matter and energy are just two manifestations of the same thing.
Neither law taken alone is quite true, for matter can change into
energy and energy into matter. Together they are absolute. “The
total amount of matter and energy in the universe remains the same.”
He went further and wrote down from theory the equation

EF=me

connecting energy # and mass m. If m is given in grams and ¢ is
the velocity of light in centimeters per second, then /' is given in
ergs. Since in these units c=3 X10", this equation shows that a very
small bit of matter will yield an enormous amount of energy. One
kilogram (2.2 pounds) of matter, whether of coal or butter, if con-
verted entirely into energy would yield 25,000 million kilowatt hours
of energy; thus
1000 x 9 x 10°

ee eae ee 9
B= —orx3600x 10" 7° * 10”.
ATOMIC ENERGY—JOHNS 179

This is equal to the energy that would be generated by the total
electric power industry in the United States (as of 1939) running
for approximately 2 months. Burning this amount of coal would
give us 8.5 kilowatt hours of heat energy, so that the ratio is about
3,000 million to 1. No wonder the tiny losses of matter could not
be detected, and there was no confirmation of Einstein’s prediction
for 25 years, though he had suggested that radioactive substances
should give it.

THEORY OF ATOMIC STRUCTURE

If we are to understand how atomic energy is released we must
know something of atomic structure, and form some picture or con-
struct some model of an atom. At dinner tonight Mrs. Johns re-
marked that the Chinese thought in pictures for theirs is a picture
language. One woman under a roof is their ideogram for peace.
That picture appeals to us; fundamentally we are all alike. Our
models of the atom may not be wholly correct, but if they help our
thinking, their creation is justified. We believe now that all atoms
are in the main constructed out of three fundamental bricks, the
electron, the proton, and the neutron, and from these atoms the
whole universe is built up. The electron or Beta-particle is very light
and exceedingly small, since 50,000 million placed side by side would
stretch across a period at the end of a sentence on a printed page.
It carries a unit negative charge of electricity. The proton carries
a unit positive charge of electricity, is smaller in volume than the
electron, but weighs 1,847 times as much. The neutron was dis-
covered in 1932 by Chadwick in England, has a mass close to that
of the proton and, as its name would indicate, carries no charge at
all. This unique characteristic of neutrons delayed their discovery,
prevents us from observing them directly, makes them very pene-
trating and so important in nuclear change.

From these three basic cosmic units, the 92 elements of chemis-
try are built and range from the lightest, hydrogen, to the heaviest,
uranium. We conceive the atom as consisting of a central nucleus
made up of an approximately equal number of protons and neutrons;
and about the same number of electrons revolving as satellites around
the nucleus. To be balanced electrically there must be just as many
electrons carrying negative charges as protons carrying positive
charges. This number is the atomic number of the atom. The total
number of protons and neutrons in an atom is its atomic weight ap-
proximately and is called its mass number. Thus the hydrogen atom
has 1 proton as nucleus, and 1 satellite electron. So its atomic number
is 1 and its mass number 1. The helium atom has a nucleus consisting
of 2 protons and 2 neutrons, and 2 satellite electrons. Its atomic num-
180 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

ber is 2 and its mass number 4. Nature’s heaviest atom has 92 protons
and 146 neutrons for its nucleus, and 92 satellite electrons. Its atomic
number is 92 and its mass number 238. This atom turns out to be
the basic source of atomic energy.

Atoms themselves are also exceedingly small, for the combined di-
ameters of 200 million of them would be an inch long. Even at that
they consist mostly of emptiness, for if the nucleus were enlarged
to a baseball, the satellite electrons would be specks some 2,000 feet
away. As we know, the solar system is also mostly empty. In round
numbers for both the atom and the solar system the radius of the
whole is 10,000 times the radius of the central sun. The analogy is
striking.

The chemical properties of any substance are determined by the
satellite electrons. In this sense then, chemistry is concerned only
with the superstructure of the atoms, and never comes to grips with

: Soh sere EAN

~

‘ ~“e.\.- ”
~ o
~~. — —

HYDROGEN ATOM HELIUM ATOM URANIUM ATOM
Figure 1.

the nucleus. The 92 elements of chemistry have the 92 kinds of
superstructure. Though the satellite electrons move at high speed
their mass is negligible, so that the energy values involved are rela-
tively small and chemical changes can yield but little energy.

ISOTOPES

An architect with only 92 house elevations could design many more
than 92 interiors. Similarly nature assisted by man has designed
upwards of 600 atoms despite the fact that only 92 exteriors seemed
possible. This is accomplished by the addition to or subtraction from
the nucleus of neutrons, thus changing the mass number. These new
atoms are called isotopes of the original and are chemically indis-
tinguishable from them. Thus heavy hydrogen has 1 proton and 1
neutron in its nucleus and 1 satellite electron, so that it is almost
twice as heavy as ordinary hydrogen, but has the same chemical prop-
ATOMIC ENERGY—JOHNS 181

erties. Heavy water is built up from heavy hydrogen and oxygen.
It is very expensive and is used by the ton in the atomic-energy plant
at Chalk River. Natural carbon consists of 99 percent of .C and 1
percent of ,C*’, the former having as nucleus 6 protons and 6 neutrons
and the latter 6 protons and 7 neutrons. The respective atomic weights
are 12 and 13. Both are carbon with atomic number 6. Uranium as
found in nature consists of three isotopes, a trace of U*** with 142
neutrons, 0.7 percent of U?*® with 143 neutrons, and 99.3 percent of
U*8 with 146 neutrons. It turns out that the valuable one for securing
the release of atomic energy is U***, but it is found mixed with 189
parts of U**. If the proportion in nature had been reversed, the
Germans would have won the war.

ATOMIC ENERGY RELEASED BY NATURE

We have seen that chemical actions, which are always concerned
with the superstructure of the atom, yield comparatively little en-
ergy. To secure larger amounts the nucleus of the atom must be in-
vaded. I shall cite two illustrations of such energy release which is
going on in nature.

The first is radioactivity. It has been known for about 50 years
that the element radium is continuously shooting out projectiles at
terrific speeds. Such emanations are of three types, «-particles which
are the nuclei of helium atoms, £-particles or electrons, and y-rays
which are similar to X-rays. By a series of transformations an atom
of radium, s:Ra”*, with mass number 226 and atomic number 88 gives
off, besides y-rays, five «-particles and four B-particles to become an
atom of lead, s.Pb?°°, with mass number 206 and atomic number 82.
The mass numbers check, since each helium atom has a mass number of
4 and 5X4=20 is the loss in mass number. The atomic numbers
also check, since 5X2=10 units of positive charge are lost with the
five a-particles, and four unit negative charges with the four elec-
trons—a net loss of six units of positive charge from the nucleus.
Radium is being transformed into lead before our eyes. In about
1,600 years half our radium will be so transformed. In another 1,600
years half of what remained, and so on. Hence we speak of the half-
life of radium as 1,600 years. Always some radium will remain.

Our second illustration is of special interest to the astronomer.
We are told that the sun in every second of time is giving out 10%
kilowatt hours of energy and has been doing this for some 10° or
10° years. Using Einstein’s equation #=me?, we find that this is
equivalent to the transformation of 250 million tons of matter into
energy every minute over this tremendous span of time. Professor
182 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

Bethe of Cornell suggests that the source of this energy is atomic and
gives us the following “carbon cycle” of nuclear reactions.

;C%-++,H? — N®-+y
7N8 ) sC!3+ ,e°
eC? +H! Tere 7N*+¥
:NY4+,H! —> ,O¥+y
0) > 7N15+ 1°
.N"4,H! —> ,C?+.He!

In this cycle enter one isotope of oxygen, three of nitrogen, and two
of carbon. The net result of the cycle is to leave the carbon unchanged,
emit three y-rays and two positrons, ,e° (the counterpart of the electron
with a unit positive charge), and convert four atoms of hydrogen into
one atom of helium. Now the mass of four atoms of hydrogen is 4.032
units while that of one atom of helium is 4.004. The difference of
0.028 units, which amounts to about 749 of 1 percent of the original, has
been transformed into energy. The late Sir James Jeans made this
statement, “A sun in which only 14 of 1 percent. was hydrogen could
provide the present sun’s radiation for 2,000 million years, and it is
fairly certain that the sun contains more hydrogen than this.” ?

ATOMIC ENERGY RELEASED BY MAN—FISSION

For the splitting of an atom man has at his disposal some very
high-power projectiles in the form of neutrons, deuterons, protons,
a-particles, y-rays, and rarely heavy particles. It is difficult to hit
the nucleus of an atom with a charged particle, since either the shelter-
ing cloud of electrons or the repulsive force of the nucleus will turn the
missile aside. But neutrons, having no charge, can be deflected only
by a direct collision and so are most effective as atom smashers.
Using neutrons, men began bombarding all the elements, and it was
found that in general the nucleus absorbed the neutron, achieved
stability by emitting an electron, and formed a nucleus with atomic
number and mass number each one higher than the original. It was
natural to investigate what would happen when uranium, the heaviest
element, was bombarded with neutrons. Late in 1938 O. Hahn of
Germany (who in 1945 was given the Nobel Prize), showed that the
heavy uranium nucleus was broken and that one of the fission products

2 For details I commend to you the book “Atomic Artillery and the Atomic Bomb,” written

by my old friend and classmate, Prof. J. K. Robertson of Queen’s University. I am
indebted to him for some of these ideas and even some of the phrasing.
ATOMIC ENERGY—JOHNS 183

was barium. Extensive experiments in both Europe and America had
by June 1939 confirmed this atomic fission.* Here I only mention
three of the many then known facts, but will amplify them later.

(1) The products of the atomic fission were two unequal fragments
near the middle of the table of atoms, for example, barium and krypton.
(2) Tremendous amounts of energy were given off in the process.

(3) From each atomic fission caused by one neutron, one to three
neutrons arose.
Graphically the fission may be indicated thus:

FISSION FRAGMENT

NEUTRON ONE TO THREE

NEUTRONS

FISSION FRAGMENT
FiaurRp 2.

Here then was something new under the sun. Atomic fission was
a fact. The atom had been split. Then the black curtain of war
descended on the world and split the scientists also into isolated groups.

THE MASS-DEFECT CURVE—BINDING ENERGY

Let us return for a moment to the two illustrations cited of the
release of atomic energy in nature, namely, radioactivity and the
carbon cycle. It seems remarkable that energy can be released either
by the breaking down of the more complex radium atom to the less
complex lead atom or by the building up of the more complex helium
atom from the less complex hydrogen atom. That both processes
yield energy is possible because of the nature of the 92 elements them-
selves. It is a fact that the mass per particle (neutron or proton) in
the nucleus is greater for either the very light or the very heavy ele-
ments than it is for the elements midway between. Hence when hydro-
gen is transformed to helium or uranium to barium, mass is lost, and

3For details I commend to your study Smyth’s book, “Atomic Energy for Military
Purposes.”

777488 —48—_138,
184 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

it appears as energy released. A graphic picture of what happens
may be made thus:

MASS PER PARTICLE

14 60 140 MASS NUMBERS 233
Bo. s
Figure 3.

The mass lost in the change from uranium to barium represented by
PQ is 100 times the mass lost in the change from hydrogen to helium
represented by RS.

The same facts may be stated in terms of energy. The “binding
energy” of a nucleus is defined to be the difference between the sum of
the masses of all the protons and neutrons which went into its compo-
sition and the true nuclear mass. Thus the elements in the middle of
the periodic table have the greatest binding energy or are most
strongly bound. To break them up energy would have to be supplied;
but when atoms of elements near either end of the table are transformed
energy is released.

A CHAIN REACTION

Ordinary combustion is an illustration of a chain reaction. We
light a match. It sets fire to some paper. This ignites the kindling
next it. This in turn, we hope, will ignite the coal. It is self-
sustaining. The fact that more than one neutron came out as a fission
product, when only one caused the fission of U**, suggested the possibil-
ity of a chain reaction, but no one knew whether or not it would work.
If from 1 neutron came 3, from 3, 9, from 9, 27, the reaction would
expand at a terrific rate. But it should be remembered that it is the
rare isotope U*** which is broken by the neutron, and this occurs in
nature mixed with 139 times as much U?*. So at least four things could
happen to the emitted neutrons. They might (1) escape, (2) be
ATOMIC ENERGY—JOHNS 185

captured by U?* without fission, (3) be absorbed by impurities, (4)
cause fission of another U** nucleus. To get a chain reaction the
number of neutrons in (4) decreased by the sum of those in (1), (2),
and (3) must at least equal the original number put in. The first
three possibilities must then be reduced toa minimum. The first loss
was easily handled by making the pile of uranium being treated large
enough. When the edge of a cube is tripled in length, the surface is
increased ninefold, but the volume is increased twenty-sevenfold. So
the chance of escape through the surface per unit volume is much less
than it was before. From theoretical considerations Fermi calculated
how large, under attainable conditions, the pile should be and it
worked—a marvelous achievement. Losses (2) and (3) were much
more difficult to reduce toa minimum. Only the tremendous resources
of the United States could make possible their solution, and a billion-
dollar plant was built at Oak Ridge, Tenn. Since U** and U?*s are
chemically indistinguishable they must be separated by physical means
from the fact that U?* is the slightly heavier of the two. Thermal
diffusion would separate the lighter fluid, U*, just as our mothers got
the lighter Devonshire cream on a pan of milk. Gaseous diffusion
through barriers allowed the lighter U** gas to pass more readily.
The cream-separator trick of the centrifuge brought the lighter U2*
to the center and a huge electromagnet could deflect lighter ions more
than the heavier ones. Since some substances, for example cadmium,
soak up neutrons like a sponge, the problem of obtaining pure ma-
terials was also a formidable one. However, these difficulties were
sufficiently overcome and a pile was built in the squash court in Stagg
Field at the University of Chicago. Cadmium rods were inserted as
safety devices and on December 2, 1942, the first self-maintaining
nuclear chain reaction was initiated by man, even with the cadmium
rods only partly withdrawn. For the well-being of Chicago the pile
was torn down and moved to the Argonne Woods, some 40 miles
outside Chicago. It should be noted that there are always enough
stray neutrons about to start the chain reaction, so that no “match”
is required.

MODERATORS

It was early suggested by Fermi, Compton, and others that slow
neutrons, that is thermal or low-energy neutrons, could be used to
split U** and that such might not be absorbed by U**. Since the
neutrons coming out of the fission are always moving at high speed, a
search was begun for so-called moderators which would slow up such
neutrons before they were absorbed by U?*. If such could be found,
the separation of U?* from U** might not be necessary. Now fast
neutrons are hard to stop, for they can pierce several inches of steel
186 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

and about 8 feet of concrete, and yet the only way to stop them is to put
something in their way. A tennis ball rebounds from the hard court
with its velocity only slightly lessened, but if it collides head on with
another tennis ball, its energy is passed on to the other and it stops
dead. At each collision with a ball heavier than itself part of its
energy would be given up. So moderators must have nuclei with
masses comparable to the mass of the neutron, if the neutron is to be
slowed up at each collision. Also to be useful it must itself not absorb
neutrons. The substances with both these characteristics turned out
to be carbon and heavy water, and both had to be of high purity. In
the first pile at Chicago carbon was used, while at Chalk River heavy
water is the moderator. This heavy water was made at Trail, British
Columbia, tested at McMaster University, and used at Chalk River.

MAN-MADE ELEMENTS

When a slow neutron is absorbed by a nucleus of U**, a nucleus of an
unstable isotope, U, is formed. Its half-life is only 23 minutes and
from its disintegration a new element, neptunium, with atomic number
93 and mass number 239 is formed. This new element also is unstable
with a half-life of 2.3 days and disintegrates to form a second new
element, plutonium, with atomic number 94 and mass number 2389.
The reactions are

wl +,n! ——> og 89 +¥

slow
go? ENTS oN,?+ —1e°+Y
23 minutes
os N° —— yPu?+ — ie +7
2.3 days

This isotope 5,Pu?* of plutonium does slowly decay by the emission
of an a-particle to »,U***, but its half-life is 24,000 years, so that it is
really very stable. Recently the discovery of two more man-made
elements has been announced. Since the astronomers in their search
of planets beyond Pluto have not kept pace with the discovery of
elements beyond plutonium, it is proposed to call these two elements
americium and curium respectively, in honor of the Americas and of
Pierre and Marie Curie.

Plutonium has qualities which make it so tremendously impor-
tant that it is largely replacing U*** in both military and peacetime
applications. Though usually stable, it is fissionable by slow
neutrons just as U***. It is potentially more abundant since it is
created from the much more plentiful U***. It is a different element
from uranium and hence can be separated from it by chemical
means. So the atomic-energy plant using uranium is allowed to
ATOMIC ENERGY—JOHNS 187

run several months, after which the uranium rods are removed and
the plutonium created in them is separated out. It is like hunting
a needle in a haystack, for 50 kilograms of uranium may have 10
grams of plutonium in it.

FISSION PRODUCTS

I have already remarked that the kinds of atoms now discovered
number upwards of 600, and of these a very large number, well over
200, have arisen as fission products by neutron bombardment of
uranium. These fission products range all the way from zinc to sama-
rium. Strangely enough they break intotwo groups. The light group
consists of those from zine with mass number about 72 to palladium
with mass number about 108, and shows the greatest concentration
around krypton with mass number 94. The heavy group goes from
palladium to samarium with mass number 150 and shows the greatest
concentration around barium with mass number 140. Actually about
6 percent is krypton and 6 percent barium, with 97 percent of all fission
products grouped closely around these. The minimum is around tin
with mass number 117 and the yield there is about 0.01 percent of the
whole.

For the lighter elements in the periodic table the number of neu-
trons in the nucleus is about equal to the number of protons. For in-
stance carbon has 6 of each. But as we ascend in the table the propor-
tion of neutrons to protons gradually increases until in uranium 238
there are 146 neutrons to 92 protons. So the fission products from
uranium, which are near the middle of the table, are overloaded with
neutrons and are likely to be unstable and give off beta-rays in succes-
sion until a stable product is formed. There are 64 such mass chains of
transformations now known, 31 in the light group and 83 in the heavy,
and they involve about 164 known active products, and about 64 stable
ones. McMaster University, under Dr. Thode’s direction, is given
credit for the discovery of eight of the stable products, and one active
one, namely, Kr* with a half-life of 10 years.

The problems presented to the chemist by these fission products
were appalling. He had to separate the minute quantities of these
bewildering products from the original uranium and the neptunium
and plutonium created there as well. He had to determine what ele-
ments were there and what isotope. If the product was radioactive,
what was its half-life; was it formed directly or was it part of a chain;
and if of a chain, how was it related to other fission products? What
energy had the B- and y-rays emitted? These and many other ques-
tions confronted the chemist, and he had to work with exceedingly
minute quantities and he had to work fast. Any product with half-
life of less than 2 seconds cannot yet be identified. One instrument,
188 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

the mass spectrometer, has been his powerful ally. By it he “scans”
the fission products and obtains results of surprising accuracy.

INDUSTRIAL APPLICATIONS OF ATOMIC ENERGY

The energy released in atomic fission is tremendous. From the
smashing of a single uranium nucleus come some 160 million elec-
tron volts. (An electron volt is the energy acquired by an electron in
moving through a potential difference of 1 volt.) Chemical action
might yield 2 or 3 electron volts. The fission of 1 pound of U*** would
yield 11,400,000 kilowatt hours of energy.

Is it any wonder then that an atomic bomb can do such terrible dam-
age? At 8.17 a. m. on August 5, 1945, there was a blinding flash in
Hiroshima—a piece of the sun instantaneously created. All buildings
within a radius of 2 miles were completely destroyed, roofs were off at
5 miles, and glass broken 12 miles away; 95,000 people were killed or
missing, and 140,000 more injured. Of 600 girls from a Protestant
girls’ school who were scattered over the city, 30 to 40 later returned.
The falling roof pinned 50 of those at school under it and they were
burned before the eyes of their principal. Such a bomb dropped on
the campus of the University of Toronto would wipe out everything
from St. Clair to the Lake, and from the Don halfway to High Park,
and glass would be broken in Port Credit. Ina twinkling one-quarter
of the population of Greater Toronto would be killed or injured. And
now they can make bombs 1,000 times as powerful as that.

But atomic energy could be and we trust will be a marvelous bless-
ing. Already estimates would indicate that atomic-energy plants can
deliver energy at 0.8 cents per kilowatt hour. (We pay 0.7 cents for
domestic use in Hamilton.) We cannot expect it to power our auto-
mobiles. The critical size of a pile to get any power at all, and the tons
of steel and concrete necessary to protect us from those penetrating
radiations, prevent us from just putting a gram of plutonium in our
car and running it for a lifetime. But such a pile could power an At-
lantic liner, and it could provide power in parts of the world where
there is neither coal nor hydro.

Recently at McMaster I heard a fine address on Canadian Popula-
tion Trends by an authority. In all his prognosis the speaker was
careful to put in a qualifying “all conditions being the same.” TI re-
called a jocular remark made in an after-dinner speech by my old
professor, the late Alfred Baker. “It is customary for great men
at some time in their lives to make a prophecy. I will make mine now.
I predict that in 500 years the center of civilization will be in the Sas-
katchewan Valley.” So in the question period I asked the speaker if
that were possible. He did not think so. Industrial concentration
was unlikely in a land where there was no iron and only poor-grade
ATOMIC ENERGY—JOHNS 189

coal. Dr. Thode then rose to say that conditions were not the same.
The atomic age had arrived. Power plants can as well be built in
Saskatchewan as in Hamilton. Who can predict the industrial future
of our Canadian West in this new age?

ATOMIC ENERGY IN MEDICINE

It was recognized at once that the wealth of radioactive fission
products made available in quantity by atomic-energy plants had
opened up great new possibilities in medicine. The half-life of
some of these is long enough to make them useful. Phosphorus,
P *, has a half-life of 14.3 days. Iodine, I‘, has a half-life of 8 days.
Treatment by radium may be completely superseded by the use of
such new products as these.

They can be used as tracers. Radioactive sodium, Na**, injected
into the blood stream in one hand reaches the other hand in 20 seconds.
If taken internally it reaches the finger tips in 2 or 3 minutes. Radio-
active carbon, C+*, may help us to understand the whole process of
metabolism. Some scientists claim that its production may well be
worth all the money spent on atomic fission. Its half-life is about
10,000 years.

Iodine, I 1*1, if taken into the human system heads for the thyroid
gland, as does ordinary iodine. Can cancer of the thyroid be cured
by letting iodine, I’, seek out its prey? Radioactive phosphorus,
P *, concentrates in the spleen and liver, so that large doses can be
given these organs. Already this isotope has given spectacular re-
sults in the treatment of polythemia vera, a sort of cancer of the red
corpuscles. But here, as always, must follow an immense amount
of investigation of just how each fission product acts on human tissue,
what human enemy does it attack, and what is the proper dose that
will kill this enemy and not unduly injure healthy tissue. We are
just entering the Promised Land—the Atomic Energy Age.

CHALK RIVER

I had hoped to speak briefly on our Canadian atomic-energy plant
at Chalk River, which I visited last summer. However, this lecture
is already too long so that my remarks on this topic must be very
sketchy.

This site, halfway between North Bay and Ottawa, on the Ottawa
River, was chosen because it had three main qualifications. It had
an ample supply of pure water, it was accessible for bringing in
heavy machinery, and it was not near large centers of population in
ease of accident. In less than 3 years huge buildings have been
erected and these are carefully guarded. In order to gain entrance,
190 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

one has to lay plans some weeks in advance, be finger-printed, have
his past history checked, and declare that he will not sell out to the
enemy. Inside is the sign, “What you see here, what you hear here,
stays here when you leave here.” In some respects it is almost like
a university, for there were lectures almost daily, as each department
tried to keep the others informed of its latest discovery. Everywhere
the greatest precautions are taken for safeguarding the health of the
workers and visitors. In certain buildings cloth shoes and coats are
provided, to insure that we did not inadvertantly pick up some radio-
active particle, which might cause a burn. The chemists watched their
experiments through periscopes. No work is being done on atomic
bombs, but important investigations in industrial and medical ap-
plications of atomic energy are under way. I found it a stimulating,
almost an exciting place, to visit.

The workers at the Chalk River plant are housed in a town site,
Deep River, 12 miles by bus up the Ottawa River. This, too, had
a guardhouse at its entrance. Three years ago the site was just sand
with a light stand of evergreen and birch. Bulldozers ripped out
the streets, sidewalks went down, some 400 houses went up, and now
behold a town of some 2,000 people. A staff house shelters and feeds
about 200 workers and guests. There is a general store, a five-room
public school, a hospital with plenty of maternity cases, a recreation
center, and a church being organized. Some 20 clubs, camera, chess,
skiing, etc., flourish. It is a young people’s town. The number of
academic degrees held by its inhabitants per capita is probably the
highest in Canada.

CONCLUSION

I conclude with the following quotation from the Presidential
Address to the British Association delivered in 1934 by the late Sir
James Jeans:

Science has given man control over nature before he has gained control over
himself. The tragedy does not lie in man having so much scientific control over
nature, but in his having so little control over himself. Human nature changes
very slowly and so forever lags behind human knowledge which accumulates
very rapidly. Scientific knowledge is transmitted from one generation to
another while acquired characteristics are not. Thus in respect of knowledge
each generation stands on the shoulders of its predecessor but in respect of
human nature both stand on the same ground.
TELEGRAPHY—PONY EXPRESS TO BEAM RADIO?

By Grorce C. HItris

General Inspector, Western Union Telegraph Co.
New York, N. Y.

[With 3 plates]

Inasmuch as the Western Society of Engineers is composed of many
branches of the engineering profession who may not be familiar with
terms used in the communications field, I shall endeavor to review
the progress of written communications from the early Morse days to
the recently developed microwave radio beam in what our transmis-
sion research engineer, F, B. Bramhall, likes to call “basic barnyard
English.”

To many people, a telegram calls to mind a mental picture of a
Western Union messenger boy pedaling his bicycle down the street,
or of a Morse operator copying a message by listening to the dots and
dashes of a sounder. New and improved methods of operation have
made strides to change this mental picture of telegraphy.

The telegraph was invented in 1832 and mechanically perfected
in 1837 by Samuel F. B. Morse. The first practical telegraph instru-
ment, as he termed it, was exhibited in his rooms at New York Uni-
versity. His receiver consisted of a magnetically operated pendulum
mounted on a picture frame, marking on a moving paper tape. It was
not until 1844 that the first public telegraph message “What hath God
wrought?” was sent by Morse over the first line from Washington,
D. C., to Baltimore.

The marked paper tape had to be deciphered by the receiving opera-
tor and the message written on a blank. The speed of operation de-
pended on the ability of the sending operator and the receiving equip-
ment and was probably less than 10 words a minute.

It took but a short time before the receiving operator found he
could read the dots and dashes without having to look at the tape—
translating the sound was much easier. Improvement in apparatus
allowed the operator to send about 11 dots per second with a semi-
automatic sending machine termed a “bug.” Exceptionally good
sending and receiving operators could handle an average of 100 short
messages an hour,

1 Reprinted by permission from the Journal of the Western Society of Engineers, vol. 51,
No. 3, pt. 1, September 1946.

191
192 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

Duplex telegraphy was invented by the president of the Franklin
Telegraph Co. in 1872. This allowed simultaneous sending and re-
ceiving at each end of the circuit, doubling the circuit capacity. The
Western Union purchased this patent, then made arrangements with
Thomas A. Edison to see if any latent possibilities could be developed.

After considerable experimenting, Mr. Edison invented the Quad-
ruplex. This method allowed two simultaneous sendings in each
direction. The single circuit capacity had now been increased four-
fold.

The Wheatstone siphon recorder, an English invention, was brought
to this country in 1883 and was used extensively on the earlier cable
circuits. It was soon replaced on land lines by a faster type Wheat-
stone recorder. An inked wheel marked the dots and dashes upon a
rapidly moving strip of paper. Signals from both of these systems
were transmitted from perforated tape. The recorder could handle
about 90 words per minute, but it was necessary to translate the tape
and write the message on a blank.

During the period 1901 to 1910, many printing telegraph systems
were developed. The better known were the House system which
printed on a strip of paper and the Buckingham system which printed
directly on a message blank.

The Barclay system was developed from Buckingham patents about
1904-05 and was the first printer to stand up under heavy traffic. It
would handle about 50 words per minute but required frequent and
careful adjustment of the selecting mechanism. It was soon re-
placed by the Morkrum-Kleinschmidt printer, an invention of Howard
Krum of Chicago.

About 1912 the Western Union-developed page printer had been
installed on the heavier circuits between New York and San Fran-
cisco. The first printer had a stationary carriage and movable type
wheel. Later on, a type bar printer was developed which used the
Baudot code system and is now being used in conjunction with the
Multiplex. The present 21—-A tape printer will handle 72 words per
minute with average maintenance whereas the earlier printers re-
quired continual adjusting.

It was soon found that the line-wire circuit was capable of carrying
signals much faster than a single operator could send them or faster
than a single receiving printer could print them, clear the selecting
mechanism and be ready for a second incoming signal. In order to
make full use of the circuit, it was necessary to develop a method which
could handle signal impulses to the full capacity of the circuit. This
system is known as the Multiplex and is used throughout our system
to handle the major portion of trunk-line traffic.

The Multiplex divides the use of the circuit among a number of
channels. The sending distributor picks up signals from the trans-
TELEGRAPH Y—HILLIS 193

mitting units of the different channels and turns them to the line
in proper sequence. At the distant terminal they are picked up by
a receiving distributor and turned to the corresponding printers. In
order for the transmitter on channel 1 to send to the distant printer
on channel 1, it is necessary to synchronize the sending and receiv-
ing distributors and drive them at closely regulated speeds by syn-
chronous motors.

Alternating current for the motors is suppled by accurately regu-
lated tuning forks. After the receiving distributor is brought in
phase, an accurate phase-correction circuit is applied which will hold
the receiving distributor in step with the distant sending distributor.
It is not necessary to transmit a special phasing pulse as the phase-cor-
rection circuit operates from line intelligence signals. Experiments
have been made in driving the sending and receiving distributors from
a common frequency source and using no correction at the receiving
end. Long distances between terminals has prevented the adoption of
this method of maintaining synchronism because of the lack of a
common power source.

The Multiplex is operated duplex, as 2, 3, or 4 channels, depending
upon traffic load and circuit conditions. A standard operating speed
of 66 words per minute has been adopted in order to facilitate the
patching of channels between Multiplex systems.

A 4-channel system, duplexed, working at 66 words per minute, with
4 sendings at each terminal, will provide a total message capacity of
528 words per minute. This is a considerable increase from 10 words
per minute of the original recorder used on the Baltimore-Washing-
ton circuit.

The Teleprinter has almost entirely replaced the Morse method as a
means of operating lightly loaded circuits. Most of you are familiar
with this machine which sends from a slightly modified typewriter
keyboard and receives on either tape or page copy. The sending
and receiving units may be operated independently or in series.

The Teleprinter uses the 5-unit code of the Multiplex with the
addition of a phasing and stop pulse. The phasing pulse is necessary
to start the receiving distributor with the transmitting cam and the
stop pulse stops both the receiving and sending units so they will both
start in phase for the next signal.

Supplementing the Multiplex and Teleprinter, we have the Vario-
plex, Telefax, and Photofax. The Varioplex uses the high capacity
of the Multiplex system and by means of a control rack, a number
of reperforator racks, as many as 36 Teleprinter subchannels may be
operated over a single wire.

Telefax and Photofax are Western Union developments of the prin-
ciples of facsimile. Telefax utilizes the pick-up of a reflected light
beam through a photoelectric cell which translates changes of light
194 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

intensity to corresponding changes of electrical intensity as the scan-
ning beam passes over the copy being transmitted. At the receiving
end, the intelligence may be reconverted to changes of light intensity
and recorded on a photographic film as a negative. After developing,
a print from the film negative will give a positive of the original
material from which transmission was made.

The received changes of electrical intensity may be inverted from a
negative image to a positive image and recorded by a stylus on dry
Teledeltos paper. This gives an immediate positive of the original
photograph, message, drawing or other transmitted material without
any further processing. Good photograph halftones may be made
from this copy. Development of this equipment was halted by the
war but our laboratories have resumed research in this method of
communication.

Telefax installations in China have greatly speeded up communi-
cations in that country. Prior to Telefax, it was necessary to assign
a number to each Chinese character in order to transmit a message
by regular telegraph. This required that a message be coded in num-
bers, transmitted by standard telegraph, deciphered, and written on
a blank. Transmission by Telefax gives an immediate reproduction
of the original message with no chances for errors. The entire con-
tents of a standard telegraph blank may be transmitted in a little
over 2 minutes.

Outside of the commercial telegraph field, one use for this system
has been in the handling of railroad train orders where accuracy in
transmission is absolutely essential.

The transmission of intelligence from the various types of terminal
equipment over open wire land lines has proved to be one of our great-
est difficulties in the maintenance of uninterrupted service. The phys-
ical hazards of sleet, ice. fires, floods, railroad and vehicular wrecks,
and tornadoes have caused our Dispatching Bureau many hours of
“blood, sweat, and tears.” Poor and corroded wire splices, kite tails
that get tangled in the line, the boy (and, I might add, the man) witha
22 rifle, who finds insulators a tempting target, all add up to the inces-
sant patrols by our linemen.

Interference caused by inductive coupling to power lines, lighting,
and the interference induced by adjacent telegraph circuits have lim-
ited the distance over which transmission may be satisfactory without
repeaters. When the signals become too badly mutilated, they may
be rebuilt by regenerative repeaters, but this equipment is expensive
and requires expert maintenance and adjustment.

In a grounded telegraph system such as we use extensively, a bat-
tery is applied to one end of the wire and the opposite end grounded,
thus completing the circuit through the ground back to the battery.
TELEGRAPH Y—HILLIS 195

Any disturbance to the earth potential will seriously affect operation
over this type of circuit. On the morning of March 23-24, 1940,
approximately 800 volts difference in earth potential was observed
between New York City and Binghamton, N. Y. This means that
with one of the wires grounded at Binghamton, the New York test-
board attendant would see on his voltmeter connected to the New
York end of the wire, not the Binghamton ground but anywhere
from 0 to 800 volts of battery and varying from positive to negative.
At times the maximum potential would hold steady for 30 seconds
or more, decrease in intensity, then suddenly reverse potential and
increase in intensity until approximately 800 volts of the opposite
potential was reached. Under these conditions, telegraph signals of
160- or 240-volt potential were entirely obliterated.

Trouble is also experienced during very wet weather when a thin
film of water on the glass insulators acts as a high resistance conductor
and allows a small portion of the transmitted battery to leak off to
ground at each telegraph pole and return to the transmitting station.
Although this is a very small amount at each pole, when you have
a 200-mile circuit with 40 poles per mile, 8,000 such leaks do not allow
much of the transmitted signal to get through to the distant end.

When a second wire is substituted for the ground return, many of
the above troubles are eliminated. This type of operation requires
twice the wire facilities for the same number of circuits. One type
of metallic system used by the telegraph company provides three
excellent circuits from four wires.

In order to provide a more stable means of transmitting intelligence
between terminals which would not be affected by the inherent hazards
of grounded operation and provide a number of circuits over a pair of
wires, the Western Union began experimenting with carrier operation
in 1927.

The first 4-wire, amplitude-modulated carrier system was placed
in service between New York City and Buffalo. While this system
was a great improvement over physically grounded operation, it needed
many improvements.

The B-3 system was placed in operation a short time later between
New York and Chicago. This was a 4-wire, amplitude-modulated
system originally designed for 20 operating channels. Channel fre-
quencies ran from 450 cycles to 6,450 cycles with a 300-cycle channel
width. Carrier current for the individual channels was provided
by a Hammond generator, an adaption of the same machine that
supplies the basic tones for a Hammond electric organ.

The addition of an automatic bias corrector to the channel terminals
to compensate for changes in the received level, made these circuits
far better than any ground return circuits for the operation of high-
196 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

speed Multiplex circuits where the line frequency reaches 66 cycles per
second on certain letter combinations.

The amplitude-modulated system still had difficulties inherent in
this type of operation. Any variation in the received signal strength
had to be compensated for by similar changes in the relay bias circuit.
Your amplitude-modulated radio suffers from the same types of
interference.

Continual research by our Carrier System Development Group pro-
duced the first frequency-modulated terminal in 1937. A series of
imrovements led to the installation of the first type “EE” carrier system
between Dallas and Los Angeles in the fall of 1942. This was a two-
wire system, using frequency-modulated terminals and provided one
voice channel in each direction of transmission. The frequencies of
the nine telegraph channels in the west-bound voice band range from
750 cycles to 3,150 cycles and the east-bound band from 4,050 cycles to
6,450 cycles.

The frequency-modulated telegraph channel will continue to deliver
a perfect signal even though the input power to the receiving channel
amplifier may drop to one three-hundredths of the standard value.
The FM telegraph channels have continued to work without inter-
ruption when the physical wires over which they were working were
so badly weather-bound by heavy fog that Morse signals could not be
read between Chicago and Indianapolis. This system has also con-
tinued to work when one wire of the pair was broken and both ends lay
on the ground.

The type “F” is also a two-wire system which provides two voice
bands in each direction with a top freqency of 16 kilocycles. The two-
wire type “G” system provides four voice bands in each direction with
the top frequency of 30 kilocycles.

Nine wide-band FM channels may be placed on one voice band.
These channels will carry signaling frequencies up to about 75 cycles
per second. Sixteen narrow-band FM telegraph channels may also be
placed on a voice band. The narrow-band channel is designed for a
top frequency of about 33 cycles per second and will be largely used
for Teleprinter operation.

Even with all the margin provided by FM operation, interruptions
to the service were caused by weather conditions over which we had
no control. Early in the spring of 1946, ice formed on the wires in the
vicinity of Sidney, Nebr., until they became 38 inches in diameter.
The weight of this much ice will break the wires in many places and
if there is a slight wind, the ice-covered wires will start to swing and
break off many poles, sometimes every pole between sections that are
not extra-heavily braced.

Terminal equipment appeared satisfactory, but trouble-free trans-
mission was required between terminals in order to render the best
TELEGRAPH Y—HILLIS 197

possible telegraph service. Coaxial cable will provide this type of
service where large numbers of circuits are required, but the cost is
high and where high frequencies are used, repeaters are required at
frequent intervals.

The Western Union electronic laboratory at Water Mill, Long
Island, has continuously investigated the possibility of radio as a
medium of transmission. Up to 1940, the use of radio was not advis-
able, for the frequencies used at the time did not provide the continuous
24-hour service the year around that is required for dependable
telegraph circuit stability.

The concentrated development in the ultra-short-wave spectrum for
radar techniques during the war disclosed that when the superhigh
frequencies were propagated under line-of-sight conditions, they ap-
peared to be quite stable. They were not affected by magnetic storms
or lightning discharges so it was apparent that this method of trans-
mission might be the solution to our problems.

Before the war, equipment was not available to construct oscillators
which would generate frequencies much above 400 megacycles. Os-
cillator tank circuits were reduced in size until the capacity between
elements in the vacuum tube was used as tank capacity and a single
turn of wire for the tank inductance. The answer to generating still
higher frequencies was found in a new type of tube which utilizes the
speed of electron travel. Two types of tubes of this classification were
used during the war for radar work. They are the Magnetron and
Klystron. The Magnetron was developed by Dr. Hull in the General
Electric laboratories and was improved on from time to time. Rus-
sian scientists added a bit, but it was not until about 1940 that English
scientists made further improvements which enabled them to use the
tube for high-frequency generation. The Klystron tube was in-
vented by the Varian brothers at Stanford University. Either of
these tubes is capable of generating frequencies up to 30,000 mega-
cycles.

It has been found that at these high frequencies, where the wave
lengths become several centimeters or less, they may be controlled in
much the same manner as light. There is still a long way to go before
the wave length of visible light is reached. At a frequency of 4,000
megacycles, the wave length is 7.5 centimeters or 3 inches, while in-
visible infrared rays have a wave length of about 0.01 centimeter in
length and the wave lengths of visible light rays range from 0.00007
to 0.00004 centimeter in length.

A parabolic reflector, such as is used to concentrate the small candle-
power of a tiny incandescent lamp in an automobile headlight, may
also be used to concentrate the radiation of the microwaves. It is not
practical in standard broadcast wave lengths, for in order to concen-
ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

198

"YSINGS}} G-UOJSUIGSVM-YIOK AMON ‘miajsfS AV[OI VABMOIIFI—T FIOd

‘9010 + U3IMOL ,06
00v AIN3

‘yollias, Iv | NOLONIHSWM
WIMOL Och .
{Ove AI13
NUBASS
IWNIWYIL WY38 O YMOL 001
08% A313

AIH ano f Seniscses
UAW 00 ®
@ ONT | songs
¥ UBMOL ,09
“y; re = git A313 aH ONTGIS 3
5% ) wad TIN@NV9 ~ Riots
UaMOL ,00} (Tk 7s I
el) AR3
7aunv1 LW :
y3MOl 00} rT

06 AI =
4 NMOLNSQHOR Lo yamon oor 98 1
Up 03 ey ; ,0001 A313 I Ca
samon: 00h Mb. os Ayo. ,09 NOI 034 aan
‘aan O08 wy ,096 A313 OPP, UaAOL ,09
ale YOOYS ASNOH KTIOH LW jOvee A313
LW 3NId

U3MOL ,00

092 ‘A313
> ae a JN1NASY3STISS
oo ae
SINVHS3N SY3MOL 40 NOLLVAST3 GNV NOILVDO1
‘Se ke Tenuta net HOYNGSLLld -— NOLONIHSVM - YYOA MSN
301430 N'M W3LSAS AV13Y Ol0VY

WYOA MIN

OWS. TLL

7H 734uNvI

006

, : 9018 949° ATG
, STHASUSHVE Tee

HOUNESI Lid

YIMOL ,001
,Oveb AZ13

NOILWLS HOYNESLLId
TELEGRAPH Y—HILLIS 199

trate the broadcast frequencies of 720 kilocycles into a beam 6° in
width, it would take a parabolic reflector approximately 18,000 feet
in diameter. Now to concentrate the radiation of 4,000 megacycles
into the same field pattern, we would need a reflector only 30 inches in
diameter.

With such a reflector, instead of letting the radio waves go off into
free space in all directions, we are able to concentrate them into a beam
only 6° in width, the angle being inversely proportional to the dia-
meter of the reflector. This results in a very small field of intense
radio energy at the point at which the beam is aimed. In fact, the
reflector increases the energy 30 decibels, which is a gain in power
of 1,000 to1. For example, a nondirective antenna might require 1,000
watts to give the required field strength at a given point. With the
parabolic reflector, only 1 watt of power would be required. If the
receiving antenna is surrounded by an identical reflector, the receiver
will pick up 1,000 times as much power as it would if the antenna was
out in free space.

The net practical result is that radio repeater stations may be spaced
about 50 miles apart and we will require only one-tenth of 1 watt of
radiated power to give dependable 24-hour service, where before we
would require 90 to 100 kilowatts.

The ability to concentrate the microwaves in a small space makes
it possible to use the same frequency for sending or receiving from as
many as eight positions at one location, or one for every 45° of the
compass.

All radio waves are propagated in straight lines, microwaves in-
cluded. The difference between the longer standard broadcast waves
and microwaves is that when the low-frequency waves enter the ionized
layers of the upper atmosphere, this refractive medium causes them
to be bent and some will return to the earth. Here they are reflected
upward from the ground and again refracted to appear a second time
on the earth. If the sending-signal strength is great enough and the
signals enter the upper atmosphere at the correct angle, they may be
reflected back and forth and eventually go around the earth.

The height of the ionized layer that causes the low-frequency waves
to be bent back to the earth varies continuously. The F-layer ioniza-
tion decreases after sunset and reaches a minimum just before sunrise.
After sunrise it splits into two distinct layers of ionization, which
are termed F-1 and F-2. These layers remain separate during the day
but merge into one at sunset. The average height of the F layer is
about 185 miles, the F-1, 140-160 miles, and the F-2 150-250 miles.
A long-wave-length signal entering these ionized regions at a con-
stant angle will not always return to the earth at the same place as
the skip distance varies as the height of the ionized layers change dur-

1774884814
200 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

ing the day. The skip distance not only depends upon the time of day,
but the phase of the sunspot cycle, the geographical location of the
transmission path, and the season of the year. Maintaining communi-
cations by use of this medium could not be considered reliable enough
for the telegraph company’s use.

When the microwaves enter this ionized region of the upper atmos-
phere they pass through it, regardless of the angle at which they enter.
This makes it necessary to transmit them parallel to the surface of
the earth, catch them before they leave the earth at the horizon and
retransmit them to the next tower. While the retransmission from
tower to tower is more expensive than a standard broadcast which
uses the ionization refraction for retransmission, it gives us a 24-hour-
a-day service that the longer-wave-length frequencies can never equal
in dependability.

During March 1946 there were a number of magnetic storms, some
of such severity as to blank out commercial radio, halting trans-Atlan-
tic air travel, while the microwave beam circuit showed no interfer-
ence from the aurora borealis.

At this high frequency we are not bothered by any man-made or
nature-made static; it is even above that of a lightning discharge.

Tests were made by having an airplane fly directly in the path of
the beam. No serious deflections of the received power level were
noted until the plane was about 50 feet from the reflector.

Several difficulties were encountered in developing the transmission
of the microwaves when the beam was transmitted parallel to the sur-
face of the earth. One is the absorption of energy by water vapor in
the air, but this is not serious for wave lengths greater than 5 centime-
ters. For the shorter wave lengths, such as at 1 centimeter, a heavy
rainfall will drop the receiving power level 5 decibels, which would
not be noticed in FM reception, but a cloudburst along a 1-mile path
of the beam will drop the received level to one-thousandth of the
normal value.

A slow signal fading was noted throughout the year, but in the FM
receiver this change caused no harm.

A more serious type of fading was noted in the latter part of June
1945, when in the early morning hours of a still night, especially dur-
ing periods when the humidity was high, the received signal strength
would fiuctuate wildly. The transmitting power was increased but
the results were still unsatisfactory. An investigation of the field
strength at the receiving tower disclosed that the line-of-sight signal
was being canceled by an out-of-phase signal. By placing a second
receiving reflector between 25 and 27 feet below the upper one and
using the combined output from the two reflectors, a fairly steady
signal could be obtained as the fading did not appear simultaneously
TELEGRAPH Y—HILLIS 201

at both reflectors. The resultant signal variation is well within the
limits of the FM receiver and excellent results have been obtained.

The present explanation is that during periods of perfect calm
there is a stratification of either temperature or humidity or both
which will refract the transmitting signal causing a multipath re-
ception at the receiving parabola.

Studies indicate that the initial installation cost and annual ex-
pense of operation of a microwave relay system will be less than that
of a land line, especially if the capacity of the microwave system is
fully utilized. Very little time will be required for installation of the
towers and they can be moved without too much trouble. Relocat-
ing any stretch of land line is a long-drawn-out operation, with
numerous interruptions to service.

These and many other advantages led the Western Union to ini-
tiate a comprehensive experimental program for the use of micro-
waves for commercial telegraphy. A patent license agreement was
entered into with the Radio Corp. of America in July 1944 for use of
the necessary radio circuit patents. Similar arrangements have also
been made to use the Armstrong method of frequency modulation.

The design of the radio equipment has been rapidly developed from
what were essentially radar techniques to those that will meet the
requirements of telegraphy by the Victor Division of the Radio Corp.
of America at Camden, N. J. The telegraph company’s engineers
have developed the high-capacity WN-2 carrier system which will be
used in conjunction with the microwave beam system.

The Western Union carrier which feeds into the radio transmitter
will consist of 32 voice channels, each of which may carry either
16 narrow-band telegraph channels, a telephone, or a facsimile cir-
cuit. The 16 narrow-band telegraph channels are in two groups of 8,
each of which has a frequency spread of 525 cycles for channel 1 to
1,575 cycles for channel 8. By means of a frequency translator, iden-
tical terminal equipment is used for the second group, which, after
translation in frequency, appears as a band from 2,025 cycles to 3,075
cycles. Thus the two groups fill a voice channel that has a band width
of approximately 300 to 3,300 cycles. This means that only eight basic
telegraph channels are required. Sixty-four duplications of each of
the eight channels will be used for the entire carrier system instead of a
total of 512 channel terminals, each having a different frequency.
This is made possible by the frequency translator or varistor, a simple
copper oxide or crystal rectifier.

The output of each of the 32 voice bands will be identical but, again
by using the frequency translator, each voice band has its output
translated so that they may be “stacked” one above the other in the
frequency spectrum, and at the carrier system output there will be
202 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

frequencies of 525 to 150,000 cycles, all originating from eight basic
channel frequencies.

The potential capacity of this system is enormous. If nine wide-
band, high-speed carrier channel terminals were assigned to each of
the 82 voice channels, we would have 288 channels over which we
could operate the 4-channel Multiplex. This would give us 1,152
Multiplex channels, each operating at 66 words per minute, a total
of 76,032 words per minute in each direction over the entire carrier
system.

In case we should get both feet clear off the ground and assign
a 36-channel Varioplex system to each of the 288 high-speed carrier
telegraph channels, we could get 10,868 sending and receiving Tele-
printer circuits for subscriber service.

If the narrow-band telegraph channel terminals were used on the
82-voice channel carrier system, we would have 512 sending and receiv-
ing positions at each terminal.

During the first stage of the modernization program, a number of
2-channel Multiplex circuits will be established between the larger
offices. These will operate at 66 words per minute, or a line frequency
of 33 cycles per second. In the ultimate, plans are to discontinue the
use of the Multiplex with its complicated equipment and use nothing
but Teleprinter circuits, as the simplicity and flexibility of this type
of equipment will more than offset the high load capacity of the
Multiplex.

Radio relay stations will be spaced from 20 to 50 miles apart, de-
pending upon the topography of the land. The location will also
depend upon the availability of satisfactory commercial power and
will be near good roads. The height of the open steel towers will
range from 60 to 120 feet, as it seems advisable that the transmitted
beam clear any obstacle by 30 to 50 feet.

A small cabin 12 feet square and 9 feet high will be mounted at the
top of the tower. Windows which will be transparent to the micro-
waves will be provided. Several materials are available for this use,
such as plexiglass, laminated bakelite, but tests indicate that impreg-
nated fiberglass cloth has the lowest loss for the high-frequency waves.
Ice on an open reflector apparently does little harm, while wet snow
will cause a large drop in signal strength. Provisions will be made to
house a total of four reflectors with their accompanying high-fre-
quency oscillator circuit cabinets in each tower.

A sturdily constructed concrete building about 16 by 30 feet will
be located at the base of the tower. It will be heated in the winter and
ventilated in the summer in order to keep the humidity as low as
possible.

The balance of the radio equipment and a reserve power plant will
TELEGRAPH Y—HILLIS 203

be located in this building. The radio equipment is designed to work
from single-phase, 60-cycle commercial power. In the event of a com-
mercial power failure, the radio load will be automatically transferred
to the output of a storage-battery-driven alternator or vibrator. At
the same time a gasoline-engine-driven alternator is automatically
started and after the engine has reached operating speed, the radio
load is transferred to this power supply and remains there until the
commercial power is restored. A floating rectifier will keep the storage
battery charged.

Strategically located maintenance men will service the equipment
at three or four radio relay towers. They will be furnished with an
automobile containing an assortment of testing equipment and spare
parts, although it is planned to do most of the repair work at the
maintainers headquarters.

A service channel has been provided for testing purposes between
the terminals and includes all the radio relay stations. This channel
is independent and does not interfere with the traffic channel.

Fault-finding equipment will be provided at the terminals so that
the operating condition of each unattended tower repeater may be
quickly determined. A preselected audible frequency will be sent
by the terminal, which, by means of a band pass filter, will be received
by the repeater station selected. This signal will be sent back to
the terminal station after certain intelligence has been added and
will indicate operating conditions of the equipment at that station.

Terminal towers will contain radio equipment which will translate
the ultrahigh radio frequencies to the 300-150,000 cycle telegraph
carrier. These frequencies are sent to the main office of the telegraph
Company over a coaxial cable and by means of frequency transla-
tors and filters are separated into the 32 voice bands. The voice
bands are either patched to various groups of carrier channel termi-
nal equipment or to voice bands of other carrier systems.

Some of the terminal towers will not only contain the radio equip-
ment, but the telegraph carrier voice band translating equipment as
well. The conditions at Washington, D. C., make this arrangement
more practical. At the tower, the radio frequencies will be translated
to the carrier frequencies. These in turn will be broken down to the
32 voice bands and the individual voice bands transmitted over cable
pairs to the main office where only the telegraph channel terminals
will be located.

The radio relay network is being laid out on a triangular basis
as far as possible so that with the failure of any one leg communica-
tion may be quickly reestablished by using stand-by facilities on the
other two legs.
204 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

The tremendous capacity of the microwave system will be used to
provide the large number of telegraph channels that will be required
for our projected reperforator switching systems. The entire United
States will be subdivided into 16 reperforator switching centers with
each center relaying, by mechanical means, all messages in the area
assigned to it. Thus, St. Louis, Mo., will relay all traffic for the
State of Illinois outside of Chicago; Minneapolis will handle every-
thing for North and South Dakota, Wisconsin, Iowa, and Minnesota,
Each reperforator office will have direct circuits to every other
reperforator point.

When the modernization program has been completed, a message
from Portland, Maine, destined to Joliet, Ill., will be sent from Port-
land to Boston over a Portland-Boston feeder carrier system. At the
Boston reperforation center, certain equipment will read a switching
code signal, which Portland inserts ahead of every message, and will
automatically switch the signals to a direct St. Louis carrier circuit.
At the St. Louis reperforation center, this intelligence will be received
on a printer-perforator. This device perforates the message as code
in the tape and at the same time prints the message on the tape. The
switching clerk notes the printer Joliet destination, presses the Joliet
button. Various circuits operate to connect the associated transmitter
to a Joliet circuit and start the perforated tape through the transmit-
ter, so that within the space of a few minutes, the message will be re-
ceived on a Teleprinter at Joliet. Only two switchings will be nec-
essary to send a message from St. Petersburg, Fla., to Sacramento,
Calif. The switching at the Florida area reperforation center will be
entirely automatic, while the received signals at the California area
reperforation center will be switched by pushing a button.

Now for the first time we can send telegrams from any independent
Western Union office in the United States to any other independent
office in a matter of minutes. By means of the radio relay, which will
supply the multitude of circuits required, and working in conjunction
with the reperforator switching systems, we will have speed and de-
pendability that was only dreamed of a few short years ago. There
will be no more worrying about ice on the wires, boys shooting insula-
tors, kite strings in the lead, heavy wet snow and ice breaking off tele-
graph poles, magnetic storms, and all the other hazards of open-wire
communications. Thus it can be seen that great strides have been made
since the days of the Pony Express, and we are truly upon the thresh-
old of a new era in written communications.

In conclusion, I wish to thank all my coworkers for the assistance
they have given me and a very special “thank you” to the boys of the
Carrier System Development Group in New York.
TELEGRAPH Y—HILLIS 205

BIBLIOGRAPHY

-

. Western Union Stockholders Report, 1901.

2. A preview of the Western Union system of radio beam telegraphy, by Col. Julian
Z. Millar, radio research engineer, Western Union Telegraph Co., New York,
N.Y. Presented before the Franklin Institute, Feb. 20, 1946.

3. American telegraph after 100 years, by F. E. d’Humy, vice president, and
P. J. Howe, assistant chief engineer, Western Union Telegraph Co. Pre-
sented before the A. I. E. E. summer technical meeting, St. Louis, Mo.,
June 1944,

4. Radio relays for domestic telegraphy, by F. B. Bramhall, transmission research

engineer, Western Union Telegraph Co., New York, N. Y. Presented at the

A. I. E. E. meeting, San Antonio, Tex., April 1946. Published as Western

Union Engineering Bulletin 29-A.
a,
et

“4
4

2

Tor Ae maa i ork
fabio ot
d petotad

/ i] i
pT

aaa
7
y vi Von ath

iit Le ge.

SAAVMOXYDSDIW ONI
INSWdINOF" ONILSSAL“IANNVHD YaIeeV)D *2 -AISDSY ANV ONIGN]AS YOS4 G3ASM SYOLDAISSAY OIIOSVYVd *1

L 3LW1d SUH L6| ‘oday ueruosyqwig
YAMOL AV1EY
AAVMONDIW ‘DO 'd ‘NOLONIHSVM AO HOLAMS S.LSILYV “?¢ YAMOL AV1EYH SAAVMONODIW IWLNAWIYAdxy ‘1

ce ALV 1d SUI Y— L6| ‘Oday ueiuosyywS
PLATE 3

Hillis

Smithsonian Report, 1947.

Ast Ae as DAA rrr

qty

FER ELERerTE ETT ERENT PTET

REPERFORATION CENTER SWITCHING AISLE
PLUTONIUM AND OTHER TRANSURANIUM ELEMENTS?

By GLENN T. SEABORG

Department of Chemistry, University of California
Berkeley, Calif.

[With 1 plate]

Ever since the first classification of the elements into the periodic
table arrangement, it has been felt, and as we now know, correctly, that
no elements heavier than uranium exist in appreciable concentration on
the earth. Since the advent of the concept of atomic number, it has
been possible to state this differently—no elements with an atomic num-
ber higher than 92 are to be found in appreciable amounts. A num-
ber of searches for such elements of higher atomic number, which we
may call transuranium elements, have been made, and although success
in their identification has been claimed in a few cases, it 1s now known,
with the exception of plutonium which exists in extremely small
amounts as described below, that these elements do not exist in appre-
ciable amount on the earth.

Since 1940, however, the four transuranium elements immediately
following element 92 (uranium)—namely, element 93 (neptunium),
element 94 (plutonium), element 95 (americium), and element 96
(curium)—have been discovered as a result of their synthesis by trans-
mutation reactions starting with uranium as the primary material.
Of these four transuranium elements, plutonium has assumed the posi-
tion of dominating importance because of its very successful use as the
explosive ingredient in the atomic bomb, and of the excellent prospects
which it offers as the base material for the development of an atomic-
energy industry. Plutonium is the only transuranium element for
which methods have been developed for production in relatively large
amounts—that is, kilogram amounts. The development of the chem-
ical processes which are used in conjunction with this production have
been described in a previous discussion.

From a purely scientific point of view, however, the other trans-
uranium elements are of nearly as great an interest as plutonium. This

1 Harrison Howe lecture delivered before the Rochester Section of the American Chemical

Society, November 18, 1946. Reprinted, by permission of the American Chemical Society,
from Chemical and Engineering News, vol. 25, February 10, 1947.

207
777488—48—15
208 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

is particularly true since the whole group of heaviest elements, includ-
ing uranium and those immediately below uranium as well as the four
known transuranium elements and a number of as yet undiscovered
elements beyond curium, are members of a transition group. This
makes the chemical and physica! properties of each of the elements of
the whole group of comparable interest. The electron structure of
these elements, in which the inner “5f shell” of electrons is being filled,
with the stable structure containing seven 5f electrons occurring with
tripositive curium, has been described in a previous discussion and
will not be further discussed here.

Also, the radioactive properties of the new isotopes in this region
contribute greatly to our knowledge of the properties of heavy radio-
active isotopes, and the knowledge of the nature of the regularities of
these properties contributes to the understanding of nuclear structure.

The present discussion will be concerned with the four known trans-
uranium elements, neptunium, plutonium, americium, and curium.

NEPTUNIUM

Neptunium was the first transuranium element to be discovered.
Using the neutrons from the Berkeley cyclotron, E. M. McMillan
and P. H. Abelson in 1940 were able to show, with the help of their
chemical work, that the irradiation of uranium leads to the produc-
tion of the isotope 93%. This isotope, which has a half-life of 2.3
days, is the decay product of the 23-minute U* formed by radiative
neutron capture in U*, Their experiments on the tracer scale of
investigation enabled them to show that neptunium is similar in chemi-
cal properties to uranium. This was probably the most significant
first evidence that the heavy elements do not have electron structures
analogous to the elements immediately above them in the periodic
table in which the 5d electron shell is being filled. The similarity of
neptunium to uranium in chemical properties and its great dissimi-
larity to rhenium, immediately above it in the periodic table, was the
first convincing evidence that it is the 5f electron shell which is being
filled in the heavy-element region.

Another isotope of neptunium, Np**’, was discovered early in 1942
by bombarding uranium with fast neutrons, using the Berkeley cyclo-
tron. This isotope is the decay product of the previously known 7-day
B-particle emitting U?" which is formed as the result of an (n,2n)
reaction on U*8®, The isotope, Np?”, is of particular importance
because it has a very long life, emitting o-particles with a half-life
of 2.25 X10® years, and because it is available in weighable amounts.
This isotope is produced during the operation of the large uranium
chain-reacting units, a very fortunate circumstance, for otherwise
it is probable that the element neptunium would not be available for
study in the macroscopic state.
PLUTONIUM—SEABORG 209

Jt is of interest to give a brief description of the complex nuclear
reactions which lead to the production of this isotope in the uranium-
graphite chain-reacting units. As is now well known, the nuclear
chain-reaction depends on the following reaction of the isotope U?*5
with neutrons:

U*’1+n—=> fission products+neutrons--energy (1)

The neutrons liberated in this fission are fast neutrons, and in the
case of the natural uranium constituting such chain-reacting units
these would react preferentially with the large amount of U?*
(99.3 percent by weight) and not leave enough neutrons to react with
the U** to maintain the chain-reaction unless special precautions are
taken. If the neutrons are reduced in energy this situation no longer
applies, as the probability of the fission reaction increases markedly
with decrease in neutron energy. In the uranium-graphite lattice
structure, in which lumps of uranium are interspersed in a graphite
matrix, the graphite slows down the fission neutrons without captur-
ing them. ‘The fission neutrons which originally escaped from the
uranium then return from the graphite to the uranium, and after the
proper proportion undergo reaction 1 again in order to perpetuate the
chain, the majority of the remainder undergo the following reaction:

Use Np”? — > Pu9 (2)

leading to the production of plutonium.
However, a certain proportion of the fission neutrons have a sufii-
ciently high energy to produce the following reaction:

U8 n —> U*"+2n (3)

before they escape from the uranium into the graphite. The U*"
formed in this manner decays to the above-mentioned Np*’, thus lead-
ing to the production of this isotope in the uranium in addition to the
primary desired product, Pu**, and the fission byproducts. In a
uranium-graphite pile the Np**" is produced at a rate corresponding to
the order of 0.1 percent of that of the primary product, Pu.

Some of the isotope Np” has been recovered by suitable modification
of the chemical separation process used at Hanford. As a result of
this work and these special runs, several hundred milligrams of the
isotope Np?" have been recovered and made available for the investiga-
tion of its chemical properties.

Using this material, it has been possible to make an intensive study
of the chemical properties of neptunium, leading to the establishment
of its oxidation states and the properties of a large number of its
compounds. This work has shown that neptunium has the oxidation
states VI, V, IV, and IIT with a general shift in stability toward the
lower oxidation states as compared to uranium.
210 #ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

The relatively low specific a-activity of the isotope Np*” places the
element neptunium in a class by itself in the transuranium group
because it is relatively safe to handle from the health standpoint.
The other transuranium elements are so highly a-radioactive that spe-
cial techniques and precautions are mandatory when they are handled in
ordinary, let us say milligram, amounts. However, the half-life of
Np’, 2.25 X 10° years, corresponds to a specific a-particle activity of
some 114 million a-particles per minute per milligram, only about
1,000 times that of ordinary uranium. Material of this level of radio-
activity can be handled without special equipment, provided reasonable
care and precautions are observed.

It seems desirable to work toward the modification of the chemical
separation processes used in the plutonium manufacturing plants in
such a manner that the neptunium will be completely recovered in a
routine manner and it seems likely that this will be done sometime in
the future. When neptunium becomes available in moderate amounts,
one can visualize its eventual classification as an element whose avail-
ability to chemists as a whole for study will rank along with a number
of the rarer elements in the classical periodic table. In fact, it is not
out of the question that neptunium may some day be used sparingly
in university laboratory courses in qualitative analysis and advanced
inorganic chemistry and in courses in nuclear chemistry and physics.

PLUTONIUM

Plutonium was the second transuranium element to be discovered.
The first isotope to be fund was Pu**, an a-emitter of some 50 years’
half-life, formed according to the following reactions:

U*8-+ -H? —> Np*8-+-2n (4)
B-
Np** —— Pu” (5)
2.0-day

The chemistry of plutonium was first investigated by the tracer
technique using this isotope. These experiments showed that the
chemical properties of this element are similar to those of neptunium
and uranium, differing in that the lower oxidation states of plutonium
are more stable.

The isotope of major importance is, of course, Pu**. 'This isotope,
which is an a-emitter with a half-life of about 24,000 years, is
synthesized according to reactions 1 and 2 above, and its tremendous
importance stems from its property of being fissionable with slow
neutrons, together with the fact that the problem of its mass production
has been solved.
PLUTONIUM—SEABORG PAI

The Plutonium Project of the Manhattan District was organized for
the purpose of producing this isotope, the explosive ingredient for the
atomic bomb. The first isolation of pure Pu*® and the early study of
its chemistry and the design of the chemical process for its large-scale
separation from uranium and fission products, which involved work on
the ultramicrochemical scale with only microgram amounts of material,
have been described in previous discussions.

The availability of the relatively large amounts of plutonium, as the
result of the successful operation of the chain-reacting uranium piles,
has made it possible to make a complete investigation of its chemical
properties using methods which can be considered to be those of ordi-
nary chemistry except for the health precautions which are necessary.
This work has established that plutonium has the oxidation states VI,
V, IV, and III, and that there is a shift in stability toward the III
state as compared to neptunium and uranium. <A large number of
compounds of plutonium have been prepared and their properties
determined. It may be said that the chemistry of plutonium today is
as well or better understood than is that of most of the elements in
the periodic system, even though its chemistry is very complex as can
be judged by the multiple oxidation states.

Because of its relatively high specific a-radioactivity, amounting to
about 140,000,000 « disintegrations per minute per milligram, special
equipment and special precautions are necessary in the investigations
of its properties. This high a-radioactvity makes it expedient to con-
tinue to use rather small amounts—that is milligram amounts—for a
number of these investigations even though large amounts might be
available. Even if there were no other reasons, its high a-radio-
activity places plutonium outside of the class of elements which might
eventually find widespread distribution among chemists for investi-
gation of its chemical properties.

As I have indicated earlier, the question as to the existence of trans-
uranium elements in nature has long been a matter for speculation and
investigation. It was also indicated that it is now almost certainly
known that these elements do not exist in appreciable amounts on the
face of the earth. I wouid like to discuss this matter further because
it is true that one of these elements, plutonium, has been experimentally
found to exist in nature in minute amount.

The knowledge of the chemical properties of neptunium and plu-
tonium which had become available as a result of the discovery and
study of these elements made it possible to conduct very effective
searches for these elements in various minerals. Early in 1942 G. T.
Seaborg and M. L. Perlman in Berkeley undertook a search for these
elements in pitchblende ore, the primary purpose at that time being
to establish whether such a source of a fissionable transuranium isotope
might serve as a practical source capable of substituting for the, at that
212 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

time, undeveloped and questionable nuclear chain-reaction for produc-
tion purposes.

The ore pitchblende was chosen for this first search because it was felt
that a source rich in radioactive material would offer the most hope
and also because pitchblende is known to contain a large number, some
40, of different elements. About 0.5 kilogram of pitchblende ore was
completely dissolved and subjected to an exhaustive chemical process
designed to separate and isolate the elements neptunium and plu-
tonium. A small quantity of a-radioactivity was found in this trans-
uranium fraction and these investigators attributed this to the plu-
tonium isotope, Pu*. The amount of plutonium in the pitchblende
corresponded to about one part in 10%, an amount which could not
possibly have been found had the chemical properties not been known.
Thus, although the experiment proved that this could not be a prac-
tical source for the production of plutonium, it also gave good evidence
that this element does exist in measurable quantities on the face of
the earth.

The relatively short half-life of Pu compared to the age of the earth
makes it necessary that it be continuously formed in order that it be
present on the earth in any detectable amount. There is a mechanism
for its continuous formation which can both qualitatively and quanti-
tatively account for its presence in pitchblende. Uranium undergoes
spontaneous fission according to the following reaction :

U8 __, fission products+ neutrons+ energy (6)

and the rate corresponds to a “half-life” for this process of some 107°
years. If all the neutrons from this process are reabsorbed by U**
to form Pu according to reaction 2 above, the amount of Pu in the
pitchblende in equilibrium with its parent U** would be (assuming
two neutrons per spontaneous fission) 2 X 24,000/10**= approximately
500 parts in 10%, This corresponds to some 100 or 200 parts of Pu’
per 10** parts of pitchblende. Thus only about 1 percent of the spon-
taneous fission neutrons need be absorbed by U**, the remainder either
escaping or being reabsorbed by the many neutron-absorbing impuri-
ties in the pitchblende, in order to account for the Pu** present.

There are, of course, other sources of neutrons which may be of com-
parable importance in the formation of this Pu*®. For example,
uranium, and especially its decay products, emits a-particles which
can give rise to neutrons according to the well-known (a, n) reaction
as a result of their reaction with light nuclei—for example, lithium,
boron, beryllium, fluorine, oxygen, etc.—in the pitchblende.

A further search for the presence of transuranium elements in nature
was made during the summer of 1942. Another radioactive ore—
namely, carnotite—was chosen this time, the investigation being car-
ried out by C. S. Garner, N. A. Bonner, and G. T. Seaborg. As in the
PLUTONIUM—SEABORG ots

case of the pitchblende a transuranium fraction which would contain
neptunium and plutonium was carefully isolated from the completely
dissolved carnotite ore, about 5 kilograms being used in this case.
Again an alpha-radioactivity was found, the concentration of the
corresponding Pu being comparable to that found in the pitchblende.

It was originally intended to extend the search for transuranium
elements to a number of other ores, but the exigencies of the investi-
gations in connection with the Plutonium Project made it impossible to
carry out this program. Such a program did not seem justified in
view of the small amounts which had been found in the pitchblende
and carnotite. The results of the investigation tempt one toward the
conclusion that transuranium elements do not exist in practical amounts
on the face of the earth. There will, of course, be some neptunium, in
the form of the isotope Np”’, present in pitchblende, carnotite and
other uranium-bearing ores formed as the result of reaction 3 above,
but it seems very likely that the concentration of this is even smaller
than the concentration of the plutonium. The amounts of americium
and curium on the basis of present indications would appear to be even
smaller. However, there is just an outside possibility that there might
exist some transuranium isotope or isotopes, perhaps, whose radiation
characteristics have not yet been characterized, formed by a mechanism
as yet not conceived. Thus, although it appears that transuranium
elements do not exist on the earth in any ores in concentrations larger
than some one part per 10", it might be a little premature to make this
statement too definite and further searches for such elements might be
worth while.

AMERICIUM

Americium, the element with atomic number 95, was the fourth
transuranium element to be discovered, its first identification taking
place late in 1944 and early in 1945. The first isotope of this element
was identified in the experiments of G. T. Seaborg, R. A. James, and
L, O. Morgan at the Metallurgical Laboratory of the University of
Chicago.

The bombardment of U** with very high-energy (40 to 44 Mev.)
helium ions in the cyclotron leads to the formation of the isotope of
americium with mass 241—that is, Am’. The Am*" is the daughter
of a relatively long-lived £-emitting Pu which is formed in the
primary reaction of U*** and helium ions. The reactions therefore
are as follows:

U8 Het —— > Pu*!-+n (7)
Pu%! —> Am”! (8)
long

The isotope Am*™' emits a-particles with a half-life of 500 years.
214 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

The availability of this isotope of americium made it possible to
study the chemical properties of this element using the tracer tech-
nique. Deductions from this work led to the conclusion that this
element probably exists in aqueous solution in only the one oxidation
state, the III state. This is in line with the tendency toward the
stabilization of the lower oxidation states in going to the heavier ele-
ments in this region.

It has recently been possible to isolate americium in the form of a
pure compound of this element. B. B. Cunningham, working at the
Metallurgical Laboratory, has succeeded in isolating this element and
in studying its chemical properties using a weighable amount on the
ultramicrochemical scale. This is a remarkable achievement in that
the amounts available here were even smaller than those in the case of
neptunium and plutonium. This, then, is the third synthetic element
which has been isolated in pure form. The work of Cunningham and
L. B. Werner with pure americium in aqueous solution has confirmed
the tracer work by showing that the III oxidation state is very stable
in solution and is the predominant and most important state.

Americium, with its 500-year half-life, has a higher specific a-activ-
ity than even Pu. Its specific e-activity amounts to some 7 billion
a disintegrations per minute per milligram. Thus even if this element
should become available in ordinary amounts, let us say, milligram
amounts, it will always be necessary to conduct its investigation with
special precautions and using the special techniques for handling
highly a-active material. The investigation of the chemical properties
of americium will demand investigators who are well trained with
handling highly a-active materials.

CURIUM

Curium was the third transuranium element to be discovered. The
first isotope of this element was the isotope, Cm”, which was identified
in 1944 by G. T. Seaborg, R. A. James, and A. Ghiorso at the Metal-
lurgical Laboratory as the result of its production in the Berkeley
60-inch cyclotron by the following reaction:

Pu*?+ Het —> Cm”?+n (9)

The isotope, Cm™?, is an a-particle emitter with a half-life of about 5
months.

The availability of this isotope of curium made it possible to study
the chemical properties of this element by use of the tracer technique.
Extensive investigations have led to the conclusion that curium prob-
ably exists exclusively in the III oxidation state in aqueous solution.
It is carried quantitatively by the rare earth fluorides in precipitation
reactions and can be separated from them only with difficulty.
PLUTONIUM—SEABORG 215

The isotope Cm? is also formed as the result of the strong neutron
irradiation of Am, The Am** absorbs neutrons to form a short-
lived (18-hour half-life) -emitter, Am***, which in turn decays to the
Cm?*, These nuclear reactions may be summarized as follows:

Am*!-+7 — > Am *##+ +7 (10)
Am”? ——+> Cm”? (11)
18-hr.

Another isotope of curium is also known. The bombardment of
Pu*® with 44-Mev. helium ions leads to the production of the 1-month
a-emitting Cm*° by the reaction:

Pu*®+,Het —> Cm*°+ 3n

The relative yield of Cm™° compared to the yield of Cm? from re-
action 9 above increases with increasing energy of the helium ions.

The element curium has not yet been isolated in the pure state and
therefore this is the only one of the four known transuranium ele-
ments for which this has not been done.? It is, of course, of interest to
inquire whether it will be possible to do this in the future. Appar-
ently this will be difficult with the present isotopes, Cm?” or Cm”,
since these have rather short half-lives—namely, approximately 5
months and 1 month, respectively. As has been the case for the other
three transuranium elements the first isolation of curium in the pure
state will probably take place as the result of work on the ultramicro-
chemical scale with microgram or less amounts of material.

The isotope Cm” with its 5-month half-life has a specific a-activity
corresponding to about 10" a disintegrations per minute per milligram.
This will mean that even 1 microgram will correspond to some 104%
disintegrations per minute. A specific «-radioactivity of this magni-
tude gives rise to problems due to the aggregate recoil of submicro-
gram particles asa result of the tremendous rate of a-emission. Never-
theless, it seems entirely possible and even likely that curium, prob-
ably in the form of the longer-lived isotope Cm™, will be isolated in
the pure state as soon as the problem of its production in microgram
amounts is solved. Once this pure element is available in microgram
amounts it will be possible to study its chemistry by means of investi-
gations on the ultramicrochemical scale, although each measurement
in this case will be most difficult and laborious. Among the difficul-
ties here will be the rapid decomposition of the water in the solution,
the formation of hydrogen peroxide in the solution, heating of the
solution, and other effects. However, as in the cases of the other
~ 2 Curium was isolated in pure form in the fall of 1947 by L. B. Werner and J. Perlman
at the University of California.

777488—48-—16
916 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

three transuranium elements, where it was possible to graduate from
tracer scale investigations to the more certain investigations with the
pure elements, it does not seem too optimistic to hope that this will
soon also be true for curium.

It is, of course, not improbable that it will eventually be possible to
prepare isotopes of curium of longer half-life. It is, in fact, even
probable that isotopes such as Cm**, Cm’, Cm***, or Cm** may have
longer half-lives and that these isotopes may eventually become avail-
able for investigation.
Rie ATiee |

Smithsonian Report, 1947.—Seaborg

CAPILLARY TUBE

PRECIPITATE OF AMERICIUM HYDROXIDE IN

Eye of needle shows degree of magnification.
THE USE OF ISOTOPES AS TRACERS?

By A. H. W. ATEN, Jr.
and
F. A. Heyn

[With 1 plate]
INTRODUCTION

When the periodic system of chemical elements was set up in the
course of the previous century, it was thought that each element con-
sisted of only one definite kind of atom. Later this was found to be
incorrect: an element may consist of different kinds of atoms which
have practically identical chemical properties—the criterion for denot-
ing the atoms by the name of the respective element—but differ in
atomic weight by one or more units. Such isotopic atoms, so called
because they have to be given the same position in the periodic system,
may be stable or unstable. In the latter case they undergo a gradual
change, accompanied by a radiation, into another kind of atom; they
are then radioactive.

Almost all the kinds of atoms occurring in nature are stable. There
are only a few unstable ones, namely the well-known substances with
natural radioactivity, such as radium, thorium, uranium, etc. In addi-
tion to these, however, it is nowadays possible to turn each element
into one or more new isotopes which do not occur in nature, all of
which are unstable (artificial radioactive substances).

A single example will serve to illustrate the above. The element
calcium occurring in nature consists of six stable isotopic kinds of
atoms, namely, for 96.96 percent Ca*, i. e., calcium atoms with an
atomic weight of 40 (in round numbers), and further 0.64 percent
Ca*, 0.15 percent Ca**, 2.06 percent Ca**, 0.0033 percent Ca** and 0.19
percent Ca**, Furthermore, up to the beginning of the year 1944 it
had been found possible to make artificially six more radioactive cal-
cium isotopes with atomic weights 39, 39, 41, 45, 49, 49. The various
unstable isotopes can further be distinguished from each other by the
character of their radioactivity. In the case of a radioactive atom a

1 Reprinted by permission from Philips Technical Review, vol. 8, No. 10, October 1946.
217
218 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

certain percentage of the atomic nuclei present is transformed per
second into another sort by spontaneous disintegration, each disinte-
grating nucleus emitting, according to its sort, a negative or positive
electron or an a-particle (helium-nucleus). This is often accompanied
by an electromagnetic radiation (y-radiation). The intensity of the
total radiation of a radioactive preparation at any moment can easily
be measured. As the number of nondisintegrated atomic nuclei is
continually decreasing, while the chance of distintegration remains
constant for each atom and thus also the percentage of nuclei disinte-
grating per second, the radioactivity observed decreases with time.
The velocity of this decrease usually expressed by the “half-value
time,” i. e., the time in which the intensity of the radiation falls to
one-half, is characteristic for each isotope. The above-mentioned six
radioactive calcium isotopes have half-value times of 4.5 minutes,
1.06 seconds, 8.5 days, 180 days, 2.5 hours, and 30 minutes respectively.

The existence of the isotopes is not merely of theoretical interest. In
the last 10 to 20 years isotopes have become an extremely useful prac-
tical aid for all kinds of scientific and technical investigations. This
use of isotopes is based for a large part on the fact that an isolated
isotope of an element takes part in chemical and physical processes in
exactly the same way as the familiar mixture of isotopes of that element
which occurs in nature, while the isotope in question can always be
recognized by the investigator and can be traced even in a chemically
identical environment, thanks to its radioactivity or difference in
atomic weight. The isotope thus functions as a tracer, capable of fur-
nishing information about the process taking place, which would be
much more difficult or even quite impossible to obtain in any other way.

We shall explain this in more detail, but for better orientation of the
reader we shall first discuss four examples out of the large number of
investigations which have already been carried out with isotopes as
tracers.

WHAT CAN BE DONE WITH (RADIOACTIVE) ISOTOPIC TRACERS

First example.—In the production of steel, among other substances
the phosphorus, which is present in quite considerable quantities in
the crude iron, has to be rendered harmless by adding a slag-forming
substance or by lining the crucible with a material that reacts with
phosphorus. A continuous check has then to be kept of the amount of
phosphorus still present in the molten metal. This can, of course,
be done by chemical analysis of samples, but results are obtained much
more quickly and easily when a small amount of radioactive phos-
phorus is added to the melt at the beginning of the process. This is
rapidly distributed uniformly throughout the melt, so that the ratio
between the natural phosphorus present and the radioactive phos-
ISOTOPES—-ATEN AND HEYN 219

phorus added is the same everywhere. If phosphorus disappears
from the melt into the slag floating on the surface or into the lining
of the crucible this takes place to an equal degree with the natural
and with the radioactive element. The decrease in the percentage of
phosphorus in the melt can thus be determined merely by ascertaining
the decrease in the radioactive phosphorus. This is extremely simple,
since it is only necessary to measure the radioactivity of a sample of
the melt, which can be done very easily with an electrometer or an
electron counter.’

Second example.—In many factories the workers come into contact
with mercury, and it is known how harmful the regular inhalation of
mercury vapor can be; in course of time a concentration of more than
10-* gram of mercury per m° of air already becomes injurious to health.
Tt is a difficult problem to detect the presence of mercury in such
minute proportions, because chemical analyses are unavailing in such
cases. Ina certain case which occurred in the manufacture of tubular
luminescent lamps in an American factory, where the lamps were
filled with mercury vapor at a low pressure, a glass side-tube con-
taining a small drop of mercury had to be “blown” onto the lamp, and
inevitably the glass blower inhaled a very small quantity of mercury
vapor into his lungs. In order to determine how much was inhaled
a number of tests were carried out with a volume of 2 liters of air that
had been in contact with the drops of mercury under exactly the same
conditions as in the manufacturing process, this being drawn off by
suction and passed over a metal plate kept at the temperature of liquid
air. Practically all the mercury in the air condensed on the plate.

The mercury used for the experiments contained a known, small
percentage of a radioactive mercury isotope. The radioactivity of the
plate, which was quite simple to measure after the experiment, gave
an indication of the amount of mercury contained in the air which
had passed over the plate. In this way a concentration of 5 x 10% g/m®
could be detected. Average mercury concentrations were found of
about 10° and in one case about 4X 10~ g/m’, from which it was con-
cluded that in the manufacturing process in question the glass blower
ran no danger of poisoning.®

Third ecample—When a piece of metal is fused with a radioactive
lead isotope in an atmosphere of hydrogen and then allowed to crystal-
lize again, there are two possibilities. In some metals, such as thal-
lium and magnesium, lead is soluble to a considerable percentage, the
lead atoms being uniformly distributed in the grains and the poly-

2 An electron counter was described, e. g., by A. Bouwers and F. A, Heyn, in Philips
Techn. Rev., vol. 6, p. 75, 1941. In the measurements allowance must of course be made
for the natural decline in radioactivity with time. We shall return to such practical
details on a later occasion.

3 J. W. Irvine and C. Goodman, Journ. Appl. Phys., vol. 14, p. 496, 1943.
220 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

crystalline metal obtained. In other metals, on the other hand, such
as bismuth, tin, antimony, silver, gold, copper, and nickel, in which
lead is practically insoluble, the radioactive lead is situated on the
boundaries of the grains. When a microscopic preparation of the
metal is made and laid on a photographic plate for several hours after
development, the plate will be found to be blackened at those places
where it lay against radioactive particles, thus where lead has been
deposited. By means of such an “autoradiogram,” of which plate 1,
figure 1 is an illustration, it is possible in the first place to ascertain
whether and to what degree the added lead is soluble in the metal; if
the lead is entirely dissolved the entire surface of the photographic
plate is uniformly blackened; if the lead does not dissolve, or only
partially, the radiogram shows up very nicely also the boundaries of
the grains (pl. 1, fig. 1). Thus the isotopic method can also in this
case furnish valuable information about the changes taking place in
the structure of the metal upon recrystallization and in rolling.*

Fourth ecample.—F riction between two metal surfaces is due partly
to adhesion, the result being that when the surfaces slide over each
other extremely small particles of metal are torn out of one and taken
up in the other. This exchange of metal may take place to such an
extent that two surfaces become, as it were, welded together (the
familiar seizing). The quantity of material thus transferred from
one metal to the other is a measure of the contribution of this effect
to the total force of friction. In general it is a question of very small
amounts which chemically can hardly be detected at all. An investi-
gation has now been carried out with the help of a radioactive tracer.
One metal surface was “activated,” i. e., it consisted for a small
part of atoms of a radioactive isotope of the metal. After this sur-
face had been made to slide over the second, nonactivated metal sur-
face, the latter also showed a certain amount of radioactivity.
Amounts of 10° gram of transferred metal were detected in this
way, and, what is more, by means of a radiogram, as described in the
preceding example, also the distribution of the transferred material
on the surface could be studied. From the radiogram shown in plate 1,
figure 2, a, it may be concluded, for example, that in this experiment
the sliding of the two metal surfaces over each other was not con-
tinuous but took place in small jerks. By this method the influence of
all kinds of factors, such as the pressure, the hardness of the surface,
etc., on the transfer of material can be studied, as also the effect of a
lubricant. (See pl. 1, fig. 2, 0.)

‘Q@. Tammann and G. Bandel, Zeitschr. Metallk., vol. 25, pp. 153 and 207, 1933.
'B. W. Sakmann, J. T. Burwell, and J. W. Irvine, Journ. Appl. Phys., vol. 15, p. 495,
1944; J. N. Gregory, Nature (London), vol. 157, p. 444, Apr. 6, 1946.
ISOTOPES—ATEN AND HEYN DBA
WHY THE TRACER MHPTHOD IS SO IMPORTANT

From these few examples we can already deduce the most important
aspects which have lent such great significance to the tracer method.

We first call attention to the last example discussed. The transfer
of material can also be measured when the two surfaces sliding over
each other contain the same metals or even when they are exactly
identical. It must be realized that this would not be possible by any
other known method, since the transfer takes place in both directions:
there is an exchange of identical particles. It would not be possible
by any chemical or physical method to ascertain the origin of the
metal present on one of the surfaces after the experiment, whereas
the radioactive isotope immediately gives the answer.

Processes in which there is an exchange of identical particles are
very common in nature, not only in chemistry and metallurgy, but
especially in the physiology of plants and animals. The tracer method,
which offers the only method of approach, has been used on a large
scale for the investigation of such processes, and the publications in
that field are innumerable. In a survey of such investigations for
the year 1940°* in physiology alone more than 300 publications are
cited. But also in the field of technology, for routine tests, and like-
wise in agriculture and chemistry, the method is being more and more
widely applied.’

Although the last example discussed illustrates the possibility of
studying the exchange of identical particles with the help of an isotope,
the employment of the tracer method in that case is not motivated
only by the possibility mentioned. When two different metals slide
over each other the transfer of material could in principle be studied
also by other methods. The fact that a radioactive tracer is, never-
theless, used, is due to the fact that a much greater sensitivity can be
attained with the radioactivity measurements, i. e., much smaller
amounts of a substance can be detected than with other methods so far
available. The same applies to the case of the determination of
mercury. In the determination of phosphorus, which was discussed as
the first example, the indicator method is not necessary in principle
either, but it was applied there because of the greater ease with which
the quantity of phosphorus could be determined, compared with a
chemical or other analysis. Finally, an important point in the em-
ployment of a radioactive isotope is that it can be localized so easily
when mixed with a different or a chemically identical substance, while
also its distribution can be determined. (See the radiograms of pl. 1,
figs. 1 and 2.)

6 J. R. Loofbourow, Rev. Mod. Phys., vol. 12, p. 267, 1940.

7 See, for example, the survey of chemical applications by G. Seaborg, Chem. Rey., vol. 27,
p. 199, 1940, where more than 500 publications are mentioned, most of them different from
those in the article by Loofbourow.
922 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

Where radioactive isotopes are applied for the sake of the advan-
tages of greater sensitivity and easier working, while in principle other
methods would also provide an answer to the questions raised, one
might speak of “untrue” applications of the indicator method. In
such cases the nature of the isotope is sometimes a matter of indiffer-
ence; in order to obtain a radiogram of the grain boundaries in a
polycrystalline material it would also be possible to use a radioactive
isotope of some metal other than lead, provided it does not dissolve in
the base metal. In the “true” applications of the tracer method it is
quite different, for there it is essential that an isotope can be detected
in identical surroundings.

In this connection attention should be called to the fact that the
tracer method can also be applied with nonradioactive isotopes. The
atoms of such isotopes are recognizable (labeled) by their different
atomic weight and the properties connected therewith, such as specific
weight, velocity of diffusion, heat conductivity, etc. The most im-
portant atoms to be considered are “heavy hydrogen” (deuterium) of
atomic weight 2 (approximate), the oxygen isotope of atomic weight
18, and the nitrogen isotope of atomic weight 15. With such stable
isotopes the measurement of the radioactivity of mixtures of isotopes
is replaced by measurements of density or the like.

These measurements are generally much less easy than the measure-
ment of radioactivity and also not so sensitive by far. With stable
isotopes there is, therefore, no question of “untrue” applications of the
tracer method. The reason for using these is solely the possibility of
studying processes of exchange, where no suitable radioactive isotopes
can be found.

Owing to the very large number of applications of the indicator
method (true and untrue) it has become impossible, as well as purpose-
less, to give a survey of these applications, even if one confined oneself
to a definite field. We shall not, therefore, attempt to do so, but in the
following we shall say something about the origin of the method and
follow this up with a number of suitably chosen examples, with the
intention of showing the possibilities of the method from different
angles. In a subsequent article we shall go more deeply into the
practical performance of investigations with radioactive and also
with stable isotopes. As to this practical performance we can only
point out here that it is not necessary to prepare the radioactive (or
stable) isotopes oneself, for they can be obtained from certain suitably
equipped laboratories. In Europe the Philips Laboratory in Eind-
hoven, among others, has already supplied suitable radioactive sub-
stances for a number of applications.
ISOTOPES—ATEN AND HEYN 223

ORIGIN OF THE METHOD

The tracer method was initiated by Hevesy, who first discovered the
possibility of studying processes of exchange by that means and im-
mediately put his ideas into practice (in 1915). He used the method,
for instance, to test the theory of Arrhenius about the dissociation of
electrolytes. In essence his experiment was as follows. From a cer-
tain amount of normal lead a lead salt is prepared, for instance lead
chloride, and from a corresponding amount of the radioactive lead
isotope, which is formed as a disintegration product of radium, another
salt, for instance lead nitrate, is prepared. When the two salts are
dissolved in water, the solutions mixed, and then the two salts extracted
separately from the mixture, the two lead compounds are found to
have become equally radioactive.

The lead atoms from the two salts must, therefore, have been com-
pletely mixed in the solution. This result agrees entirely with the
hypothesis that the lead compounds are dissociated in the solution,
i. e., that lead occurs therein in the form of free ions.

We have just said that one salt was prepared from normal lead and
the other from the radioactive lead isotope. Consequently, in order
to carry out the experiment in this way a sample of the pure radio-
active lead isotope would have to be available. Actually, however, this
is not necessary. It is sufficient if one sample of lead contains only
a small amount of the radioactive isotope. Hevesy recognized this
from the very beginning, as may be seen from the curious story of
the way in which he came to use the isotopes in this way. He had
tried in vain to separate radium D from a quantity of lead containing
asmall amount of that substance. Since radium D is an isotope of lead
(the radioactive isotope mentioned in the radium series; its name dates
from the time when there was no clear idea of the situation), it cannot,
as we now know, be separated by ordinary chemical means. It was
just this failure that gave Hevesy the idea that he could always dis-
tinguish the lead of this sample “contaminated” with radium D from
a sample of ordinary lead: in all mixtures with ordinary lead every
fraction of the “contaminated” (radioactive) lead sample takes an
equal fraction of the original radioactivity with it and can thus be
determined quantitatively by measurement of the radioactivity.

The “contaminated” lead is thus, as it were, indicated or labeled by the radio-
active isotope itself, and provided it is a homogeneous mixture the whole sample
can serve as a quantity of labeled atoms. ‘This is in fact obvious when it is borne
in mind that the radioactivity of an element only means that per unit of time
a certain percentage of the atoms present in a sample disintegrates spontane-
ously. If the sample also contains a number of isotopic atoms which are stable
and thus will never disintegrate, the only result, in the first instance, is that the

percentage of disintegrating atoms per unit of time, is smaller, thus the radio-
activity is “diluted.” In fact, also in the first examples discussed there were

777488—48—_17
224 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

certain dilutions of radioactive phosphorus and mercury, and this is usually the
case with artificial radioactive substances where the degree of “concentration”
of the radioactivity depends upon the preparation of the substance.

Hevesy’s applications of radioactive substances were not confined
to exchange experiments. He realized also the significance of radio-
activity measurements as a substitute for chemical analyses, owing to
the great ease and sensitivity of the method as illustrated by our first
examples, and he thus also made use of “untrue” applications of in-
dicators. Once, when he had reason to suspect the cleanliness of his
landlady, he smeared a bit of “dirt” with a radioactive substance on
his dinner plate and checked daily whether the plate had been prop-
erly washed simply by measuring the radioactivity which (literally)
still clung to it. He was indeed able to detect radioactivity of the
plate for many days. Whether or not this was to be ascribed to the
carelessness of the landlady or to the extreme sensitivity of the method,
history fails to relate.

DENOMINATION OF THE METHOD

Hevesy called a radioactive isotope used for the experiments de-
scribed, an indicator, and thus following his example one often speaks
of the indicator method. In recent years in English-speaking coun-
tries the terms “tracer method” and “tracer atoms” have become more
usual: The radioactive isotopes are used, as it were, for discovering
and following a trace. “Labeled” and “tagged” atoms are also often
spoken of. The terms speak for themselves. Finally, to complete the
list, we may mention the denoting of these atoms as “spies,” as pro-
posed by Evans.* This name is meant to indicate that each atom of a
radioactive isotope can move about unrecognized in a “crowd” of even
similar atoms until at a certain moment it “betrays” its presence and
whereabouts by its disintegration. The concentration of “spies” in the
experiments usually lies between 1 to 10* and 1 to 10** normal indi-
viduals. Translated into terms of human society, this would be
equivalent to one spy among a population at least five times as large
as that of the whole earth.

FURTHER EXAMPLES OF THE APPLICATION OF TRACERS

The examples which will be discussed in the following in unrelated
order, will give the reader an idea of the multifarious nature of the
applications of indicators. In order to reduce them to some kind of
systematic order we have sorted out the examples into three groups
according to the character of the problem. In the first group the prob-
lem is only where something is situated (localization), in the second

8R. D. Evans, Applied Nuclear Physics, Journ. Appl. Phys., vol. 12, p. 260, 1941.
ISOTOPES—ATEN AND HEYN 220

group how much of a substance there is, remains behind, or takes part
in a process (quantitative problems) ; in the third group it is particu-
larly a question of exchange processes. It must be said, however, that
often the boundaries between the groups cannot be sharply drawn. In
localization problems one is obviously always concerned with “untrue”
indicator applications, as is also usually the case in the second group
(quantitative problems), while the last group contains only “true”
cases.

Localization.—A very old example is the tracing of samples of
radium that have been lost in hospitals through carelessness or theft ;
the places where the sample might possibly be, for instance the refuse
heap, are gone over with an electron counter. A more modern case
is the tracing of stoppages in an oil pipe line. In the periodical
cleaning of the walls of the pipe a screw-shaped scraper is placed
in the line and pushed along by the pressure of the oil itself. If the
scraper gets jammed somewhere, it has to be located as quickly as
possible, in order to open the line at that point and remove the accu-
mulated deposit. With the help of a radioactive indicator this locali-
zation is astonishingly simple. A scraper is used that contains a little
radioactive material emitting y-radiation, which easily penetrates
through the walls of the pipe and can be detected with a somewhat
modified “electron counter.” One rides along the line with this “count-
ing” apparatus until the radioactivity betrays the position where the
scraper has stopped.

There is another similar application in the petroleum industry, for
determining the setting depth of the cement that is pumped in behind
the casing of an oil well. <A radioactive mineral, carnotite, is mixed
with the cement and when a counting instrument is lowered into the
drill hole it indicates a strong radiation at the level of the cement.

Extremely fine cracks in metal surfaces can be detected and local-
ized by applying a greasy paste containing a radioactive substance to
the surface of the metal under high pressure. Upon the surface be-
ing cleaned, the radioactive paste is left in the cracks, and by making
an autoradiogram of the surface the cracks can then easily be seen.

Quantitative problems.—In order to determine the efficiency of a
fog, smoke, or dust filter, it is necessary to measure the very small
quantities of fog-forming or other substances retained by the filter.
As fog-forming substance, tricresyl phosphate, containing radioactive
phosphorus is used. When this is passed successively through several
filters, their efficiency can be judged by comparing the intensity of their
radioactivity.

Radioactive isotopes are sometimes an excellent means of measuring
very small solubilities or very low vapor pressures. The vapor pres-
sure of thorium acetyl acetonate, for example, has been determined
226 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

by preparing a sample of the compound with a strongly radioactive
thorium isotope, saturating a given volume of nitrogen with the vapor
of the compound and passing the gas through acidified alcohol, in
which the compound is absorbed. The thorium concentration can
then be calculated from the radioactivity of the liquid and from that
the amount of vapor in the given volume of nitrogen.

In general it may be said that radioactive isotopes render valuable
service in microchemistry, 1. e., the chemical investigation of extremely
small quantities of a substance, as for instance in adsorption phenom-
ena, in very dilute solutions, etc. Another interesting fact is that
radioactivity has made possible the investigation of the chemical prop-
erties of the elements “43” and “85” and of several “transuraniums,”
elements which could not be found in nature but from which radio-
active isotopes could be prepared artificially in imponderably small
quantities.

Important perspectives are opened by the application of radioactive
indicators in chemical analysis, so often constituting daily routine
work in technology. One example out of many is the following. It
is desired to determine the bromine content in a mixture of a bromide
and a chloride. A complete separation of the two compounds is very
difficult and takes up a great deal of time. If, however, a little radio-
active bromine (in the form of the compound in question) is added to
the mixture, only a partial separation of the bromine is sufficient. Due
to the homogeneous mixing it is known that the ratio between the bro-
mine separated and the total amount of bromine is equal to the ratio
between the radioactivity separated out and the original radioactivity.
Since the latter ratio is easily determined, it is possible to calculate
the desired total content of bromine directly from the amount of
bromine separated out.

An application in biology somewhat resembling the above is the
determination of the total amount of blood in an animal. After a
certain amount of blood has been taken death inevitably sets in and it
is then impossible to draw off the rest of the blood. If, however, a
solution of some substance or other containing a known quantity of
radioactive atoms is injected into the test animal intravenously and
given time to distribute itself homogeneously throughout the whole
circulatory system, a small sample of the blood suffices, for the total
amount of blood can then be calculated from the percentage of injected
radioactive atoms recovered in the sample. (Of course, no appreciable
part of the injected substance must have been transferred from the
blood to other parts of the body.)

The fact that it is practically unnecessary to interfere with the
normal life of the test animal is of importance for many investiga-
tions, especially those of a pharmacodynamic nature. We may men-
ISOTOPES—ATEN AND HEYN O27

tion here an investigation into the rate of absorption of insulin which
is injected periodically under the skin of sufferers from diabetes. It is
often desirable to restrict the number of injections and it is therefore
favorable if the insulin is retained for a relatively long time near the
point of injection, or stored there as it were, and only slowly taken
up in the circulation. By building a radioactive atom (radioactive
iodine) into the molecule of three kinds of insulin, viz., “ordinary”
insulin, globine insulin, and protamine-zinc insulin, and measuring
from time to time the decrease of radioactivity at the point of injection,
it has been possible to determine that the rate of absorption of the
three kinds of insulin in the body decreases in the order given above.

EBechange processes.—Although also in chemistry and technology
numerous processes play a part where an exchange of identical particles
occurs—we mention only autodiffusion, e. g., the diffusion of lead
atoms in lead—physiology is the most prominent field for such ex-
changes. One of the most striking examples is the continuous ex-
change of the building materials of the body. This has been studied
in detail with phosphorus in the form of various compounds, with the
help of radioactive phosphorus, which lends itself so well for such
experiments. Particularly Hevesy has done a great deal of these in-
vestigations. It has been established that phosphorus does not remain
permanently bound in any constituent of the body. The exchange
takes place most rapidly between the blood and various organs: of
the phosphate ions present in the blood at a given moment after 2 hours,
only 2 percent are still present, the rest having been exchanged. In
the liver and kidneys, too, there is a rapid renewal, but also in the bones
and even in the brain the phosphorus is in course of time renewed,
though at a much slower rate. The parts of the body that take least
part in the continual exchange are the teeth: after 250 days only 1
percent of the phosphorus in the dental enamel is renewed.

In a certain case it is not so much a matter of exchange as one of
selective assimilation of substances by certain constituents of the body,
namely where the exchange leads, as it were, to a credit balance for
that part of the body. A striking example is the assimilation of iodine
by the thyroid gland. With the help of a radioactive iodine isotope it
has been determined that, out of an extra amount of iodine admin-
istered in the food, after 1 or 2 days a healthy person has stored up in
the thyroid gland about 3 percent, whereas a sufferer from goitre stores
up 30 percent or more. (See fig. 1.) In certain cases of cancer of the
thyroid gland the radioactive iodine was found to be accumulated not
in the cancer tissue but in the healthy tissue. (Thus we again arrive
at the problems referred to under “localization.”) Somewhat similar
phenomena are found in the case of the assimilation of radioactive
strontium in the blood and in the bones. It has been possible not only
228 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

to determine how this process is retarded, for instance, by rickets and
then promoted by the administration of vitamin D, and how it is even
led in the opposite direction by Basedow’s disease, but it has also been
possible to study the finer distribution of the strontium assimilated :
the strontium was found to accumulate in the hard bone tissue, and in
the case of bone cancer it showed a preference for the cancer tissue and
possible metastases thereof. Though straying from our subject, it
should be pointed out that this last case may be of value to the doctor
not only diagnostically but also therapeutically. Given a sufficiently

(¢) 1 2 3 4

d

97767

Figure 1.—The assimilation of iodine in the thyroid gland. Along the abscissa is
the number of days which has elapsed after the administration of a known extra
amount of iodine in food ; along the ordinate the percentage of this amount found
in the thyroid gland as measured by means of radioactive iodine: a, for healthy
persons; b, with benign goitre; c, with Basedow’s disease; d, upon defective
functioning of the thyroid gland (myxoedema). (From J. G. Hamilton, Appli-
cation of radioactive tracers to biology and medicine, Journ. Appl. Phys., vol. 12,
pp. 440-460, 1941.)

high concentration the radiation of a radioactive kind of atom has a
destructive effect on the cancer tissue. If the radiating substance is
selectively attracted by the cancer cells, as strontium by bone cancer,
this may eventually serve as the basis of a very effective therapeutic
treatment. On the other hand, for physiological applications of
radioactive isotopes as indicators it is a general rule that the destructive
effect of the radiation must be avoided by keeping the concentrations of
the radioactive isotopes sufficiently small.

We shall leave it at these examples. They are sufficient to give the
reader an impression of what can be achieved with the tracer method
in research work and routine investigation, a method for which uses are
to be found in ever-increasing numbers and in even wider fields.
Smithsonian Report, 1947.—Aten and Heyn PLATE 1

1. Radiogram of tin with a radioactive lead isotope (thorium B) deposited at the
grain boundaries of the polycrystalline metal. Magnified about six times.
(From G. Tammann and G. Bandel, Zeitschr. Metallk., vol. 25, p. 154, 1933.)

2. Radiograms of a metal surface after it has been rubbed with a piece of metal

containing a radioactive component. The radioactivity of the surface shows
there had been a transfer of material. This explains to a large extent the
friction set up when one surface slides over another. The illustration relates
to the friction of lead on steel: a, with no lubricant; 6, with lubricant. Magni-
fied about six times. (From J. N. Gregory, Nature (London), vol. 157, p. 444,
1946.)
SILICONES—A NEW CONTINENT IN THE WORLD OF
CHEMISTRY?

By S. L. Bass
Assistant General Manager, Dow Corning Corporation
Midland, Mich.

[With 3 plates]

When Columbus started out, the coast of Europe was well known
and the coast of China had been explored. He assumed, therefore, that
by sailing west from Europe he would reach the coast of China. No
one knew then that a great continent lay between Europe and Asia.

The same condition was, until quite recently, true in the chemical
world. Men had known about inorganic materials such as ceramics,
glass, and metals for centuries. They had known of organic mate-
rials based principally upon carbon and its compounds for genera-
tions and had developed thousands of synthetic organic materials
in the more recent past. But no one knew that between these two
fields lay a new chemical continent of semi-inorganic materials known
today as silicones. Organic chemists started to explore the simple
organo-silicon compounds some 50 years ago. It was not until the
early 1930’s however, when chemists at the Corning Glass Works
started to investigate the organo-silicon oxide high polymers that the
importance of this new chemical continent began to appear.

Like glasses and the mineral silicates, of which fibrous glass, mica,
and asbestos are familiar forms of heat-resistant insulating materials,
the silicones also are derived from silica. Chemically, the silicones,
like glass and the mineral silicates, are built upon a heat-stable skele-
tal structure of silicon atoms joined to each other through oxygen
atoms. In the silicones, however, each silicon atom has attached to
it one or more organic groups.

THE SILICONE MOLECULE

Sand is the source of silicones, just as it is of glass. However, in-
stead of its being combined with inorganic oxides from lime and soda,
it is altered rather radically by being put through a series of chemi-

1 Reprinted by permission from Electrical Engineering, vol. 66, No. 4, April 1947.
229
230 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

cal processes. A grain of sand is, in effect, a complex molecule of
silica. Each silicon atom is linked to four oxygen atoms which in
turn link it with other silicon atoms. In making silicones, part of
those oxygen atoms are replaced by organic hydrocarbon groups de-
rived from coal or oil.

This is a complex process which is interesting primarily to chem-
ists. The job of silicone chemists, and, to no little extent, their art,
is so to “tailor” the high-polymeric organo-silicon oxide molecules
that a variety of products, each designed to meet specific use require-
ments, can be produced.

Already a large group of new engineering materials have been
derived from sand. These materials are available in a wide variety
of physical forms. They include oils, compounds having a grease-
like consistency, resins for heat-resistant enamels, laminates and mold-
ing plastics, and even a semi-inorganic rubber called “Silastic.” In
this age of chemical marvels, when people expect the chemist to pull
new and ever more astounding marvels from under his hat, the pro-
duction of rubber from sand is among the more astounding accom-
plishments of chemistry.

HEAT STABILITY

All these silicone products are characterized by a higher order of
stability to heat and by greater resistance to moisture than conven-
tional organic materials in the same physical forms. This heat stability
and the suitability of silicone compounds for use in electrical insula-
tion are inherent in their chemical structure. In the silicones, only
two kinds of chemical bonds, the Si-O-Si and the C-Si bonds, are
significant. The silicon-oxygen-silicon bonds are extremely stable to
heat, as one would expect from the fact that these are the same bonds
which exist in the mineral silicates. The carbon-silicon bonds also
have a higher order of heat stability and greater resistance to oxida-
tion than the carbon-to-carbon bonds which are basic in organic
materials.

As a consequence of this greater heat stability, the silicone resins are
natural complements to fibrous glass, mica, and asbestos insulating
materials. The silicone resins provide the heat-resistant resinous di-
electric necessary to bond these materials together. They also bond
the insulating materials to the copper and steel used in building elec-
tric equipment. This bond is highly resistant to heat. It not only
holds the insulation together, but also excludes moisture even after
long exposure to high temperatures, as rigorous laboratory tests have
shown. Thus, through the use of silicones together with inorganic
insulating materials, a new type of electrical insulation has become
available. This new class—silicone insulation—is almost immune to
Smithsonian Report, 1947.—Bass. PLATE 1

1. Model of a segment of a linear methy] silicone molecule.

2. The water-repellent nature of the silicones. Radio coil forms made water-
repellent with silicone treatment. Their surfaces are nonconducting under
moisture-condensing conditions.
Smithsonian Report, 1947.—Bass PLATE 2

1. Silicone-insulated test motors are operated alternately at temperatures up to
310 degrees centigrade and exposed to 100 percent relative humidity. Tests
show that moisture is excluded after thousands of hours of thermal aging.

2. Left, class B insulated motor failed after 3,760 hours at 200 degrees centigrade;
right, silicone-insulated motor failed after 5,178 hours at 300 degrees centigrade.
Both windings look about alike and show about the same degree of deteriora-
tion. The class B motor caught fire on failure, while the silicone-insulated motor
failed because of oxidation of the copper. :
‘

‘IOJOUL LOGBIVT OY} JO 9ZIS oY} J[ByY St puw ‘se yonur sv

“UOTINLOS de -UTSOd j[Bby JNOGB’ SYSIOM IOJOUL pdzYBLNSUL-Iuoo [ls IY LL “IoOMOCaSIOY
B Ut UIBOJ SULLY ar J UlBO JOP JUOJTIS B jo SSOUVDATPIITJo oOU_L WE Ol IIATLIp pue poods JUTBS ou 18 07R10d0 slOJOUL yyoq aL

€ 3LV1d sseq-—"{p6| ‘Woday ueruosy zw
SILICONES—BASS Dot

heat and moisture, the principal enemies which conspire to reduce the
life of electric equipment.

WATER REPELLENT

In addition to heat stability, other useful properties are inherent in
the silicone chemical structure. All silicones are water repellent, and
the methyl silicones are particularly so. The methyl] silicone oils are
long-chain structures of silicon atoms carrying two methyl groups
each. The silicon atoms are joined to each other through an oxygen
atom, the hydrocarbon portion of the molecule acting like a paraffinic
umbrella for the rest of the molecule. Applied to the surfaces of glass
or ceramic insulators, the silicon-oxygen-silicon portion of the mole-
cule attaches itself to the surface, leaving the hydrocarbon portion
upward. When water or moisture condenses on this surface, it does
not do so in a continuous film, as in the case of an untreated glass
surface, but in distinct droplets. This silicone treatment of insulators
in radio sets, for example, prevents leakages across the surface because
no continuous film of moisture forms a conducting path.

The waterproof property of silicones was utilized in a translucent
and nonmeltable silicone paste, which proved to be quite essential to
the proper operation of aircraft ignition systems and disconnectible
joints in radar systems during the war. It served as an auxiliary
dielectric and waterproofing seal for the ignition cable insulation
where it entered the spark plug wells and magneto plugs of military
aircraft. It prevented condensation of moisture at these points and
kept the ignition system from being short-circuited. Another water-
repellent application of silicone oils was initiated during the war and
is still being developed—the production of a water-repellent filler
made of fine glass fibers for use in life jackets and as thermal insulation.

STABLE VISCOSITY

One of the fundamental properties of long-chain silicone molecules
is their resistance to associating with each other in ordered arrange-
ment at low temperatures. These silicone fluids are characterized by
an exceptionally flat viscosity-temperature slope. They do not thin
out at elevated temperatures or thicken at low temperatures to so
great an extent as do the petroleum fluids. Another manifestation
of this property is found in the flexibility and resilience of silicone
rubber at low temperatures. Asa matter of fact, this silicone product
retains its flexibility at temperatures only slightly above that of dry ice.
Because of its heat resistance it is useful at temperatures up to 200°
centigrade. It is, therefore, useful over a wider range of temperature
than any other material having rubberlike properties.

7774884818
232 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

INCOMPATIBLE WITH ORGANIC PLASTICS

Another useful property inherent in the fact that silicones are high-
polymer molecules is their incompatibility with other plastic materials.
A silicone fluid applied as a very dilute water emulsion spreads over the
metal surface of dies to form an extremely thin film to which hot
plastics and synthetic rubbers do not adhere. This property is of great
value in the manufacture of tires and other molded-rubber articles.
It is also useful in the molding of other plastic materials.

In the silicone fluids, various combinations of properties often lead
to unexpected uses. For example, their incompatibility together with
their surface effects at the interfaces of oil-air systems has been utilized
to prevent the foaming of crankcase oils. Traces of silicone oil in
petroleum oil are sufficient to prevent foaming.

Similarly, in aqueous systems foaming is often a serious and costly
problem. A new silicone compound has recently been developed to
prevent the foaming of aqueous systems or to kill foams once they have
been formed. This product is effective at very high dilutions, varying
from 1 to 100 parts per million.

In England the natural compressibility of certain silicon fluids has
been utilized in a “liquid spring” hydraulic shock absorber that has
been developed for use in aircraft landing gear. As the compressibil-
ity of the silicone fluids is 15 to 25 percent greater than petroleum fluids,
the makers believe that the landing of heavier aircraft on present
fields may be possible without increasing the size or weight of the
landing gear.

The flat viscosity-temperature slope of silicone fluids together with
their high flash point has led to an extensive study of their use as hy-
draulic fluids in aircraft by the Naval Research Laboratory, Wash-
ington, D. C.

This same flat viscosity-temperature slope of silicone fluids together
with their shear resistance has led to the development of a torsional
vibration damper for automotive crankshafts. In this device a free-
wheeling flywheel floats in a film of silicone oil which damps any
torsional vibration in the crankshaft.

In these applications some well-known engineering principles have
been made practical for the first time. Correct in theory, these prin-
ciples were not practicable until silicones were developed and proved
to have the properties necessary to reduce theory to practice.

ECONOMY

There are very few established uses for silicone products which do
not result in a considerable saving of time and money. An example
is the speeding up of production and the reduction of rejects through
the use of a silicone mold release in rubber molding. Silicone resins
SILICONES—BASS 233

may be used in formulating a more practical enamel for sheet steel
used in domestic stoves. Another example is the saving of materials
and the reduction of repair time in electric equipment which result
from the use of silicone electrical insulating materials.

It is probable that the price history of most important new engineer-
ing materials will be repeated in the silicones. As volume increases,
production costs should decrease, opening new fields of usefulness and
larger volume markets.

FUTURE OF SILICONES

In this age of extremely high and low temperature operation, the
unusual properties of silicone materials probably will become increas-
ingly important. The last 214 years already have demonstrated this
with respect to the use of silicone insulation for electric apparatus.
Actual tests of silicone-insulated electric equipment under severe and
accelerated conditions of heat and moisture have shown that such
equipment is capable of operating hundreds of times longer than con-
ventional insulating materials. Manufacturers of motors, transform-
ers, contactor coils, and other electric equipment are beginning already
to standarize on silicone insulation in their lines. Maintenance and
repair shops are rewinding an increasing number of motors with sili-
cone insulation.

The silicone continent, nevertheless, is just beginning to be explored,
and many years will be required to disclose the full extent of it.

REFERENCES

Baker, E. B., BArRy, A. J.. and HUNTER, M. J.
1946. Dielectric constants of dimethyl siloxane polymers. Ind. and Eng.
Chem., vol. 38, 0. 1117, November.
Bass, S. L., Hpk, J. F., Brirron, E. C., and McGreeor, R. R.
1944, Silicones, high polymeric substances. Modern Plastics, vol. 21, p. 124,
November.
CoLLINGS, W. R.
1946. Silicones as new engineering materials. Trans. Amer. Inst. Chem.
Eng., vol. 42. No. 3, p. 455, June.
DEKEIEP, J., Hit1, L. R., and Mosgs, G. L.
1945. The application of silicone resins to insulation for electric machinery.
Amer. Inst. Electr. Eng., Trans., vol. 64, pp. 94-98, March.
GRANT, GEORGE, III, KAupri, T. A., and Moses, G. L.
1947. Investigation of silicone insulation on high-temperature railway
motor. Amer. Inst. Electr. Eng., Trans., vol. 66, August.
JOHANNSON, O. K., and Torok, Jurtus J.
1946. The use of liquid dimethylsilicones to produce water-repellent surfaces
on glass insulator bodies. Proc. Inst. Radio Eng., vol. 34, No. 5, p. 296,
May.
934 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

Kaupr!, T. A., GRANT, GEorGE, Moses, G. L., and Horrett, R. F.
1945. Silicone insulation proved by test. Westinghouse Eng., vol. 5, No. 5,
pp. 1385-140, September.
Kauprl, T. A., and Moses, G. L.
1945. Organo-silicon compounds for insulating electric machines. Amer.
Inst. Hlectr. Eng., Trans., vol. 64, pp. 90-93, March.
Kiporng, C. E.

1946. Silicone insulation. Machine Design, vol. 18, No. 8, pp. 109-113, August.
Moses, G. L.
1944. New silicone resins boost insulation temperature limits. "Westinghouse
Eng., vol. 4, No. 5, pp. 188-141, September.
Moses, GRAHAM LEE, and Torox, JULIvus J.
1946. Silicone-resin-treated magnet coils. Amer. Inst. Electr. Eng., Trans.,
vol. 65, pp. 412-416, July.
WESTINGHOUSE ELECTRIC CORPORATION.
1945. Silicones—miracle of molecule engineering. Westinghouse Eng., vol.
5, No. 5, pp. 180-134, September.
NEW PRODUCTS OF THE PETROLEUM INDUSTRY?

By Hueu W. FIELD
The Atlantic Refining Co.

The headlines of the Nation’s newspapers have been filled with
accounts of the critical reconversion problems of most of our great in-
dustries. The petroleum industry, however, has been conspicuously
quiet, yet it is well known that the wartime developments in this indus-
try were tremendous. It is known that our forces, armed with mech-
anized equipment of a quality vastly superior to that of our enemies,
never lacked the all-necessary petroleum supplies either in quality or
quantity to do the critical job at hand. Very little is generally known
of the nature of these war-born advances in petroleum refineries and
their incorporation into a peacetime economy at a speed and efficiency
that restored the motorist to a prewar basis almost overnight and
will, we believe, shortly raise the standard of enjoyment of petroleum
products well beyond all preconceived levels.

It is the purpose of this discourse to take you through the gates of
the refinery and give you a first-hand glimpse of what has been hap-
pening during the last decade. The operations of petroleum refining
have changed from those involving mainly rough physical separa-
tion by distillation to a complex well-integrated series of physical
and chemical manufacturing operations involving the highest levels
of modern chemistry and chemical engineering.

WHY THE PETROLEUM INDUSTRY GREW

In order to get a clear understanding of what has happened in
our industry, it is necessary to understand why it has happened, and
to accomplish this we will do well to look back into history to trace
the development pattern. Fortunately, our browsing through history
will not take long because the industry does not have much history
as measured by years. Most of the significant items have occurred
within the lifetime of those of us who are old enough to vote.

1 Presented before The Franklin Institute, December 18, 1946. Reprinted by permission
from the Journal of The Franklin Institute, vol. 248, No. 2, February 1947.

235
236 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

The petroleum industry has had its real growth along with two
other young industrial giants, the automotive industry and the avia-
tion industry. Further, although many of the new operations and
products which will come into our story later seem to have little or
nothing to do with either of these industries, the responsibility for
much of what has happened is closely tied with their growth. It all
began a little over 20 years ago when the automobile-engine designers
stopped worrying about whether their engines would start and con-
tinue to run, and began to be worried by their sales departments for

50/
40
DEVELOPED

Fo
>
oO 30
c. POWER
a) REQUIRED
©
Se

10 BO 30) 40°" S50 "60" 70280
CAR SPEED — MPH

FicureE 1.

promotional stories along the line of get-away, pick-up, hill-climbing
ability, top speed, and so on. These designers studied their engines
and their cars and found many interesting facts. Let us look into
a few of these.

Figure 1 is a plot of horsepower against car speed for a typical
car of the time operating in high gear. The curve depicts developed
power as delivered to the rear wheels plotted against car speed. The
straight lines approximate power required to move the car at corres-
ponding speeds for level-road operation and for hill-climbing a reason-
able grade. All conditions of wind, fuel quality, and loading were
constant. It can be seen that this car has a top speed of 60 miles
per hour on the level and has a reasonable amount of excess power for
acceleration between the speed ranges of 15 to 50 miles per hour.
However, on the hill the car speed will drop off to a top of 40 miles
PETROLEUM—FIELD 237

per hour and will have practically no high-gear acceleration at lower
speeds.

Figure 2 is the same basic plot with one additional curve, the de-
veloped-power curve for the same car with the same engine modified
only by an increase in compression ratio from say 5.0 to 1 to a ratio
of 6.0 to 1—a minor design change. Now the car has a top speed of
70 miles per hour on the level road and has good acceleration in the
broader range of 10-60 miles per hour. More important, its hill-
climbing ability is tremendously improved. On the same hill it can
maintain a top speed of 55 miles per hour and below this speed shows

SO

DEVELOPED

40, POWER

30

POWER
REQUIRED

HORSEPOWER

204

© 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80
CAR SPEEDO —MPH

FIGuRE 2.

acceleration characteristics approximately as good as the previous
model showed on the level road. Here was a direction for the engine
designer to go and he started off that way and moved rapidly until he
was stopped short by the fact that at the higher compression ratios his
engines began to knock badly under load, particularly after the com-
bustion chambers became fouled with the carbonaceous deposits which
inevitably appear after several thousand miles of operation.

Now let us look at what was happening in the refinery during this
time. Initially, gasoline was the very volatile hydrocarbon material
“topped” from crude oil prior to running for the kerosene fraction used
extensively for cooking and illuminating purposes. The demands of
the automobile for this gasoline rapidly took it out of the byproduct
classification and the refiner was seeking ways and means of increasing
938 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

gasoline production. He had discovered the thermal “cracking”
process with which, by the use of heat and pressure, he could convert a
large portion of the fraction of crude oil between the kerosene and the
lubricating oil cuts into gasoline. But this “cracked” gasoline fell
into ill repute, largely because the refiner had not learned to finish it
in such a fashion that it would not gum in the engine, resulting in
sticking valves with attendant poor operation.

A comparison of notes by the refiner and the automobile designer
brought out fundamental information which initiated the series of de-
velopments with which we are presently concerned. This information
was that the knocking tendency of the higher compression automobile
engine could be materially reduced or in some cases entirely eliminated
by the use of the heretofore disfavored cracked gasoline in preference
to the previously used straight-run gasoline, even though this straight-
run material be cut to the extremely light old-time so-called high-test
grade. Here was chemical synthesis of hydrocarbons appearing for
the first time because very rough test methods, as then developed,
showed that the cracked gasolines contained substantial quantities of
olefins and aromatics, whereas the original crude oil contains few if
any of these types of hydrocarbons. As a matter of interest, the
earliest method of estimating the antiknock characteristics of motor
gasoline came into being at this time. It matched the antiknock
tendency of the fuel against known mixtures of benzo] and Pennsyl-
vania straight-run gasoline in a small single-cylinder laboratory engine
and gave the results in terms of “benzol equivalent.”

Two parallel series of developments were thus started in the refinery
as a result of the move by the engine designers to higher compression
motors. One series was aimed at removing or otherwise taking care
of the then prevalent deficiencies of cracked gasoline with respect to
gum-forming tendencies, chemical instability, and offensive odor.
Processes to remove the gummy materials, soon identified principally
as diolefins, from the cracked gasoline took the form of treatment with
sulfuric acid and vapor phase treatment over activated fuller’s earth.
Further, various processes were developed to convert the malodorous
mercaptans, which appeared in the gasoline as a result of an analogous
cracking of sulfur compounds in the heavier cracking stock, into
sweet-smelling alkyl disulphides, acceptable both to the public and
to the motors. The result of these developments was the assumption
by cracked gasoline of its rightful place as a desirable and important
component of motor gasoline.

The other series of developments which raced ahead at this time
had to do with the production of cracked gasoline itself. Literally
scores of thermal cracking processes and variations thereof were
invented and many of them were patented. As special methods of
fabrication were developed and new steel alloys able to stand high
PETROLEUM—FIELD 239

temperature for long periods became available, thermal cracking op-
erations were pressed to higher and higher conditions of severity
with respect to pressure and temperature. The severe cracking con-
ditions produced more marked improvement in the hydrocarbon
structure of the cracked gasoline. It had better antiknock character-
istics.

At this point in our historical review the concept of “octane num-
ber” should be established. The previously used “benzol equivalent”
was proving to be unreliable and not sufficiently reproducible for a
test of a property which was becoming such an important char-
acteristic of automobile gasoline. Benzol was so high in antiknock
that it was too sensitive a blending agent and Pennsylvania straight-
run gasoline, the zero of the scale by definition, was not invariable and
reproducible. The octane-number scale was substituted instead and
used as its “100” the chemical compound 2,2,4 trimethylpentane (iso-
octane), and as its “0” normal heptane. This scale was reproducible
by blending these compounds and when coupled with the improve-
ment and standardization of the test engine resulted in a more satis-
factory fuel-rating procedure than had been heretofore available.

In the refineries of the country, aided by the advances in steel metal-
lurgy, the antiknock characteristics of motor gasolines were being
pushed to higher and higher levels as new units came on stream.
Further, the use of additives for improvement of antiknock received
extensive investigation. Various organic amino compounds were
used with indifferent success to increase octane number. Iron and
nickel carbonyls were more successful from the octane-number im-
provement standpoint but caused objectionable rust deposits within
the engine. Finally, tetraethyl lead was discovered, proved satis-
factory, and extensive manufacturing facilities were put into oper-
ation to help further the improvement in engine and fuel perform-
ance.

The “octane race” of the thirties was on in dead earnest. Auto-
motive-engine designers moved their compression ratios higher and
higher to get much more power and performance out of smaller en-
gines. Figure 3 gives an interesting comparison for a representative
passenger automobile. From this it can be seen that during the thirties
the performance characteristics of the typical passenger car of ap-
proximately the same total weight improved considerably as a result
primarily of the increase in compression ratio and the improvement
in the quality of the motor fuel available for use in the higher com-
pression engine.

At this point in our technical historical study, the issues become
somewhat obscure as so frequently happens whenever history is re-
viewed, whether it be the history of people, cities, or nations. The
automobile-engine designer had slowed in his advance to higher
240 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

compression ratio due to the fact that the motoring public was reason-
ably happy, if not somewhat unsafe, with the car performance being
obtained. Added to this are the very practical facts that design diffi-
culties were being encountered due to the necessity of allowing room
in the engine head above the piston at the top of its stroke for the
functioning of two valves and a spark plug and due also to a tendency
to rough operation at high compression, However, the petroleum
engineer was now in the saddle. He had many new processes all
lined up to produce, and the refiner was now being urged by his sales-
promotion people to produce qualities in gasoline that could be talked

ENGINE GASOLINE

WEIGHT |COMPRESSION] S8RAKE OCTANE NO.

REGULAR GRADE
LBS. RATIO |HORSEPOWER] aveRAcE US.

Figure 8.

about. The result was that the petroleum refiners began to run races
between themselves to produce gasoline with qualities outstripping
their competitors in spite of the fact that scarcely any automobile
engine could recognize differences in antiknock above its basic octane
requirement. At the time, this race was scientifically invigorating but
economically rather silly. In retrospect however, it was probably
one of the best things that ever happened to our country in that it
set the fundamental pattern for a technology that produced, during
World War II, a stupendous tonnage of synthetic organic chemicals
without which the war would have stretched through a much longer
and more burdensome period.

EFFECT OF ENGINH AND FUEL DEVELOPMENT ON AUTOMOBILE
DESIGN

Before proceeding further with the later developments in motor-fuel
processing it will be well to stop to examine,the results of all this
PETROLEUM—FIELD 241

engine and fuel development work on the other parts of the automo-
bile and on petroleum-product requirements for these parts. In-
creasing the power output of the engines produced greater loads on
the engine connecting rod and main bearings with the result that many
engine designers developed engines in which alloys of cadmium-silver
and copper-lead were used for bearings instead of the conventional tin-
lead (babbitt) which had been used heretofore. Irom the standpoint
of bearing loads these materials were excellent but they immediately
gave the petroleum refiners many headaches. The sulfur compounds
present in the lubricating oil, the condensate from combustion cham-
ber “blow-by” to the crankcase, and the acids produced by normal
oxidation of the lubricating oil caused severe and rapid bearing dete-
rioration. The corrosion attacked the lead and cadmium in these bear-
ings, resulting in weakening of the bearing alloy, high wear, and early
noisy operation of the engine.

Protection of these bearing materials was critical and the challenge
to the petroleum research laboratories started a new trend in lubricat-
ing-oil development. This trend has resulted in the progressive addi-
tion to lubricating oils of a long series of additives. Initially additives
were used to take care of bearing-corrosion problems. Later, additives
were developed to add higher film strength characteristics. Presently,
additives are being incorporated to furnish, in addition to the pre-
vious benefits, properties to prevent build-up of sludge deposits in the
crankcase and to increase engine life heretofore shortened by internal
rusting between periods of operation.

As engines increased in power and the streamlining of automobiles
resulted in smaller wheels and lower floorboards, a redesign of the dif-
ferential drive in the rear axle came about in efforts to lower the drive-
shaft to avoid the necessity for a tunnel in the rear floor. This gave
rise to the use of hypoid gearing to drop the driveshaft below the cen-
ter line of the rear axle. Hypoid gearing worked out very admirably
from the standpoint of chassis design but necessitated an extensive
amount of research in petroleum laboratories to develop a rear-axle
lubricant for these new-type gears. The previous type of gearing,
namely, spiral bevel gears, operated on the principle of rolling fric-
tion and a conventional heavy lubricant protected the faces of the gear
teeth quite satisfactorily. The hypoid gear, on the other hand, oper-
ates on the principle of sliding friction and conventional Jubricants
could not give protection, with the result that the hypoid rear axles
were scuffing severely because of failure of the oil to stay between the
gear teeth. By the use of additives especially developed for the pur-
pose, the oil companies quite promptly were able to furnish lubricants
which had the proper combination of surface tension and wetting
properties to stay in place on the gear teeth of heavily loaded hypoid
gears.
242 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

The smaller wheels previously mentioned, the higher speeds result-
ing from greater engine power, and the general adoption of internal
expanding four-wheel brakes raised another problem for the petroleum
indusiry in lubricating the wheel bearings. The wheels were turning
faster, creating higher operating temperatures in the bearing and
greater centrifugal force which tended to throw the grease out of the
bearings through the oil-retaining ring into the braking system to
cause malfunctioning of the brakes. Grease compounding quickly re-
ceived a complete overhauling in order to furnish a wheel-bearing
lubricant which would maintain its consistency at high temperatures
of operation, neither separating into oil and soap with resultant loss of
oil and clogging of the bearing with soap, nor changing in physical
characteristics as the temperature increased to a point where the grease
would leave the bearing as the result of excessive softness.

General chassis lubricants also had to be restudied. All the pre-
viously mentioned developments were making cars run with less noise.
Changes in spring-hanger design had increased the bearing loads on
spring shackles so that there was an increased tendency for the shackles
to squeak and with less noise competition the squeaks were more
noticeable. New chassis lubricants were developed which could be
pumped readily by the automatic chassis-lubricating equipment being
installed in the service stations and would stay between the bearing
surfaces in spite of heavy impact loading and the tendency for
splashed water from the highway to wash this grease away. This
particular development, incidentally, is probably one of the most
ingenious feats of compounding that the industry has accomplished
and is probably the least known generally.

CHANGING PETROLEUM REQUIREMENTS OTHER THAN AUTOMOTIVE

During this period under discussion the automobile, although acting
as a pacesetter, was not the only requirement which was causing rapid
changes in petroleum technology. The aviation industry, which
had even more to gain from power from smaller engines, was stepping
out ahead in requirements for high octane, high chemical stability fuel.
The aviation-engine designer increased compression ratio with the
attendant advantages previously discussed, reached the mechanical
limitation to high compression posed by necessity for valve and spark
plug clearances and engine roughness, and then moved on to even
higher levels in antiknock requirements by adopting the principle of
supercharging.

The supercharging approach to this problem is interesting and
deserves further examination. If compression ratio cannot be in-
creased readily, another way to get the same effect from a given engine
is to pack more air and fuel into the cylinders by forcing it in under
PETROLEUM—FIELD 243

external pressure, rather than letting the engine draw it in by the
vacuum created on the suction stroke. This development, started
mildly by the automobile designer and adapted mainly for racing-car
engines, really went ahead at a tremendous pace when the aviation-
engine designers started to use it. While the superchargers built for
racing-car engines operated with only a few inches of water “boost
pressure,” the aviation-engine designer moved ahead to the point
where, during World War II, combat aircraft equipped with exhaust-
driven turbo superchargers actually delivered a boost pressure in the
range of 60’’ of mercury or about 2 atmospheres increase. This de-
velopment threw a tremendous burden on the petroleum industry
for high antiknock fuel and, as will be mentioned later, the industry
responded by adapting their newer processes and developing other
specialized processes in order to produce the required volumes of
aviation gasoline having performance characteristics well in excess of
100 octane.

Another type of engine was becoming important and giving the
petroleum research laboratories critical problems to solve. This was
the Diesel engine initially developed for propelling ships, later for
long-distance truck hauling, and now becoming very important as
a source of power for railway locomotives. The Diesel engine, unlike
the gasoline engine, does not depend on a spark for ignition but de-
pends on autoignition induced by the heat and pressure created by
the compression stroke of the piston. It is a fact that an operating
cycle of this type necessitates a chemical composition of the fuel dis-
tinctly different from the type of compounds which are included in
motor gasoline and to a greater extent in aviation gasoline to improve
antiknock characteristics. The latter have a decidedly deleterious
effect on the starting and ignition qualities of the Diesel fuel, par-
ticularly for high-speed truck and railway Diesel engines. Thus a
technical contrast is presented in which the best Diesel fuel was found
to be a carefully refined fraction obtained directly from high-grade
crude oil, whereas high-grade motor and aviation gasolines consist
of a blend of various fractions of crude oil molecularly rearranged by
severe thermal and catalytic cracking together with synthetic prod-
ucts of complicated structure obtained from alkylation, polymeriza-
tion, etc.

Most of the comments made with respect to automobile-engine lubri-
cating oil hold for lubricating the Diesel engine, except that whatever
is done to the oil to improve its inherent characteristics must be
greatly emphasized for the Diesel. Most high-speed Diesels run under
much more severe conditions of loading, combustion roughness, and
high-temperature operation than most automobile engines.

In industrial fields a new tempo of development has been evident.
244 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

Machine tools, industrial machinery, electrical equipment, heavy fuel
oil consuming equipment, all have had their speeds, loads, and re-
quirements for continuity of operation increased at a rapid pace.
The petroleum industry has conducted research successfully to fur-
nish petroleum products required to meet these demands. Complete
details on the many ramifications of the changes in the petroleum
industry’s industrial requirements have no place in this review, but
the order of magnitude of changes has been of the same degree as that
depicted for automotive and aviation industries.

NEW PROCESSES WHICH LEAD TO NEW PRODUCTS

In 1939 the writer was requested to present to the Refining Division
of the American Petroleum Institute a paper which attempted to
systematize and catalog the many new processes which were under
development at that time. This paper was somewhat whimsically
entitled “Petroleum-ization—1940” ? since it dealt with such previously
little-known or unused processes as dehydrogenation, isomerization,
polymerization, aromatization, alkylation, etc. The paper attempted
to place these various new processes on the checkerboard of petroleum
refining to determine which ones were competitive, which were com-
plementary, and which should be considered for use as various refinery
situations arose. Owing to the undeveloped state of some of these
processes at that time, a large amount of forecasting based on personal
opinion was woven into the pattern presented. However, subsequent
events, specifically the war, forced the hasty commercialization of most
of these processes substantially along the lines predicted and since this
pattern is fundamental to our examination of new products it is
presented here.

Definitions and descriptions.—A certain number of definitions and
descriptions will be useful in our study of the situation; and if these
definitions do not agree exactly with the organic textbook, it should be
remembered that they were drafted for “petroleum-ization” rather
than for the broad field of general organic chemistry.

Catalyst—A catalyst can be defined as a substance which, although
present during a chemical reaction, apparently does not enter into the
reaction but causes, by its presence, a change in the conditions under
which that reaction occurs. Thus catalytic reactions offer a pos-
sibility for product control by selective acceleration of certain reac-
tions which, in the opinion of many, is the most important phase of
this new refining technique.

Hydrogenation —The hydrogenation process adds hydrogen to the
hydrocarbon molecule. Hydrogenation may be either nondestructive
or destructive. In the former, hydrogen is added to the molecule

2 Proc, 20th Ann. Meet. Amer. Petroleum Inst., vol. 20, No. 8, pp. 65-71, 1939.
PETROLEUM—FIELD 245

only if, and where, unsaturation with respect to hydrogen exists; thus
the boiling range of the product is substantially the same as that of
the charge to the process. In the latter, operations are carried out
under conditions which result in rupture of some of the hydrocarbon
chains (cracking), the hydrogen adding on, in general, where the
breaks in the chain have occurred. A lowering of boiling range
generally results from this type of hydrogenation, the degree of
change depending on the operating conditions. Nondestructive hy-
drogenation is generally a low-temperature, low-pressure operation,
whereas destructive hydrogenation operates at high temperature and
high pressure. Catalysts are employed in almost all hydrogenation
processes.

Dehydrogenation.—The general use of this term is so broad that
it is practically useless. For example, the cracking of gas oil in an
early batch still involved dehydrogenation. For the purpose of this
discussion, the term will be limited to operations on material in the
gasoline boiling range, or lighter, and considered in two categories, as
was done for hydrogenation, i. e., nondestructive and destructive.
Nondestructive dehydrogenation is defined as the removal of hydrogen
from the hydrocarbon molecule without the cracking which would
significantly change its boiling range. Destructive dehydrogenation
removes hydrogen from the molecule, but is accompanied by chain
rupture to some degree. Catalysts are employed for the nondestruc-
tive dehydrogenation, but the destructive dehydrogeneration may be
carried out either with or without catalyst, depending on the degree
of selectivity desired.

Polymerization.—Broadly speaking, polymerization can be consid-
ered as the linking of two or more hydrocarbon molecules to form one
molecule having a longer carbon chain and a higher boiling point.
Here again the definition must be narrowed to make it useful, because
the tar produced when gas oil is cracked in a conventional cracking
coil is the result of polymerization. Polymerization, as practiced
intentionally, at the present time is confined to hydrocarbons having
four carbon atoms or less to the molecule (butane and lighter), and
links them together under conditions which result in the product being
predominantly within the gasoline boiling range. The operation can
be carried out either catalytically or thermally. The catalytic process
operates at relatively high pressures, but at moderate temperatures,
and only the unsaturates in the charge react. The thermal process
operates at high pressures and high temperatures, but both unsaturates
and saturates react, owing in part, but not entirely, to thermal dehydro-
genation taking place in the heating coil as the charge is brought to
operating temperature.

Alkylation—Ilf any saturated hydrocarbon molecule is deprived
of a hydrogen atom and then united with another hydrocarbon molecule
246 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

through the bond where the hydrogen atom was removed, alkylation
has been accomplished. The broad definition of this term leaves us
nowhere, but one of the specific alkylation processes in which interest
is at a high pitch at the present time unites isobutane (a branched-
chain compound) with a butane (unsaturated branched- or straight-
chain compound) to produce practically pure iso-octane. The opera-
tion is carried out at low pressure and low temperature, and requires

CATALYTIC ie SELECTIVE
POLYMERIZATION, JWNON- SELECTIVE

CATALYTIC
DEHYDOGLAATIVAL

'
T

HERMA THERMAL
LOOX DEHYDROGENATION POLYMERIZATION
no PENTANE
ISOMMRIZATION

CATALYTIC
ADLNY DROGENATION

CHEMICAL
OC SULFURIZATION

CATAL

ATA yrc
c Ee POLYMERIZATION

"LOESULFURIZATION

CYCLIZATION

AROMATIZATION
CATALYTIC
VIOLHY DEOGEAATION

CHEMICAL
DESUL PURI ZATION

POLYMERIZATION

CATALYTIC
POLYMERIZATION

CATALYTIC
OCSULFURIZATION

CaTaALyTiC
DEHYDROGENATION

THERMAL
DENYDROGENATION

CHEMICAL
DISULPURIZATION

CATALYTIC
DESULFURIZATION

CHEMICAL
IDESULFURIZATION

CLAY
FINISHING

CATALYTIC
ee ee Lei aE Eon
¢ CRACKING
THERMAL
CATALYTIC
ATALY TIC KOMPLETH
Keackin@ |PARTIAL |

COKING
DEH Y DROGENATIO:

THOR MAL
CRACKING

CLAY
FINISHING

miLD
HY DROGTAATION

THERMAL THERMAL
VISBRLAKIAG CRACKING
a THERMAL aS ae CATALYTIC aS
COOKING PAN CRACKING We
CATALYTIC HY DROGLNATION
COOKING

HY OROGENATION

APPROPRIATE f i
FRACTIONATION f
CATALYTIC
yg NON SELECTIVE]

CATALYTIC

ALKYLATION
THERMAL

ALKYLATION

THERMAL
POLYMERIZATION
MYDROGERATION

THER AAL
POLYMERIZATION

CATALYTIC
ALMYLATION

HERMAL REFORMING,
POLYMERIZATION
ALK Y LATION 7)

Iicure 4.—Petroleum-ization—1940. Diagram indicates the complexity of the
refiner’s problem in properly selecting the processes for the several products

and stages of refining best suited for his specific crudes.

a catalyst. Another example is the process which produces cumene.
In this process propylene is reacted with benzol to produce isopropyl

benzene, a valuable aviation blending agent.

Desulfurization—In general, this term is self-defining, but here it
will be considered as applying to the removal of sulfur from material
within the gasoline boiling range. Chemical desulfurization, using
either sulfuric acid or caustic soda, has been practiced for many years.
There is, however, a definite feeling that destructive chemical desul-
furization is on the way out; so, for the purpose of this summary—
PETROLEUM—FIELD 247

which is concerned chiefly with the new catalytic processes—the defini-
tion will be narrowed to identify processes which decompose the sulfur-
hydrocarbon compounds in the gasoline, and evolve the sulfur as hydro-
gen sulfide or possibly as sulfur dioxide.

Isomerization.—Inasmuch as saturated hydrocarbons can exist as
either straight- or branched-chain compounds, and as the branched.
chain compounds in the gasoline boiling range have higher antiknock
qualities than the straight-chain compounds (e. g., iso-octane vs. nor-
mal heptane, the 100 and 0, respectively, of our antiknock scale), in-
terest in controlled changing of straight chains to branched chains
(isomerization) increased sharply as practicable methods were dis-
covered. Isomerization, as now available for our study as an isolated
process, is confined to butane and pentane conversion to the correspond-
ing iso-compounds; but inasmuch as the extremely high octane-number
increase obtained during certain catalytic-dehydrogenation operations
on gasoline can best be accounted for by assuming some isomerization
to have occurred, it is the opinion in many quarters that catalysts and
conditions will be found eventually which will extend isomerization
as a controlled process into the broad gasoline boiling range.

Aromatization.—¥ or present purposes let us define aromatization as
the conversion of saturated hydrocarbons to aromatic hydrocarbons,
e. g., conversion of hexane to benzol, heptane to toluol, etc. Processes
using catalysts at relatively high temperatures and moderate pressures
have accomplished such conversions with surprisingly high yields.

Catalytic cracking and reforming.—As mentioned previously, crack-
ing involves dehydrogenation of the type defined as destructive. In
the rupturing of the hydrocarbon chains, there are created fragments
which are extremely active chemically. In the course of reacting to
attain chemical stability, these fragments apparently, to some degree,
engage in practically all of the reactions which we have been discuss-
ing. The use of a catalyst during cracking has the interesting effect
of decreasing the amount of polymerization to tar and at the same
time encouraging aromatization and isomerization of the cracked
fractions into the gasoline boiling range. Asa result, material of high
antiknock value is produced. In catalytic reforming a different effect
is sought. Here aromatization and isomerization are encouraged by
different operating conditions and catalysts, but every effort is made
to suppress the chain rupture which would cause excessive conversion
of gasoline to gas. In figure 4 catalytic reforming is classified as de-
hydrogenation, but merely for convenience, and does not infer that the
dehydrogenation phase is considered predominant.

Coking—The operation of coking, whether thermal or catalytic,
consists of heat-treating heavy hydrocarbons, usually crude residuum
or cracked tar, in order to increase the ultimate yield of gasoline from

777488—48—19
248 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

the crude. Heavy hydrocarbons are low in hydrogen-carbon ratio;
gasoline is relatively high in this same ratio. The conversion, there-
fore, necessitates the throwing out of carbon (coke) as a means of
adjustment of this ratio. Catalytic coking, as contrasted with thermal
coking, results in less coke “throw-out” for a given conversion, pos-
sibly due to the fact that gasolines of relatively high aromatic content
have a lower hydrogen-carbon ratio than nonaromatic gasolines, and
lower carbon “throw-out” would suffice for the adjustment in hydro-
gen-carbon ratio necessitated by this type of conversion.

Figure 4 is taken directly from the above-mentioned paper.? This
scheme starts with crude petroleum and presents some of the various
courses which might be charted in converting this crude oil to gaso-
line as the major product, the shaded circles representing positions
in a stepwise examination where a stop is made to review ways and
means before taking the next step.

A quick review of this chart shows that the first step for most of
the operations in refining crude oil to high octane gasoline, is that in
which the hydrocarbon fractions existing in the crude oil as received
are changed in molecular structure from chemically stable hydrocar-
bons to materials which are chemically reactive and are thus suscepti-
ble to synthesis into highly branched chain materials which have been
found to have the higher antiknock values. Upon completion of what-
ever synthesis methods are used, either thermal cracking, thermal or
catalytic dehydrogenation, polymerization, or alkylation the materials
thus produced may be satisfactory for blending into motor fuel directly
as such, or may require further treatment such as hydrogenation or
desulfurization.

COMBAT-GRADE AVIATION GASOLINE

In 1939 very few plants were operating dehydrogenation, polymeri-
zation, alkylation, or hydrogenation units. During the war the re-
quirements for combat-grade aviation gasoline posed a problem in
large-scale production of isopentane, iso-octane and the other trimeth-
ylpentanes, alkylated aromatics, and carefully fractionated and pre-
pared catalytic base stocks to be blended into finished fuel. It was
only by tailormaking the fuel in this fashion that the characteristics
required by the modern aviation engine could be met completely. The
fuel had to be 100 octane under normal cruising conditions, it had to
be chemically stable under storage conditions in all parts of the world,
and it had to respond with an apparent antiknock value considerably
in excess of 100 to permit a heavily loaded plane to take off with maxi-
mum power at top supercharge boost pressure and rich mixture
conditions.

2 Petroleum-ization—1940.
PETROLEUM—FIELD 249

The important development of catalytic cracking enabled the pro-
duction of superior aviation base stocks. In these processes, the pres-
ence of a catalyst results in the formation of appreciable quantities of
isoparaflins and aromatics. Only a very small amount of olefins,
which are undesirable for aviation gasoline, are formed in contrast
to older thermal cracking processes which produce large amounts of
olefins.

Three chief sources of isoparaffins were utilized. The most im-
portant was the product known as “alkylate,” which is produced by
combining low molecular weight olefin and isoparaffin hydrocarbons.
The second was the polymerization of two low molecular weight olefins
(product known as codimer) followed by hydrogenation to obtain an
isoparafin. The third was the rigorous fractional distillation of
straight-run stocks. To meet military demands all these processes
were perfected and expanded.

The need for aromatic hydrocarbons immediately imposed another
synthesis problem since benzene, the most readily available aromatic,
freezes at 40° F. and cannot be used to any great extent because avia-
tion gasoline must meet low-temperature requirements for high-
altitude flymg. Consequently, cumene (f. p., —141° F.) was imme-
diately synthesized by alkylating propylene (a waste refinery gas)
and benzene and became the first important source of aromatics for
aviation fuel. It is interesting to note that cumene had never been
produced commercially before the war but by the end of the war about
500,000 gallons per day were in production. Other sources of aro-
matics were xylenes and toluene both synthesized from petroleum and
excess ethyl benzene from the synthetic-rubber program. The fact
that some of these aromatics were produced by alkylating benzene
with olefins (cumene and ethyl benzene) while others were made by
dehydrogenation of cycloparaffins illustrates the versatility used to
achieve results,

The old source of pentanes used for volatility did not escape exami-
nation and these ultimately were separated and only the isopentanes
used. The chemical “aviation gasoline” near the close of the war had
the following composition, listed in approximate order of increasing
boiling range:

Tsopentane
Isoparafiins :

Alkylate

Hydrogenated codimer

Isohexanes and isoheptanes (fractioned from straight-run naphtha)
Aromatics:

Toluene

Xylenes

Ethyl benzene

Cumene (isopropyl benzene)
Catalytic cracked base stock
250 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

This mixture of components with the addition of tetraethyl lead
was known as 100/130-grade aviation gasoline. It has a performance
rating of 130 under take-off conditions and a rating of 100 under flight
conditions. This fuel made available 30 percent more power over the
old fuel for take-offs and short bursts of speed during actual combat.
At the start of the war the production of 100-octane aviation gasoline
was approximately 40,000 barrels per day. At the close of the war
100/130-grade aviation fuel was being produced in excess of 500,000
barrels per day.

INDUSTRIAL PROCESSING MATERIALS FROM PETROLEUM

In the field of what are known as processing materials from pe-
troleum there continue to be new products and applications. In fact
there are few articles that do not utilize petroleum in some form in
their manufacture. It is said that over 30 basic industries employ
petroleum in their manufacturing operations. Individual applica-
tions are numerous. It is in the classes of processing materials and
manufactured chemicals that petroleum products number into hun-
dreds and unit values are greatest.

One of the processing materials made from petroleum in largest
volume is paraffin wax with which we are all familiar as a component
of bread wrappers, waxed paper, paper milk bottles, and candles.

A newcomer to the field of waxes is a material known as micro-
crystalline wax which is tough and pliable at low temperatures and
extremely resistant to water. Microcrystalline waxes had been made
prior to the war but their real value was not appreciated until the
advent of problems created by the war. They were first called
“amorphous waxes” because they were believed to be noncrystalline.
Later is was found that they contained minute crystals and the name
microcrystalline waxes came into use. Small arms and rations were
packaged in containers utilizing these waxes in their construction.
They have also been used for liners of metal cans and drums to resist
the action of beer, wines, and acids. The developments in these waxes
created large demands and it is necessary for the industry to bend
every effort to supply the required quantities.

In most uses of petroleum waxes, they are applied in a molten con-
dition. Wax can also be applied in the form of a wax emulsion which
is a suspension of fine wax particles in water, with a suitable dispersing
agent. The use of wax emulsions is attaining increased importance.
The armed forces used thousands of yards of tent cloth, cotton duck,
and mosquito netting that had been treated with wax emulsion to im-
part a water repellent finish to the individual fibers. The treatment
has practically no effect on the appearance and “feel” of the fabric
PETROLEUM—-FIELD 251

and because of openings remaining between the fibers, adequate
ventilation is assured.

Rust preventives are another group of products designed for war
service. Protection against rust has always been a problem but it
was made more difficult by military requirements. Metal objects both
large and small had to stand shipping on boats all over the world where
exposure to salty air and high humidity was ideal for rapid rust
formation. Practically all metal articles used by the armed forces
were coated with one of many rust preventives developed, and in many
instances the rust preventive was subsequently removed before use of
the article, adding to the problem. Practically all these rust preven-
tives contained a petroleum base. The knowledge gained here should
find ready application in preserving metal machinery such as farm
tools and machinery frequently stored for long periods without use.

Two new developments in the field of asphalt are prefabricated air-
port runways and asphalts which will satisfactorily coat wet stone.
In the first development burlap is saturated with asphalt, coated with
small stones and rolled up as is common asphalt roll roofing for ship-
ment. It is put down by employing a 50 percent overlap and cement-
ing together with an asphalt cut-back. A large amount of this was
employed by the armed forces.

The nonstripping type of asphalt contains additives which increase
its adhesion to stone, even if applied when the latter is wet. Roads
may thus be laid in rainy weather and in addition give better and longer
service.

Other developments in processing materials derived from petroleum
include plasticizers and softeners for synthetic rubbers, special oils
that are heavier than water for mosquito control, and high refractive
index oils for use in examining quartz crystals which are cut into
oscillators to control wave length in radar and radio equipment.

SYNTHETIC RUBBER FROM PETROLEUM

Much has been written about this country’s synthetic-rubber indus-
try, claimed by some before the atomic bomb announcement to be the
greatest technical achievement of all time. Large quantities of buta-
diene and styrene were needed to make the Government’s all-purpose
rubber known as GR-S. There are several methods of producing
butadiene from petroleum but the best method consists in dehydro-
genating certain C, hydrocarbons to form butadiene. As an example
of the commercialization of butadiene production the Government-
owned plant of the Neches Butane Products Company producing
butadiene from petroleum is rated at 100,000 tons of butadiene per year
and has produced at a rate far in excess of this. New uses for
butadiene can be expected now that this material is commercially
252 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

available, and at least one such product (butadiene monoxide, a
chemical intermediate) has already been announced.

Styrene production also required for GR-S rubber is carried on by
the chemical industry by alkylating benzene with the petroleum olefin
ethylene to form ethyl benzene which is converted to styrene by dehy-
drogenation. Ethylene is recovered from refinery gases or produced
by cracking a petroleum hydrocarbon such as propylene.

Butyl rubber, another very important synthetic rubber, is a 100-
percent petroleum product and a 100-percent American development.
It is synthesized from isobutylene, a petroleum hydrocarbon obtained
from cracking processes, and a small amount of a diolefin such as iso-
prene. ‘These two hydrocarbons are converted into butyl rubber at
temperatures of approximately —150°F. by a continuous process.
This development filled the nation’s need for heavy-duty inner tubes
at a critical time, since GR-S (butadiene styrene rubber) is unsatis-
factory and natural rubber was cut off. Butyl rubber in some re-
spects is superior to the latter in having better resistance to oxidation
and lower permeability to the passage of gases. Inner tubes from
it have proved superior to those of natural rubber. This product
is expected to have an excellent future. It should find new uses in
electrical insulation, waterproof fabrics, and mechanical goods.

PLASTICS FROM PETROLEUM

In the field of plastics there have been some notable products de-
rived from petroleum hydrocarbons. Among the newer petroleum
plastics are polyethylene resins, allyl plastics, and polyvinylidene
chloride resin. Polyethylene resins are a 100-percent petroleum hy-
drocarbon resin produced by polymerizing ethylene itself. Their
production was announced in 1944 by the duPont Co. and then in-
dependently by the Carbide & Carbon Chemicals Corp. Polyethylene
plastics are flexible and tough over a wide range of temperatures,
have exceptional electrical properties, are resistant to moisture pene-
tration, and are chemically inert. They are thermoplastic and can
be made into thin sheets and filaments. Polyethylene has been used
primarily in electrical insulation for radar equipment. It can be
expected to find many uses in a peacetime economy. Its production
represents another major technical achievement.

Allyl plastics are based on allyl alcohol which is derived from
propylene. In 1942 two allyl resins were announced, one (diallyl
phthalate) by an oil company and the other (now allymer CR-39) by
a chemical company. ‘These plastics are reported to make excellent
coating materials for cans and metal containers, one being reported
to be less brittle and harder than glass and harder than any other
transparent plastic. Its uses have been strictly military. These
resins have properties unique to themselves which should make them
PETROLEUM—FIELD 253

find ready markets. Allyl alcohol and chloride will doubtless find
many other uses in chemical synthesis.

Some time ago a chemical company announced a resin produced
from the monomer vinylidene chloride which is a derivative of eth-
ylene and is therefore of interest to the petroleum industry. It differs
from the older vinyl chloride monomer in that two chlorine atoms
have been substituted for hydrogen atoms in the ethylene molecule
instead of one. This plastic is very tough and resistant to solvents,
has a very high tensile strength and can be made into strong filaments.
Taking advantage of these properties, expected uses include seat cov-
ers, filter cloths, house screening, fishing lines, hose connections, and
flexible tubing.

Older resins which are derived at least in part from petroleum and
were greatly expanded for war uses are the polyvinyl resins, acrylic
resins (Lucite and Plexiglass), ethylcellulose, and phenolics employ-
ing alkylated phenols.

Among important chemicals newly derived from petroleum and
announced during the war is phthalic anhydride, produced by oxi-
dizing orthoxylene (previous production has been from naphthalene
from coal tar). One petroleum company has built a plant to manu-
facture this chemical which is used in the synthesis of plastics, plasti-
cizers, and insect repellents. Another company has announced a new
synthesis of carbon bisulfide from methane and sulfur. This chemical
is used in the manufacture of viscose rayon, solvent extraction proc-
esses, and in the manufacture of chemicals used in ore separation and
for vulcanizing rubber. Its older synthesis was from coke and sulfur.

DETERGENTS FROM PETROLEUM

For many years both oil-soluble and water-soluble soaps have been
produced from petroleum mainly as byproducts from the treating of
oils for industrial or medicinal purposes. Just prior to the war a de-
mand arose for synthetic detergents or wetting agents which would
be superior to either the byproduct soaps or those made by saponi-
fication of fatty or vegetable oils. Research carried out in petroleum
laboratories resulted in development of processes for synthesizing such
detergents from petroleum hydrocarbons, and commercialization of
these processes was quite rapid. During the war all such production
was under allocation to such uses as incorporation in GI all-purpose
soap for use in all kinds of water, penicillin manufacture, and many
other critical uses. Since the war, requirements have increased largely
through the use in industrial and household cleansers. In addition,
many of the products have been improved by utilizing plant facilities
and processes developed for aviation-gasoline or toluene manufacture.
The petroleum soap of today is a complicated chemical synthetic
954 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

ASOLINE GASOLINE
ACID TREAT—————> SWEETEN (HI-TEST)

SOLVENTS

TEST DISTILLATE ACID TREAT —————- RERUN KEROSENE
GAS OIL FURNACE

DISTILLATE
GAS TO FUEL
THERMAL CRACKING ACID TREAT ————— RERUN —-—-— GASOLINE

PIPE STILL FRACTIONATIONING COLUMN

FURNACE

NAR) === ee

WAX

DISTILLATE enh
NEUTRAL TREAT Targe ETER NEUTRAL OIL
‘L press +-PRESSEO_. RERUN
HEAVY ___._ TREAT —= FILTER ——= HEAVY

NEUTRAL NEUTRAL OIL

——> SWEAT ———-ACID TREAT> REFINED WAX

CYLINDER STOCK
OR FUEL OIL

PUMP

FLOW DIAGRAM CRUDE OIL REFINING, 1926
Wicoure 5.
PETROLEU M—FIELD 205

Se ps
GAS TAIL GAS PRODUC is
RECOVERY

SYSTEM LIGHT CATALYTIC FUEL GAS
HYDROCARBONS ~*~ POLYMERIZATION ~—* ALKYLATION
POLYMER ALKYLATE

GASOLINE

CRUDE SWEETEN
NAPHTHA

DESULFURIZATION GASOLINE
EFORMING p= GRAY TREAT STABILIZEUNISOL TREAT

AS TO GAS RECOVERY SYSTEM

REFORMER STOCK
SPECIAL

SPECIAL SOLVENTS SWEETEN —
Co acio treat—t SOLVENTS
EXPORT __ PIPE STILL

e— DOMESTIC
KEROSINE -=ACID TREAT] CeMSNE neu -sweeTeN~Ficter--8 EXPORT
DOMESTIC KEROSINE KE ROSINE

FURNACE CC Sac CBEMICAL OR CATALYTIC TREATMENT——~ FILTER ———r FURNACE OIL
FURNACE OIL

CATALYTIC
RACKIN
eae GASOLINE -———= STABILIZE ——=CAUSTIC WASH

1
GAS_ OIL GAS TO GAS RECOVERY SYSTEM

STEAM AND
THERMAL TABILIZE —> ACID TREAT—= SWEETEN VACUUM RERUN

iN
ee GRAY TREAT— STABILIZE ——-UNISOL TREAT
TAR TO 6 FUEL

FILTER ——— NEUTRAL OILS
CR oe eee enncio Treat —
GAS OIL PARAFFIN OILS
WAX PRESS

A
DISTILLATE YELLOW CRUDE SCALE
Shae SCALE wax. “ACID TREAT—-FILTER pe ein WAX
WGK —- SWEAT

= come ~~ REFINED
SWEATED WAX-~ACID TREAT—=FILTER PARAFFIN WAX

GASOLINE

OOTS OIL TO CRACKING OR RECYCLING

PIPE STILL FRACTIONATING COLUM

ACETONE [TO CRACKING
BENZOL DEWAXED

Ol ETERS LUBE, OIL
entriruce |

NITRAFFIN— DEWAX
LUBE NITRO SPECIAL

a
DISTILLATES TREAT PET SL rae BROGUCTS
NITRENE
VACUUM STILL» CoasTAL OILS

LUBE STOCK vacuum STILL ——~=DISTILLATES

TAR *6 FUEL
GAS TO RECOVERY SYSTEM
ACID STEAM AND
TAR STABILIZE ——~-TREaT—> SWEETEN ——e vada aE RUN
FURNACE VIS BREAK ASOLINE
GRAY TREAT ———eSTABILIZE ——+ UNISOL TREAT
GAS OIL TO CRACKING
TAR TO *6 FUEL
ASPHALT FLUX
PETROLEUM ASPHALT STEAM REFINED
STEAM SE ee
OXIDIZED
ASPHALTS

AIR BLOWN
PUMP

FLOW DIAGRAM CRUDE OIL REFINING OCT., 1946

Figure 6.
256 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

controlled in properties to meet very exacting requirements and a
far cry from the older types of byproduct soap.

WHAT HAS HAPPENED TO THE REFINERY

As we have traced refinery history in the preceding discussion many
new processes have been developed to handle the requirements for
the many new and improved petroleum products now in demand. The
process flow of a refinery has become almost a maze. Figure 5 depicts
a typical refinery flow, corresponding in chronology approximately to
the start of our historical survey. Without commenting on the details
the main thing to note is the relative simplicity of processing and
number of products.

Figure 6 depicts a typical refinery flow today, without including
the details of some of the previously mentioned complex chemical
processes. A comparison with the preceding figure explains why pres-
ent-day refineries must be heavily staffed with technically trained per-
sonnel and must operate hand in hand with large and competent re-
search and development departments. Today a petroleum refinery
is not only that but has also become a large-tonnage chemical manu-
facturing plant; and we are still going strong.

CONCLUSION

In conclusion it can be said that the petroleum-refining industry

has in either active or contemplated production materials used in:

Alcohols and antifreezes,

Lacquers, paints, varnishes, and solvents,

Rayons and plastics,

Dyestuffs, textile oils, and leather oils,

Synthetic rubbers and paper,

Medicines, poisons, and toilet goods,

Explosives and anesthetics,

Detergents, emulsifiers, and wetting agents,
in addition to bottled household fuel gas, motor fuels, kerosene, fur-
nace oil, lubricants, and heavy fuel oils which are generally consid-
ered the refiner’s main stock in trade. Does it seem strange to hear
that coal is hauled to market by a Diesel oil engine?

Thus refining is rapidly becoming a broad and versatile chemical-
manufacturing business and the refinery chemist has reason to believe
that he can derive from oil practically every hydrocarbon that can
be derived from coal, many products now or formerly derived from
vegetable and animal materials, and many products that cannot be
obtained on commercial scale from any of these sources.

The last 10 years of petroleum-refining developments have been in-
teresting and exciting, and rapid obsolescence of processes and prod-
ucts has given truth to the statement that “there is no such thing as
an up-to-date refinery” since it will be obsolete, at least in part, before
it can be completed.
THE TSUNAMI OF APRIL 1, 1946, IN THE HAWAITAN
ISLANDS?

By G. A. MacponaLD
U. 8. Geological Survey
F. P. SHEPARD
Scripps Institution of Oceanography
and
D. C. Cox
Hawaiian Sugar Planters’ Association Experiment Station

[With 6 plates]

INTRODUCTION

The tsunami which struck the shores of the Hawaiian Islands on
the morning of April 1, 1946, was the most destructive, and one of
the most violent, in the history of the Islands. More than 150 persons
were killed, principally by drowning, and at least 161 others were in-
jured. Property damage reached about $25,000,000.

The wave attack on Hawaiian shores was far from uniform. The
height and violence of the waves at adjacent points varied greatly,
and not always in the manner which would have been expected from
superficial inspection and a study of the existing literature on tsunamis.
Therefore, a detailed study of the effects of the tsunami has been
made, in an effort to understand the observed variations, and in the
hope that the principles established may help lessen the loss of life
and property in future tsunamis. Space is not available in the pres-
ent short paper to discuss findings in detail, or even to present all the
evidence for all the conclusions. These matters will be treated in
detail in a longer paper (Shepard, Cox, and Macdonald, in prepara-
tion).

Acknowledgments.—We wish to thank the many persons who fur-
nished information during the course of the field study. We are also
especially grateful to M. H. Carson, H. S. Leak, H. W. Beardin, and
W. K. Sproat, who supplied measurements of the highwater level in
areas not visited by us; H. W. Iversen and J. D. Isaacs, who supplied
additional measurements on Oahu; A. F. Robinson and Dexter Fraser,

1 Reprinted by permission from Pacific Science, vol. 1, No. 1, January 1947.

257
258 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

who furnished descriptions of the wave effects on Niihau and Lanai,
respectively; the Hawaii County engineer’s office, which supplied a
map showing the extent of flooding in Hilo; and the United States
Coast and Geodetic Survey, which supplied data on the earthquake
and the record of the Honolulu tide gage, and permitted the use, in
advance of publication, of C. K. Green’s manuscript on the tsunami
along the shores of North and South America. Howard A. Powers,
seismologist of the Volcano Observatory at Hawaii National Park,
aided greatly in the investigation on the island of Hawaii. Miss
Maude Jones, archivist of the Territory of Hawaii, and Miss Margaret
Titcomb, librarian of the Bishop Museum, aided in locating records
of past waves. C. K. Wentworth and H. S. Palmer aided greatly
in discussions. Wentworth and Walter Munk read and criticized the
manuscript. J. Y. Nitta prepared the illustrations.

DEFINITION OF “TSUNAMI”

The name “tsunami”? is applied to a long-period gravity wave
in the ocean caused by a sudden large displacement of the sea bottom
or shores. A tsunami is accompanied by a severe earthquake, but
the earthquake does not cause the tsunami. Rather, both are caused
by the same sudden crustal displacement. The waves of a tsunami
have a period of several minutes to an hour as contrasted with sev-
eral seconds for ordinary storm waves caused by wind, a wave length
of scores of miles as contrasted with less than 500 feet for wind waves,
and a speed of hundreds of miles an hour as contrasted with less than
60 miles an hour for wind waves. ‘Tsunamis are also sometimes termed
“seismic sea waves,” and are popularly known as “tidal waves.” ‘The
latter term is patently undesirable, as the waves have no connection
whatever with the tides. “Tsunami” is used herein in preference to
“seismic sea wave” because of its greater brevity, and because the
etymological correctness of the term “seismic sea wave” appears open
to question.°

HISTORY OF TSUNAMIS IN HAWAII

Tsunamis probably reach Hawaiian shores on an average of more
than one a year. Most of these are small, however, and generally
escape notice except when their record is recognized on tide gages.
Earlier tsunamis in Hawaii have been discussed by Jaggar (1931)

7 Also spelled “tunami,” the Japanese equivalent of the letter “t” being pronounced
“ts” in English. It appears preferable, however, to use the phonetic spelling in English,
avoiding thereby much ineorrect pronunciation.

2The adjective “seismic” is derived from the Greek root seigmos, meaning earthquake,
and is defined as pertaining to, produced by, or characteristic of an earthquake. The
Waves in question are not, however, characteristic of most earthquakes, even those of
submarine origin, and are not produced by earthquakes.
259

and Powers (1946, p.3). The accompanying table lists all the tsuna-
mis noticed on Hawaiian shores, in the period of written history, of
which record could be found, together with their sources if known.
A total of 27 are listed, or an average of 1 every 4.7 years since 1819.
Most of them, however, did little damage. During the same interval

TSUNAMI OF APRIL 1, 1946—-MACDONALD, ET AL.

140°

100°

ee Me Yom of tsunami -
UY fy" YG,
Wyk of April 1, 1946

“.., HAWAIIAN
“+ ISLANDS
“

WAKE IS a

wo | MARSHALL
‘4, ISLANDS
ae &

eee ae

‘CLIPPERTON 1.
.PALMYRA 1.

GALAPAGOS,,

+,PHOENIX IS. ISLANDS
MARQUESAS
+, ISLANDS

*. ELLICE Is

 TUAMOTU

EASTER |.

YY P A C ff: Fr v4 Cc
TASMANIA \ ZEALAND: 7 (CHATHAM IS
Yj 7 a 7a a N
Uy
YY :
Wn
a WY, L i ;

100° 120° 160° 140° '20°

£0" 100°

Figure 1.—Map of the Pacific basin, showing the pusition of the Hawaiian Islands,
the place of origin of the tsunami of April 1, 1946, and the distribution of seismi-
cally active belts around the Pacific in which tsunamis are likely to originate.

there are listed five severe tsunamis which caused extensive damage,
an average of one every 25.6 years.

Other violent waves have been termed “tidal waves” in the news-
papers, but were more probably storm waves. Such were the waves
which hit Maliko, Maui, on January 28, 1895, and those which struck
Kaumalapau on Lanai, and Nawiliwili on Kauai, on May 30, 1924.

It will be noted that only 2 of the 27 tsunamis listed in the table
were of local origin. With the exception of the numerous volcanic
earthquakes on the island of Hawaii, which seldom cause tsunamis,
the Hawaiian region is only moderately active seismically (Gutenberg

260 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

and Richter, 1941, pp. 84-85). The great majority of the tsunamis
reaching Hawaii originate in the highly seismic border zone of the
Pacific. Of the 22 tsunamis from known sources listed in the table, 5
came from near South America, 1 from near Central America, 1 from
near California, 3 from near Alaska and the Aleutian Islands, 5 from
near Kamchatka, 3 from the Japanese area, and 1 from near the
Solomon Islands. Of the five severe tsunamis, three originated near
the coast of South America and one in the Aleutian area, and one
was of local origin. One tsunami of moderate intensity came from
near Kamchatka, and another probably from South America.

TABLE 1.—Hawaiian tsunamis

Average
Date Source (nearest coast) Damage in Hawaii speed of
waves

Mi. per hr.
1819, “Agor WQ's- 2 ete eS Unknown... eee 2! | Un kmO Wiles = aoe |
ASSTNO Veh eae eee eee SouthiAmerica: > 9-2") (Severe. -£-..5.. 2280 ee
1841, May 17--- Kamehatkasn oa5 (202 2a Siig lie Suede iis 2) ci,
1868, Apr. 2_--- Hawelies oho 2c coe Severe a Sateen © 2 5 ia ee
1868, Aug. 13_-- South America GOs et BO ie Te ee
1869; dulyc25-nrc ot 2-2-2352 228 South America (?) fo--- 2 Moderate: caGs eee on | 2 ae
ASTANA: Be 2-252 eee BSE hyfV bens i a 18
1877; May LOM 22) =o. ecb asS South America
TBSS. cle C26 ue See 2 as See ae Bastandies 262s 22233 22222
SOG JuMeN bo. osc ee Ecce se Japan’... 2-3: sagowes 22
QOL VATIE, Qie save. Be ssh se sees VADAN! (7) es eee ae hed file 8 da
1906; dane Slice 222 os ce= Unknown..-----
TOG ATI: 16itea ase: 2s 2= = South America
1918; Septsi(iss2.-2-525---2 aiken Chatka waee. {testes eet i d a
1910 .Avpr je0be ssa 2= een cee Unknowmns(distant) poses es NOM L ease cae te REE ae eee
AGIOS NOV: Meee Seen nee South America-—- 2.228 Ee 450
1923; MeDs(Se2e toe enone tse Kamchatka 222202222. sane 432
1993; Apr. lo-22set22-2s-22-25e-- Kamehatkal. 22 22. <a N 438
I GOTSIN OVE 4 see aa eee ee ae @alifornias 2.22. meee es ee 462
1997, DeCr2e-- scee- ose see ce-=eo| POAT ChatKa = ose (28 oo Sone ees 438
1028 June Ose— « see os aaa Se 462
1929, Mar.6_-_- 492
1931; Oct. 3.2: 447
1933, Mar. 2_--- 477
19385 INOVed Ome. 85. 2 aes ee 496
O44 SID OCsdae neon ae ee ewan ae Japanese hot sees Sues SS LS ae 425
nS LGN) 0) yt eee eee AMeutianviss: see eeneseea— 490

GENERAL FEATURES OF THE APRIL 1946 TSUNAMI: ORIGIN AND
NATURE OF THE WAVES

The tsunami of April 1, 1946, was caused by a movement of the sea
bottom on the northern slope of the Aleutian Deep, south of Unimak
Island. The same crustal movement gave rise to a violent earthquake,
recorded on seismographs all over the world. In Hawaii it was re-
corded on the instrument of the United States Coast and Geodetic
Survey located on the campus of the University of Hawaii in Hono-
lulu, and on those of the Hawaiian Volcano Observatory at Kilauea
on Hawaii. The epicenter of the earthquake has been located by the
Coast and Geodetic Survey at latitude 53.5° N. and longitude 163°
W., and the time established as 1°59™ a. m. Hawaiian time (12°29™
Greenwich time) (Bodle, 1946, p. 464). It may be assumed that the
tsunami originated at the same place and time as the earthquake. The
TSUNAMI OF APRIL 1, 1946—-MACDONALD, ET AL. 261

place of origin was thus 2,241 miles N. 8.5° W. of Honolulu, and 2,875
miles N. 12° W. of Hilo (fig. 1).

The time of arrival of the waves in the Hawaiian Islands is known
with certainty only at Honolulu. The record of the Honolulu tide
gage (fig. 2) shows that the first rise started at about 6:33 a.m. (C. K.
Green, 1946, p. 491), though the exact time cannot be stated closer
than 2 or 3 minutes. The drum of the water-stage recorder at the
Waimea River, on Kauai, revolves too slowly to give an accurate in-
dication of time, but the first rise appears to have started there at
about 5:55. At Hilo, electric clocks were stopped at 7:06, and a

HOURS
: 1AM. 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 ul 12 1PM. 2 5
1
2
nt NS |
b
ui bi Be
Ly i | A
i | | i
fe) Approximate datum aI Wr j
ke tl tl i
ane
5 Lo De ke (SRN clad FL
a IAM 2 3 4 5 10 il i2 1PM 2 7

vs 8
HOURS
FicurEe 2.—-Record produced on the tide gage in Honolulu Harbor by the tsunami
of April 1, 1946.

brief power failure occurred at 7:18. These have been interpreted
by Powers (1946, p. 2), probably correctly, as the time of arrival of
two wave crests at Hilo. From other considerations, discussed briefly
elsewhere (Shepard, Macdonald, and Cox, in preparation), it ap-
pears probable, however, that the crest at 7:06 was the second wave
at Hilo, not the first. If so, allowing for the observed 15-minute
interval between later waves, the first rise at Hilo probably started at
about 6:45. Computed from these times of arrival, the approximate
average speed of the tsunami from its origin to Honolulu and Hilo
was, respectively, 490 and 498 miles an hour. On entering shallow
water the waves decreased greatly in speed. The waves moving up
Kawela Bay, on Oahu, were estimated by Shepard to be moving only
about 15 miles an hour. Similar low speeds near shore were reported
262 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

by other observers, and are comparable to the speed of 20 miles an
hour recorded in San Francisco Bay (C. K. Green, 1946, p. 492).

The interval between the first and third wave crests, as recorded
on the Honolulu tide gage (fig. 2), was about 25 minutes, indicating
an average interval between early wave crests of approximately 12.5
minutes. The interval between the first wave crest and the succed-
ing trough was 7.5 minutes, however, indicating a wave period of
15 minutes at the beginning of the disturbance. This corresponds
with the mean wave period of 15.6 minutes found by Green (1946,
p- 499) at Honolulu and eight other stations on the coasts of
North and South America. At the mouth of Nuuanu Stream in
Honolulu, C. K. Wentworth observed an interval of approximately
15 minutes between successive bores ascending the stream, and a wave
period of about 15 minutes was observed by J. B. Cox and D. C. Cox
at Waikiki at about 7:45 a. m. Observations elsewhere were poor,
but in general indicated an interval not far from 15 minutes between
the early waves of the series. The interval between later waves at
Honolulu (fig. 2) and elsewhere was shorter and less regular, probably
because of the arrival of chains of waves traveling by somewhat
different routes, refracted around different sides of islands, and
reflected at various points, as well as traveling by the most direct
route. Probably contributing to the irregularity of later waves
were wind waves and also the free-period oscillations, in harbors
and channels, known as “seiches.” If the period of the waves is
assumed to be 15 minutes, and the average speed to be about 490 miles
an hour, the average wave length from crest to crest was about 122
miles.

Direct observations on the height of the waves in the open sea are
lacking, but theoretical considerations indicate that the height prob-
ably did not exceed 2 feet from crest to trough.t If so, the small
height combined with the very great wave length should have made
the waves imperceptible to ships at sea. That such was indeed the
case is indicated by the fact that the master of a ship lying offshore
near Hilo could feel no unusual waves, although he could see the
great waves breaking onshore. Crews of fishing boats in the Hawaiian
area also reported no unusual conditions at the time of the tsunami,
although heavy storm waves were running. The few reports of violent
waves of great height from ships at sea were probably occasioned by
storm waves, together with the knowledge that a tsunami was taking
place.

The nature of the waves sweeping up onto Hawaiian shores varied
greatly from place to place. At some places the water rose gently,

* Based on the assumption of a 10-foot wave in 10 feet of water, and the variation of
the wave height inversely as the fourth root of the depth.
TSUNAMI OF APRIL 1, 1946—-MACDONALD, ET AL. 263

flooding over the coastal lands without the development of any steep
wave front. At such places most of the damage resulted from the
violent run-back of the water to the sea. At some localities, although
the general water surface rose gently, ordinary storm waves moved in
over the top of the broad swells of the tsunami, and there at least part
of the damage was caused by the storm waves. At most places,
however, the waves of the tsunami swept toward shore with steep
fronts and great turbulence, causing a loud roaring and hissing noise.
Locally, the wave closely resembled a tidal bore, the steep front rolling
in over comparatively quiet water in front of it. Behind the steep
front, the wave crest was broad and nearly flat, with smaller storm
waves superimposed upon it. Such bores were best developed in
bays and estuaries, but waves of closely similar form were observed
crossing shallowly submerged reefs upon otherwise open coasts.

At many places the violence of the waves moving shoreward was
sufficiently great to tear loose heads of coral and algae, up to 4 feet
across, and toss them onto the beach as much as 15 feet above sea
level. Locally, blocks of reef rock weighing several tons were quarried
at the outer edge of the reef and thrown onto the reef surface.

Between crests, the water withdrew from shore, exposing reefs,
coastal mud flats, and harbor bottoms for distances up to 500 feet or
more from the normal strand line. The outflow of the water was
rapid and turbulent, making a loud hissing, roaring, and rattling noise.
At several places houses were carried out to sea, and in some areas even
large rocks and blocks of concrete were carried out onto the reefs.
Sand beaches were strongly eroded by the outgoing water. People
and their belongings were swept to sea, some being rescued hours later
by boats and life rafts dropped from planes.

At a few places, generally but not exclusively on the sides of the
islands away from the wave origin, the first wave was reported to
have been the highest. At those places, the rise was generally of the
quiet sort. There are, however, no instrumental records showing the
first wave to have been the highest, and it is possible that at places
reporting the first wave as the highest, earlier waves may have been
overlooked. Much more generally the third or fourth wave was re-
ported to have been the highest and most violent. The third crest was
the largest at the Honolulu tide gage (fig. 2). At other localities the
sixth, seventh, or eighth waves were said to have been the highest. At
Waimea River, Kauai, the sixth crest was higher than any other, both
in absolute level and in its height above the preceding and succeeding
troughs.

In general, if not everywhere, the size and violence of the waves
increased to a maximum with the third to eighth waves. The oscilla-
tions then gradually decreased in amplitude over a period of at least

777488—48—-20
264 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

2 days, but with occasional waves which were larger than those just
before and after them. Such temporary increases in wave height
probably resulted from mutual reinforcement by the essentially simul-
taneous arrival, in phase, of waves which had traveled different paths,
or from the coincidence of tsunami waves with storm waves or seiche
oscillations.

Measures of the height of the waves approaching shore in shallow
water, but before they dashed up on shore, are poor. At Kawela Bay,
Oahu, Shepard estimated the height of the waves advancing across
the reef to have been as much as 18 feet, and observers estimated the
height of the waves crossing the reef off Lanikai, on Oahu, to have been
about 7 feet. Photographs taken at Hilo show the top of the breakers
to have been 25 feet above the normal bay surface where they struck
Cocoanut Island, but the waves may have increased considerably in
height in crossing the breakwater, and the effect of dashing up on the
shore was probably already present, further exaggerating the height.
Photographs of some of the late waves at the mouth of the Wailuku
River, in Hilo, show them to have been 6 to 8 feet high (pl. 6), and
early waves undoubtedly were higher. In general, these heights cor-
respond fairly closely with the measured heights to which the water
dashed on the shore at those localities. At any rate it appears clear
that the waves not only slowed down, but increased in height on
entering shallow water. George Green (1838) states that the wave
height varies inversely as the fourth root of the depth of the water.

Most observers reported the first movement on Hawaiian shores to
have been a withdrawal of the water. However, the only available
instrumental records, at Honolulu and Waimea, both indicate the first
movement to have been a rise. The instrumental records are prob-
ably more reliable than the reports of untrained observers. The initial
rise at Honolulu was small (fig. 2), and a similar small rise at other
localities may easily have been overlooked. Certainly it would have
been less impressive than the large withdrawal of the water from shore
as the succeeding trough approached. It is interesting to note that
the records of tide gages along the coasts of North and South America
cbtained by C. K. Green (1946, p. 497) all show the initial movement to
have been a rise, with amplitude of about one-third that of the ensuing
trough.

HEIGHTS REACHED BY WAVES ON HAWAIIAN SHORES

Measurements of high-water marks have been made around the
shores of all five major islands of the Hawaiian group. ‘The measured
heights are shown on figures 3 to 7. All heights are stated in feet
above lower low water. At each point sea level was estimated, the
height of the high-water mark above that level was measured by
means of hand level or steel tape, and the measurement reduced by
TSUNAMI OF APRIL 1, 1946—-MACDONALD, ET AL. 265

means of tide tables to height above lower low water. Some inaccuracy
undoubtedly has entered in the estimation of mean sea level, but it
is believed that the heights are probably accurate to within 1 foot. The
levels measured include: points indicated by eyewitnesses as the upper
limit of the water, lines of flotsam or swash marks, the upper limits
of soil and vegetation scouring, levels of consistent scratching and
barking on trees, and the upper level of staining on the walls of
buildings.

| KALIHIWAI
HANALEI

HANAMAULA,

22°00"

NAWILIWILI,

Figure 3.—Map of the island of Kauai, showing heights reached by the water
during the tsunami of April 1, 1946. Heights are in feet above lower low
water.

The measured heights of high-water marks range from 55 feet at
Pololu Valley on Hawaii, 54 feet at Waikolu Valley on Molokai, and
45 feet at Haena and Kilauea Point on Kauai, to 2 feet at Kaunakakai
on Molokai, 2 feet at Milolii and Hoopuloa on Hawaii, and less than
2 feet at the head of Kaneohe Bay on Oahu. Causes of the variations
in height will be discussed in a later section.

Most of the heights measured are, of course, not the heights of the
actual waves, but rather the heights to which the water was driven
on shore. On a vertical cliff directly across the path of the wave, this
height may theoretically amount to twice the height of the actual
wave. On slopes less than vertical, or on cliffs at an angle to the
266 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

direction of wave advance, it should be somewhat less than twice the
wave height. This measure represents the height of dash of solid
water, but very abundant spray may be thrown much higher. More-
over, storm waves riding on the crest of the broader swells of the
tsunami undoubtedly added in places to the height to which water
dashed on shore. There are places where normal trade-wind waves
are flung to a height nearly as great as that reached by the tsunami,
and many places, particularly on shores facing away from the origin

4 10° os” 188°00" Le 50 a3 40

2 KAHUKU\ ~~
40- 40
“WAIMEA ;
m HAVULA Git daa Semis
28 Poo 16 \ we \SSPHALEIWA
2 SKAENA POINT if
KAHANA,

IN
Ts Q
ae
230

21°30
(0) A H U
22 5,
|
s WAIANAE =
KANEOHE $
2y- 02 ~ 29
NS KAILUA
bay SNANAKULI ,,
Cr
oe
20 a SU 7 -~20
o Sis SSPHONOLULU = MAKAPUU POINY) ‘
2 Ae WAILUPE, 7 Ke
2 5 ]
Pod Nu |
1 ¢ k | ra

iy 10 oy 158°00 85 50° on 40

Ficure 4.—Map of the island of Oahu, showing the heights reached by the water
during the tsunami of April 1, 1946. Heights are in feet above lower low
water.

of the tsunami, where waves of heavy storms reached appreciably
higher than did the waves of the tsunami.

It is not possible to make reliable estimates of the magnitudes of
these complicating factors, as there are too many unknown elements
involved. However, it is probable that most of the water heights
recorded for the tsunami on the northern and eastern sides of the
islands were appreciably increased by these factors.

FACTORS INFLUENCING THE HEIGHTS AND INTENSITIES OF THE
WAVES

It may be assumed that the size and speed of the waves approaching
the islands from the open ocean to the north were essentially the same
throughout the length of the Hawaiian Archipelago. Differences in
TSUNAMI OF APRIL 1, 1946—-MACDONALD, ET AL. 267

height reached by the water and in violence of wave attack along
Hawaiian shores must be attributed to local influences modifying the
size and behavior of the waves.

The factors found to have affected the height and intensity of the
waves during the tsunami of April 1, 1946, are:

1. Orientation of the coast line with respect to the point of origin of the
tsunami.
2. Shape of the island.
3. Exposure to storm waves.
. Submarine topography.
5. Presence or absence of reefs.
6. Configuration of the coast line.
7. Merging of waves from different directions, or of different types.

ea

Orientation of the coast line with respect to the point of origin of
the tsunami.—ln general, the heights reached by the water were great-
est on the sides of the islands facing the origin of the waves, and lowest
on the sides away from the wave origin. This is evident from even
a cursory inspection of the maps (figs. 3 to 7). Heights average con-
sistently greater on the northern than on the southern sides of the
islands. All the extreme heights were measured on the northern or
northeastern sides. Conversely, most of the lowest figures were found
on the southern and southwestern sides. It appears almost self-evident
that this should be so. Waves striking northern shores retain their full
force, whereas the refracted waves striking southern shores suffer
a diminution in force and height. This effect is discussed for wind
waves in Breakers and Surf (U. S. Navy Hydrographic Office, 1944,
pp. 12-18). No wave can be refracted or reflected without losing some
of its force.

Shape of the island—Waves were refracted around circular or
nearly circular islands much more effectively than around angular
or elongate islands. This fact had a marked effect on the height and
violence of waves on the southern shores. Thus the water reached
considerably greater heights along the southern coast of the nearly
round island of Kauai (fig. 3) than along the southern coast of the
angular and elongate island of Molokai (fig. 5), even though the
heights along the northern coast of Molokai were on the average per-
haps a little greater than those on the northern coast of Kauai. The
contrast between the very high average height on the northern coast
of Molokai and the very low average height on the southern coast is
greater than that between the two sides of any other island, although
the difference between the extreme highs and lows is almost exactly
the same as on the island of Hawaii (fig. 7).

Exposure to storm waves.—At the time of the tsunami, large storm
waves had been running for several days. As already pointed out,
these storm waves riding in on the backs of the broad swells of the
268 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

tsunami in places undoubtedly increased the height to which the water
dashed on shore. Moreover, in other places, where the rise in water
level due to the tsunami was gentle, storm waves on top of the tsunami
were responsible for much of the damage. ‘The generally greater vio-
lence of the waves on the windward (northern and northeastern)
coasts as compared to that on the leeward coasts may have been in
considerable part the result of the large storm waves which were driv-
ing in on the windward coasts. Places on the windward coasts which
were sheltered from the storm waves also experienced less violent
waves. Thus at Kalaupapa, on the sheltered side of the peninsula
on the windward side of Molokai, both photographs and the testimony
of observers indicate that the rise of 25 feet caused by the tsunami was
not violent. On the windward coasts, much of the rapid variation in

20 17 157500 beled
eg |20 9
36 44 a us as
SS NOPE 30 [+8 iG
26 \ 4a A 37 33
KEPUHI KAWAILOA p 54 4
38 KALAUPAPA 3
21° 104 f iN 2110"
ap aa WAIKOLU PELEKUNU HALAWA i
25 M O LE O K A l =
LAAU POINT
KOLO : KAUNAKAKAI WAIALUA . if
PUKOO .
A 13 2 KAWELA p z
N P KAMALO 4 l
4 | 4 6 7\ \8
4+ 4/| 15 5 7

Oo. 1.2 3 4 ‘5miles
eee
20 10 1s7°0o sO

FicureE 5.—Map of the island of Molokai, showing heights (in feet above lower low
water) reached by the water during the tsunami of April 1, 1946.

intensity of wave attack may have resulted from the caprice of storm
waves.

Submarine topography.—Owing to their great wave length, the
waves were somewhat affected by the ocean bottom throughout their
course. However, the effect of the bottom increased greatly as the
waves moved into shallow water, and caused a slowing of the wave,
an increase in its height, and a steepening of its front. A direct evi-
dence of the increase in height of the waves in shallow water was
afforded by the lesser heights reached by the water at the ends of cer-
tain peninsulas projecting into deep water and not prolonged seaward
by pronounced ridges, as compared with the heights on adjacent shores
rising from shoal water. Thus at the end of Kalaupapa Peninsula,
on the northern coast of Molokai (fig. 5), the water dashed only 7 feet
above normal sea level, distinctly less than do the waves of ordinary
storms; whereas on the coasts rising from shoal water both east and
west of the peninsula, the water swept up to heights of 30 to 54 feet.
At the end of Keanae Peninsula, on the northern coast of Maui (fig. 6),
TSUNAMI OF APRIL 1, 1946—-MACDONALD, ET AL. 269

the tsunami reached heights only a little greater than large trade-wind
waves.

Submarine ridges and valleys, particularly those pointing toward
the wave source, were of great importance in their effect on the strength
of the waves. The best examples of the effect of ridges are found on
the northern coast of Kauai. <A long ridge extends in a direction
slightly west of north from Haena, to a depth of about 8,000 feet
(fig. 9). Another extends northeastward from Kilauea Point, to even
greater depths. The greatest heights (45 feet) reached by the water
on the shores of Kauai were at the heads of these two ridges (fig. 3).

1S6°40" 30 20 'v

ms 24 28 2°

56°07

is

SPRECKELSVILLE
KAHULU}

10 ,OLOWALU
MAALAEA
j KIHE]

-)MAKENA KIPAHULU,
KAUPO |

PAAKO \ 16
21
reconeonsoio | 21
[- Hoo (att ee 6 miles Ca. =
tea teeeet 13/ “T
20°

Ficure 6.—Map of the island of Maui, showing heights (in feet above lower low
water) reached by the water during the tsunami of April 1, 1946.

oO 1S6°0

Another ridge extending northwestward from the western coast of
Kauai is probably responsible for heights of 35 to 38 feet at its head.
Long ridges projecting from Kaena and Kahuku Points on Oahu simi-
larly caused an increase in wave heights there as compared to the
heights on both sides (fig. 4). The ridges projecting eastward north
of Hilo Bay and at Cape Kumukahi on Hawaii had, on the other hand,
no such pronounced effect on the heights at their heads; but it should
be noted that they extend across the general direction of wave advance,
not toward it.

The greater heights reached by the water at the heads of sub-
marine ridges are not difficult to explain. The ridge has a greater
effect in limiting the movement of water particles in the advancing
270 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

wave than does the deeper water alongside it. Consequently the por-
tion of the wave over the ridge is retarded more than that away from
the ridge, and the wave front becomes bent, with its concavity di-
rected toward the ridge head. The result is a focusing of wave force
on the shore at the head of the ridge (U. S. Navy Hydrographic Of-
fice, 1944, p. 13).

Similarly, in moving toward shore along the axis of a submarine
valley, the part of the wave in the deep water along the valley axis
moves faster than that in shallower water on the two sides. In con-
sequence the wave front becomes bent, with its convexity toward the
valley head. In the vicinity of the valley head the force lines (orthog-
onals) of the wave are diffused or spread apart, and over any unit
area the force of the waves striking shore is greatly decreased.

An example of the effect of a submarine valley in lessening the
force of the waves at its head is found at Kahana Bay, on Oahu (fig.
4). There the waves dashed to heights of 11 to 17 feet on the coasts
north and south of the bay, but reached heights of only 4 to 7 feet
in the bay itself. A small submarine valley extends 2 miles north-
eastward from the bay, to a depth of 150 feet. An example on a
much larger scale is afforded by the zone of small heights along the
northwestern shore of Kauai (fig. 3), at the head of a broad swale
extending outward to oceanic depths. The broad valleylike depres-
sion off the eastern coast of Hawaii south of Hilo Bay probably also
was somewhat effective in reducing the heights reached by the water
along that coast. Although fairly great, ranging from 16 to 19 feet,
the heights there are not much greater than those reached by ordinary
storm waves.

Presence or absence of reefs——The presence of a well-developed
fringing reef appears to have had a decided effect in reducing the
intensity of wave onslaught. Along the reef-protected northern coast
of Oahu the heights reached on shore by the waves were on the average
decidedly less than on the unprotected northern coasts of Molokai
and Hawaii, or on the less-protected northern coast of Kauai. The
best-developed coral reef in the Hawaiian Islands fills Kaneohe Bay
on Oahu, where it has a width of about 3 miles. Despite the fact that
the broad mouth of Kaneohe Bay is open to the north and northeast,
the tsunami produced a rise in water level at the bay head which was
so small as to be hardly perceptible to observers, and, so far as could
be determined, nowhere exceeded 2 feet. Along the shore north of the
bay the heights ranged from 4 to 10 feet, and on the end of Makapuu
Peninsula southeast of the bay the heights reached more than 20 feet
(fig. 4).

The lesser heights along the southern shore of Molokai were prob-
ably partly due to the wide protecting reef. The effect of the reef in
reducing wave violence along that shore is well shown at places
TSUNAMI OF APRIL 1, 1946—-MACDONALD, ET AL. 271

where channels cross the reef. There the waves striking the shore at
the heads of the channels were distinctly larger than those reaching
shore on each side of the channel. Thus at the head of a small chan-
nel which crosses the reef just west of the mouth of Kainalu Stream
the water rose 11 feet, damaging houses, whereas just east and west
of this channel the water rose only 7 to 8 feet.

Configuration of the coast line—It is generally considered that
the effects of tsunamis should be intensified near the heads of V-
shaped embayments. Such embayments greatly increase tidal fluc-
tuations, as in the Bay of Fundy, and might be expected to act like-
wise on the similarly long waves of a tsunami. Imamura (1987,
pp. 125-127) states that as such a wave rolls up a V-shaped em-
bayment its height increases in inverse ratio to the width and depth
of the bay, and cites examples of such increases in height of the waves
toward the bay head during Japanese tsunamis. Consequently, spe-
cial search was made for this phenomenon in funnel-shaped bays on
Hawaiian shores. No good examples could be found. Hilo Bay would
appear to be an almost ideal site for such funneling, but measurements
around its shores show no systematic increase in heights toward its
head (fig. 7 and 8). Similarly there was a lack of increase in heights
toward the head of the broad V-shaped embayment on the northern
coast of Maui. Possibly the extreme height of 54 feet at Waikolu
Valley, on the northern shore of Molokai, may have been partly the
result of funneling between Kalaupapa Peninsula and the point and
small islands just east of the mouth of the valley. At both Pololu
Valley on Hawaii and Pelekunu Valley on Molokai, the water level
was higher at the bay head than on the walls of the bay part way out.
However, at Pololu Valley, and probably also at Pelekunu, this level
was the result of a local upsurge where the waves crossed the beach.
Conversely, several bays were found in which the heights reached by
the water were less at the bay head than near its mouth.

Several smal] steep valleys, debouching into small bays, were found
in which the water rose to appreciably greater heights along the valley
axis than on the sides near the bay mouth or opposite the beach. Thus,
in the small bay just south of Hanamaula Bay, on the eastern shore of
Kauai, the water rose only 25 feet on the bay sides, but swept up the
small valley at its head to a height of 40 feet. At Moloaa, on Kauai, the
water reached an altitude of 40 feet in the axis of the valley, but only
30 to 35 feet on the bay walls. Again, at Honouliwai, on Molokai, the
water reached a height of 27 feet opposite the beach, but went 6 feet
higher up the valley. These are merely specialized examples of effect,
upon the rush of water up on shore, of a topography above sea level
which served to concentrate the inrushing water.

Merging of waves from different directions —Wave crests traveling
by different routes may arrive at a given locality simultaneously
272. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

giving rise to a wave of greater size than either. Likewise, the simul-
taneous arrival by different routes of a wave crest and a wave trough
may effectually cancel out both. Thus, variations in the size and in-
tensity of waves, particularly on the sides of the islands away from the
wave origin, may result from the arrival, either in or out of phase, of

156°00" x ay 20 55°00"
0 BB
: ee 2
UPOL ;
NIULIT? be
14 {  POLOLU "Sigs
MAHUKONA O36 ie
WAIPIO VALLEY¥~—~__ 72
HONOKAA
= o>KAWAIHAE 15+
30
erly LAUPAHOEHOE®
Ya
HAKALAU X_32 an a
PEPEEKEO ,\_-2?
ONOMEA of 34
PAPAIKOU dng
og 32 16
6 5
HILOS
40° ‘—7-—-———_———" 4o
7S. KAILUA ; KEAAU A
]
bila ems i «A peng :
= _\,.KEAUHOU 16
19
KUMUKAHI POINT ¥
6 peNAPOOPOO ‘POHOIKI ,
2/\_HONAUNAU OPIHIKA0< 52
it
g \HOOKENA

KAIMU_ 4,

KALAPANA2< 7g
20" 12

KEAUHOU

1o miles
19°00 let ell ae ao ah 19°00

156°00" 155°00"

Figure 7.—Map of the island of Hawaii, showing heights (in feet above lower low
water) reached by the water during the tsunami of April 1, 1946.

two wave trains. During the tsunami of 1946 several examples of the
formation of a large wave by the juncture of two smaller ones were
observed. Thus, in the Keaukaha area east of Hilo, witnesses described
the arrival of a wave from the north simultaneously with one from
the northeast, which built up a very high crest at the place of juncture.
At the head of Maunalua Bay, on the southeastern shore of Oahu, two
waves were seen to advance up channels across the wide reef, move
toward each other parallel with the shore, and meet, throwing water
TSUNAMI OF APRIL 1, 1946—-MACDONALD, ET AL. Pus:

upward like the spray from a geyser. The water dashed up on shore to
a height of only 3 feet except at the place of juncture, where it swept
over the top of a sandspit 5 feet above sea level.

Progressively southward around the shores of Kauai, the average
height of the high-water marks gradually decreases, and along much
of the southern shore it is 6 to 12 feet above sea level. However, in a
zone 3 or 4 miles wide it ranges from 15 to 18 feet. This zone is almost
directly across the island from the direction of wave origin, and prob-
ably represents the area in which the waves refracted around opposite
sides of the island met and reinforced each other.

DAMAGH BY THE TSUNAMI

Damage by the tsunami can be divided into structural damage,
damage by erosion and deposition, and damage by flooding. The
total property damage has been estimated by the office of the Governor,
Territory of Hawaii, at about $25,000,000. Space permits only a brief
review of the types of damage. The numbers of dwellings destroyed
and damaged by the tsunami on the major islands are listed in table 2
on page 276.

Structural damage includes damage to buildings, roads, railroads,
bridges, piers, breakwaters, fishpond walls, and ships. Frame build-
ings at low altitudes along Hawaiian shores suffered extensive damage.
Some were knocked over, by the force of the waves, by cutting away
of the sand on which they stood, or by destruction of the foundations.
Others were bodily washed away from their foundations. Some had
walls pushed in by the force of the water, and in a few residences the
water went on through the house and took out the opposite wall. As
with earthquakes, there was a tendency to reduce the few two-story
buildings to a single story, by destruction of the lower story. It is
noteworthy that houses which were well built and tied together in-
ternally could be moved for considerable distances without suffering
severe damage. Even more striking was the fact that houses elevated
on stilts a foot to several feet above the ground survived the waves much
more effectively than did those built directly on the ground. Appar-
ently the water was able to pass under such houses without greatly dis-
turbing them, unless it was deep enough actually to float the house off
the stilts. The few reinforced concrete structures in devastated areas
suffered little or no damage except that caused by flooding.

The railroads along the northern coast of Oahu and in Hilo were
wrecked, partly through destruction of the roadbed, but largely because
the tracks were shifted off the roadbed, either inland or shoreward.
Locally rails were torn loose, but more generally the track was moved
en masse, a motion probably aided by the buoyancy of the ties. Coastal
highways also were partly destroyed, largely by undercutting as the
water returned seaward, but partly by the direct force of the waves.
274 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

Several highway and railway bridges were destroyed. Most appear to
have been partly or entirely lifted from their foundations by the rising
of the water under them. The head of the pier at Waianae, Oahu, was
damaged in thesame manner. At the Wailuku River, in Hilo, an entire
span of the steel railroad bridge was torn loose and carried 750 feet
upstream, passing under but not damaging a highway bridge. At
Kolekole Stream, 11 miles farther north, an entire leg of the high steel
railroad trestle was removed and carried upstream about 500 feet.

Part of the end and much of the shed of pier 1 in Hilo was wrecked
by the force of the wave. Most of the damage on pier 2, however, re-
sulted when heavy pontoons, which had been moored nearby, were
washed across the pier. The wharves at Kahului on Maui were flooded,
but sustained little structural damage.

The upper part of the breakwater at Hilo was about 61 percent de-
stroyed (fig. 8). Blocks of rock weighing more than 8 tons were lifted
off the breakwater and dropped both inside and outside it. Destruc-
tion was limited, however, to the part above water or that only slightly
submerged. ‘The average depth of water over the destroyed sections
after the wave was only about 3 feet. The breakwater at Kahului,
Maui, also suffered minor damage. At both Hilo and Kahului the
breakwaters appear to have reduced materially the height and violence
of the waves in the enclosed portions of the harbors.

Many small boats were washed ashore and damaged. Railroad cars
were overturned on Oahu, Maui, and Hawaii. Many automobiles were
wrecked. ‘The loose stone walls of fishponds along the southern coast
of Molokai were partly thrown down. The mill of the Hakalau Sugar
Co., situated only about 10 feet above sea level at the mouth of Haka-
lau Gulch on the island of Hawaii, suffered severe damage.

Erosion by the tsunami resulted in the partial removal of some sand
beaches, in some places causing a retreat of the shore line for several
tens of feet, cutting of small scarps, and forming of large beach cusps
at the heads of beaches; locally, erosion caused stripping away of
a small amount of soil. The erosion was largely concentrated high on
the beach, several feet above sea level. Some of the sand from the
beaches was carried inland and redeposited. At Haena, Kauai, the
highway was buried under 4 feet of sand, and thinner layers of sand
covered roads on Oahu.

Flooding caused much water damage to house furnishings and
personal property.

LOSS OF LIFE AND PERSONAL INJURY

The following table summarizes, by islands, the number of persons
killed, injured, or missing as a result of the tsunami. The figures were
supplied by the American Red Cross. Most of the deaths were by
drowning. By far the heaviest toll was at Hilo, with 83 known dead
275

TSUNAMI OF APRIL 1, 1946—-MACDONALD, ET AL.

“I9]BAL MOT TOMO] AOGV JOoJ UL 91V S]YSIOW “OFGT ‘T Wady Jo lureuns} 04} Sulanp (suotjiod papeys) pefoIjsep 19} VaMyvoag aq} JO
uolpyiod oq} pus ‘Surpooy Jo vere ay} ‘19} BA OY} Aq PayovaT S}YSloy oy} SUIMOYS ‘TIBAMLH JO puvs! Vy} UO Boaw O[TET vy} Jo deyy—'s aun

dazyemyeouq jo uciqoss pebeweg
=

ALINIOIA

anv tweuns} Aq pspoojy souy

O1TIH SO ALIO

|

N

ad -
. < “<>
‘ oe 4 ae tir )
O™®. .y Peg \GiZatn
,) \ \ wy)
>~ ar JAN CE\\\ 19pd2g eoipawiays hg
aeNS. .
t 2 o 2
me : ee S
Sa gud
276 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

and 13 missing. Those listed as missing have been missing for more
than 2 months, and must be presumed dead, bringing the total number
of probable dead to 159. Great as it was, this loss of life was moderate
compared to that in some other tsunamis, such as that of 1896 in the
Sanriku district in Japan, which took more than 27,000 lives (Byerly,
1942, p. 72).

TasLe 2.—List of casualties during the tsunami of April 1, 1946

Homes de-| Homes
molished 4 | damaged 2

Island own Missing | Injured !

wate sie Bs | Sie 4 Si Sw Dae Sree we 2 87 34 153 283 313
CA ths, Aiea ie duc hala WG ees RE EE 3 ee 3) ee ee § 65 144
ee A Ee ee 9 0 0 67 335
IME GIO Rien ET Se 0 0 0 13 14
[oN eS a Se ee ee ee ea 10 5 8 60 130
ROCA) Soa ae ee 2 eh te Tee) 115 44 163 488 936

{ Injury sufficiently serious to require hospitalization.
§ Homes only; other buildings not included. Data from Lewers & Cooke, Ltd.

MITIGATION OF DISASTERS RESULTING FROM FUTURE TSUNAMIS

There is no Hawaiian shore which is exempt from tsunamis. The
most likely sources of devastating tsunamis are the North Pacific and
South America. The areas heavily hit by the 1946 tsunami are prob-
ably those most likely to be hit hard again by tsunamis from the North
Pacific. Violent tsunamis from Central or South America might, how-
ever, cause much more damage than did the 1946 tsunami along eastern
and southern coasts. There is also possibility of serious damage on
western shores by a tsunami from Japan, particularly if the tsunami
occurred during a heavy southwesterly storm. Tsunamis of local
origin might do heavy damage on any shore.

It is obviously impractical to consider the removal of all dwellings
from Hawaiian shores because of the danger from tsunamis. It might,
however, be advisable to prevent or restrict building in certain areas
of greatest danger, particularly in centers of heavy population, such
as the waterfront at Hilo. Construction of suitable sea walls might
also be advisable in places. Sea walls cannot, however, be built high
and strong enough to hold the water back completely, and an open
zone should be left back of the wall in which the water pouring over
the wall can use up its energy in turbulence. Any construction per-
mitted in such areas should be of a wave-resistant type, such as rein-
forced concrete. These wave-resistant buildings would have the added
virtue of serving as a line of defense for frailer structures behind them.
Frame structures in rural areas should be built up off the ground, and
far enough back from the edge of the beach to reduce the danger of
undercutting. They should also be properly reinforced and tied
together.
TSUNAMI OF APRIL 1, 1946—-MACDONALD, ET AL. 277

22

4omiles

°

156°

fe)
CONTOUR INTERVAL 1000 FEET

157°

158°

159°

160°

Fiaure 9.—Map of the Hawaiian Islands, showing submarine topography (after H. T. Stearns).

19)
278 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

It appears inevitable that future tsunamis will cause loss of property
on Hawaiian shores, but loss of life from all except tsunamis of local
origin could be largely or entirely avoided. A system of stations
could be established around the shores of the Pacific and on mid-
Pacific islands, which would observe either visually or instrumentally
the arrival of large long waves of the periods characterizing tsunamis.
The arrival of these waves should be reported immediately to a central
station, whose duty it would be to correlate the reports and issue warn-
ings to places in the path of the waves. It should be possible in this
way to give the people of the Hawaiian Islands enough warning of the
approach of a tsunami to permit them to reach places of safety. The
effectiveness of the warning, however, would depend on education of
the public on the necessity for leaving areas of danger, and on the
efficiency of the local organization in spreading the warning and evacu-
ating the threatened areas. Eventually it should also be possible to
state, at the same time, which areas are likely to suffer the most damage.
Before that can be done, however, we need more knowledge of the
behavior of tsunamis on Hawaiian shores, particularly tsunamis from
sources in the eastern and western Pacific, and a more complete picture
of the submarine topography around the Hawaiian Islands.

SUMMARY

The tsunami which reached the shores of the Hawaiian Islands on
April 1, 1946, was the most destructive in the history of the Islands.
Generated by a sudden shifting of the sea bottom on the northern
slope of the Aleutian trough, the waves traveled southward to Hawaii
with an average speed of 490 miles an hour, an average wave length
of about 122 miles, and a height over the deep ocean of about 2 feet.
Effects on Hawaiian shores varied greatly. Locally the water dashed
more than 50 feet above sea level and swept as much as half a mile
inland. Elsewhere the rise in water level was very small, and waves
were gentle. Property damage was heavy but loss of life was moderate.

The heights and intensities of the waves at different points were in-
fluenced by position on the island toward or away from the source
of the waves, offshore submarine topography, presence or absence of
coral reefs, shore-line configuration, mutual reinforcement or inter-
ference by waves traveling different paths, and the presence or absence
of storm waves. Loss of property during future tsunamis can be
reduced by proper construction, by erection of sea walls, and by re-
stricting or prohibiting construction in certain especially dangerous
areas. Loss of life can be nearly or entirely eliminated by the estab-
lishment of a suitable system for warning of the approach of waves.
TSUNAMI OF APRIL 1, 1946—-MACDONALD, ET AL. 279

REFERENCES

Bopre, R. R.
1946. Note on the earthquake and seismic sea wave of April 1, 1946. Amer.
Geophys. Union Trans., vol. 27, pp. 464465,
BYERLY, PERRY.
1942, Seismology. x+256 pp., 58 figs. Prentice-Hall, New York.
GREEN, C. K.
1946. Seismic sea wave of April 1, 1946, as recorded on tide gages. Amer.
Geophys. Union Trans., vol. 27, pp. 490-500.
GREEN, GEORGE.
1838. On the motion of waves in a variable canal of small depth and width.
Cambridge Philos. Soc. Trans., vol. 6, pp. 457-462.
GUTENBERG, BENO, AND RICHTER, CHARLES F.
1941. Seismicity of the earth. Geol. Soc. Amer. Spee. Paper 34, 131 pp., 17
figs. New York.
IMAMURA, AKITUNE,
1937. Theoretical and applied seismology. 358 pp. Tokyo.
JAGGAR, THOMAS A., JR.
1931. Hawaiian damage from tidal waves, Volcano Letter No. 321, pp. 1-3.
POWERS, HowaArp A.
1946. The tidal wave of April 1, 1946. Volcano Letter No. 491, pp. 1-3.
SHEPARD, FRANCIS P., MACDONALD, Gorpon A., AND Cox, Doax C.
The tsunami of April 1, 1946. Scripps Inst. Oceanogr. Publ. (In
preparation.)
UNITED StTatEes NAvy HyproGRAPHic OFFICE.
1944. Breakers and surf. Publ. 234, 52 pp., 4 pls., 19 figs.

21

TT77488—48

ae oath ‘teat
aac ve Adis i rf

SAME» x Le " mh iy

| bibed kata 4 ag i iN fh 1 AR Te ,
th) fet eh er ony tis areal ny das ae
ie) ise aN wash we zi, scuppieaeinas

a * Nits ca 108 i dala ees | ee at nay me eit
She aot hh RAO nO te. ait apenyon) «nA ‘

i
Bi

‘| : ha 7 est
CO DINE i walk esiare arn |
malt Ok aif “ais CORES ae “enue bua. wisdnent SRE 6
Re.) DT Te Sarna "ee ate eA 4 Ki it Sakti Fiesty ANB
| air ‘aire Wat re Sreelrgiaae's hi: alii i
Ghiwied: bya bin’ | We bi aoeey
ry iy i ‘ Pi / we
ey Ape UL O i o Lee 1 Rohe dk ew : t
WP TOTES Ten NE Ba RMR Ee a mts haitiy,
AD tes) beh Gertie gpenee
i AA 1 hay Wi sidan
a HR a8 a a
| : ] yaeCY ea
PA PER Ea 7 VR aah oe
; & Ky i he ‘ : ‘ ay fu a
: if eG } Fi wal: 4 i’
7 1.4 ¢ i vie i
, , ’

oar
suRhih Mh bh i,
Smithsonian Report, 1947.—Macdonald, Shepard, and Cox PLATE 1

1. WRECKAGE LEFT BY THE TSUNAMI ALONG KAMEHAMEHA AVENUE, HILO

Buildings on the left-hand (seaward) side of the street have been pushed into the street, some more or less
intact, others as heaps of debris. Photograph by Francis Lyman.

2. HOUSE IN KEAUKAHA, EAST OF HILO, CARRIED INLAND ABOUT 100 FEET BY THE
WAVES

The house in the background was above the reach of the water. Photograph by G. A. Macdonald,
Smithsonian Report, 1947.—Macdonald, Shepard, and Cox PLATE 2

1. MOUTH OF THE WAILUKU RIVER AT HILO, SHOWING THE ADVANCE OF ONE OF
THE LATER WAVES INTO THE RIVER MOUTH
Photograph taken near the trough between two waves, showing very low water, and the waves starting up
the river as the next crest approaches. The steel span from the distant railroad bridge is visible in the
middle distance. Photograph by Francis Lyman.

2. A MINUTE OR SO LATER, THE WAVES ARE SWEEPING TURBULENTLY UP THE
RIVER

Photograph by Francis Lyman.
Smithsonian Report, 1947.—Macdonald, Shepard, and Cox PLATE 3

1. THE VERY HIGH STAGE OF THE WATER, IN WAILUKU RIVER AT HILO, REACHED
3 OR 4 MINUTES LATER THAN THE STAGE SHOWN IN PLATE 2, FIGURE 2

Photograph by Warren Flagg.

ee

So sed :
- nae hase a se

2. SCARP 5 FEET HIGH CUT BY THE TSUNAMI AT THE HEAD OF THE BEACH AT
MOLOAA, KAUAI

The roots were exposed by removal of the enclosing soil. Photograph by G. A. Macdonald.
Smithsonian Report, 1947.—Macdonald, Shepard, and Cox PLATE 4

1. RAILROAD TRACK SWEPT INLAND FROM ITS BED AT WAIALEE, OAHU

Photograph by U. 8. Navy.

2. CORAL HEADS THROWN UP ON THE BEACH AT KAAAWA, OAHU, BY THE TSUNAMI

Photograph by G. A. Macdonald.
Smithsonian Report , 1947.—-Macdonald, Shepard, and Cox PEATE 5

——

1. GROVE OF PANDANUS TREES PUSHED OVER, AND BLOCKS OF CORAL THROWN
UP ON THE SHORE PLATFORM BY THE TSUNAMI NEAR HAENA, KAUAI

Photograph by F. P. Shepard.

2. SMALL BOAT WASHED INLAND AND LEFT STRANDED BY THE TSUNAMI NEAR
PIER 1, HILO

Photograph by G. A. Macdonald.
eulligsag naesiqg 4q ydvis0joyd “41 JO JUOUJ UI 1918M 9} JO Aqrproeryd oy) pues ‘41 puryoq 1038M oy} JO sdUeTNGIN4 9y} ‘YUOIy daois 9} 910N
O1IH ‘YSAIN NYHNTIVM AHL AO HLNOW AHL LV a39qd14¥g GVOYUTIVY SHL LSVd DNIONVAGY 340g

—— ie — =

9 ALV1d x07) pue *paedays ‘preuopre|\j— /F6| *yroday Ueruosy zg
DROWNED ANCIENT ISLANDS OF THE PACIFIC BASIN?

By H. H. Hess
Department of Geology, Princeton University

PART I. DESCRIPTION

A large number of curious, flat-topped peaks have been discovered
scattered over millions of square miles in the Pacific basin. These
peaks are roughly oval in plan and their slopes suggest volcanic cones.
The remarkable feature about them is that they are truncated by a
level surface which now stands approximately 750 fathoms (4,500
feet) below sea level. For convenience in discussing these submerged
flat-topped peaks which rise from the normal ocean floor, the writer
will henceforth call them “guyots” after the nineteenth-century
geographer, Arnold Guyot.

Betz and Hess (1942) discussed the major features of the floor of
the North Pacific. This was in the nature of a broad areal reconnais-
sance of the largest features of this extensive region. Since 1942,
Hess has spent 2 years at sea in the western Pacific and has thus had
the opportunity to fill in some details which bring to light many new
relationships and necessitate some modification of ideas originally set
forth. The data presented in this paper were obtained on random
traverses incidental to wartime cruising on the U.S. 8S. Cape Johnson.
What passed beneath the ship was recorded but it was not feasible to
investigate further such interesting features as were encountered.
Nevertheless it is evident that much information can be obtained on
the geological history of an oceanic area by judicious use of available
techniques. It is a vast and intriguing field for research under more
auspicious peacetime conditions.

SCOPE OF PRESENT INVESTIGATION

From random sounding traverses across or merely grazing guyots
an attempt will be made to construct a picture of their physical fea-
tures. The data collected on the cruises of the Cape Johnson have

1Presented before the Section of Tectonophysics, American Geophysical Union, in
Washington, D. C., on May 27, 1946. Reprinted by permission from American Journal
of Science, vol. 244, November 1946, with added text and illustrations.

281
.
©
or
z
ue
OA
oo
.
°
=

282 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

been supplemented by soundings obtained from the files of the Hy-
drographic Office, United States Navy. The origin and age of the
flat upper surfaces of guyots represent the main problem of this paper.
Secondarily the relation of guyots to atolls of the northern Marshall
Islands will be discussed.

AREAL DISTRIBUTION OF GUYOTS

The distribution of known and suspected guyots is shown in figure 1.
Roughly they are known to occur north of the Carolines and east of

e
Fohuuae

FicureE 1. ae distribution of guyots in the western and central Pacific. The
numerals next to some of the guyots indicate the depth in fathoms to the flat
upper surface.

the Marianas and Volcano Islands between latitudes 8°30’ and 27° N.
and longitudes 165° W. to 146° E. None has been found west and
south of the above boundaries though this area has been at least as well
explored as the former. North and east of the region outlined above
it appears from scattered soundings that the area containing guyots
DROWNED ANCIENT ISLANDS—-HESS 283

does extend to 45° N. to 165° W. Some of the seamounts in the Gulf
of Alaska described by Murray (1941) almost certainly are guyots,
whereas others appear to be of a different character. Twenty bona
fide guyots were encountered at sea by the writer and some 140 more
are indicated by soundings on Hydrographic Office charts and docu-
ments. Considering sparseness of deep-sea soundings in parts of the
area mentioned above, it is likely that a large number of undiscovered
ones are present.

SOE ne RAS rere

Ficure 2.—Index map showing area included in figure 1.

PHYSICAL FEATURES OF GUYOTS

One of the best profiles obtained across a guyot was one encountered
south of Eniwetok on October 6, 1944, in latitude 8°50’ N., longitude
163°10’ E. This guyot is about 35 miles in diameter at the base, and
the truncated upper surface is about 9 miles in diameter. The top is
remarkably flat at a depth of 620 fathoms.? The outer rim of the top
is beveled by a gently sloping shelf 1 or 2 miles wide (slope 2° to 8°).
The outer margin of the gentle slope is about 70 fathoms deeper than

? All soundings mentioned in this paper are uncorrected for salinity, temperature, and
pressure, and were taken with fathometers set to a speed of sound in the sea water of

4,800 feet per second. The corrections would be too small to be of significance in this
discussion.
284 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

the inner margin. This gentle slope breaks abruptly to 22° at its
outer margin. The profile from the edge of the shelf to the normal
ocean floor at 2,600 fathoms is, as might be expected, concave upward.
From an average of 22° at the top it gradually decreases in steepness
until it forms a smooth tangent with the ocean floor at the bottom.

aes
oy
ad
sn)

ee

Ficure 3.—Fathometer recorder trace of a typical guyot. Note irregularities on
lower slopes with considerable thickening (lengthening) of the echo trace.
These indicate steep slopes to the side (parallel to ship’s course) and necessitate
an adjustment to obtain the approximate depth immediately beneath the ship.
The adjustment has been made in figure 4.

Figures 3 and 4 are reproductions of the sounding traverse across
the guyot.

Guyots vary widely in size. One a few miles northeast of Eniwetok
has a flat summit only a couple of miles across (latitude 11°45’ N.,
longitude 162°55’ E.) ; whereas one some distance farther northeast
apparently has a flat upper surface 35 miles wide and has a diameter
of 60 miles at its base (latitude 14° N., longitude 167°30’ E.). In
general they appear to be circular or oval inplan. No correlation has
DROWNED ANCIENT ISLANDS—HESS 285

been noted between the depths of the flat upper surfaces and the depths
of the surrounding ocean floor, which normally ranges from 2,600
fathoms (15,600 feet) to 3,100 fathoms (18,600 feet). The observed
depths of the flat upper surfaces of typical guyots range from 520
fathoms (3,120 feet) to 960 fathoms (5,760 feet), with most values
concentrated near the center of this group (800 fathoms). Thus
the guyots rise from 10,000 to 15,000 feet above the ocean floor. The
flat tops of guyots in general do not exhibit accordance of summit
levels. It is quite common to find groups of guyots in a relatively
small area with flat tops varying several hundred fathoms from one

SLOPING SHELF
SHELF ip | que «= FLAT TOP opie
500 2

8
FATHOMS

g

4 5 10

[ Ss EE aes ee ee se ee eas |

Nautical Miles | i

B°50'N 143°10/ ye.
FicurE 4.—This diagram was traced directly from figure 3 and adjustments for

steep slopes to the side made. The vertical and horizontal scales and numerical
values of the slopes in degree are given.

a
a
i=
mm"
—
="
———
a
ey
——_
Se
—————
[aay
°
Ls
w

to another among the group. Less commonly two or three guyots in a
group will have approximately the same depth.

A few guyots were found to have upper surfaces which were gently
undulating rather than flat. These undulating or hummocky surfaces
have a maximum relief of about 40 fathoms. In most cases the flat
surface can be seen here and there in the profiles and it passes beneath
the hummocky material (fig. 5). Judging from the evidence, most
guyots have been swept clean of the fine sediments which must be
continually settling upon them. In the case of the rare, hummocky
ones it would appear that the fine precipitates had for some reason not
been completely swept off. It is rather surprising that the normal
guyots are swept clean since water currents at such depths as these
are thought to be slight. One must look to occasional bottom stir-up
by tsunami (Bucher, 1940), though possibly currents related to tides
might be strong enough. Once the sediment on these isolated, flat-
topped peaks is stirred up, very little of it would be expected to fall
back on top of the guyot. It would be dispersed over the surrounding
area.
286 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

i:
pel (TT ge
EIEARI ER:
BAe ee

SUIEIEESESL.. MAE
‘AUMICZoCcccai, ©
SNETRAAAOEREERRRD

Top of guyot 20 miles
north of Eniwetok

NAUTICAL MILES

Fiaure 6.—Tracing of fathometer record shown in figure 5, adjusted and with
seales indicated.
DROWNED ANCIENT ISLANDS—-HESS 287

Though few guyots show any suggestion of terraces on their outer
slopes, one large guyot near latitude 20° N., longitude 148° E. has a
well-developed flat upper surface at 800 fathoms, and projecting from
under its southeastern margin there appears to be a terrace or older
guyot with a flat upper surface at 1,100 fathoms. In the area between
Wake Island and Johnston Island there are a number of normal guyots
rising from hilly areas which have numerous flat or nearly flat sur-
faces between 1,100 and 1,900 fathoms. These hilly areas with flat or
nearly flat surfaces have as yet been insufliciently explored to under-
stand the relationships they exhibit. They may represent areas of
older, deeper guyots partly buried by sediments, but until a more
detailed examination of them can be made, their nature will have to
remain rather obscure. Such areas do not appear to be common

Ficure 7.—Relation of Eniwetok Atoll to nearby guyots which are outlined on
the diagram by dash lines.

elsewhere. Some of Murray’s Gulf of Alaska seamounts possibly also
fit into this category. The great majority of guyots rise from the
normal ocean floor.

RELATION OF GUYOTS TO ATOLLS IN THE MARSHALL ISLANDS

Many guyots are present in close association with atolls in the
northern Marshall Islands. The present discussion is centered about
Eniwetok Atoll of that group. This atoll apparently rests in part
upon two guyots so that the flat upper surfaces of the guyots project
out beneath its southern and northwestern slopes resulting in a well-
developed bench on those sides at a depth of 700 fathoms. The eastern
side of Eniwetok shows a normal atoll slope with no suggestion of a
bench, and the central portion of the western side shows similar fea-
tures. Figure 7 shows the relationship between Eniwetok Atoll and
the nearby guyots, and figures 8 and 9 show two profiles, one approach-
ing the passage between Japtan and Parry Islands from the east and
2988 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

the other approaching Wide Passage at the south end of the atoll from
the south, which shows the guyot apparently disappearing beneath the
atoll slope.

The absence of a 700-fathom bench locally around part of Eniwetok
Atoll strongly suggests that the atoll and its volcanic core are younger
than the benches which project from its southern and northwestern
sides. The whole structure of the atoll, in other words, seems to have
been superimposed upon the older and already existing surface of the
guyots. Since it can, without too much license, be assumed that the
other nearby atolls of the Marshall group developed simultaneously
with Eniwetok, their slopes might be examined for +700-fathom

\ <€—ENIWETOK
\ ATOLL

%
=
8
R
<

es)
n=)
on 0

COURSE .
/73° True
3 4 5

NAUTICAL MILES

Ficure 8.—Tracing from fathometer recorder of traverse extending southward
from Eniwetok showing the atoll presumably superimposed upon a guyot (A-A
of figure 7).

benches for further substantiation of the age relations postulated
above. Only two of these have been adequately charted, Majuro and
Kwajalein, and neither of them shows 700-fathom benches. When
it is considered that a relatively small atoll such as Majuro shows no
bench at 700 fathoms while not very far away a guyot has a truncated
upper surface 35 miles across, it is evident that Majuro could never
have been subjected to the conditions which planed off the 35-mile-
wide surface of the guyot.

PART II. THEORY

The writer has given a great deal of thought to the problem of
origin of guyots since first encountering them in 1944. In part I of
this paper the physical features of guyots, so far as they are known,
are described. It now remains to account for them. During the past
2 years, many hypotheses were tried and discarded. Finally the writer
DROWNED ANCIENT ISLANDS—HESS 289

arrived at the hypothesis here presented. Though it explains the facts
at present available, it is highly speculative and might easily be
wrong. Nevertheless, it seems worth presenting as a working hypothe-
sis, particularly since it has many interesting ramifications, some of
which would be worthy of investigation even if the parent hypothesis
were found to be invalid.

EXPLANATION OF DEVELOPMENT OF UPPER SURFACE OF GUYOTS

When the writer first discovered guyots, he supposed that they were
drowned atolls. However, this hypothesis proved untenable upon

ENIWETOK ATOLL——>,

COURSE
284° True

wy
=
9
x
K
«

Figure 9.—Profile B-B of figure 7 showing normal atoll slope approaching
EHniwetok from the Hast.

further study. A profile of an atoll should show a rise along the outer
margin representing the area of active reef growth and should be
dished in the middle—the lagoon—unless it were filled in with younger
sediments. On an atoll, the profile breaks abruptly outside of the
living reef and descends in slopes averaging about 25°. There is no
feature comparable to the gently sloping shelf found around the flat
tops of nearly all guyots. In fact there seems to be no way of account-
ing for these shelves unless the guyots had developed in a sea which
did not support reef-building organisms.

It may reasonably be assumed that guyots were originally volcanic
peaks. After a long period of time they became stabilized and were
eroded down to low relief. At this time they developed gently sloping
shelves around them as might be expected in the case of a maturely
dissected island. This was followed by a long period of marine
planation, unhampered by reef growth, ultimately forming the flat
upper surfaces. If marine planation cut the island down to about 30
fathoms below sea level, then the outer margin of the gently sloping
290 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

shelves, normally some 70 fathoms deeper, would have originally
represented approximately a 100-fathom curve around the island.
Possibilities of accounting for the reef-free surface of the guyots by
some connection with a glacial epoch were considered and rejected. If
reef growth had been inhibited by a glacial epoch, the guyots would
have had to have suffered marine planation followed by sudden subsi-
dence to below the level at which reef growth would recommence at the
end of the glacial epoch—a coincidence which makes the hypothesis
very unlikely. The glacial epoch would have had to be a very long one
to permit complete planation of the larger guyots. It cannot possibly
be referred to the Pleistocene epoch since the Marshall Islands atolls
are younger than the guyots and there could obviously not have been
time for marine planation, subsidence, and upbuilding of the atolls

11° S5'N 164° 45'E

w
=
8
x
K
g

jt OE ed a ST
NAUTICAL MILES

Iicure 10.—Profiles across two guyots. A is normal except that the gently sloping
shelf is lacking on the right-hand side; B is an example of the hummocky type
of upper surface.

all in this short epoch aside from the inconsistency that the cold water
was called upon to keep the guyot surface reef-free but later on per-
mitted the upbuilding of the atolls.

GENERAL RELATIONS WITHIN PACIFIC BASIN

Since it is difficult to discuss any theory of origin of guyots against
the background of misconception and ill-founded theories which at
present confound geologic literature on ocean basins and the Pacific
Basin in particular, the writer proposes to wipe the slate clean and
start on a new basis.

The Pacific Basin is here considered to comprise the central portion
of the ocean and is bounded by an almost continuous belt of strong
late Cretaceous-Tertiary mountain building. On the northern and
western borders this belt is characterized by elongate deeps which lie
over downbuckles of the earth’s crust.2 Related island arcs show

8 See the works of Vening Meinesz and others on gravityat sea.
DROWNED ANCIENT ISLANDS—HESS 291

intense volcanic and seismic activity. On the eastern margin are
found the cordilleras of the North and South American west coasts and
on the south little-known Antarctica. The volcanic rocks of the
islands of the Pacific Basin are dominantly basaltic, whereas those
related to the island arcs and their uplifted cordillera equivalents are
dominantly andesitic. The area of arcs and cordilleras bordering
the Basin is tectonically the most active and unstable area of the
earth’s crust today. The Pacific Basin itself seems to be tectonically
a most stable area and possibly has been throughout geologic time.®
One encounters no evidence of folding anywhere over its broad ex-
panse. Though fault scarps can be found, their rarity bespeaks great
stability. Seismic activity in the Pacific Basin is almost nil.

The writer favors Buddington’s (1948) concept of the nature of the
earth’s crust and considers that the suboceanic crust probably consists
of horizontally layered rocks including such types as norite, gabbro,
anorthosite, pyroxenite, peridotite, dunite, and probably some eclogitic
facies. These are relatively strong rocks—stronger than the granitic
to quartz dioritic rocks which presumably make up the “granitic”
layer of continents. The writer believes the oceanic crust 1s very
strong though this opinion is at variance with existing textbooks and
much of the current literature. However, Jeffreys (1929), Daly
(1940), and Longwell (1945) all favor a strong oceanic crust. The
only bases for judging its strength are its behavior and the strength
of the rocks of which it is thought to be composed. Both of these
indicate strength. The reason it has been generally considered to be
weak, appears to be related to calling it the exposed sima or the
basaltic substratum and consciously or unconsciously bringing in
Daly’s theory of a weak glassy basaltic substratum. But Daly post-
ulated a strong crust and weak substratum at considerable depth.
Those favoring the hypothesis of continental drift assumed a very
weak basaltic crust below the oceans without, so far as the writer
is aware, presenting evidence other than the hypothesis of drift to
substantiate assumption,

*There is general agreement as to the position of the “andesite line’ along the western
margin of the Pacific Basin except for the area of the Carolina Islands. Some place these
inside and some outside of the “andesite line.’”’ The writer tentatively includes most of the
Carolines in the Pacific Basin and traces the “andesite line’ down their western margin
including Ulithi, Yap, Ngulu, and the Palaus behind—on the west side of—the “andesite
line.” This is essentially the same as the line drawn by Hobbs (1944).

5 Having obtained considerable first-hand information in the Pacific during the past
few years the writer must now revise the views expressed in Betz and Hess (1942). The
tentative trend lines shown on the chart should be considerably reduced in number by
eliminating practically all of northeasterly trends. Further development of the bottom
topography shows that they do not exist. The hypothesis that certain linear groups of
islands and shoals, particularly the Hawaiian group, lie along a major earth fracture which
may be a strike-slip fault is retained. The relationship on a small scale of the volcanic
activity to fractures has been demonstrated by Stearns and MacDonald in Samoa and
Hawaii. The trends of these fractures are approximately parallel to the elongation of
Samoa and the elongation of the Hawaiian chain.
292 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

Many authors have correlated the observation that island arcs (and
hence mountain building) develop in the oocean basins along the
margins of continents with the concept that the continental massifs
are strong and the oceanic crust weak, thereby accounting for the
localization. However, if mountain-building forces are related to

Figure 11.—Fathometer recorder trace of guyot in latitude 14°20’ N., longitude
165°55’ W. Ship’s speed, 13.7 knots; course 059° true.

convection currents within the earth (Griggs, 1939), the most satis-
factory of the present theories, then the localization can more reason-
ably be explained on the basis of heat relations within the crust.
Being warmer under continents and cooler under oceans the down-
ward-fiow part of the convection cell would be more likely to be
localized under the ocean and would be supplemented in some cases by
the outward flow of warm material from beneath the continental area.

Having concluded that the Pacific Basin was in general strong and
stable, it is now appropriate to turn to exceptions in detail to these
generalities. All volcanic islands of the ocean basin proper (exclud-
ing from this discussion the highly unstable island are areas) are
subject to frequent vertical movements as long as vulcanism is active.
DROWNED ANCIENT ISLANDS—HESS 293

In this sense they are unstable. The expansion during magma genera-
tion, injection of magma into the crust below the volcano, crystalliza-
tion of magma and contraction, extrusion of magma from a central
vent and isostatic adjustments to the load, out-flow of weak oceanic
clays from beneath the volcanic load, etc., all tend to result in vertical
movements of the volcanic island. Such islands may have terraces

Ficure 12.—Fathometer recorder trace of guyot near latitude 21° N., longitude
173° E. Ship’s speed, 18.5 knots; course 059° true.

extending to hundreds of feet above sea level and at the same time
have drowned shore lines and exhibit a series of submerged terraces
as well. Once this vulcanism dies, the island will probably become
stable. Of the hundreds of atolls and banks with their volcanic
pedestals beneath them, one can find very few in the Pacific Basin
which have had their coral reefs uplifted by as much as 150 feet.°

6 Vening Meinesz (1941) reexamines gravity data for oceanic islands. Though large,
local, positive, isostatic anomalies are found on such islands, the regional anomalies show
that such small islands are regionally and not locally compensated and thus closely approach

isostatic equilibrium. This indicates a geologically rapid adjustment to the disturbance
of equilibrium brought about by vulcanism.
294. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

Aside from vulcanism and its effect of producing local points of
instability, convection currents of lesser intensity than those produc-
ing island arcs may result in vertical movements of the suboceanic
crust at times.

HYPOTHETICAL DEVELOPMENT OF THE HISTORY OF THE PACIFIC BASIN AND
THE ORIGIN OF GUYOTS

Most discussions of Pacific historical geology jam all the known
history into the late Tertiary, Pleistocene, and Recent ages. To be
sure the rocks visible on the surface of volcanic islands are mostly very
young, predominantly Recent plus some Pleistocene, and very rarely
rocks that can be demonstrated to be as old as Tertiary. Many writers
seem inclined to place Pacific atoll formation in the Pleistocene though
others extend it back into the Tertiary (Stearns, 1946). On the other
hand, the Pacific Basin is generally considered to be very old, probably
dating from early pre-Cambrian time (Kuenen, 1937). It seems
reasonable to suppose that volcanic activity in the Pacific Basin and
hence island formation has gone on sporadically since early pre-Cam-
brian. Where then are the pre-Cambrian, Paleozoic, and Mesozoic
islands? In order to answer this it is necessary to digress along
several other channels.

Any island formed in the Basin can be assumed to have begun as a
volcano or group of volcanoes. After vulcanism ceased and the island
had become stabilized, the following sequence of events would neces-
sarily take place. The island would be eroded to low relief, and after a
long period of time (providing growth of reef-forming organisms did
not interfere) the island would completely disappear as a result of
marine planation. Such must have been the fate of all pre-Cambrian
islands before reef-forming organisms existed.

Kuenen (1937) and 1941) has concluded that there has been little
change of sea level since early pre-Cambrian time. He estimated that
the rate of sedimentation in the deep sea is approximately 1 cubic
centimeter in 10,000 years for red clay, since the end of the pre-Cam-
brian, and 1 cubic centimeter in 5,000 years for globigerina ooze. Since
most of the material deposited on the ocean floor has ultimately come
from the continents, isostatic adjustment of the load on the sea floor
and the loss of weight from the continents has resulted in the sinking
of the former and rise of the latter so that the relative sea level with
respect to the continents has not changed very much. One obviously
cannot put a layer of several thousand feet of sediments into the oceans
without causing the water to rise by an equivalent amount (less the
water included in pore space in the sediments). Thus, quite apart from
the discussion of isostatic adjustment mentioned above, every centi-
meter of sediment put into the ocean causes sea level to rise with respect
to an oceanic island by just a little less than_a centimeter (less by the
DROWNED ANCIENT ISLANDS—HESS 295

amount of water in pore space of the sediment). Even though the fig-
ure cited for the rate of sedimentation may be inaccurate it neverthe-
less follows that oceanic islands are and have always been slowly sink-
ing relative to sea level.

It stands to reason that once lime-secreting organisms appeared in
the oceans, presumably in Cambrian time they would grow upon any
available shallow, wave-cut platform and both tend to protect it from
further wave action and build it up to sea level. These reef-forming
organisms need not have been very efficient reef builders to keep pace
with a settling rate of 1 cubic centimeter in perhaps 5,000 years. So

RECENT

cENozoic. VOLCANO

MESOZOIC aTouL

EARLY PALEOZOIC
L
4. ATOLL

ATOL

100-1900FA ee tATe@
. = ; : PROTEROZOIC

a Tm. PROTEROZOIC 2
< ; SRNR GUYOT ;
OLD PRECAMBRIAN GUYOT IL c

Ficure 13.—Sequence depicting diagrammatically guyots and atolls in steps of
decreasing age. CRstands for Cenozoic and Recent ; M, Mesozoic; P, Paleozoic.
In upper half of diagram the effect of the limestone load on atolls is neglected
to illustrate the original depth relations to the volcanic foundations. In the
lower diagram the effect of load has been added.

that beginning in Cambrian time every island in warm seas which at
that time had not been submerged below the level at which these or-
ganisms could live, would be built up to sea level or nearly to sea level
and could henceforth maintain its growth. In other words all Pale-
ozoic, Mesozoic, and Tertiary islands which were eroded to low relief
and submerged in warm seas must inevitably become banks or atolls
and be maintained as such throughout the remainder of geologic time
except for the interference of some rare diastrophic accident. Epochs
of glaciation might inhibit growth of reef-forming organisms tem-
porarily. But these epochs are too short to permit the islands to sink
to such a level that growth would not recommence with the return of
warmer water.

We may now turn to the ultimate objective of this long series of
digressions, the guyots. It is proposed that they represent the relics

1774884822
296 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

of pre-Cambrian islands formed by the processes suggested above.
The group of guyots with which we have been mainly concerned range
from 520 to 960 fathoms (38,120 to 5,760 feet) below sea level. Ac-
cepting Kuenen’s figures for accumulation of sediments, at least 2,000
feet of sediments (solid) would have been deposited in the deep sea
since pre-Cambrian time. The great bulk of sediments, however, are
deposited along continental margins, on the shelves, slopes, and shal-
low epeiric seas. It is almost impossible to estimate the amount of
water displaced by these inasmuch as a thickness of tens of thousands
of feet may displace only a relatively small amount of water since
the bottom of such basins of sediments tend to sink isostatically under
the load. These thick prisms of sediments may at a later time be
deformed and welded to the continents, thereby enlarging the con-
tinents at the expense of the oceans. Certainly these processes have
decreased the areal extent of the oceans a considerable if unpredictable
amount since the end of the pre-Cambrian. If sediments deposited in
shallow waters around the continents displaced only half as much
water as deep-sea sediments, an estimate which seems to the writer
to be on the conservative side, then one could account for a rise of sea
level relative to an oceanic island of 3,000 feet (500 fathoms) since
the end of the pre-Cambrian which is comparable to the present depth
of the shallowest guyots. Thus we might attribute most guyots to a
Proterozoic episode of vulcanism. The occasional, less well-preserved
surfaces mentioned in the text, having depths between 1,100 and 1,900
fathoms might be older and well back in the pre-Cambrian in age.

RECOMMENDATION FOR FUTURE RESEARCH

With the above hypotheses in mind it would be exceedingly interest-
ing to drill a hole 5,000 feet deep in the center of a Pacific Basin atoll.
It is necessary to avoid the outer margin of the atoll since it may well
have built outward over its own debris. From another point of view, a
hole drilled on the southern rim of Eniwetok would almost certainly
penetrate into the underlying guyot at a depth of approximately 4,200
feet. It would be extremely interesting also to make magnetic surveys
of a number of atolls to estimate the depth to the volcanic core and
perhaps couple such an investigation with seismic and gravimetric
work. Bottom samples with the Piggot sampler taken from the fiat
tops and gentle marginal slopes of guyots might bring up some of the
rock of which they are formed, provided these surfaces had been swept
completely clean of sediments. Pleistocene to Recent banks in high
latitudes where cold water would inhibit growth of reef-forming or-
ganisms should be investigated to compare their profiles with those
of the guyots. A further investigation of Murray’s seamounts in the
Gulf of Alaska might furnish some of the missing clues to the origin
DROWNED ANCIENT ISLANDS—HESS 997

of guyots, and might, if the hypothesis here presented is correct, show
features exactly comparable to guyots but at depths shallower than
500 fathoms. At the latitude of the Gulf of Alaska the water may
have been too cold for reefs to grow on the platforms.

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

The writer wishes to thank Dr. J. Brookes Knight, Prof. F. A.
Vening Meinesz, Prof. A. F. Buddington, Prof. Charles Steel, and
Dr. J. C. Maxwell for reading the manuscript and offering numerous
valuable criticisms. The writer also wishes to express his appreciation
to his quartermasters on the U. S. S. Cape Johnston for the care with
which they took soundings while at sea, in particular QM1/c Robert
Kiefer, QM1/c R. K. Pritchard, QM2/c H. Jensen, and QM3/c Frank
Grumblatt. W. Miner Buell, Jr., of the Hydrographic Office, United
States Navy, was very helpful in collecting data on ocean-bottom fea-
tures from documents in the Hydrographic Office, and many of the
data were plotted by Ensign William Roche and Miss D. Trussell of
that office.

FURTHER COMMENT ON GUYOTS AND ATOLLS IN THE LIGHT OF
RECENT INFORMATION

Since the above paper was first written investigations of Bikini Atoll
have yielded important information, in particular the seismic profiles
reported on by Dobrin, Snavely, White, Beresford, and Perkins (1946).
Further comment seems desirable on the problems suggested by this
information.

The seismic profiles indicate the presence of a rock comparable
to basalt below the atoll. This high-velocity material reaches a maxi-
mum depth of 11,000 feet on the eastern side of the atoll, but rises
to aj depth of 5,500 to 6,000 feet not far from the southern rim, at a
point slightly to the west of the north-south center line of the atoll.
The western third of the atoll was not investigated during this survey.
Since the highest point on the “basalt” surface lies on the western
margin of the area investigated, it is possible that this “basalt” rises to
a level nearer the surface somewhere in the vicinity of the western
or southwestern rim of the atoll.

It is evident from the survey that the volcanic core of the atoll
forms a peak located eccentrically with respect to the present atoll
structure. Textbook diagrams have led most of us to expect that the
volcano would be nicely centered beneath the lagoon. <A logical con-
sideration of the proposition would have indicated that the peak of
the volcanic core should lie not under the center of the atoll, but more
or less displaced toward the lee side with respect to the prevailing
winds, for reef growth is more rapid and vigorous on the windward
side. The same conclusion was implicit in the results of the Royal
298 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

Society investigation of Funafuti (1904). In that case a magnetic
survey was made before the boring was attempted. The results showed
a magnetic high close to the western margin, on the lee side. It was,
therefore, deemed desirable to drill on the western margin, but un-
fortunately it was not possible to get the equipment on this location
so the boring was made on the eastern rim instead. (See figs. 14 and
15.)

In 1944 the writer found a guyot centered about 20 miles northwest
of Bikini and made four NE.-SW. profiles across it. During the
Crossroads Operation the Navy surveyed this guyot, making a number

SEALEVEL

aie.

LATE

aes MMM)
PRECAMBRIAN GUYOT

SURMOUNTED BY ATOLL

Figure 14.—Relations between the top of a Jate Pre-Cambrian guyot and the vol-
canic core of an old Paleozoic atoll. Settling because of loading by limestone
has depressed volcanic core of the atoll below the level of upper flat surface of
guyot.

of NW.-SE. sounding traverses over it, so that its outline and form
are now well known. It has a flat upper surface at 700 fathoms (4,200
feet) and is separated from the northwestern slope of Bikini by a low
saddle.

If the writer’s hypothesis were correct, that the surface of the guyot
became submerged in pre-Cambrian time before the appearance of reef-
building organisms, how could nearby Bikini Atoll have grown up
from a peak which is now deeper, i. e., 5,500 feet below sea level?
This peak would be more than a thousand feet below the top surface of
the guyot. It might be supposed that the peak under Bikini comes
much closer to the surface west of the investigated area, and therefore
might have been both younger and higher than the adjacent guyot
surface. Thus it would have been able to support reef-building
organisms after the guyot was planed off. However, let us disregard
this possibility for the moment and consider the more fundamental
DROWNED ANCIENT ISLANDS—HESS 299

relationships which should apply to the depths of guyot surfaces with
respect to the depths of atoll cores. According to the writer’s hypoth-
esis, the atoll cores should be younger than the youngest guyot surfaces
and should have once projected sufficiently above these surfaces (closer
to sea level) so that lime-secreting organisms would grow upon them.
Considering the Bikini results, it is evident that an old atoll will have
many thousands of feet of limestone deposited on its core. The mass
represented by this material is in excess of that which the earth’s
crust could bear without yielding. Isostatic adjustment will, there-
fore, take place. As a result of this adjustment to loading, the peaks
of the cores of old atolls must necessarily be considerably deeper than

Ficure 15.—Sketch showing the effects both of loading by limestone and of
asymmetrical growth of atoll—more rapid growth to windward toward the
right side of the diagram. Note that the high point of the volcanic foundation
now lies beneath the lee side of the atoll and that the foundation has been tilted
somewhat by the load. Overlying old atoll surfaces are also tilted but progres-
sively less as the surface is approached.

the upper surfaces of the youngest guyots, as illustrated in the accom-
panying diagrams (figs. 18, 14, 15). The settling in the case of
Bikini from this change might be estimated roughly as perhaps 3,000
feet.

There was implicit in the original paper a general theory of atoll
development in oceanic areas. Island arc areas were specifically ruled
out since they present a very different problem. Much confusion has
resulted in the past from lumping the two. The theory was close to
Darwin’s original concept, but substitutes slow rise of sea level by
partial filling of the ocean basins with sediment for subsidence of
undetermined cause. True, there are many reasons why a young
oceanic volcano should subside, such as isostatic settling of the load
represented by the volcano, squeezing out of weak oceanic clays from
beneath the volcano, consolidation by crystallization of the magma
in the chamber beneath the volcano with consequent decrease in
volume, etc. But all these are comparatively short-lived and could
300 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

only explain subsidence in the early stages rather than the apparent
long-continued relative subsidence of many oceanic atoll groups.

While the main mechanism of oceanic atoll formation as envisioned
by the writer is the slow rise of ocean level, further subsidence of the
atoll isostatically to compensate for loading by the limestone deposited
is a necessary corollary. It is emphasized that this isostatic settling
must be a secondary consequence and not a primary factor in atoll
formation since the settling will always be much less than the thick-
ness of the limestone deposited. More rapid reef growth on the wind-
ward side will ultimately result in the eccentric location of the under-
lying volcanic pedestal which is displaced relatively toward the lee
side. This also causes eccentric loading, as shown in figure 15, and
should result in a tilting of the original volcanic core and of old, now
deeply buried, atoll surfaces.”

BIBLIOGRAPHY

Betz, F., and Hess, H. H.
1942. Geogr. Rey., vol. 32, pp. 99-116.
BucHer, W.
1940. Bull. Geol. Soc. Amer., vol. 51, pp. 489-511.
BuDDINGTON, A. F.
1943. Amer, Mineral., vol. 28, pp. 119-140.
DaAty, R. A.
1940. Strength and structure of the earth. Prentice Hall, New York.
Dosrin, M. B., SNAVELY, B. L., WHITE, G., BERESFORD, R., and PERKINS, B., Jr.
1946. Seismic-refraction survey of Bikini Atoll. Bull. Geol. Soc. Amer.,
vol. 57, p. 1189 (abstract).
Gries, D.
1939. Amer. Journ. Sci., vol. 237, pp. 611-650.
Hosss, W. H.
1944. Proc. Amer. Philos, Soc., vol. 88, pp. 221-268.
JEFFREYS, H.
1929. The earth. Cambridge Univ. Press.
KvuENEN, PH. H.
1937. Amer. Journ. Sci., ser. 5, vol. 43, pp. 457-468.
1941. Amer. Journ. Sci., vol. 239, pp. 161-190.
LONGWELL, C. R.
1945. Amer. Journ. Sci., vol. 243A, pp. 417-447.
Murray, H. W.
1941. Bull. Geol. Soc. Amer., vol. 52, pp. 333-362.
Royal Society oF LONDON.
1904. The atoll of Funafuti. 428 pp.
STEARNS, H. T.
1946. Amer. Journ. Sci., vol. 244, pp. 245-262.
VENING MEINESZ, F. A.
1941. Nederl, Akad. Wetensch., Proc., vol. 45, No. 1.

7Since preparation of this discussion, the report on drilling of Bikini Atoll has been
presented before the Geological Society of America (Ottawa, December 1947) by Ladd,
Tracey, Lill, Wells, and Cole. Calcareous sediments were found to the bottom of the hole
at 2,554 feet. Miocene fossils were identified from 1,305 feet. The hole was drilled on the
windward side of the atoll where the thickest Cenozoic section should cccur (see fig. 15
above).
9r6l AINE ‘INIMIG LY NOOSV7] SHL NI NOISO1dx3 awWwog WOOLY

YaLVMYSGNNA SHL

Zy[nYyIS— /+6l *yuoday ueruosyyIWg
THE BIOLOGY OF BIKINI ATOLL, WITH SPECIAL
REFERENCE TO THE FISHES

By LEonArD P. SCHULTZ
Curator of Fishes, U. S. National Museum

[With 17 plates]

The fourth and fifth atomic bombs were exploded over and in
Bikini lagoon in 1946. <A year later in 1947, the palms were still
waving in the tropical breeze, the pandanus was fruiting, the tacca or
arrowroot formed tubers in the soil, and a new plant, the papaya, was
bearing delicious fruit. It had sprung from seeds left by the retreating
hordes of men. A lone dog wandered on Bikini Island, a cock was
crowing on Enyu Island, and the little brown rat was scampering
about at night. Birds flew overhead and fishes swam in the lagoon
nearly as abundantly as a year ago.

Along the outer edges of the reefs in the crashing and foaming surf
life went on as before. The large purple slate-pencil sea urchins,
holding their positions by bracing their spines into crevices and irregu-
larities, were everywhere along the lithothamnium ridge. Farther
inward on the flat area in broad, shallow depressions were vast numbers
of the black sea cucumber, often concentrated by the dozens in pools.
Ghost crabs, leaving their sandy burrows at night, ran along the sandy
beaches. Their slower relatives, the hermit crabs, labored along,
carrying heavy snail shells on their backs. On land the nocturnal
coconut crab came from hiding to feed on the coconut, or the female
went down to the sea, to dip her tail into the water, causing thousands
of eggs to hatch the moment they were moistened.

Yet, with all this life going on normally at Bikini, one should not
feel a false sense of security; the atomic weapon is terrible. The
radiations emanating from the isotopes resulting from the atom bomb
explosions are dangerous to animal and plant life. The lower animals
can withstand greater amounts of radiation than the vertebrates, but,
among the latter, man and the other mammals are most sensitive.

The explosion of the Baker Day blast was so powerful that it could
have lifted an entire fleet of battleships high into the air as easily as
a summer wind blows thistledown across a field. The concussion in a
limited area from such a sudden explosion caused great mortality

301
302 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

among aquatic life; hundreds of dead and dying fish were seen floating
in the lagoon waters shortly after and for a few days. Great quan-
tities of oil were released from the stricken ships. It floated and was
driven by the wind onto coral and algal growths, smearing shellfish
and echinoderms on the reefs, causing additional mortality of organ-
isms in limited areas,

BIOLOGICAL EXPEDITIONS TO BIKINI

Under the direction of Commander Roger Revelle, U. S. N. R., and
Lt. Comdr. Clifford A. Barnes, U. S. C. G. R., an expedititon sailed
from San Francisco in February 1946 on the U. S. S. Bowditch,
returning to the United States in September. Assembled on this ship
were numerous scientists representing the fields of biology, oceanog-
raphy, and geology. It was the purpose of this group to map and
study Bikini Atoll in a thorough manner before the explosions so that
if the atomic bombs caused any profound changes these might be
detected. As control atolls, extensive biological studies were made at
Rongelap, Rongerik, and Eniwetok in the northern Marshall Islands.

A second expedition, the Bikini Scientific Resurvey, left San Diego
July 1, 1947, on board the U. S. S. Chalton for the purpose of deter-
mining changes that had occurred as a result of the Crossroads Opera-
tion of 1946. This resurvey, made under the direction of Capt. C. L.
Engleman, U.S. N., returned on September 11 to San Diego.

The biological field work in the northern Marshall Islands consisted
of making extensive collections of the flora and fauna, and of taking
statistical samples of the populations of the marine animals.

The botanical studies were made by Dr. William R. Taylor, Uni-
versity of Michigan, during 1946. In 1947 the physiology of aquatic
plants was undertaken by Drs. L. R. Blinks and P. M. Brooks, Stanford
University, California. ‘The marine invertebrates were studied by Dr.
J. P. E. Morrison and F. M. Bayer of the Smithsonian Institution,
Washington, D. C. During July and August 1947, Dr. D. M. Whit-
aker, Stanford University, made special studies on the echinoderms;
Dr. A. C. Cole, University of Tennessee, on the insects; and Dr. Robert
W. Hiatt, University of Hawaii, on the food of fishes. Dr. M. W.
Johnson, Scripps Institution of Oceanography, made extensive col-
lections of plankton, and Dr. D. B. Johnstone, New Jersey Agriculture
Experimental Station, studied the microbiology of Bikini during 1946.
The geology of Bikini and other Marshall Islands was studied by
Dr. Harry S. Ladd, Dr. J. Harlan Johnson, Joshua I. Tracey, of the
United States Geological Survey, aided by Dr. John W. Wells, Ohio
State University, and Gordon G. Lill, Office of Naval Research, Geo-
physics Branch. Dr. K.O. Emery, University of Southern California,
mapped the bottom geology of Bikini. The 2,556-foot deep hole was
BIOLOGY OF BIKINI ATOLL—SCHULTZ 303

drilled by the G. E. Failing Supply Co., under the direction of the
geologists.

The study of the effect of radiation on marine animals, especially
fishes, was made during 1946 and 1947 by the University of Washington
group under the direction of Drs. Lauren R. Donaldson and Arthur J.
Welander, School of Fisheries, Seattle.

Since fishes represented the group of animals of greatest economic
importance in and around the atoll, emphasis was placed on them.
Statistical studies were attempted in 1946 and 1947 with the view
of measuring the relative abundance of fishes, those caught by trolling,
and on the reef by other means. The pelagic kinds—tuna and their
relatives—were caught by commercial fishermen, using trolling meth-
ods. This work was under the immediate supervision of John C.
Marr and Osgood R. Smith, United States Fish and Wildlife Service.
Similar population studies were made of the lagoon and reef fishes
by Vernon E. Brock, director, Division of Fish and Game, Territory
of Hawaii, Dr. Earl S. Herald, United States Fish and Wildlife Serv-
ice, and Dr. Leonard P. Schultz, curator of fishes in the United States
National Museum, Smithsonian Institution. The latter and Loren
P. Woods, curator of fishes, Chicago Natural History Museum, are
preparing a descriptive catalog of the fishes of the northern Marshall
Islands.

BIKINI ATOLL AS A FISH HABITAT

Bikini Atoll in shape resembles a bathtub, except that its sides are
cut through by several deep channels. It is about 22 miles long by 13
miles wide, inclosing a lagoon whose depth is mostly 180 feet with
a few areas down to 200 feet. Rising from the lagoon floor are large
coral heads, a few of which come near the surface, whereas around
the margins of the atoll reef are more coral heads that reach the sur-
face. The lagoon floor slopes gradually upward from its deeper parts
to those areas exposed during the low tides. The bottom is composed
of loose sand, fragments of calcareous algae, and coral remains, on
which are growing a great variety of sessile invertebrates, aquatic
algae, and into the rocky fragments worms burrow. In otherwise un-
used crevices, fishes hide.

SANDY AREAS

Considerable areas adjoining the rim of the atoll in the shallower
parts of the lagoon are composed of loose sand. In places where this
sand is continually shifting, no corals occur, but where it remains
stable small isolated ones from a few inches to 2 or 3 feet high occur.
These areas are somewhat barren of fish life.

Usually around coral clusters are a few kinds of damsel fishes, one
or two species of wrasse, scorpion fish, often gobies and blennies.
304. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

Small schools of the black-banded damsel fish, Dascyllus aruanus,
when disturbed, seek shelter in closely branching coral heads. They
remained within it while we broke loose from the bottom the entire
growth in order to carry it ashore. There the coral, with its fish and
crustacean inhabitants, was broken into fragments, and its denizens
were picked up without a single individual escaping.

Swimming in schools over these broad, sandy stretches are yellow-
streaked goatfishes, harvest fish, threadfins, jacks, mullets, lizard
fishes, sand perches, and sometimes a few flatfishes (Bothidae). Cruis-
ing around individually are black-tipped sharks. In holes in the
sand can be seen a species of large goby with a prominent blue streak
across its cheek. Snake and worm eels burrow in the loose gravel
and sand of the bottom. Giant tridacna lie on the bottom, with their
beautifully iridescent mantles exposed to the flickering sunlight.

Big sting rays occasionally are seen on the bottom in 10 to 30 feet of
water. Vernon E. Brock, assisted by Dr. Robert Hiatt, speared one off
Eman Island in 20 feet of water, while skin diving. The capture of
this dangerous fish, with its venomous sting, was a remarkable feat.
Brock swam down over the fish and drove a spear into it, then grabbed
the end of the spear, pulling the hundred-pound creature toward the
surface, but had to come up for air, and it went down. Once again
he tried, and this time with Dr. Hiatt’s aid brought it up, all the time
keeping away from the lashing tail of the ray. After a desperate
struggle, it was speared again and finally brought alongside the row-
boat from which they were operating. It is now preserved in the
United States National Museum along with about 50,000 other fish
specimens collected during 1946 and 1947 in connection with the atom
bomb experiments.

CORAL AND ALGAL AREAS

From this somewhat barren sandy habitat, there occur all gradua-
tions in abundance of coral heads with algae up to the stage where
they are so close together that there is scarcely room to step between
them. More often the channels between the corals are 3 to 15 feet
wide, and some reach 30 feet or more in width. This type of habitat
may occur in the lagoon, in the wide passes, or on the ocean side of
the atoll rim.

Where the corals and algal growths are luxuriant, over 200 species
of fish occur and were regularly captured through the use of rotenone.
However, during 4 hours’ work, the maximum number taken at a
single station was 136 at Erik Island, Bikini Atoll.

Although the smallest fish known, a fresh-water goby from the
Philippine Islands, is not found at Bikini, one of its relatives is a
close runner-up. The Philippine goby measured 9 or 10 millimeters
(three-eighths of an inch), whereas the smallest Bikini fish, the goby
BIOLOGY OF BIKINI ATOLL~-SCHULTZ 305

Eviota, when adult and sexually mature was 15 millimeters or five-
eighths of an inch long. This contrasts sharply with a 10-foot wide
manta ray weighing about 700 pounds, taken in Enyu passage. The
largest fish, however, was caught by the commercial fishermen at
Bikini in over 40 feet of water. It was a tiger shark measuring 18
feet 11 inches long, with an estimated weight of considerably over
half a ton.

Living in the branching polyps of the coral Acropora, was the little
yellowish goby, Gobiodon citrinus, which had during July and August
prepared a nest and laid eggs in it. Gobiodon cleared off a small
area, three-fourths of an inch by 2 inches long, at the base of a coral
branch arising near the center of the colony. On this carefully pre-
pared spot, a thin growth of green, purplish, or brownish-colored
algae occurred.

Acropora responded to the presence of Gobiodon and formed a
slightly raised rim around the nesting area. This goby, only about
an inch long, then deposited a small cluster of eggs in the shallow
depression and both parents remained to protect their home. Each
egg was attached to a gelatinous substratum by a short adhesive stalk
with the head of the embryo on the opposite end. Among these eggs,
numbering 100 to 200, was a fine, branching, filamentous red alga.
The oblong eggs were close together but not crowded.

Another remarkable association between a fish and an invertebrate
host occurred in this same habitat. On the lagoon floor in a few feet
of water down to depths of 20 feet or more lives a globular starfish,
Culcita novaeguinae, that reaches the size of a man’s head. We found
in its body cavity, in about half of those investigated, a nearly trans-
parent 6- to 10-inch-long eel-like fish—the pearlfish, Carapus. We
kept one of them in a jar of water, noticing the very slow rate of
respiration and its ability to live in sea water with a low amount of
dissolved oxygen. Because Carapus was transparent, the circulation
of the blood was observed clearly.

FLAT PAVEMENTLIKE AREAS

The nearly flat pavementlike areas on the atoll reef are carpeted
with a layer of tiny foraminifera and vinelike algal growth, forming
a mat 1 or 2 inches thick. West of Bikini Island, such a reef is trans-
versed with numerous “cracks” or shallow grooves only a few inches
deep. In other places there are vast areas incompletely drained
during low water, leaving shallow tidal pools only an inch or two
deep. In these occur a few species of blennies, gobies, and sometimes
a large number of the blackish sea cucumber. Whenever these de-
pressions retain about a foot of water, corals begin to grow and the
animal life increases.
306 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

As the tide rises and the surf breaks over the lithothamnium ridge,
then surges several inches deep across this flattened part of the reef,
great schools of blue-green and dark-red parrot fishes, Scarus, often
with their backs exposed in the shallow water, move about on the reef,
grazing like a herd of sheep on the algae growing there. Their tooth
marks, remaining on the rocks, are easily observed. When the water
deepens to a foot, surgeon, needle, trumpet, halfbeaks, damsel, goat-
fishes, mullet, and dozens of other kinds appear. The black-tipped
shark, H'ulamia malanoptera, with its black-tipped fins sometimes
exposed, cruises around on the reef, too. Although they are speedy
swimmers, a man with a rubber sling and spear, or with a gun, may
capture them without difficulty.

ISOLATED TIDAL POOLS AND SOLUTION CHANNELS

Around the shores of certain islands are small tidal pools and solu-
tion channels that are eroded in the limestone beach rock. They re-
main more or less filled with water at low tide. These depressions are
from a few inches to a foot deep, with rounded smooth sides. They
vary from a few inches to a few feet in width. Some appear as shal-
low pot holes but with the seaward side cut away. On the bottom in
favorable places were accumulated coral fragments and occasionally
pieces of beach rock.

During the period of low tide, several kinds of blennies appeared to
be trapped in the pools. They remained motionless with their tails
curved to one side, then suddenly, when disturbed, would flip through
the air from one pool to another over the rocky ledges. Their agility
and speed of traveling over “dry land” astounds one on his first visit
toareef. The young of AwAlia, mullets, and damsel fishes regularly
remain in these shallow pools. The goby Bathygobius is a frequent
inhabitant, too. Hiding or trying to hide among the loose beach rocks
and in the pools was the black speckled moray eel, Gymnothoraz picta,
sometimes curled between black sea cucumbers. As the incoming tide
rose and refilled the solution channels and pools, the dark-banded
damsel fish, Abudefduf septemfasciatus, returned to its favorite habitat
along the very edge of the beach rock.

LITHOTHAMNIUM RIDGE

The outer margin of an atoll rim on the ocean side usually consists
of the slightly raised pink to red-colored lithothamnium ridge con-
trasting beautifully with the deep blue ocean beyond. It is dissected
by rugged surge channels and deep pools often 20 feet deep directly
connected with the ocean. ‘This ridge, creviced and pitted with holes,
is about a foot or two higher than the flat part of the reef farther
inward and varies in width from 40 to 100 feet. At extremely low
BIOLOGY OF BIKINI ATOLL—SCHULTZ 307

tides it is exposed except as the surf crashes over it, then some of the
water is forced back over the flat part of the reef, flowing seaward again
through the surge channels.

Some of the surge channels, extending for 100 feet or more back into
the solid reef, are more or less roofed over or with perforations large
and small through which the water may pour or spout on the incoming
surge of a wave. They are lined with rich green and red algae, blue,
red, yellow, and green corals, and a host of brilliantly colored fishes
live in these clear waters.

The red calcareous algae forming the chief surface growth on this
ridge were minutely pitted and creviced. Living among these perfora-
tions were several fishes, characteristic of the area. The little blunt-
headed blenny, Cirripectes, appeared to favor this habitat, along
with pseudochromids, especially Plesiops. Numerous too was a little
viviparous orange-colored brotulid, several kinds of wrasse, eels, and
small filefishes and puffers.

In the surge channels were the pempherids, surgeon and butterfly
fishes, and hiding during the day in the dark crevices were the bright
red soldier or squirrel fishes that come out at night to feed. Inver-
tebrates characteristic along this narrow zone were the slate-pencil
sea urchins and in the deeper crevices and pools the venomous sea
urchin with its long, purple, needlelike, poisonous spines. Octopi
were common, along with several kinds of shrimp and crabs.

OPEN-WATER HABITAT

Contrasted with the atoll rim and its coral-algal growths was the
open-water habitat of the atoll, in which a great variety of fishes
thrived that never sought the protection of the reefs. In these waters
occurred very small fishes, moderate-sized ones, and the giants. Some
are predaceous—the tunas, jacks, and sharks—whereas others, such
as the manta and the round herring, lived by feeding on the small
pelagic organisms in the water. This latter species, 2 or 3 inches
long, occurs in big schools. It was seen daily near the ships anchored
in the lagoon.

Cruising slowly around Bikini lagoon, one saw now and then big
manta rays. However, in the middle of the broad Enyu channel,
during 1946 and 1947, almost every day one to several occurred at
at the surface with the tips of their broad pectoral fins moving slowly
up and down.

To capture one of these giant fish, 10 feet across, required prepara-
tion. A spear, fitted on the end of a long wooden shaft, with lines
attached, was made. To the spear point was fixed about 75 feet of
tiller rope lashed to an empty steel drum with the excess rope wound
around it. This gear was then placed at the bow of a picket boat,
308 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

in a favorable place for throwing the spear the moment a big ray
was approached. Standing poised, a man cast the spear into the head
of a big fellow. The pole came out of the spear point, and was hauled
aboard by the attached line. The tiller rope unwound from the float-
ing drum as the ray sounded. Then, for nearly half an hour, the big
manta tired itself out on the floating buoy. Finally, it was killed by
rifle fire.

This harmless ray measured 9 feet 8 inches across and took 8 men to
haul it up on the deck of the boat. It has at the front of its head,
on each side, a long fleshy cephalic lobe, used to direct a current of
water into its big, almost toothless mouth. This pair of lobes resembles
the wings of the trawl and served the same purpose. Within the
mouth, along the sides, are very fine-meshed gill rakers, serving to
strain the planktonic organisms from the sea water that passes in
the mouth and out the gill openings. The stomach of this big ray
contained a few quarts of larval crustaceans.

Another group of fishes, the sharks, attracted attention. Although
several kinds were encountered, such as tiger, bullhead, and whaler
sharks, the most common were black-tipped, white-tipped (fins), and
the gray shark. The latter species, not exceeding 7 feet in length,
outnumbered all the others.

One night in Boro Passage, a picket boat was anchored for the
purpose of catching sharks. Tuna fish caught that day by trolling
along the outer reef and through the passages were passed through
a small sausage grinder, and the chopped up meat and blood was
cast slowly into the channel waters that were flowing outward. Within
a short time, sharks were chummed to the boat by the presence of
blood in the water. Then chunks of tuna meat, the size of a man’s
fist, were thrown into the water and others placed on big steel hooks.

The gray sharks struck these baited hooks with greed and speed.
They jumped from the water. Several would rush the bait and each
other as they fed voraciously. At the end of a few hours, 29 sharks
measuring from 3 to 7 feet had been successfully landed on the boat.

USE OF ROTENONE IN COLLECTING REEF AND LAGOON FISHES

Methods of collecting fishes at Bikini included baited hook and
line, trolling, spearing, dredging, attracting them to a surface light
at night, and the use of various nets. The most important was the
use of powdered plant roots to stupefy fishes, and since our methods
of using it on coral reefs are unpublished, they are herein described.
Powdered cubé or derris root with 5 percent of rotenone content has
been used by various ichthyologists for nearly 40 years to collect: fishes
for scientific purposes. Dr. Carl H. Eigenmann, during field work
in South America in 1908, probably was the first ichthyologist to
BIOLOGY OF BIKINI ATOLL—-SCHULTZ 309

use vegetable poisons, although aboriginal natives in nearly all parts
of the world have made use of them. Since that time most American
ichthyologists have used vegetable poisons to collect fishes for scientific
purposes. Drs. Eigenmann and W. R. Allen, University of Kentucky,
describe methods of collecting fresh-water fishes in their 1942 pub-
lication, “The Fishes of Western South America.”

From 1936 to 1938 the author experimented with the use of pow-
dered derris root in fresh-water streams, and during the second World
War, with the rotenone extract; the latter, however, did not appear
to be as effective as the powder. It was not until 1939 that an op-
portunity came to carry on extensive experiments. Upon arrival in
the Phoenix Islands, he found practically no enclosed tidal pools,
the type of habitat in which ichthyologists had previously used ro-
tenone fish poisons in small quantities. The reefs were flat, pavement-
like structures, with narrow to wide channels, connected with open
water, whereas the deepest isolated pools left at low tide were only
a few inches deep and often lacked fish.

A large variety of fishes could be seen swimming in the channels,
in the open waters, and even in the ocean surf. These had to be
collected somehow. After carefully studying the currents and esti-
mating the depth of water, the author attempted the use of rotenone
in the open water among the corals and algae. At the end of July
1989, after 4 months’ continuous work in various coral-reef habitats,
methods of using rotenone in open-water situations had been per-
fected and, as a result, over 14,000 excellent fish specimens were
recovered for the United States National Museum.

When the author was asked late in 1945 about obtaining samples of
shallow-water reef fishes at Bikini, Operation Crossroads, for pur-
poses of determining the relative abundance of fishes before and after
the atomic explosions, he suggested the methods developed in 1939. A
few months later, during March to August 1946, and again in July
and August 1947, fishes were collected by the use of rotenone. Differ-
ent techniques were applied depending on the situation. As a result,
there were taken over 70,000 fish specimens on which systematic and
population studies could be based. Part of these were discarded after
data from them were recorded.

Thirty-five minutes before the tide reached its lowest point, the dry
powdered root was placed in buckets or any suitable containers and
mixed with water to a thick chocolate malted milk consistency, allow-
ing about 20 minutes for one man to mix 25 pounds. By squeezing
and stirring with the hands as water was gradually added, the powder
soon formed a thick mud. Ten minutes before low water, the dis-
tribution of the mixture began. The stupefying of a great variety of
fishes with rotenone was most successful at the lowest stage of water.

The success of this operation depended on determining the strength
310 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

of the currents and depth of water. A little of the mixture was tossed
into the water and the direction of movement of the small, light
brownish cloud, watched. After several such tests, assistants, each
with a bucket or two of the mud, were stationed in the water and the
distribution began. In water 4 to 5 feet deep, with a slow current,
the mud was thrown out, permitting the little pellets to dissolve as
they settled toward the bottom, forming a light brownish cloud.
Twenty-five pounds of the dry powder formed a cloud about 100 to
150 feet long by 50 to 75 feet wide. It was highly effective if it took
10 minutes to pass any one point in water above 80° F. When used
at lower temperatures the fishes must be exposed for a longer time.
Usually a part of a bucket of the mud was reserved to strengthen the
cloud after it had traveled a few hundred feet. This precaution was
advisable, since the currents did not always behave as predicted.

SHALLOW-WATER REEF

Through experience it was learned which shallow-water habitats
(to a depth of 10 feet) were suitable for collecting fish with rotenone.
An area with an abundant growth of coral heads in about 3 to 4
feet of water, down to 10 feet in pools, with narrow to wide channels
between the various kinds of corals, and a wind blowing the surface
water more or less shoreward, was the most ideal situation.

Many kinds of fishes in the areas treated floated for a few minutes,
then sank to the bottom. Some were picked up while they were vio-
lently swimming more or less in circles. A greater quantity of fish
appeared at the surface than were recovered immediately. Those
that drifted ashore were recovered, but those that got over deep water
were often lost.

Immediately after introducing the rotenone, recovery of the fish
started, but it was inadvisable to enter the area in which the treated
water would flow, since that drove the unaffected fishes away. As soon
as the water cleared, those fishes that settled to the bottom were col-
lected. ‘Two or three men continually wandered over the treated
area, picking up the specimens in fine-meshed, bobbinet. dipnets, 14
or 15 inches in diameter and 25 to 30 inches deep, with a 4- or 5-foot-
long, light-weight wooden handle.

As the water-laden cloud of rotenone drifted onward for a thousand
feet, it spread out, gradually becoming so diluted that it lost its effec-
tiveness. When the water appeared as a light, tan-colored cloud, it
was most effective since it retained its stupefying properties yet was
not so much concentrated as to be detectable by most fishes. Sharks,
apparently able to detect small amounts of the rotenone in the water,
left the area until the cloud had passed. They then returned to feed
on the sick and dead fish, sometimes becoming troublesome. With
‘][078 042 JO WII 94 910N
NOOOV7] INIMIG AO 30V4AUNS AHL SAOSY GAG0O1dxXyZ AWOG WOLY AHL YSa1LsAVY SALNNIW M34 V ‘9761 (1 AINE NSANYVL Hd VeYSOLOHd

c 31V1d Z3NYIS— /b61 *‘qaoday uriuosyziws
Smithsonian Report, 1947.—Schultz

1. BIKINI ISLAND AS SEEN FROM THE LAGOON, AUGUST 1, 1947

2. THEU.S.S. ‘‘CHILTON,’’ HEADQUARTERS OF THE BIKINI SCIENTIFIC RESURVEY
OF 1947, OFF BIKINI ISLAND
Smithsonian Report, 1947.—Schultz PLATE 4

sce |

1. THE G. E. FAILING Co. DRILLING A DEEP HOLE ON BIKINI ISLAND, 1947

2. COMMANDER ROGER REVELLE AND DR. HARRY LADD EXAMINING A FOSSIL
BROUGHT UP FROM A DEEP HOLE
Smithsonian Report, 1947.—Schu!tz PLATE 5

rr eee
Es

1. SURGE CHANNELS (DARK PATCHES IN FOREGROUND) BISECTING THE LITHOTHAMNIUM
RIDGE AT OCEAN EDGE OF ATOLL RIM

sage

2. SAND SPIT (WHITE FOREGROUND) THAT CONNECTS WITH Bock ISLAND ON RONGERIK
ATOLL

The island is covered with trees.
Smithsonian Report, 1947.— Schultz PLATE 6

1. Dr. ROBERT HIATT HOLDING A COCONUT CRAB TAKEN ON NANU ISLAND, BIKINI ATOLL.
AuGusT 1947 ;

2. A SMALL SPECIES OF GOBY GUARDING EGGS AND NESTS BUILT IN THE CORAL ACROPORA

Photograph taken in July 1947.
Smithsonian Report, 1947.—Schultz PLATE 7

A +» :
B»- a a s ‘ =. :

1. SLATE-PENCIL SEA URCHIN

This was abundant on the lithothamnium ridge both in 1946 and 1947.

2. Capt. C. L. ENGLEMAN (LEFT) AND A Navy DIveER HAVE JUST BROUGHT UP A 40-INCH-
LONG CLAM, THE GIANT TRIDACHNA
Smithsonian Report, 1947.—Schultz PLATE 8

1. VERNON E. Brock, WITH THE GIANT STING RAY THAT HE SPEARED IN 20 FEET OF WATER

2. OSGOOD SMITH RECORDING DATA ON TROLL-CAUGHT TUNA FISHES AT BIKINI, 1947
Smithsonian Report, 1947.—Schultz PLATE 9

1. THE YELLOW PUFFER

Like others of its kind, this fish inflates itself with water or air as a means of defense.

2. THE PARROT FISH

This fish, when living, is brilliantly colored with red, green, and blue.
Smithsonian Report , 1947.—Schultz

1. SURF CRASHING OVER THE LITHOTHAMNIUM RIDGE AT OCEAN EDGE OF ATOLL RIM AT
BIKINI

2. A GRoupP OF BIKINI INHABITANTS AT RONGERIK ATOLL IN 1947
Smithsonian Report, 1947.—Schultz PLATE 11

1. ZANCLUS CANESCENS

2. ONE OF THE NUMEROUS KINDS OF BUTTERFLY FISHES, CHAETODON MERTENSIS, T AKEN AT
BIKINI
Smithsonian Report, 1947.—Schultz

PLATE

1. THE RED SNAPPER, LUTJANUS BOHAR

YE

2. THE DOG-TOOTHED TUNA, GYMNOSARDA NUDA

3. ONE OF THE PELAGIC SNAPPERS, APRION VIRESCENS

12
Smithsonian Report, 1947.—Schultz PEATE 13

1. A VORACIOUS SHARK, CARCHARHINUS ALBIMARGINATUS

2. THE DeEviL RAy, MANTA ALFREDI
Smithsonian Report, 1947.—Schultz PLATE 14

1. Dr. WILLIAM R. TAYLOR, SEARCHING THROUGH A DREDGE HAUL FOR ALGAE TAKEN FROM
THE BOTTOM OF BIKINI LAGOON

2. THE DREDGE USED FOR BOTTOM SAMPLES OF MARINE INVERTEBRATES AND ALGAE
GV3H WWHOD GSa9yaWENS v NOSIOg OL
SNAWIDSdS HSI4 ONINIVLNOD LANdIGQ V HLIM\ 3OV4SYHNS AHL OL YALVM 40 1334 Gp NINMOq SNIOD auO43g LSNF AYNLXIW LOOY 38ND
ONINENLAY ‘YALY-] YNOH NV ATYVAN ‘LSIDOIOAHLHD| ANVS AH] “2 HLIM SVG ALVA LYASSG V ONITIIA SLSIDOTOAHLHS| AHL 4O ANO *|

Gl aALV1d Z3[NYIS—*/p6| ‘W4Oday URIUOSYyyIUIG
Smithsonian Report, 1947.—Schultz PLATE 16

ee:

ae

1. THE AUTHOR SPREADING THE LAST OF THE CUBE ROOT MIXTURE OVER A REEF IN SHALLOW
WATER

2. Dr. EARL. S. HERALD AND THE AUTHOR RECOVERING FISH DURING A POPULATION STUDY
AT BIKINI ATOLL
Smithsonian Report, 1947.—Schultz PLATE 17

1. FLOATING FISH WERE RECOVERED OVER DEEP WATER BY USE OF A RUBBER BOAT

2. A LARGE CORAL BLOCK WAS USED AS A LABORATORY FOR THE PRESERVATION OF FISHES
DURING LOW TIDE ON A REEF
a
BIOLOGY OF BIKINI ATOLL—SCHULTZ 3ll

only one or two 8- to 6-foot-long sharks feeding on the sick fish, the
diver can keep watch of them. However, when two or three of these
voracious creatures became too bold, as happened on one or two oc-
casions, the ichthyologists left the water.

The searching for the demobilized fishes was done by means of a
face mask covering eyes and nose, swim fins on the feet, and a dipnet.
With a face mask, both hands were free to devote to picking up fishes,
some of which were rather slippery. A canvas glove as an aid for
holding slippery fish was used on one hand when necessary. Some
of the fishes affected appeared lifeless, but when touched were found
to be very much alive and quickly moved away unless caught in the
dipnet. Those fishes too small to pick up with the fingers were, with
a little practice, lifted from the bottom by inducing upward currents
through rapid movement of the hands or feet. A fish, thus suspended
for a few moments, was scooped up in the dipnet. Desirable fishes
frequently swam into the crevices of the corals and erected their spines,
making their removal difficult. With clear vision mes the face
mask, these, too, were collected.

A rubber boat, tied to one of the coral heads, served as a base from
which to work and was an added safety in case someone ran into
trouble under the rugged conditions under which we worked. This
boat held the preserving tank, and other gear. Three good swimmers
at Bikini picked up enough fish to keep one man busy preserving the
specimens in the rubber boat. On shore, one ichthyologist and a Navy
photographer took over 300 color pictures.

Those fishes first to be affected by the rotenone were the damsel,
cardinal, butterfly, surgeon, and puffers; others such as needlefish,
halfbeaks, goatfishes, gobies, jacks, threadfins, and mullets were a
little slower in reacting to the treated water. The burrowing fishes,
namely, eels, appeared last, probably because it took longer for the
rotenone to diffuse into their habitats. Fish continued to appear for
over 6 hours after treatment, and I recovered eels that came out 8
hours after the cloud had passed their burrow.

Care was exercised in picking up supposedly dead spiny fishes, and
especially moray eels, since they may inflict serious wounds. Scorpion
fishes, siganids, and other venomous species, even the stinging corals
and jelly fishes, were treated with respect.

The snake eels often appeared with about 6 to 12 inches of their
head section above the bottom. I grabbed them firmly and quickly,
then pulled out the remaining 2 or 3 feet of their bodies. A light touch
or a miss when grabbed usually caused the eel to withdraw into its
burrow, and the specimen was lost.

The rotenone appeared to affect the fishes by constricting the capil-
laries of the gills, depriving the animals of an adequate oxygen sup-

777488—48—28
312 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

ply. They left their hiding places for more oxygen, thus exposing
themselves under a weakened condition and simplifying their capture.

Shallow tidal pools that trap fish at low tide are simple to work,
but the use of rotenone in the ocean surf on the ocean reef of a coral
atoll requires special technique.

Rotenone was used successfully along the lithothamnium ridge in
the ocean surf. The “mud” was administered a few minutes after the
low point of the tidal cycle. An area was selected where pools oc-
curred but which were not completely connected with the surge chan-
nels. These pools were desirable as settling basins for the sick and
dying fishes. The area between two or three surge channels, where
the waves flow inward across the ridge was the place where we placed
the rotenone mixture. Big handfuls of the thick mud were thrown
out as far as possible into the backwash of a wave. The next moment
the oncoming breaker churned the water into foam and carried the
water-laden cloud of rotenone inward, spreading it over the area and
into the numerous crevices; then it flowed out the surge channels.
Soon the rotenone cloud was distributed along the ocean edge of the
reef, and some was brought back again over the lithothamnium ridge.
The continual surging inward of the water brought in the sick fish.
Men were stationed along the surge channels to take fishes that were
being swept out to sea and perhaps lost. After the pools and channels
cleared, the bottoms were searched for fishes by the skin divers.

The use of a face mask in skin diving and swimming enables one
to see clearly for 50 to 100 feet in the lagoon and ocean waters. Look-
ing down in the surge channels between the corals, one sees a gorgeous
display, a colorful marine garden of coral algae and fishes. Some of
the corals are fan-shaped, others resemble the antlers of deer. They
are blue, bright green, red, brown, yellow, and purple, contrasting
with the white foraminiferal sand of the bottom.

The light from the tropical sun flickers down into these enchanted
caverns, filled with the blue sea. The trembling shafts of light illum-
inate the green, brown, and red algae, waving in the dim light. Fan-
tastically shaped fishes, as if from another world, dart about, reflect-
ing their weird color combinations of brilliant blues and sapphires,
greens, and yellows, red or scarlet, and with black and white markings
contrasting sharply. Some have big red spots, others sapphire-blue
bars and dazzling yellow and crimson stripes.

Butterfly, damsel, surgeon fishes and wrasse lazily swim about in the
aquatic caverns and channels, but the moment a large predaceous fish
appears they seek protection, disappearing there, reappearing here,
among the coral growths. Some swim as easily sideways and upside
down as in a vertical position. The view of this gorgeous marine
garden fades away into nothingness a hundred feet or more below.
BIOLOGY OF BIKINI ATOLL—-SCHULTZ 313

DEEP-WATER USE OF ROTENONE

Vernon E. Brock and Dr. Earl S. Herald, two ichthyologists who
are excellent swimmers and skin divers, successfully carried on sev-
eral deep-water poisonings of fishes with powdered cube root. They
mixed in the usual manner about 35 pounds of the substance, then
placed 5 to 10 pounds of the “mud” in desert water bags. Equipped
with standard U. S. Navy shallow-water diving outfits, Brock and
Herald took the rotenone to the bottom, distributing it around coral
growths. Down below with the usual dipnets, they recovered fishes,
bringing them to a man at the surface, who preserved the specimens.
This deep-water work was necessary to obtain a more complete pic-
ture of the fish fauna of Bikini and the change in kinds of fishes at
various depths in the lagoon. Several fish species occurring over the
shallower parts of the reefs normally are not found at depths below
10 or 20 feet, whereas some kinds below that depth are not taken
near the surface.

COLLECTING WITH A LIGHT AT NIGHT

A bright light suspended from a small ship at night at the surface
of the sea attracts to it myriads of nocturnal organisms—crustaceans,
worms, squid, octopi,and numerous species of fishes. Silversides, small
wrasse, round herring, the pelagic stages of goatfishes, surgeon fishes,
puffers, lizard and file fishes dart in and out of the field of illumina-
tion. Large flying fishes, a foot or two long, come swimming or flying
toward the light at night. Down below a few feet, larger predaceous
fishes can be seen rushing about feeding on the abundant animal life.
Eager collectors gathered above this light on a platform, and with
fine-meshed dipnets scooped up the animals, preserving them for
future study.

Several kinds of fishes and invertebrates taken around the light were
never collected by any other means at Bikini.

UNDERWATER TELEVISION

At Bikini in 1947 I saw demonstrated the Navy’s new underwater
television, prepared and operated by the Cornell Aeronautical Labora-
tory, Buffalo, N. Y. The camera end of this remarkable devise was
set up on the deck of the sunken submarine, Apogon, in 160 feet of
water. It was sufficiently sensitive to daylight to give clear and precise
images on the screen in the control and observation room of the U.S. S.
Coucal. The color patterns of fishes were portrayed in pale greenish
light with distinctness as they swam in front of the lens. I identified
with ease two species of pigfish (Zethrinus), the trumpet fish (/istw-
laria), a jack (Caranx), the moorish idol (Zanclus), and Siganus
punctatus.
314 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

This apparatus opens up new fields of investigation in the study of
aquatic animals in their natural habitats. Scientists and laymen who
wish to study animal behavior will be able to do so now without the
dangers of deep-water diving. The applications of underwater tele-
vision to biological research is of the same magnitude of importance
as the discovery and first use of the microscope.

BIKINI’S BIOLOGY, PAST AND FUTURE

Bikini’s ecology was disturbed, not only through the atom bomb ex-
plosions, but by the presence during the Crossroads Operation of a
great armada of ships, with about 45,000 men, dumping garbage and
debris into the lagoon waters. This, together with the blasting of
coral heads in preparation for the great anchorage, made the water
turbid and increased the sedimentation in certain areas. During
March and April 1946, corals could be seen at a depth of 120 feet at
midday, but during July of both 1946 and 1947 coral heads were
scarcely visible at depths of 35 feet off Bikini Island. These changes
appear to have been confined to the eastern and northern reefs off
Bikini Island in the lagoon, whereas the southern and western reefs
showed little change. The water there was as clear as in the early
part of 1946.

Open ocean waters are relatively barren. Organic matter and dis-
solved nutriments in the sea are very slight. An atoll, however, is a
very rich area of living plants and organisms. It is an oasis in an
aquatic desert. Its reefs support luxuriant growths of algae, coral,
and vast numbers of animals. This richness results from the conser-
vation of organic matter by the living forms.

Organic matter is not lost in the complicated food chains of the
living organisms. ‘They may die in the lagoon waters, but are imme-
diately devoured by the scavengers—crabs, lobsters, shellfish, fishes,
worms, coelenterates, and echinoderms—which in turn are eaten by
predaceous animals. Plant life is consumed by the vegetable-eating
fishes and other creatures. Coral polyps are fed upon by certain file
fishes, whereas parrot fishes scrape algae off the corals. Even through
the death of a 10-ton shark or manta ray, the organic matter is not
lost. It appears in the form of tiny organisms such as bacteria, worms,
and crustaceans. These in turn form the plankton—the chief food of
numerous fishes. Thus the atoll becomes a great storehouse or reser-
voir of living organisms competing for every bit of nourishment.

The aquatic plants extract carbon dioxide from the sea water. Both
plants and animals deposit calcium carbonate in building their cal-
careous skeletons, which remain after death. The organic matter is
re-used by the living, and the skeletons of the dead remain to build
BIOLOGY OF BIKINI ATOLL—SCHULTZ 315

up the solid rocky atoll, leaving scarcely a trace of the animal proteins
in the limestone reefs or in the bottom deposits of the lagoon floor.

The antiquity of such an isolated atoll must be very great to have
accumulated through the eons of time such a tremendous variety of
animals and plants—to have deposited nearly two miles of animal and
plant remains on top of a volcanic mountain top.

The distribution of this great variety of animal life that now lives
at Bikini and on other isolated atolls must have been accomplished
through pelagic stages—free-floating eggs and larvae—across vast
stretches of the open ocean. Fishes that build nests in the corals and
are without such a means of dispersal from one atoll to another, or
from island group to island group, have in many instances differen-
tiated sufficiently from their neighboring allies to be recognized as dis-
tinct species. Those with pelagic stages usually are distributed ex-
tensively, some ranging from Easter Island to the Red Sea. There
apparently has been enough interchange of individuals to keep each
of these widely ranging forms breeding as a single species.

That Bikini and the northern Marshall Islands have some endemic
species of fishes is highly probable. Our recent ichthyological investi-
gations indicate that in about one-third of the fish families studied, one
or two new or previously unknown species occur. These are being
described along with every other kind of fish from Bikini, and the
publication of this material should make it possible to detect in
the future any anatomical changes that might be induced by the
Crossroads experiments.

The mystery of the biological changes resulting from radiation are
little known. In that great natural laboratory, they are difficult to
observe and more difficult to measure. The time is too short since Able
and Baker Days for the radiation to have caused observable anatomical
changes in the animals, if any have occurred. Undoubtedly, alpha,
beta, and gamma rays will be emitted for years to come, and how those
rays will affect the somatic and genetic cells of the organisms at Bi-
kini is yet to be discovered. Undoubtedly there has been and will be
sterilization of sex cells and the destruction of red blood cells, neo-
plastic growths may form, and possibly mutations will appear.

Any organism that changes morphologically to any extent may not
be adapted to compete in the continuous struggle for existence, or if
weakened by the fission products, may have little chance of survival
in the keen competition that exists. These unfit animals soon form
part of the food chain in the intense struggle of life. The carnivorous
fishes, feeding on the algal eaters that fed on contaminated algae, are
in turn exposed to the isotypes and their radiations. Thus, during
the course of a few years, nearly every lagoon fish may be expected to
have been subjected to the radiation effects, at least in a small way, of
the atomic bomb.
316 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

Undoubtedly, countless animal individuals have perished at Bikini
because of the atomic bomb experiments and still others may perish.
But this destruction of life in a large atoll like Bikini amounts to
only an extremely small percentage of the total animal life. The over-
all picture of life on the reefs has changed little because beneath this
surface layer, and from extensive adjoining unaffected areas, indi-
viduals have come forth to repopulate and occupy the reefs. The pres-
sure of population from all sides into the damaged areas is very great
and soon replaces the losses. Thus nature begins the repopulation
cycle, and, if given sufficient time, the wounded reefs will be cleansed
of their contamination, biological equilibrium will be reached, and life
will establish itself as in past millenniums—similar to that before man
released the greatest destructive force in his history.
THE SENSES OF BATS?

By Brian VESEY-FITZGERALD, I, L. S.

{With 4 plates]

Of all the many problems which bats set for the inquiring naturalist,
none has been more puzzling than that presented by their flight at
night: the way in which they catch the insects upon which most of
them feed (in the case of British bats, upon which all of them feed)
without colliding with objects in their path. The flight of bats is rapid
and the course erratic, frequently through thick woods or the narrow
winding passages of caves, often in total darkness. It has always
seemed unlikely that animals with such small eyes could see well enough
in the dark to fly in such surroundings without mishap. Many experi-
ments have been tried with captive bats to demonstrate their ability
to avoid obstacles which they could not see. Toward the end of the
eighteenth century the Italian scientist, Lazzaro Spallanzani, found
that bats which he had blinded could fly about a room, avoiding the
walls, the furniture, and silken threads stretched across their path.
A Swiss scientist, Louis Jurine, confirmed this and made the addi-
tional discovery that bats lost their ability to avoid obstacles when
their hearing was interfered with. Cuvier poured scorn on these
findings, and they were forgotten for a century and a half. All that
was remembered was that a blinded bat could fly perfectly surely.
But the uncanny ability remained, and all sorts of theories were ad-
vanced to account for it. It was suggested, for example, that bats were
very sensitive to changes in atmospheric pressure.

Then, in 1920, Professor Hartridge suggested that bats when flying
in the dark were probably able to ascertain the position of obstacles by
means of supersonic sounds emitted by the animals and reflected to
their ears. Twenty years later, after the development of radar as an
operational system, Griffin and Galambos working in America were
able to prove him correct.

Both radar and sonar are, of course, founded on the same fact,
namely, that if a short burst of energy is sent out and the time taken
for the echo to come back is noted, then, if the speed at which the
energy travels is known, the distance of the object can be accurately
calculated. Moreover, by sending the energy down a narrow beam

1 Reprinted by permission from Endeavour, vol. 6, No. 21, London, January 1947.

317
318 © ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

the bearing of the object can be accurately determined. In radar the
energy used is in the form of electromagnetic waves; in sonar (the
method by which the depth of water is measured) ordinary sound
waves are used. In their direction-finding bats use not audible sound
waves, but, as Hartridge suggested and as Griffin and Galambos have
proved, supersonic waves. The range of frequencies that a normal
human being can hear is from about 16 vibrations a second to about 30,-
000 a second. Middle C is 256 vibrations a second. The range of fre-
quency of the supersonic waves used by bats is from about 25,000 to
70,000 a second, and is thus mostly above the limit of human hearing.

Griffin and Galambos began their work by confirming that blind-
folded bats are able to fly surely. They then confirmed Jurine’s dis-
covery that if the hearing of a bat is impaired it is unable to avoid
obstacles when flying. Indeed, they found that a bat with both ears
covered is most reluctant to take wing at all, but that a bat with one
ear covered will fly with moderate success, though it will be unable
to avoid all obstacles. These simple experiments indicated that bats
are made aware of the position of obstacles which they cannot see by
means of sound waves reflected from them. They then covered the
noses and mouths of their bats, but left the ears uncovered, and found
that again the animals were unable to fly with certainty. They thus
proved that the sound waves reflected by objects must be produced by
the vocal apparatus of the bats themselves.

Their further experiments were conducted with the aid of an elec-
tronic apparatus known as a supersonic analyzer. This consists essen-
tially of a microphone sensitive to supersonic vibrations, a magnifier
which amplifies them and converts them to vibrations of a lower
frequency, and a recorder which traces a graph on paper when super-
sonic sounds are received. The analyzer measures the frequency of
any supersonic vibrations it may pick up. By means of this instru-
ment it was discovered that bats make supersonic sounds at frequent
intervals almost all the time. The frequency of the vibrations varies,
of course, but it is most usually about 50,000 a second, and at this pitch
each squeak lasts for a little less than one two-hundredth of a second.

Now, it is evident that the more frequently squeaks are emitted the
fuller the information received. It has been proved that a bat at rest
emits a supersonic squeak about 10 times a second, but that as soon as
it takes wing the rate goes up to about 30 a second. That was to be
expected, since a bat on the wing obviously needs more information
than a bat at rest. Griffin and Galambos further found that the closer
a bat approached an obstacle the faster became the rate of squeaks,
rising to 50 and sometimes even to 60 a second, and dropping to normal
as soon as the obstacle was passed. The rate of squeak is, of course,
governed by the distance from the object, for there must be time for
the echo to come back before the next squeak is sent out.
Smithsonian Report, 1947.—Vesey-FitzGerald PLATE 1

THE WING ACTION OF A BaT IN MORE OR LESS LEVEL FLIGHT AND FLYING TOWARD THE
CAMERA

Bats make between 15 and 20 strokes of the wing a second, and fly at about 10 miles an hour. (See also
Dis 2, he71,)
Smithsonian Report, 1947.—Vesey-FitzGerald ;. PLATE 2

1. THE WING ACTION OF A BAT IN MORE OR LESS LEVEL FLIGHT AND FLYING TOWARD THE
CAMERA
(See also pl. 1.)

t

2. FLIGHT MORE OR LESS BROADSIDE TO.THE CAMERA
(See also pl. 3)
Smithsonian Report, 1947.—Vesey-FitzGerald PEATE Ss

FLIGHT MoOrRE OR LESS BROADSIDE TO THE CAMERA

Bats fly by raising the wings partly folded, bringing them sharply down and forward. Note that in these
photographs the mouth is held open. (See also pl. 2, fig. 2.)
*puodes 000‘00T/T YB UaY¥Ry
oloM SYdBisOJOYUd osoeyy [TY ‘oUBAGUIBUL [BLOULeJIOJUL Possoidop ot} OJON “MOPBYS 9} AG UMOYS SI JUIPIOIV JNOUYILA OULOD SVU YL VSOTD MO FL

LHOIMY OL SNIAOOMS °Z TIVM V GIOAY OL AI1dHWHS SUNVG LVg V ‘OHOF SHL Ag GSNYVA\ “|

‘

Sad

yp 3LV 1d Ple49NzZI1.4-AesaA—"/p6| ‘Woday uetuosyzIWG
SENSES OF BATS—VESEY-FITZGERALD 319

The supersonic tone is not the only sound produced by bats. In
addition to the supersonic squeak, which cannot be heard by human
beings, they produce three other kinds of sound: (1) The ordinary
voice, which is the flight call, and which Hartridge has named the
signaling tone; (2) a buzz, which is audible if one is quite close to the
animal; and (8) a click, which is usually audible at a distance of
several feet. I am not competent to say whether the buzz differs in
any way with the species; it sounds exactly the same to me whether
emitted by a serotine (Z'ptesicus serotinus) or a pipistrelle (Pipistrel-
lus pipistrellus) ,nor can I distinguish any difference between the clicks
emitted by the different species. The flight calls, however, are quite
distinct. It is possible to distinguish between the species on the wing
by means of their flight calls (it is also possible with practice to dis-
tinguish between the types of flight), and I have elsewhere attempted
to translate the differences between the calls of the various species to
paper. It has been shown that the buzz and the click are accompanied
by the supersonic tone. In the case of the click there is a single short
burst of supersonic energy, but in the case of the buzz there is a con-
tinuous evolution of the interrupted supersonic tone. The flight call,
however, may be produced by itself or it may be accompanied by the
supersonic tone. Some bats, notably the lesser horseshoe (/hino-
lophus hipposideros), have a considerable vocabulary of ordinary
sounds, whereas others, notably the whiskered (Myotis mystacinus) ,
scarcely ever make a sound of this sort. I have never heard the whisk-
ered utter a sound on the wing, and of the many I have kept in captivity
only a few have uttered faint grunts, and those very occasionally, when
at rest.

How these four different types of sound are produced is not yet
clear, but examination of the vocal organs of bats shows that they are
very different from those of other animals. The larynx, which in
most animals is built of cartilage, in bats is made of bone and is com-
paratively a massive structure with large and powerful muscles. The
strength of the bat’s larynx and its small size are obviously well
adapted to the production of supersonic sounds, for there must be
tremendous energy in the supersonic squeaks as compared with the
audible squeaks. The higher the note and the greater the frequency,
the greater the energy.

Though it is not yet known exactly how the supersonic vibrations
are produced, it is known how the bat avoids hearing the squeak. It
is, of course, essential that only the echo should be heard by the bat.
The same difficulty had to be overcome in radar transmission. In
order to ensure that only the echo is picked up by the receiver, this is
suppressed while the transmitter sends. Something of the same kind
happens in the bat when emitting the supersonic tone. Griffin and
Galambos found that while the squeak is being made a muscle in the

777488—48——24
320 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

ear contracts momentarily, shutting off the squeak, and permitting
only the echo to be heard.

Bats are not the only creatures with the power of echo-location. The
tapping of Blind Pew’s stick is an example of the same process, and
many blind human beings develop what appears to be an uncanny
ability to move about without striking obstacles. Nor are bats the
only creatures able to hear supersonic vibrations: dogs, for example,
are often trained on the Galton whistle. But so far as is known at
present bats are the only creatures that emit supersonic vibrations
and guide themselves by the reflections. This important discovery,
however, still leaves unanswered many questions about the behavior
of bats, and, as is the way with important discoveries, poses a number
of fresh problems.

Invariably the first question that is asked is: Why do not the bats
become confused between the echoes from their own squeaks and the
echoes from the squeaks of their neighbors? It might be thought
that with a large number of bats of the same species together in a cave
or in the roof of a church, and all uttering supersonic squeaks, con-
fusion would be inevitable. But it must be remembered that super-
sonic squeaks do not travel far, for their energy is quickly dissipated
in the air. It has been shown that the supersonic squeaks of bats
travel only about 15 feet, and that they are able to give a useful echo
only up to about 12 feet. In other words, provided that the bats are
not crammed close together, there is very little likelihood of confusion.
But, as everyone with any field experience of bats knows, they very
often are crammed close together, yet there is no confusion. It seems
evident that there is a difference in the frequency of the vibrations
made by each bat. A very slight difference in frequency would be
sufficient to enable each bat to recognize its own voice.

There remain a number of problems to which no answer has yet
been given. First, do bats emit the supersonic squeak through the
mouth or the nose, or both? All the British bats are insect eaters,
and all, with the possible exception of the barbastelle (Barbastella
barbastellus), habitually fly with their mouths open. Furthermore,
all the British bats capture their prey while in flight, and most of them
take flying insects. What happens when the bat closes its mouth on
catching an insect? Does echo-location cease (in which case the bat
must fly blind) or does its continue through the nose? We do not
know. In the greater horseshoe (Rhinolophus ferrum-equinum in-
sulans) the epiglottis does not open into the back of the mouth as in
most animals, but is projected up into the roof of the mouth, fitting
into the rear opening of the nasal passages. It is not fixed in this
position, and can probably be withdrawn, but the arrangement suggests
that the supersonic squeaks, in the Rhinolophidae at any rate, are
emitted through the nose, and this suggestion receives additional
SENSES OF BATS—VESEY-FITZGERALD 321

support from the extraordinary skin development on the muzzles of
these bats. While the purpose of this appendage, which in some species
attains an astonishing complexity, is not known, it has been suggested
that it is concerned with directing the squeak into a narrow beam so
that the bat’s knowledge of its position is greatly increased. Be that
as it may, I have no doubt from long personal observation that the
horseshoes have a much finer appreciation of position than other
British bats, and especially is this so in the case of the greater horse-
shoe. Indeed, this species is quite uncanny in its judgment of distance.
Bats normally hang head downward, suspended by the toes. It is the
usual practice for bats to land head upward and then to shuffle round
until they can get a grip with the toes, but the greater horseshoe is
accustomed to turning a somersault in the air and gripping straight-
way with the toes, landing, in other words, in the head-downward
position. Very rarely indeed have I seen a bat miss its hold, and there
appears to be no slackening of speed as the resting-place is approached.
Some of my captive greater horseshoes used to sleep under a sideboard,
and when they were hanging there was little more than a couple of
inches clearance from the floor, yet they would fly under the sideboard,
turn their somersaults with absolute certainty, and hang by the toes.
And many, many times have I watched this acrobatic performance
when they have been hanging from picture rails and so forth.

There is a marked difference in the structure of the ear in the
Rhinolophidae and in the Vespertilionidae. In the former the pinna
is comparatively simple in build, but in the bats without nose-leaves
the ear is a much more complex structure, characterized by a great
development of a lobe known as the tragus. This is especially well
seen in the long-eared (Plecotus auritus), in which species it stands
up like a second pinna. It has been suggested that the tragus is in
some way connected with echo-location, and the fact that the bats
with nose-leaves have no tragus while the bats with the tragus have
no nose-leaves is surely significant. It would appear that the two
developments must in some way perform similar functions.

It is, I think, noteworthy that the long-eared, in which there is
such a marked development of the tragus, is in comparison with
other bats of the same group a master of flight in confined quarters.
Most bats, when flying to their feeding grounds, do so at a consider-
able height ; the long-eared does so very close to the ground, often at a
height of no more than a few inches, and the flight is fast, direct,
and confident. Furthermore, the long-eared captures comparatively
few insects in flight, preferring to pick them off the leaves of bushes
and trees, a habit which entails the nicest judgment of distance.

Two other British bats, Natterer’s (Myotis nattereri) and the
whiskered (Mf. mystacinus), have the habit of picking their prey
322 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

from foliage rather than taking it in flight. Natterer’s is fairly im-
partial, but the whiskered very rarely captures a flying insect, pre-
ferring to search the hedgerows and fences, especially for spiders,
of which it is inordinately fond. Both species have a well-developed
tragus, and in both, but more particularly in Natterer’s, there is a
marked development of the glandular pads on the face.

How bats find their prey is a mystery that has not yet been solved.
It is certain that they cannot find it by sight, and there does not seem
to be any evidence that their powers of scent are particularly acute.
How, then, does the noctule (Vyctalus noctula), flying high and fast,
find its prey? If you throw a pebble into the air beneath a hawking
noctule, the bat will dive on to it, swerving away from it at the very
last moment without touching it. Attach a fly to a long line and
make casts into the air while bats are hawking and you will have
them diving at the fly, but it is very unlikely that you will catch one.
Daubenton’s bat (Myotis daubentoniz) is sometimes caught on the
flies of anglers, but almost always by the wing. I do not think that
there has been a single instance of the bat being caught by the mouth,
which suggests that at the last moment (but too late to avoid con-
tact altogether) it has realized its mistake. AlIl this suggests that
the supersonic squeak sends back an echo from anything flying into
or across the path, but it does not explain how the bat knows that
that something is worth investigating. Yet I have never seen one
bat dive at another, even when there have been many flying at random
in a confined area. Nor does it explain how the long-eared and the
whiskered know that there is an insect or a spider on what their
echo-location must have told them is an obstacle to avoid. Yet ina
long experience of whiskered bats, I have not seen one hit a fence or
make fruitless visits along a hedge.

One would be inclined to say that the supersonic tone was even more
selective than we know it to be were it not for certain things that
field experience has brought to notice. I have seen bats of different
species collide in mid-air—on one occasion a noctule with a serotine
(and both animals were killed), and on another occasion a pipi-
strelle with a barbastelle (when the pipistrelle was killed). These
accidents happened during the evening hawking, and one can only
suppose that at the time echo-location had stopped, possibly because
both animals had captured insects and their mouths were closed.

Field experience shows too that there are times when echo-location
does not function at all. I have caught many bats by netting their
dens of a summer night. At one time, anxious to discover whether
bats flew at night or not—it was at that time thought that they had an
evening and a morning flight only—I made a number of all-night
watches at dens of noctule, whiskered, pipistrelle, serotine, and Natter-
SENSES OF BATS—VESEY-FITZGERALD 323

er’s, and, after the bats had left the hole for the evening flight, netted
the entrance. I caught many bats (and at almost all hours of the
night) in the nets, trying to get back tothe holes. At that time nothing
was known about supersonic vibrations in connection with bats, and 1
did not think that there was anything odd about it. But in the sum-
mer of 1946, realizing that the supersonic tone should have warned
them of an obstruction, I repeated the process at dens of noctule,
whiskered, Daubenton’s, and serotine, with the same result. The bats
appeared to be quite unaware that there was an obstruction and flew
straight into the nets. Later I covered the entrance hole to a noctule
den with thick brown paper, and even this did not seem to be indicated
to the bats, which flew straight into it. Before returning to their
den noctules fly around the tree and in and out among the branches
with never a false movement, yet they are unaware of an obstruction at
the very entrance to their sleeping quarters. It seems evident that
echo-location, for some reason, is shut off at that moment.

On the other hand, it seems to operate to some extent during hiber-
nation. Everyone who has entered a hibernaculum of bats must have
noticed the tremor that goes through the sleeping creatures at the first
presence of a stranger. They are asleep, and incapable of movement,
but there can be no doubt at all that they are aware.

REFERENCES

DIJKGRAAF, S.
1948. Vers. Ned. Akad. Wetensch. Afd. Natuurkunde, vol. 42, p. 9.
1946. Experientia, vol. 11, p. 11.
GALAMBOS, R.
1942. Journ. Acoust. Soc. Amer., vol. 14, p. 41.
GALAMBOS, R., and GRIFFIN, D. R.
1942. Journ. Exp. Zool., vol. 89, p. 475.
GRIFFIN, D. R., and GALAMBOS, R.
1941. Journ. Exp. Zool., vol. 86, p. 481.
Haan, W. L.
1908. Biol. Bull., vol. 15, p. 165.
HARTRIDGE, H.
1920. Journ. Physiol., vol. 54, p. 54.
1945. Nature, vol. 156, p. 490.
MATTHEWsS, L. H.
1946. Zoo life. Summer.
Pavan, M.
1944. Le Grotte D’Italia, ser. 2, vol. 5, p. 22.
SPALLANZANI, L.
1932. Le Opere di L. Spallanzani.
VESEY-FITZGERALD, B.
1941. Naturalist, pp. 789-791.
1943. Journ. Soc. Pres. Fauna Emp., vol. 38, p. 10.
1944. Proc. Hants Field Club, vol. 16, p. 64.
1945. Discovery, September.
veoticban tothe tas. aye et mi suid Sia #0 ieee ai ugh ie hi ‘yal
_Sintontsa od Abad ey fvbitey’ wih N Devine pedis Dati oY anes fale wid ae Wie
» Badddth iad og f seosctid yet ty Whol Xk UL Pal Bal shin z wcll bene ci
| ‘a | (bss! a ;

iy

ve

‘ faut sei ” saan
f : 1 ai ?
i uh) Chit See ails: a braces auaon ot itt

“tibet inte hy Ci ERR
Ri i Heal
D1 aati ori ia eis giittes 1 i aduedinga Od yaaa at Lapa ond yeaa ce
moe ts AR Aenie shed key eo aero a ow bemedite a uy ay bnhientee’ '
am batho naiite: Rai Aa ty dete wat on Hetty tie wind unde nity 4

Werilinaroue No ohiliepanel Biels sari f ite ae i en Pid |
| ei at is annie a

i toimncveey

} nie. a & a fe, FIORE:

ie
ye)
he
as
- j
7
i
| i
i j
(RY

Vy hi

; fil

j ‘Kd Atiaar

, i) i

MOLLUSKS AND MEDICINE IN WORLD WAR II

By R. TucKER ABBOTT
Assistant Curator, Division of Mollusks,
United States National Museum

[With 3 plates]

When American troops of MacArthur’s Sixth Army landed on the
eastern shores of Leyte Island to begin the liberation of the Philippine
Islands, they were committing themselves not only to a bitter military
struggle but also to one of the strangest of the many medical battles
of the Pacific campaign. Within a week our troops had fanned out
over an area which is highly infectious with a fatal snail fever or
blood-fluke disease known at that time to only a comparatively small
number of tropical-disease experts. Up through Gloucester, Finsch-
hafen, and Hollandia many of the men had come, fighting Japs with
a rifle in one hand, warding off malaria with a yellow atabrine pill in
the other. Here on Leyte the malaria mosquito was almost unknown,
but in its place was a tiny fresh-water snail carrying and spreading a
parasitic disease which, if left untreated, led to extreme enlargement
of the liver, and usually ended in the death of the victim.

Characteristically, the disease did not manifest itself among the
troops for a number of weeks. Then on New Years Day at an evacua-
tion hospital in the town of Palo the first 2 military cases were dis-
covered. An intensive survey of our personnel was immediately begun,
and the fears of the Army doctors were confirmed by the discovery of
973 cases. Before the epidemic could be brought under control, over
1,700 Army and 17 Navy men had been stricken by the blood-fluke
disease, schistosomiasis.

NATURE OF THE DISEASE

“Schisto,” as the disease became familiarly known among the troops,
is caused by a parasitic trematode worm which lodges itself in the blood
vessels of the liver and the mesenteric vessels of the mammalian host.
The adult male is about a half inch in length with a large groove along
its underside in which the slender and slightly longer female rests
during most of her mature life. Each fluke has two round suckers at

325
326 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

the head end, one for holding to the walls of the blood vessel, the other
for ingesting blood cells. The greatest damage to the host, however,
does. not come from the small loss of blood or the obstruction caused
by the worm, but rather from the vast number of tiny, spined eggs
being constantly liberated by the female. A large proportion of the
eggs are carried to the liver by the blood stream, and as protective
encystment takes place, hepatic congestion or liver blockage develops.
Ultimately, with increasing deposition of eggs and the introduction of
toxins given off by the adult flukes, the liver becomes a gigantic mass
of scar tissue. Accompanying symptoms are daily fever, extreme
weakness, diarrhea, loss of appetite and weight, emaciation, and, in
untreated cases, death from exhaustion.

A number of the eggs laid by females in the mesenteric blood vessels
work themselves through the intestinal wall and pass out into the
open, thus permitting the life cycle of the worm to continue. The
eggs must reach fresh water directly or be rain-washed within a day
or so to a nearby creek. There, the eggs break open to liberate a
minute, free-swimming miracidium. Unless this microscopic larval
form can reach an Oncomelania snail within 35 hours it will die. The
miracidium will swim rapidly through the water in erratic and un-
directed courses until by chance it passes within a few inches of an
Oncomelania snail. At that moment, it turns and takes a straight
course to the mollusk and plunges its head into the flesh of the snail.
In a matter of a few minutes it will have bored itself through the skin.
In time, the tiny invader burrows to the liverlike digestive gland
of the snail, and there, during 8 weeks of complicated transformation,
multiplies into hundreds of small, fork-tailed cercariae. The more
miracidia that invade a single snail, the greater will be the production
of cercariae; in heavy infections, the reproductive ability of the
molluscan host will be impaired.

It was this fork-tailed cercaria that infected our troops. During
the early hours of morning thousands are shed from the ruptured
tissues of the Oncomelania snails. Invisible to the naked eye, they
lie on the quiet surface of the creeks and marsh waters and await the
first person that comes to bathe or swim. Cercarial penetration of the
skin is painless and often goes unnoticed, although occasionally in
heavy infections an itchy rash or cercarial dermatitis is produced.

Two to three months may pass before the victim shows any dis-
tressing symptoms of the disease. During this incubation period the
larval worms will have migrated from the small blood vessels and
lymphatics to the heart through the venous system and will have
reached the lungs. From here, the maturing worms penetrate through
the tissues to the vessels near the liver, pair up in sexes, and begin their
deadly production of eggs.
MOLLUSKS AND MEDICINE—ABBOTT 397
CAMPAIGN AGAINST THE DISEASE

Fortunately, two medical units capable of temporarily coping
with the menace were stationed on Leyte Island when the schisto-
somiasis outbreak occurred. Combined medical guns were opened
on the problem by the Fifth Malaria Survey Detachment under Maj.
M. 8. Ferguson and the Army Medical Research Unit under Maj.
F. B. Bang. Both officers were on military leave from the Rockefeller
Institute for Medical Research. The method of treatment for the
disease by the injection of an antimony drug called fuadin had been
rather well worked out by previous workers, so that the immediate and
most important problem became one of preventive medicine—how to
keep our men from catching the disease. This involved a laborious
survey of military personnel and natives in the endemic area, a search
for waters inhabited by the deadly snail, and the introduction of a
rigorous educational program among the troops. Signs blossomed
out over the entire area wherever infectious waters were located.
Slogans of “Danger! Snail fever! Keep out of this river,” “Schisto
and death here! Don’t swim in these waters,” became the roadside
counterpart to the “Come to Smith’s Beach. Excellent swimming”
billboards at home.

The Army and Navy, however, were as much interested in a thorough
research attack on the problem as they were in an immediate solution
of the Leyte situation. They wanted to be prepared for similar epi-
demics if and when we sent troops into the highly endemic areas of
China’s Yangtze Valley and the Japanese home islands. The Army
sent out to the Philippines, and later Japan, the Commission on
Schistosomiasis, headed at first by Dr. Ernest Carroll Faust, schisto-
somiasis specialist, and later under the direction of Dr. Williard H.
Wright, expert on public health matters and chief of the Division of
Tropical Diseases at the National Institute of Health. From Commo-
dore Thomas Rivers’ unit on Guam, the Navy dispatched two doctors
and a snail specialist. The use of the latter, a mollusk man, repre-
sented the first time that a military organization had employed a
malacologist for snail research.

Long after the last of the schistosomiasis cases among our men had
been reported and successfully treated, this group of scientists were
continuing their research. The Army group went on to Japan and
the Navy team was sent into China. Our knowledge of the distribu-
tion, habits, life cycle, methods of survey and identification, and con-
trol of the schisto-carrying snail was increased tenfold. Successful
repellents and protective clothing were developed. Substantial ad-
vancements were made in chemotherapy and methods of surveying
for the disease.
328 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

ROLE OF THE SNAIL

The key to lasting preventive measures against the blood-fluke dis-
ease is the elimination of the mollusk, for without this one kind of
snail the disease could not continue to exist. Of the several hundred
species of fresh-water mollusks living in the Philippines, only the
Oncomelania snail has been known to serve as the intermediate host.
Although this species of mollusk is always found in endemic areas,
there are localities where the disease is unknown, yet where the snail
is present. One such region discovered by the Navy exists in the Lake
Lanao area of central Mindanao Island. Formerly an American mili-
tary site, and perhaps in the future to be used as a Philippine Army
training camp, the country bordering the north end of the lake is
cool, relatively free from tropical diseases, and not unlike the country-
side of Connecticut. Yet the tiny creeks flowing into the northeastern
end of the lake are heavily colonized by Oncomelania snails. Until
these snails are eliminated, the area must be considered a potential
breeding ground for the blood fluke. It is probably only a matter of
time before the disease is introduced and established there.

Surveying Philippine jungles and swamps for Oncomelania snails
was, before the war, a particularly difficult task as is evidenced by the
fact that Philippine workers, familiar with the country, found the
snail in only 25 percent of localities where the disease was endemic.
Recognition of the disease-carrying mollusk was hampered by the
presence of similar-looking, harmless shells, and because the habitat
preference of the guilty mollusk was not completely understood.
Military medical men, armed with malacological information, were
able to track down the snail in every case.

Recognizing the guilty species of snail is not done by only studying
the shell, but principally by observing the snail animal which is housed
within. Oncomelania snails were found to possess a combination of
animal characters not present in any other Philippine or Oriental
snail—two delicate gray tentacles at the bases of which is a small black
eye surmounted by a bright lunar splotch of yellow color gran-
ules. This last distinctive feature was referred to for convenient
identification purposes as “yellow eyebrows.”

Studies on habitat preference had been hampered from the be-
ginning. The Japanese who had been working on the problem had
reported many years ago on the partially successful eradication
method of scattering hot, unslaked lime in snail-ridden creeks. This
had been misinterpreted in fairly recent American literature as mean-
ing that crushed limestone and the changing of creek water from a
slightly acid to a slightly alkaline condition would eliminate the snail.
It took many months of water testing to show that temperature of the
water, with the causative amount of shade and resultant amount of
MOLLUSKS AND MEDICINE—ABBOTT 329

oxygen in the water, was the chief factor. It was also discovered that
the ideal condition of the water for the shedding of cercariae was on
the slightly alkaline side. Today, the fact is almost universally ac-
cepted that a creature which builds its shell of calcium carbonate will
grow best in slightly alkaline waters. The Oncomelania snail is am-
phibious, and although a gill-breather, is as much at home on the moist
earth bordering the creeks as it is under water. If the water is cool,
the mollusk will make no attempt to leave. If trapped in a small
puddle of water from a previous fiood, and if the temperature rises
above 88° F., it will either crawl out over moist ground or, if the water
is still slowly draining to the main creek, will come to the top, cup its
foot to the surface film and float to cooler safety.

This matter of temperature and habitat preference is not without its
far-reaching military aspects when it comes to locating safe areas for
encampment. Two similar-appearing valleys can, by the nature of
their drainage and terrain, possess totally different mollusk popula-
tions. On Leyte Island nearly any flat stretch of fairly well-shaded
and creek-drained land may be looked upon as good breeding grounds
for the Oncomelania snail. The bordering hillside streams are, with-
out exception, perfectly safe. However, on Samar Island, at the
northeastern end, a small valley tucked away in the hills was found
which presents a totally different type of snail distribution. It is an
area much like one that our troops might have entered had an assault
on Japan been necessary. The center of the valley had every outward
appearance of being snail-ridden country, yet a thorough survey there
would have given a clean bill of health. The bordering hills, lush in
protective woodland and near a source of clean, running water, would
have been automatically recommended as an ideal site for encampment.
Yet, unlike Leyte conditions, the areas around these hillside streams
were heavily colonized by Oncomelania snails. The valley proper
was ideal as a habitat in every respect except one—the temperature of
the water was above 88° F. Had the inhabitants of our hypothetical
Japanese valley fled, so that no survey could have been made of the
natives, 1 to 2 months might have elapsed before the presence of the
disease had become known. By that time our infected troops might
have been holding an important sector of a battle front.

Locating small endemic areas of schistosomiasis has been made diffi-
cult by the migration of thousands of people during and after World
War II. This has been particularly the case in the Philippine Islands
and China. Medical surveys brought to light cases of the disease in
areas which had always been thought to be free. Questioning usually
revealed the fact that the patient had lived in or passed through an
endemic area. ‘The Navy unit employed an accurate and easy method
of mapping out small endemic areas by trapping and inspecting wild
rats. In the Philippines the rats which forage in the brush do not
330 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

migrate for any appreciable distance, for their food supply from
fallen and broken coconuts is always plentiful. The rat acts as a
blind reservoir host, catching the disease in the creeks, but apparently
not passing schistosome eggs in their feces. A glance at a smear prep-
aration of the liver under the microscope will show whether the rat is
infected or not. In temperate regions of China and Japan the rat
method is usually unsuccessful for locating endemic areas, for the
animals prefer to remain near houses and barns and are not as likely
to become infected.

Control measures against the snail were undertaken jointly by the
Army and Navy. Asa preliminary to chemical tests, the life history
of the snail had to be known, for eliminating all visible snails might
prove useless if, unknown to the workers, a habit of migration or
secluded aestivation existed, or if the eggs of the snail could resist
poisons. ‘Two types of experiments were carried out to determine if
the snail had a habit of migrating. ‘The first was simply by setting
a marker in a creek and liberating 500 snails whose shells had been
painted bright yellow. Two weeks later 90 percent of the marked
snails were recovered within 25 feet of the marker. Other observa-
tions involved the method of parasitological examination. At the edge
of a marsh on the south side of the town of Palo a drainage ditch
empties its schisto-polluted filth into the area of an extensive colony
of Oncomelania snails. At the mouth of the ditch, where schistosome
eggs were hatching into miracidia by the thousands, it was found upon
microscopic examination that the snails were heavily infected with
cercariae. Snail samples taken progressively farther from the ditch,
and hence in zones of less miracidial exposure, showed lower and lower
percentages of infection. Since the lapsed time from miracidial pene-
tration to cercarial development is 8 to 9 weeks, it was safe to assume
that the snails do not voluntarily migrate more than a few feet for
at least that period of time.

The search for the egg of the Oncomelania mollusk lasted for 3
months. The size and nature of the egg were unknown to the Navy
workers, and females kept in captivity could not be induced to lay.
Mollusk eggs of a dozen species found in the creeks were carefully
raised to an advanced stage of development so that identification
could be made, but in every case they were found to belong to other
species. The thrill of finally finding Oncomelania snail eggs was one
which only comes to a naturalist engrossed in such strange searches.
The egg was not only of extremely small size, no larger than the head
of a pin, but was always carefully camouflaged by the feces of the
female. The excrement of this snail is made up almost entirely of
fine bits of undigested grit and sand. As the egg leaves the oviduct
and is stuck to the surface of a moist piece of wood or coconut shell,
the female places a number of her'sandy fecal pellets on the egg and
MOLLUSKS AND MEDICINE—ABBOTT 331

pats them down into a protective, camouflaged jacket. With eggs
available, the long list of chemicals effective against the adult was
tested until all were eliminated save two which killed not only Oncome-
Jania adults and their eggs but spelled death to the fork-tailed
cercariae.

OTHER PARASITIC DISEASES CARRIED BY MOLLUSKS

In other parts of the world there are two additional blood-fluke
diseases which have plagued the human race since the memory of man.
One of these, bilharzia, is mentioned in early Egyptian records, and
its presence has been discovered in Egyptian mummies dating from
1250 B. C. Napoleon’s troops were infected in the Nile region, and
during World War I the disease became familiarly known among
British Tommies as “Bill Harris’ disease.” It has been estimated
that 39 million people in Africa are at present suffering from bilhar-
zia, with 6 million cases alone in Egypt. This almost equals the 46
million estimate for Oriental schistosomiasis. Bulharzia blood flukes
take their toll of human lives by attacking the urinary system. The
life cycle of the worm must include an intermediate snail host, as is
the case with all trematode worms. It is rather odd, however, that
this species of schistosome, so closely related to the Oriental type, is
obligated to live part of its life in a lung-bearing snail which is not
even remotely related to the gill-bearing Oncomelania snail.

The third type of schistosomiasis, Manson’s disease, is of more in-
terest to Americans, for its prevalence in Puerto Rico, the Lesser An-
tilles, and the northern parts of South America presents a serious men-
ace to tourists who enjoy fresh-water swimming. Manson’s disease
is believed to have originated in Africa where today it 1s second only
to bilharzia asa trematode menace. It has been thought that its pres-
ence in the Western Hemisphere is attributed to early slave trade.
The snail responsible for the spread of this disease is related to the
bilharzia carrier in Africa.

In addition to the three blood-fluke diseases, there are some half
dozen other snail-borne diseases which directly affect the health and
economy of millions of our fellow beings. These differ from schisto-
somiasis in being less damaging to the body, but are perhaps biologi-
cally more interesting in having developed strange variations in their
life cycles.

The lung fluke, according to recent surveys, is at present limited to
about 3 million cases of infection in Asia and a few thousand in West
Africa. The half-inch-long adult attaches itself to the inner walls of
the lungs and often produces fatal tuberculosis-like lesions. No effec-
tive cure is known. The eggs of the fluke are coughed out of the lungs
into the river where they hatch into snail-seeking miracidia. This spe-
332 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

cies nearly always seeks out the river snails of the Thiarid family. In
contrast to the simple schistosome life cycle, the lung fluke spends
only a part of its larval life in the snail, and then emerges again to
seek out a second intermediate host, this time a fresh-water crab or
crayfish. The crustacean must be eaten raw by man in order that
the lung-fluke larvae may penetrate the intestinal walls and migrate to
the lungs. One marvels that such a disease can continue to flourish
with so many weak links in its long and complicated life chain. In
the Shoahsing area of Chekiang Province, China, famous for its good
wines, a large proportion of the population is infected with lung flukes
because of the native custom of eating uncooked crayfish that have
been dipped in wine.

Peculiar and unchangeable eating habits of man are again respon-
sible for the world’s largest endemic area for the bile-fluke disease
which affects several million people in the Canton areas of southern
China. The life cycle of this fluke worm includes a mammalian host,
usually man, dogs, or cats, a first intermediate snail host, and a second
intermediate fish host. The infectious larval stages of the worm are
embedded in the flesh of the fish, and must, as in the case of the cray-
fish, be eaten uncooked. Raw fish is consumed as a delicacy by the Can-
tonese during the fall festival season. Strips of the more succulent
parts of the fish are dipped in hot tea or hot rice gruel, and are thus
only partially cooked. Many of the natives cannot afford sufficient
fuel to cook the fish thoroughly, and thus become infected.

THE SNAIL PROBLEM IN THE UNITED STATES

No sooner had the schistosomiasis epidemic among our troops in
the Philippine Islands been quelled, when Public Health authorities,
under the leadership of Dr. Willard Wright, turned their attention
toward the possibility of an outbreak in our own country. Although
schistosomiasis has never been contracted in the United States, the
recent return of infected service personnel presents a potential threat.
To determine whether or not domestic species of snails are capable of
serving as intermediate hosts, Dr. Eloise Cram, parasitologist, and
Dr. Elmer Berry, malacologist, have been carrying out an intensive
study of this matter. Living specimens of many of our American
species are shipped from the field to the aquarium rooms of the Na-
tional Institute of Health in Bethesda, Md. There they are exposed
to the various trematode diseases under study.

Already, one species of Tropicorbid snail sent in from Louisiana has
been shown to be capable of acting as an intermediate host of Manson’s
disease. The native habitat for this species is the island of Cuba, with
a few scattered records in Louisiana and Texas. These latter records
may represent accidental introductions by man. Laboratory infec-
MOLLUSKS AND MEDICINE—ABBOTT 333

tions do not necessarily forecast what may happen in nature. Schis-
tosomiasis is unknown in Cuba where the snail is rather common, and
where undoubtedly infected visitors have given the disease every op-
portunity of becoming established. A number of parasitologists be-
lieve that the slave trade, with its accompanying cases of the two kinds
of African schistosomiasis, has served as a great natural “experiment”
in which it was clearly demonstrated that neither of the diseases were
able to establish themselves in this country. It is probable that slaves
were able to introduce Manson’s disease into Puerto Rico, the Lesser
Antilles, and northern South America because of the presence of a suit-
able snail host. A similar “experiment” occurred in the Canal Zone
during World War I where a few infected Puerto Rican troops were
stationed. The disease did not establish itself in that area, nor have
mollusk surveys brought to light species of known carriers.

Research on the potential American snail carriers of Oriental schis-
tosomiasis has been intensified recently by the promising early experi-
ment of Dr. Horace Stunkard at Princeton. He has found that the
Pomatiopsis snail can be infected by the Oriental disease, but has been
unable, so far, to have the larval worm complete its growth. Present
experiments now being continued at the National Institute of Health
may meet with further success. The Pomatiopsis snail, already well
known as a carrier of animal lung flukes in this country, is extremely
close in its morphology and amphibious habits to the Oriental schisto-
somiasis carrier. In fact, it has been dubbed the “Oncomelania snail
of North America.” Its distribution, as shown by the accompanying
map, is limited to the central regions of the United States except for a
minor area of dispersal along the central portion of the Atlantic
coastal plain.

By far the weakest link in our public-health defense is in future
accidental introductions of known snail carriers from foreign coun-
tries. A number of slugs and other garden pests, including the giant
African land snail, have already found their way to our shores. No
disease carriers have been found in the United States as yet. The
possibility of this is not too remote, as is demonstrated by the recent
introduction and establishment of a Brazilian race of the Australorbid
snail carrier of Manson’s disease on Luzon Island, Philippines. It
may be only a matter of time before the disease finds its way from
Africa or the West Indies to the Philippines through the agency of
some infected traveler. The importation of living snails into this coun-
try 1s subject to the fine-toothed combings of our plant quarantine
and control agents, but this is not necessarily a perfect screen. Once
here, the Oncomelania snail has ample room for spreading, and would
probably follow much the same distribution of the Pomatiopsis snail.
As long as the accidental introduction is discovered within a year or
two, no harm will have been done. Newly introduced species usually
334 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

take two or three mating seasons to build up their population to the
point where they begin to spread for more room. Fortunately, our
leading natural history museums are in constant touch with thousands
of mollusk amateurs and naturalists in the United States. From past
experiences we know that any “new species” of mollusks discovered by

Sa
“We bes ae
“85 e  €e
e 9 °° ® : i Se
@ ® ; "ee is ® :
@

r ® 5°, Oe te 6 a
® e e®
e%@ \e *e, ie e

e ef ig ®
ain
i) °°? y
e ® ©
e° @ ©e0°
@
ot
e
°
8
)
@0@
@e@
oS

Ficure 1.—The distribution of the Pomatiopsis snail, a relative of the Oriental
carrier of the blood-fluke disease, is limited to the eastern third of the United
States. Black dots show the locality records for Pomatiopsis lapidaria.

amateurs are promptly sent to professionals for naming. In this way
any molluscan stranger is likely to come to the attention of malacolo-
gists aware of the danger.

SUMMARY OF MOLLUSCAN INTERMEDIATE HOSTS

In order to avoid belaboring this article with scientific names, a
table of human trematode diseases and their molluscan intermediate
Smithsonian Report, 1947.—Abbott PLATE 1

1. A handful of innocent-looking snails—vyet they put a battalion out of action
on Leyte Island, Philippines. (Navy photograph.)

2. An advanced case of snail fever or schistosomiasis. The liver of this Filipino

boy will continue to enlarge until death oceurs. (Navy photograph.)
Smithsonian Report, 1947.—Abbott PLATE 2

1. Experimental snails infected with deadly schistosomes. The specimen being
held is the West Indian carrier of Manson’s. disease. (Photograph by Perry,
National Institute of Health.)

+ dl.

Fae be ie 5
‘ eee
ees . . st Ske
hy mi Mo
ee ~
aca Nice

Suc BS.
“oo ery

2. The venomous cone shells of the Indo-Pacific are collector’s items, but are
capable of inflicting a fatal sting. Top row, left to right, the marble, geography,
and courtly cones; lower corners, the textile cone; lower center, the tulip cone.
Smithsonian Report, 1947.-Abbott PLATE 3

—

&

1. Dr. Willard H. Wright (eft), chief of the Division of Tropical Diseases at the
National Institute of Health, and Dr. Eloise Cram carry on experimental work
to safeguard our country from the introduction of snail-borne diseases. (Photo-
graph by Perry.)

Dn Sle Lee

ae ea

2. The laboratories in the Division of Tropical Diseases at the National Institute

of Health are constantly receiving living snails from all parts of the country.
Each species of snail undergoes rigorous tests to determine its disease-carrying
potentialities. (Photograph by Perry.)
339

MOLLUSKS AND MEDICINE—ABBOTT

“LEI ‘SI-1 ‘dd ‘T°ON ‘eg “JOA “JISBIVT “UINOL ‘[[OIS "S UBUIION WOlJ USABL 1

a

“YysgABIg

“ouON
"830
Id}BM-YSIL]
*‘qgnuysayo
uo = syshouny

-BSNIO
I0]8M
‘YSy 10}BM-YSaLT

“OUON

‘OUON

4ysoy 9}¥IpouTI0}UT puoddg

cataantataiaiae piunpidn) sisdouynuog

eee Se Se sorsods nanuwhT
‘piafiunib DsvVYy J,
Ta ek DU2}199U] DLLASOINSIMAay

OAM oe ee wayonuyos sanadd1py
"s1uson1buo) Dwu1w0) 7

|" 77" snovinoyouniue snpnapssofpLivg

*$njD.19D]h $1Q40)D.1ISNV
SoS euros 2fissiog siquounjdowfpy

Ay ot = ae ge as SNIDIUNA] SNUIING
‘DUDSOWLOL DIUDIAWOIUGQ
“DLOYMOSOU DIUDISUWOIUO

‘sisuadny niupjawmooug
aa wspiponb DIUDIAULOIUO

4soy [{SUS 9} BI POTMJO}UT 4SIEy

ea Se am

-"""ga781G popu [B1]UI_D

"Sa}BYG
pow [@17U99-Y10 N
“qseq Ie Ajperod

-g9 ‘sordoly, OPIM-p]1o Ay
a Ry ore BISY U1ISB

er a cam See BISY Uleyseg
*BolIpy “Bol
-LOMLY YANO ‘Ssoipuy 4Sa AQ

*BSOULIO NT
‘uedve ‘euryg ‘sourddriqg

wong ys!

aaa uMouyUy

“IOUS
yove spoipun}yy
Po Se uolyIM ¢
ae WoT][Tar OT
asi UOTT[IUL 6T

“-- ~~ WOHTI GZ

cs a UOTITTUL GE

maa 4 UOTT[IUL OF

1 SOSBO JO
JaqUINU pe} BUTS

S]SOY APDIPIULIJUL L19Y] PUD SAaSDesip apo pumas} UDUN FT —"T ATAV J,

(2}}0017)ay SnuiuocbDiv0g )
arsine ayn sun jeuruy
(setoads suroso4ystyog)
= en YOU S,IOULUIIMG
(4UMULa}SaN SnUiUdbDdLDY)
ain asvesip eyNng-sun'yT
(2ysnq sisdo701sD 47)
“esRosIp dyng-[VurysoyUy
(Sisuauls $1Y4IL0U0)/) )
eo ee asvesIp oyNp-olg
(2U0SUDUL DULOSO}SIYIS))
ian oes aSBOSIP S,UOSUBIT
(wnrqojpumany DULOSO]SLYIG))

(wnowodvl pumosojs1y rg)
SISBIUMTOSOJSIOS [BJUILIO

asvasi(]

”

sisvizivytig &
'

TT7488—_48—_

336 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

hosts is given herewith. Only the more important diseases are listed
and for each of them only the most important snail carriers. Insig-
nificant trematodes of man, such as Heterophyes heterophyes, Hap-
lorchis pumilio, and Echinochasmus perfoliatus, have been excluded.
Doubtfully or accidentally implicated mollusks such as Syncera lutas,
Thiara (Melanoides) tuberculata, and others have also been left from
the list. The trematode, Paragonimus kellicotti, at the bottom of the
table is not a human-infecting species, but its intermediate snail host,
Pomatiopsis lapidaria, is considered a potential host of Oriental
schistosomiasis.

THE VENOMOUS CONE SHELL

Seashell collecting and the handicraft of shell jewelry became pop-
ular hobbies among many of our troops stationed on remote Pacific
islands. The coral reefs of the South Seas and the East Indies under-
went the most intensive scouring for rare and beautiful specimens since
the days of early natural history exploration. Yet despite the many
hazards of reef collecting, relatively few accidents and no cases of
fatal bites and stings were recorded. This may be accounted for, in
part at least, by the wide circulation of information on poisonous
foods and animals given in survival handbooks by the Army and
Navy.

Among the most dangerous inhabitants of the coral reefs are the
cone shells whose sting is equally as powerful as the bite of a rattle-
snake. Although the beautiful cone shells are one of the commonest
of Indo-Pacific mollusks, the total list of authentic cases of death by
their sting is not at all impressive. Of the many dozen species found
in this region, only five have been known to produce a venomous
sting. The number of cone-shell stings is few because of the shy
nature of the animal. Invariably a snail will withdraw into its
shell when disturbed, and unless the cone shell is held quietly in the
palm of the hand for some minutes, there is little likelihood of the
collector being stung.

The apparatus for the injection of venom into the skin of the
victim is contained in the head of the animal. Bite, rather than sting,
is perhaps more descriptive of the operation. The long, fleshy pro-
boscis or snout is extended from the head and jabbed against the skin.
Within this tube are a number of hard, hollow stingers, slender and
long as needles. These are actually modified teeth or radulae, com-
monly used in other snails to rasp at their food. Under a high-
powered lens the teeth of the cone shell resemble miniature harpoons.
As the teeth are thrust into the skin, a highly toxic venom flows from
a large poison gland located farther back in the head, out through the
mouth, and into the wound through the hollow tube of the tooth.

There have been a number of graphic accounts of the symptoms
MOLLUSKS AND MEDICINE—ABBOTT 337

involved in cone-shell stings, two of which are quoted below. Dr.
H. Flecker, in The Medical Journal of Australia, vol. I, 1986, reports
that—

C. H. G. [Charles H. Garbutt], a male, aged 27 years, whilst on a pleasure
cruise landed at Haymen Island on June 27, 1935, and picked up a live cone
shell (since identified by Mr. H. A. Longman, of the Queensland Museum, as
Conus geographus). According to an eye-witness, it was gripped in the palm
of one hand, with the open side downwards in contact with the skin, whilst
with the other he proceeded to scrape with a knife, the epidermis, that is, a
thin cuticle covering the hard part of the shell. It was during this operation that

Figure 2.—The needlelike tooth with which the venomous cone shell stings its
prey. The top row shows the harpoon-shaped heads of the teeth of five venomous
species. Left to right, Conus textile, striatus, geographus, marmoreus, and
tulipa. Magnified 50 times.

he was stung in the palm of the hand. Just a small puncture mark was
visible. Dr. Clouston did not see the patient until just before death, but
following details were obtained by him from the patient’s mother, who was
present with him, Local symptoms of slight numbness started almost at once.
There was no pain at any time. Ten minutes afterwards there was a feeling
of stiffness about the lips. At 20 minutes the sight became blurred, with
diplopia; at 30 minutes the legs were paralysed; and at 60 minutes uncon-
sciousness appeared and deepened into coma.

No effect was noted upon the skin, lymphatic, alimentary or genito-urinary
systems. Just before death, the pulse became weak and rapid, with slow,
shallow respiration. Death took place 5 hours after the patient was stung.

A post mortem examination showed that all the organs, heart, lungs, et cetera,
were quite healthy. Mr. J. B. Henderson, Government analyst, reports that
no poison was found in the stomach contents. The victim was prior to the injury
in perfect physical condition and in training for football.

In the other species of cone shells, the reports show that considerable
pain accompanies the sting. Andrew Garrett, a famous shell collector
of the latter half of the nineteenth century, reported that he was stung
by a Conus tulipa “causing sharp pain not unlike the sting of a wasp.”
338 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

Another case was recorded in Japan by H. Yasiro (Venus, vol. 9,
pp. 165-166, 19389). The translation of this paper appears anon-
ymously in the proceedings of the Malacological Society of London,
1940, vol. 24, p. 32.

On 29 June 1985 a man 82 years old left home about 10 a. m. for bathing and
shell-collecting. Soon after he was infected by the bite of a Conus geographicus.
He immediately felt great pain and scarcely managed to walk home. A doctor
attended promptly ; the patient’s temperature arose to about 86° C, (=1138° F.),
breathing became difficult and his finger-tips went purple. He was soon uncon-
scious and died about 3 to 4 hours after infection.

Other cases, not all fatal, have been recorded from New Guinea,
New Hebrides, New Caledonia, Tonga, Samoa, Fiji, the Carolines,
and the Society Islands. An excellent and much fuller account of the
various cases appeared in a recent article by W. J. Clench, curator
of the department of mollusks at Harvard College (Occasional Papers
on Mollusks, Harvard University, vol. 1, No. 7, pp. 49-80).

The cone shells apparently use their venomous armature primarily
for the purpose of subduing their prey. Fish, crab, and mollusk
remains have been found in the crop and stomach. Secondarily, the
cone shells use their sting as a means of defense against such enemies as
the octopus. Recently in Queensland, Australia, the effectiveness of the
cone shell’s defense was demonstrated during the course of a shell-
collecting trip on the reef. An 18-inch octopus had been captured and
put alive in an enamel pail of sea water. Later, a venomous cone shell
was found and dropped in with the octopus. Ina few minutes the latter
began to attack the cone shell with its customary procedure by plac-
ing one of its tentacles across the mouth of the shell. Under normal
circumstances it takes an octopus a few minutes to dig and suck a snail
animal from it shell, but in this case it suddenly withdrew its hold, wav-
ing its tentacles about in violent agitation. Immediately after the
retreat of the octopus, the tiny, needlelike radula of the cone shell
could be seen slowly withdrawing into the snail’s proboscis. A few
minutes later the octopus shed one of its tentacles. Although the crea-
ture was soon transferred to a well-aerated tank of fresh sea water,
it was found dead the following morning. The venomous cone shell,
on the other hand, remained healthy and active for many more days.

The species of cone shells reported in the literature as having been
responsible for deadly stings are the tulip cone (Conus tulipa), the
textile cone (Conus textile) , the geography cone (Conus geographus) ,
the marble cone (Conus marmoreus), and the courtly cone (Conus
aulicus). Oddly enough, the nature of the cone-shell poison has never
been investigated by a chemist. The marlinspike shells of the genus
Terebra, a cousin of the cone shells, are also armed with harpoonlike
teeth and a small poison gland, but to date no records of their inflicting
a sting in man have appeared in the literature.
SOME REMARKS ON THE INFLUENCE OF INSECTS ON
HUMAN WELFARE?

By Cari D, DUNCAN

Professor of Entomology and Botany
San Jose State College

The ways in which insects affect human welfare are so numerous
and diverse that no approach to completeness of treatment can be made
in a brief paper. In the present instance, however, completeness is
not needed, nor in fact is even a comprehensive sampling. A consider-
ation of certain aspects of the subject will suffice, for the object of the
paper is to advance the thesis that the time has come for entomologists
to present to the public, on whose support the progress of entomologi-
cal research almost entirely depends, a more balanced interpretation of
insect and human relations than that usually current.

The subject of insects and human welfare is not new, and certain
aspects of it have been developed at length in a great variety of books,
technical bulletins, magazine articles, newspaper stories, and even
reports over the radio. The relationships that have been most fre-
quently stressed, perhaps naturally enough, have been those in which
insects appear as enemies of man. It is not my desire to minimize the
damage inflicted on man by those insects which are agricultural or
forest pests, transmitters of disease, or are in other ways inimical to
man’s well-being. Such damages, however, and the insects responsible
for them, should be viewed in proper perspective. In no other way
can the real importance of insects as a whole be understood correctly
and evaluated properly.

It has long been apparent to biologists, whenever insect and human
relations are viewed in their entirety, that the insect species which are
injurious or antagonistic to human welfare actually constitute only a
small proportion of the total of insect life and that the great majority

+ Presidential address read before the Pacific Coast Hntomological Society, January 4,
oe Reprinted by permission from The Pan-Pacific Entomologist, vol. 23, No. 1, January

The aim of this paper is to focus attention on influences exerted by insects in ways that
are independent of those due to conflict among the insects themselves. Consequently, the
discussion omits entirely the well-known beneficient aspect of the work of parasitie and

predatory insects in controlling species that are real or potential pests, in order that other
aud less familiar benefits that man owes to insects may be given due emphasis.

339
340 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

of insects are either directly or indirectly beneficial to man or enjoy a
neutral status. Dr. Frank Lutz (8)? has estimated that not more than
one-half of 1 percent of all the insects in the United States are actually
pests. Calling attention to Lutz’s estimate, Paul Knight (7) states
that “those who care to extend the argument can show that a far
greater percentage are of direct value, but that would prolong a ques-
tion that is scarcely debatable.” Nevertheless the beneficial aspects of
insect activities have not been brought clearly to the attention of people
generally.

It is still too common practice on the part of entomologists, and in
particular of economic entomologists, since they must perforce focus
their attention on destructive species, to ignore or to minimize the
numerous benefits conferred on man by insects. For example, Graham,
in “Principles of Forest Entomology,” (6) recognizes the beneficial
role of numerous forest insects, but dismisses them with a paragraph
of brief consideration in the final chapter.’ An occasional text, such as
“Destructive and Useful Insects,” by Metcalf and Flint (9) devotes
a full chapter to the benefits that man derives from insects, and a very
few treat the subject at more length, but in the majority of texts the
treatment is quite inadequate.

All too often, especially in articles designed for popular consump-
tion, we encounter extravagant statements and overdrawn pictures con-
cerning the so-called warfare between man and the insects as if the
two were engaged in a relentless struggle to the death. The “insect
menace” has become a catch phrase. To be sure, most of these fantastic
pictures are found in articles written by persons lacking entomological
training. Not a few, however, have been prepared by entomologists
who should know better and nearly all are based on information and
ideas that have been supplied by entomologists. An unfortunate con-
sequence of this state of affairs is that many, if not most, laymen have
developed the belief that nearly all insects are injurious and should
ruthlessly be exterminated.

A few decades ago excessive emphasis on the destructive activities
of insects perhaps was justified. The increasing number of insect
pests required that public attention be directed to these enemies of
agriculture. Without this emphasis it might not have been possible
to arouse the public sentiment and the legislative backing that were
essential for the support of needed research on pest control. At that

2? Numbers in parentheses refer to bibliography.

3 The omission referred to here is the omission of any general treatment of beneficial
insect activities in the forest such as are dealt with here. There is no intent to imply that
Dr. Graham is unacquainted with these activities or unappreciative of them. Dr. Graham
is a good ecologist and his book contains numerous scattered references to the beneficial
activities of forest insects. The intent is merely to note that it has not been the custom
in general texts such as Graham’s, concerned as they are with the control of insect pests,
to present beneficial insect activities broadly and as a whole, and so the student or general
reader is likely to underestimate their importance.
INSECTS AND HUMAN WELFARE—DUNCAN 341

time also a factual basis for an adequate appreciation of the beneficial
aspects of insect life had not yet been sufficiently developed. For that
matter, there is real need at the present time for extensive and detailed
exploration of the beneficial activities of insects. In particular there
is a need for quantitative studies. The knowledge we now possess is
mostly of a qualitative nature.

The goal of an aroused public interest in the study of injurious
insects has long since largely been achieved and adequate support for
research in economic entomology usually is available. We now
urgently need to round out the picture, to educate the lay public to
a realization of the vast amount of good that is done by insects as a
whole, to the end that balanced judgment shall determine the general
attitude toward insect-human relations and that all branches of en-
tomological research shall be recognized as meriting adequate support.

There is at present a measure of real danger that the lay public,
animated by the conviction that insects constitute an enemy group,
may attempt to carry the matter of insect control, or rather, sup-
pression, too far. For the first time in the history of man’s conflict
with insects the materials at his disposal make the unwise dream of
insect extermination seem possible of attainment, at least in localized
areas; or if this state of affairs has not yet been attained, at least it
seems to be not far away. If, therefore, man is to be spared costly
experiences in which his actions bring down upon him more harm
than good, it is essential that there be developed in the public mind
an appreciation of the beneficial activities of insects that will serve
to balance the already well-developed appreciation of their injurious
activities.

The economic entomologist has a special responsibility in this con-
nection because of his frequent contacts with a segment of the public
which has a special reason for distrust of insects. Moreover, to ensure
the proper development of economic entomology in the years that lie
ahead, it is essential that the economic entomologist recognize and
accept this responsibility as many of them individually already have
done. It is becoming increasingly evident that the carrying out of
proper measures for the control of injurious insects is not simply a
matter of applying a sufficiently lethal insecticide. Rather it requires
that each species be regarded in the light of the entire complex ecologi-
cal picture of which it is a part, and that control measures be selected
accordingly. It often happens that insects that are injurious under
one set of conditions or circumstances are of no consequence or are
beneficial under others. A correct appraisal of the economic status
of many an insect, therefore, cannot be made by the farmer but only
by a well-trained economic entomologist who has a broad knowledge
of general insect ecology. A great deal of time and money is now
wasted in so-called “insurance spraying” which might be saved or
342 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

better used in some other type of control. The farmer should be edu-
cated to expect the economic entomologist to have the broad type of
training suggested above and to look confidently to the economic
entomologist for immediate advice and guidance in meeting his prob-
lems of pest control. This desirable relationship cannot materialize
so long as the current point of view continues to prevail.

It may be that the danger that I have envisioned is more apparent
than real. Human affairs move with sufficient slowness that the un-
wisdom of attempts at the wholesale extermination of insects may be
made sufficiently clear through repercussions from early attempts that
efforts in this direction will be abandoned and will be replaced by
actions based on a saner philosophy. Certainly the usage of DDT to
date has revealed that such powerful insecticides, valuable as they are,
cannot be used indiscriminately with impunity. Nevertheless much is
to be gained by a concerted program of public education that is aimed
at balanced enlightenment in place of the present program of merely
seeking support for more and ever more destruction of insect life.

In the light of the reasoning thus far advanced it seems worth while
to review certain of the interrelations between man and insects in which
the insects play a beneficial role.

As a general rule little attention is paid to the factors concerned in
the control of the plant population of the earth and the place that
insects hold among these factors. Because of man’s dependence on
plants it is customary to label as injurious any creature aside from man
and his domestic animals that feeds on plant life. Yet obviously this is
not the case. An organism is really injurious only when it becomes
sufficiently abundant that its activities are genuinely detrimental to the
welfare of other organisms. This happens in the case of only a very
small proportion of insects. Moreover, it is possible for a plant as
well as an insect or other animal to get out of balance with the rest of
life; to become, in fact, a pest. A few plants in recent decades have so
far escaped from normal population controls as to become veritable
scourges, and so far the only significant progress in bringing them back
under control has been accomplished through the use of insects that
feed on them.

The most notable example is the prickly-pear cactus in Australia
which, according to some authorities, by 1935 occupied some 60,000,000
acres of Australian soil to the extent that it was practically worthless
for agriculture. Cactus-feeding insects introduced from the Ameri-
eas have brought the cactus under control. Most of the work of con-
trol has been wrought by a single species, the moth Cactoblastis cac-
torwm, whose caterpillar mines the joints of the cactus. Allan P. Dodd
(4) says the introduction of this insect between 1925 and 1927 “brought
a complete change in the outlook within a few years. Its progress
has been spectacular, its achievements border on the miraculous. Great
INSECTS AND HUMAN WELFARE—DUNCAN 343

tracts of country, utterly useless on account of the dense growth of
the weed, have been brought into production. The prickly pear ter-
ritory has been transformed from a wilderness to a scene of prosperous
endeavor.”

Probably not many plants possess the qualifications for becoming
pests of the magnitude of the cactus, but we have no way of judging
beforehand. There are other weed plants besides cactus which, though
perhaps less objectionable, have nevertheless become major pests in
countries into which they have been introduced. Such are lantana in
Hawaii and Australia, blackberry and gorse in New Zealand, and St.
John’s Wort in California. Success has been only partially attained
to date in controlling these weeds but the measure of success that has
been attained has been accomplished largely through the use of insects.

In the countries to which they are native these plants are not pests.
They fit normally into the flora of those regions in mutual adjustment
with other organisms. The factors that determine their normal popu-
lation levels, as is true of plants everywhere, undoubtedly are several,
but among these are the insects that feed upon them. Dr. Brues has
pointed out in “insect Dietary” that insects are a major factor in de-
termining population levels in plant life. We perhaps cannot even
guess accurately what the consequences would be if insects were to be
totally removed from the realm of plant life, but we can be sure that
it would be some sort of chaos and that man would be numbered among
the victims of such a disastrous happening.

We are accustomed to looking upon insects that attack trees as in-
jurious and requiring control, and certainly often, though not always,
this view is the correct one. Yet it is equally certain that the majority
of insects to be found in a forest are not detrimental to the forest and
that many, if not the majority, actually benefit the forest in one way
oranother. F.C. Craighead (2) in “An Annotated List of the Impor-
tant North American Forest Insects” lists less than 200 kinds of really
destructive species distributed over many families, yet W. J. Cham-
berlin (1) records 575 species of bark and timber beetles in but two
families. The great majority of these are forest species but the great
majority are not destructive.

Chamberlin (loc. cit.) says, “When Micrasis, Carphoborus, Pity-
ophthorus, Pityokteines, Lymantor, Hypothenemus, or any of the
other similar species attack the lower limbs of trees and kill them,
they are but hastening natural pruning which results in a clean bole
and a better grade of lumber.”

Doane, Van Dyke, Chamberlin, and Burke (3) say that “In every
heavily stocked young forest there are thousands of trees that must
die and pass out of the picture before the forest reaches matu-
rity. * * * Nature takes care of this * * * need through
344 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

suppression of slower-growing trees; and at times insects and disease
may serve a useful purpose in removing trees from overcrowded stands,
thereby releasing the space to the surviving trees which will then grow
more rapidly and into better wood material.”

It is obvious, therefore, that without the beneficial services of numer-
ous forest insects our forests would never have attained to their present
magnificence, their productivity would be far less than it now is, lum-
ber would be inferior, they would be less suitable as homes for valuable
wildlife, and their esthetic and recreational values would be far less
than they now are. They would, moreover, be filled with a tangled
maze of dead branches and small trees that would constitute a fire
hazard far greater than any now known, or what is more probable,
they would be swept by destructive fires of such extent and with such
frequency as never to attain the status of forest maturity as we now
know it.

To consider another phase of the general problem, many insects in-
habit the soil, often in tremendous numbers. In one case in Illinois
their numbers were estimated at no less than 65 millions per acre.
Some of the soil insects, namely wireworms, white grubs, certain
aphids and mealybugs, and a miscellany of others, feed on the under-
ground parts of plants, damaging them more or less, and at times
attain the status of pests. The majority, on the other hand, make a
definite, important, and perhaps essential, contribution to the develop-
ment of the soil itself and to the maintenance of soil fertility.

Paul Knight (7) in this connection says—

(1) Soil organisms cause a continual interchange of soil particles by bringing
to the surface particles of subsoil. The gradual enrichment of these soil
particles increases the thickness of the rich top layer. (2) The burrows of soil
organisms allow better drainage and aeration. (3) The dead bodies of animals
such as insects and worms add a large amount of organic material to the earth.
(4) The excreta of insects compares favorably in fertilizing value with the di-
gestive wastes of other animals. Though the digestive waste of one insect is
infinitesimal, the aggregate mass of all insect excreta probably exceeds that of
the larger animals and is an important factor in soil fertility.

W. M. Wheeler (10), referring specifically to the soil-building ac-
tivities of ants says, “Thus the ants act on the soil like the earthworms,
and this action is by no means inconsiderable, although as yet no one
has studied it in detail.”

In the discussion of both of the preceding two topics—forest insects
and soil-inhabiting insects—mention has been made of the effectiveness
of insects as scavengers. Their value in this connection can more
easily be underestimated than overestimated for they are second in
importance only to the bacteria and fungi as agents of decay.

We deplore decay whenever it affects any type of material or prod-
uct that we wish to preserve for a time. We deplore the existence of
Penicillium fungi that destroy a part of the oranges or lemons that
INSECTS AND HUMAN WELFARE—DUNCAN 345

we buy in the markets, we strive to prevent the growth of the several
rot-disease fungi that destroy the foundation timbers of our homes
and other buildings; we abhor the maggots that swarm through the
carcass of a dead animal or a mass of garbage that has not been prop-
erly disposed of; but at the same time we recognize the general use-
fulness of decay. We know that decay is the necessary counterpart
to life and without decay life would soon become impossible on the
earth.

Folsom and Wardle (5) say that insects “as scavengers are of
inestimable benefit, consuming as they do in incalculable quantity all
kinds of dead and decaying animal and vegetable matter. This func-
tion of insects is most noticeable in the tropics, where the ants, in
particular, eradicate tons of decomposing matter that man lazily
neglects.”

The importance of decay and the necessity for it lies in the fact
that certain chemical elements, in particular nitrogen, phosphorus,
and potassium, obtained from the soil by plants and needed alike by
plants and animals, are present in usable form only in relatively small
amounts in most soils. The available supply must be returned to
the soil on the death of the organisms living on or in the soil if life is
to be continued in anything like its normal luxuriance. Without the
beneficial agency of the bacteria, fungi, insects, and other organisms
of decay but especially these three, developing plant life would gradu-
ally but surely tie up in plant tissues almost all of the existing supply
of critically needed mineral elements.

For the purpose at hand it is unnecessary to develop in detail addi-
tional aspects of the general topic. Simple mention or very brief
treatment of some of these will suffice. All, in one way or another,
are fairly well known to entomologists though not to the general
public, or at least not sufficiently known.

The importance of insects as animal foods is apparent when we
realize that considerably more than half of the food supply of common
land birds, fresh-water fishes, many reptiles, and many small mam-
mals consists of insects, and without the insects these animals would
be unable to maintain themselves. It is customary to consider such
animals as constituting checks on the increase of insects, and no doubt
at times and perhaps continuously to a limited extent they do consti-
tute such checks, but there is much evidence to indicate that more often
the vertebrates in question, and in particular the birds, are merely
living off of the surplus of insect life and are not a significant factor
in regulating insect abundance.

The dependence of flowering plants on insects as pollen carriers
has received wide attention. It is estimated that about 85 percent of
flowering plants require insect pollination in whole or in part. Met-
calf and Flint (9) estimate that the annual yield of agricultural crop
346 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

plants in the United States that depend on pollen transfer by insects
has a value in excess of 2 billion dollars. In this field as in others,
however, the picture that has commonly been drawn is an unbalanced
one. Most discussions of the subject have been in terms of the honey-
bee and bumblebees. Admitting the tremendous importance of these
insects, it must yet be recognized that there are thousands of species
of plants for which the honeybee and bumblebee have no meaning.
Great numbers of other insect species, solitary bees, flies, beetles, moths,
and butterflies, and even, occasionally, such small creatures as thrips,
function as pollinators of these plants and in numerous instances
play an absolutely essential role. Without them a considerable propor-
tion of our garden flowers and shrubs could not exist, nor could there
be the wealth of color and variety in the wild plants that clothe our
valleys and hillsides in proper season. Insects, therefore, make a
contribution to the esthetic and recreational resources of man that is
not inconsiderable.

Much of the vegetation that adds beauty to the desert areas of the
earth consists of insect-pollinated plants. Such also is the case with
the chaparral and other growths that hold back the runoff on hillsides
and gentler slopes over vast acreages and so protect the lowlands from
destructive floods.

In summation, it is perhaps impossible to visualize adequately the
totality of beneficial effects which insects exert directly or indirectly
on human welfare, but the benefits are incalculably great. It is not
too much to say that insects determine the character of man’s world to
a far greater extent than he does himself, and that if they were suddenly
to disappear completely the world would be changed so extensively that
it is extremely doubtful that man would be able to maintain any sort
of organized society whatever.

I repeat, therefore, that the time has come for entomologists gen-
erally, and for economic entomologists in particular, to present to a
public that is manifesting increasing interest in insect life, a more
rounded and better balanced picture of insect life. It is time to appeal
for interest and support on the basis of this more complete picture
and man’s place in it, recognizing that all forms of life are interwoven
in an integrated whole which needs to be understood before it can
safely be changed in any radical manner, and that in arriving at this
more intelligent basis for orienting ourselves to the insects there is no
place for categorical condemnation or praise. On the contrary, each
species or closely knit group deserves to be considered independently
and judged on its individual merits.
cf)

(2)

(3)

(4)

INSECTS AND HUMAN WELFARE—DUNCAN 347

REFERENCES
CHAMBERLIN, W. J.

1939. The bark and timber beetles of North America. Oregon State Col-

lege Cooperative Association, Corvallis, Oreg.
CRAIGHEAD, EF. C.
19380. An annotated list of the important North American forest insects.
U. 8. Dep. Agr. Mise. Publ. No. 74.
Doane, R. W., VAN Dyke, BH. C., CHAMBERLIN, W. J., and Burke, H. B.
1985. Forest insects. McGraw-Hill Book Company.
Dopp, ALLAN P,
1940. The biological campaign against prickly pears. Coommonwealth
Prickly-Pear Board, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.
Fousom, J. W., and WARDLE, K. A.
1934. Wntomology with special reference to its ecological aspects. Mc-
Graw-Hill Book Co.
GRAHAM, SAMUEL ALEXANDER.
1989. Principles of forest entomology. McGraw-Hill Book Co.
KNIGHT, PAUL.
1939. The problems of insect study. 2d ed. Edwards Bros.
Lutz, EF. E.
1931. In defense of insects. Sci. Month., April.
Mercatr, C. L., and Firmnt, W. P.
1928. Destructive and useful insects. McGraw-Hill Book Co.
WHEELER, WILLIAM M,
1926. Ants. Their structure, development and behavior. Columbia Uni-
versity Press.
Pe ones) Poet eae dieu oe hentien iy i
j u OL br kiicneimasriaer ea oner} vt Wh a: i
Reka 9.0) iy destadliays > A eee nee
A: ot age, Annamalai, i 25 si RO ee

4 x) er ae en é
i rs ¢ So 0 4 Ay is wi i} A} ne ' on ie ‘-
, f ar ;

eae eee ny

a Ma ila) diel mm si aH abies Wa 4 ae xt ie can i a gs

ere ; peice: aM i Hie ng
ee : _ eee bd en ‘ME Ted Be ppenyrenee vi ‘i as . |

| a ae res | ea aed Hi) . f ri i th at

| i ent ui i " Pee heron alee att a ;

| eine yor cor
ak * iy abit afte Thy “avin! by i AY Yom sii nate Sy
Hee ve ee Semen y neg a ~ y, Ne the eas Hataon xa y

pens ee WNL fan’ ie wat Vist Aas Soe du i han he cS afr Pens! tok eae: rend vr " ay ss A |

eM oh) i
it Peart al ers: | Xfi) ea fom uh ORANG, dah a ty ab sa a
Lak ‘ . hty vi trig tis Ba ee . | |
ei, Le | .
; . |
thie X ’ ire
Tee, fea r 4, AU vee a eer, | :
i
| m fj oh tl Sy ey
2M ee Peak ie , i)
Da OR OA A ORY Ae Ra Som
> / ;
a! fa) Sh 4 i is Li
a ; Ais i 4 { ) a 7 {a {aks
\ 4 a] ‘ ‘ Le if igi A |
} La | 1 ‘ \ , ‘ AT 7 .
| é Sd
RPA ‘tea 4 AN aS Ri mere y nS | si ne
| ,
i dpe J AY i

: dak, i ,
| iu i i

a, ite ‘ i

MOSQUITO CONTROL TESTS FROM THE ARCTIC TO THE
TROPICS

By H. H. StTace

Bureau of Entomology and Plant Quarantine, Agricultural Research
Administration, U. 8S. Department of Agriculture

[With 8 plates]

Mosquitoes long ago put into practice a political theory publicized
within recent years by the late Wendell Willkie. “One World,” to
these annoying pests and carriers of disease, has been and continues to
be a reality. Not all of them, by any means, live here with us in the
North Temperate Zone. In swarms they attack man and beast north
of the Arctic Circle, and in myriads they inflict suffering and illness
on inhabitants of the Tropics. The tropical diseases they carry include
malaria, dengue, yellow fever, filariasis, and encephalitis.

Soon after we entered World War II our Army and Navy found
mosquitoes a formidable enemy. The battle front on which they
encountered these creatures was a long one; in the far North mosqui-
toes prevented rest and hindered outdoor activities, and on the Equator
indirectly caused the loss of many thousands of man-days by trans-
mitting disease. Few American entomologists had conducted mos-
quito surveys in either of these far-away zones, and few of us knew
anything about their habits in foreign lands. Our military forces
sorely needed an effective means of repelling mosquitoes. They needed
also a modern, effective method of destroying mosquito adults and
larvae over large areas under a wide variety of conditions. Several
hundred species of mosquitoes were involved, varying widely in their
bionomics. oy

In 1942, at the request of the office of the Surgeon General, United
States Army, and with funds provided to the Bureau of Entomology
and Plant Quarantine by the Office of Scientific Research of the Na-
tional Emergency Council, entomologists at our laboratory in Orlando,
Fla., began a long series of tests to develop effective mosquito repel-
lents. Hundreds of new and old chemicals were sent to Orlando by
chemical companies, from all parts of the United States. Within a
few months several materials, having shown promise in the laboratory,
were recommended for field tests.

TESTING MOSQUITO REPELLENTS IN THE ARCTIC

Late in June 1943 Terris Moore, of the Office of the Quartermaster
General, United States Army, and I were detailed for a few weeks to

349
350 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

testing equipment including mosquito repellents in the vicinity of
Churchill, Manitoba, Canada (8).1_ This Army outpost on the western
shore of Hudson Bay was chosen for the tests partly because of its
accessibility, but largely because it lies in the midst of some first-rate
mosquito-breeding country. In my naive, provincial way I thought I
had already seen mosquitoes on the loose, but I was not prepared for
the countless numbers of Aedes that accompanied us almost constantly
on our daily routine at Churchill. They rode on our protected backs
for miles through the muskeg, they cluttered the window screens of our
barracks in a vain attempt to get food, and they entered our cargo
planes and traveled for miles in every direction. On one trip to
Southampton Island, in northern Hudson Bay, thousands of the in-
sects took off from Churchill with us and made it easily to the next stop
500 miles distant. En route, the temperature soon became too low for
much activity on their part; but upon landing at Coral Beach they
swarmed up and soon tried to bite.

Moore and I arranged a simulated forced march of several days
through the muskeg (9). Two Medical Corps officers, Capt. S. M.
Fierst and Lt. D. A. Tutrone, and 12 enlisted men were detailed to
accompany us. Without benefit of trails, shelter, or food other than
what we carried on our backs, we headed into the wilderness. Every-
where the ground was wet from the melting of ice a few inches below
the surface. Travel was tough, and our feet were constantly wet.
Every afternoon we spent hours seeking an elevation high enough on.
which to make our camp. We wore heavy clothing, partly as a protec-
tion against mosquitoes and partly as insurance against being chilled
by sudden snow or northern wind storms. Fighting mosquito hordes
while wearing heavy clothing and loaded packs during days when the
temperature occasionally rose above 80° F. was not so difficult as pre-
paring for meals and sleeping. While we were eating we could not
wear gloves and headnets and continually dope ourselves with insect
repellents, consequently the insects were constantly attempting to bite
our hands and faces. At nearly every meal, numbers of mosquitoes
accidently landed in everyone’s beans and coffee.

The object of our hike was to determine which gave better protec-
tion—heavy clothing, or the chemical mosquito repellents we had
brought from the Orlando laboratory. One day we would try double
layers of heavy clothing, without repellents. The next, our Army
personnel would serve as human guinea pigs. Their faces would be
protected with head nets, but their arms and legs would be left bare
and we would apply a different repellent to each of a man’s bare arms
and legs. We would then clock the time between application of the
repellent and the first, second, and third mosquito bites (table 1). The

1 Numbers in parentheses refer to bibllography.
MOSQUITO CONTROL TESTS—STAGE aoe

different repellents gave protection for different lengths of time on
different hosts, but in general the effective period was shortest for
Indalone and longest for the three-way mixture 6 parts dimethyl
phthalate, 2 parts Indalone, and 2 parts R-612. The repellents were
applied carefully and thoroughly, and after each application we
washed our hands with acetone to avoid contaminating any one repel-
lent with any other. We would test but one repellent on any one arm
or leg during the course of any one day. On any day when the biting
rate of mosquitoes was abnormally low because of unfavorable weather,
we interrupted the test repellents and instead tested some tents and
sleeping bags Moore had designed. From time to time we used jungle
boots and jungle hammocks. The hammocks were warm and com-
fortable, and after we got inside we were well protected against mos-
quito bites—that is, unless an arm or leg came into contact with the
netting. Wearing jungle boots in that cold and saturated moss-covered
muskeg was another story, and none of us volunteered to test them a
second time.

TaBLe 1.—Repellent test. Mosquitoes: Aedes_nearcticus, Aedes cataphylla.
July 7, 1943, Churchill, Manitoba. Biting rate, 61 per minute

Duration, in minutes,? of protection given by
indicated repellent

Host,! and number of bite a eae we tee

Dimethyl —p “ ”
Indalone phthalate R-612 6-2-2’' 3
Kettler:
OTS Gases ee ee Se a ee eee 43 92 108 91
SQCOn Gos eae ee Eee ae ee a es ak a 65 108 147 100
PUGET ee ere eee ee re ee en eS a 68 128 151 130
B Nig fs) 2 (Us Seg Gps RN 59 109 135 107
Walker = a a
BEETS Gp e ee ers Pee re epee y oe eee ets. eB 2 69 102 112 7
DOCOTC e eeeeer  e e e  er eee, e 82 111 119 160+
116 Se TG ies Shee ene eee ere he ee ee a oe 83 116 142 160+
PAN OPAD Caer fone mince oe ee Ree eee econ 78 108 126 130+
Abrams |
10) Figs} os eS 2 Oe Be a SE el ee aS ee ees 98 62 112 160+
BeCon dso hee eee a ene ees 103 66 12 160+
PCa a er ee ee ee ee ee es 104 72 137 160+
AV CPACGS pO nnae 2 feseae See ee na eee Seas 101 65 120 160+
Walaszewski: ie aT, -
Ys Gee = Wee Ae ee 2 BS 111 68 142 160+
BOCCONI Gee eran ee en oe Oe 152 160+ 160+ 160+-
hinge SSeS eRe es ee eee 160+ 160+ 160++ 160-++
IASVCT ADO es see ee eee tee oe Fak Sh Sas 141 129+ 144+ 160+
Grasso: im a , = :
RIS Ge ee Ae ee ee ee Skee eee 77 113 160-+- 160-+
BCC OTA aera ee ee ee 96 160+ 160+ 160+
iB Gc Hes erp se aoa SS Cn a 98 160+ 160+ 160+
TAN OTR 2 Ons cee eee ee ee Sat Seo eas 90 144-+- 160+ 160+-

1 Each host tested 4 repellents simultaneously, 1 on each arm and each leg.
? Plus sign signifies that test was terminated at the end of the time indicated because of rain.
3A mixture containing 6 parts dimethyl! phthalate, 2 parts Indalone, 2 parts R-612.

7774884826
352 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

Trying to dry our feet and socks before going to bed was about the
most uncomfortable experience of all. We had the minimum of change
and had little heat to dry our clothing, and mosquitoes were constantly
finding vulnerable parts of our anatomy. We took turns using a
specially designed sleeping bag, without benefit of a tent. Getting
partly undressed and diving into a sleeping bag fast enough to escape
being bitten was a real feat. There remained, then, the attempt to
zip up the sleeping bag and stuff mosquito netting into the opening
through which we breathed. Our arms were pinned to our sides,
there were persistent lumps in our improvised mattresses of reindeer
moss, and daylight lasted until 10 or 11 p.m. The sun arose about 2
in the morning, and if the night was not exceptionally cold our rest
was punctuated by the monotonous hum of the mosquito hordes.

One evening when most of the boys had retired to their small pup
tents I made a fairly dependable count of 1,900 mosquitoes quietly
roosting on one of the tents. These tents had a canvas floor, a
screened ventilator in each end, and two doors—one of mosquito net-
ting, the other of canvas. Two men were assigned to each tent. As
the men crawled into their tents, many mosquitoes went right in with
them. I had brought a supply of aerosol bombs, and after each pair
of men crawled into their bedding I released the pyrethrum aerosol
for a few seconds in through their netting door. This treatment en-
tirely freed the inside of the tent of living mosquitoes within a few
minutes. In the ventilators of one such tent I counted one morning
128 dead mosquitoes. No doubt dozens of others had been killed by
the aerosol before they were able to get to the ventilator. Had it not
been for the aerosol bombs, each of our nights spent in the tents would
have been one of torment.

The results obtained with our insect repellents (10) compensated
Moore and myself for the tortures the mosquitoes inflicted upon us, but
the enlisted men did not share our enthusiasm. All but one of them,
however, stayed with us until the tests were completed.

We obtained data on the relative merits of several repellents used
alone and in different combinations (20). As in the laboratory at
Orlando, certain repellents proved effective on some individuals but
not on others, and a mixture of the three most effective repellent chem-
icals proved more effective on all individuals than any repellent used
alone. We demonstrated that these new materials could be used for
the protection of our armed forces under Arctic conditions. At the
end of our tests a secret ballot was taken in which each man was asked
to indicate whether he preferred to be protected with heavy clothing
or with repellents. The vote was unanimously in favor of the
repellents,

In all our tests, the number of mosquitoes alighting on a certain
portion of the unprotected leg or arm was at least 45 per minute.
MOSQUITO CONTROL TESTS—STAGE Sti

Invariably, the culprits belonged to the genus Aedes. ‘They repre-
sented three species, A. cataphylla Dyar, A. nearcticus Dyar, and A.
excrucians (Walk.). We found no convincing evidence that one of
these species was more difficult to repel than the others.

Preliminary information was obtained on the attractiveness or
repellency of color to mosquitoes. On a bright, moderately warm
day when the temperature was in the high 70’s, we asked the soldiers
to wear black, white, and tan (OD #38) shirts. While they stood in a
row we counted the mosquitoes landing on certain areas on the backs
of the shirts every 30 seconds for 20 minutes. The shirts were also
rotated on the several men. ‘Two volunteers bared their backs for
short periods from time to time. Each 30 seconds, on an average, 4
mosquitoes landed on a white shirt, 15 on a black shirt, 31 on a tan
(OD #8) shirt, and 97 on a bare back. Thus it appeared that color
is of considerable importance in influencing the number of mosquitoes
naturally alighting on a man’s shirt-clothed back, nearly 8 times as
many alighting on the tan shirt as on a pure white one.

TO ALASKA IN 1944

So far as was compatible with the exigencies of war, the office of
the Surgeon General, United States Army, wanted to get information
on the species of mosquitoes in the Territory of Alaska, their relative
abundance, and the locations where they were and were not important.
On July 5, 1944, I flew from Seattle to Alaska, and during the re-
mainder of that summer I covered about 8,500 miles by air and 600
miles by automobile in an effort to obtain such information. Again,
the data obtained were decidedly preliminary; even so, we made the
first record of the fact that mosquitoes are not a pest on Kodiak Island
or on the islands of the Aleutian chain. I encountered swarms of
several species of mosquitoes in the vicinity of Nome, although the
National Museum had but one previous record of mosquitoes from that
northern village (16). Flying north of the Arctic Circle, I found
hordes of a group of species different from that common 300 or 400
miles south (11). Inland for 200 miles over the American Range
northeast of Nome the species were predominantly different than those
along the coast in the vicinity of Nome. They also appeared 3 or 4
weeks later than the Nome species. On entering the 4-passenger plane
to return to Nome from the American River country, we found that
literally thousands of mosquitoes had entered the plane while we
were on the ground. I was disturbed, because I had not brought an
aerosol bomb along. Imagine my relief when the pilot reached into
a box and pulled one out. The Army had learned the value of these
dispensers of insecticides and was using them in far corners of the
world.
354 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

While in Alaska I tested some repellents that had been developed
since our Hudson Bay trials in 1948. The mosquito species were
different, but the repellents proved their value once more, and we were
happy. In the Alaska experiments with repellents I allowed each
volunteer host to treat one arm himself with only the directions on the
container as a guide; then, carefully and throughly, I treated his other
arm with the same repellent. Our data show that, on an average,
about 30 minutes’ additional protection is gained when the chemical
is applied by an experienced worker rather than by the untrained host.

The return trip to the States was by plane over the Alaska Highway
from Fairbanks to Great Falls, Mont. En route I stopped for a day
or two at each of the several airports and had myself driven in a jeep
trom 50 to 100 miles up and down the highway in an effort to sample
the mosquito population. However, as it was now late in August most
of the mosquitoes had died out, so my collections were disappointing.

DISPERSING DDT SPRAYS WITH LARGE AIRCRAFT

As the war progressed westward in the Pacific, the need for a
modern means of controlling mosquitoes over large areas became
urgent. Malaria and dengue were taking a tremendous toll of man-
days. DDT, although not proven under practical conditions, showed
much promise. Amazing stories from our Orlando laboratory began
to appear in 1943 (2) regarding the effectiveness of this new insec-
ticide. Under test conditions, at least, a material that could be
applied from aircraft was killing mosquitoes and their larvae in a
single application (12). Preliminary tests (4) on a small scale in
the Florida salt marshes had produced excellent results. Special
equipment was soon designed for spraying DDT from various types
of aircraft. In April 1944 A. W. Lindquist and W. C. McDuffie (7)
demonstrated in Panama the possibility of killing adult mosquitoes
in dense jungle with DDT by use of small Navy aircraft equipped with
devices designed by C. N. Husman.

Over large jungle areas these small planes were inadequate because
of their small pay loads. We began thinking in terms of large air-
crait. Soon an Army project was set up for experimental spraying
from a C-47 with a capacity of 800 gallons and a B-25 with a capacity
of 550 gallons. Army engineers designed special dispersing equip-
ment. ‘The tests were to be conducted over typical jungle in Panama.

In January 1945, 18 of us flew to Panama from Orlando by way of
Texas, Mexico, and Costa Rica in the two Army planes that were to
serve as our spraying machines. Together with two four-man Air
Forces crews our party included four officers and one enlisted man of
the Army, a chemical engineer from the University of Illinois, and
four Department of Agriculture entomologists.
MOSQUITO CONTROL TESTS—STAGE aon

Delayed by weather and by regulations, the flight took 4% days.
Because we were flying by contact and had to remain low enough to
sight landmarks, we bumped along slowly, in steadily rising tempera-
tures. On the other side of the fuselage from our bucket seats were
eight 100-gallon fabricoid tanks stacked in front of windows. Part
of the floor of the plane had been removed to make room for the
discharge pipes leading to the cut-off valve. Sitting on our para-
chutes placed us too high to see well out of the windows, but all in
all it was an interesting trip.

The Army had invested an immense amount of labor in preparing
the test plots where we were to make the experiments. Six plots were
laid out, each 1 mile long and 14 mile wide. They had to be separated
from each other by about 14 mile so that a spray could not be carried
from one plot to another by wind. Connecting the plots were well-
defined trails; around them and through them in crisscross arrange-
ment similar trails had been cut—through dense jungle. Such trails
were necessary because of the rough terrain, the dangerous black spines
borne by palms of a certain species, and the possibility that personnel
might become lost. Stakes had been set at regular intervals on the
plot boundaries and diagonals. As a result any of us could always
locate himself and go directly to and from his appointed station
without undue loss of time.

Several sheets were spread on the ground within each plot that was
to be sprayed. This enabled us to count the insects that fell at 2-, 4-,
and 24-hour intervals after the spraying and identify them as to species.
Most of the species of insects were represented by only 1 to 5 speci-
mens each, but in the Diptera various species of Calliphoridae, Sar-
cophagidae, Tylidae, and Culicidae were obtained in much larger nun-
bers. More than 50 individuals of each of several mosquito species and
more than 200 individuals of one were recovered. Specimens found on
the sheets represented 53 species of Coleoptera, including 16 species
of weevils, and 148 species of Diptera, including 10 species of blow-
flies (14).

Casual observations of the insect populations in the jungle indi-
cated no change in number or species of insects other than mosquitoes
after treatment. Occasionally large Lepidoptera and Hymenoptera
showing characteristic DDT poisoning were seen on the ground soon
after treatment.

The Signal Corps of the Army provided a ground-to-plane com-
munications system, which enabled occupants of planes to keep in
constant contact with men on the ground as they applied the sprays.
Smoke bombs and balloons were used to indicate plot boundaries to
men in planes.

For estimating the mosquito population, we decided upon two
methods. The first was for 20 teams of 2 men each to count in each
356 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

plot the mosquitoes landing on them in a 2-minute period at dusk and
another at dawn. Twice daily for about 5 days before the plots were
treated and for 14 days after treatment trained members of the Medi-
cal Corps made such counts. The well-defined trails and labeled
stakes made it easy for these men to find their stations, where they
promptly began counting mosquitoes when a signal gun was fired. A
total of 5,501 man-days were employed in preparing for and com-
pleting the tests. Thesecond method was use of stable traps. A modi-
fied stable trap of a design conceived by E. H. Magoon, of the Rocke-
feller Foundation, was placed in the center of each of the plots. Sev-
eral times before the spraying was begun we placed a Panamanian
pony in each trap at dusk and next morning counted the mosquitoes
that had been caught in the trap during the night. On the morning
of our first trial, the stable trap in the plot that was to be treated con-
tained so many mosquitoes that an actual count was impossible.
The estimate agreed upon was 10,000. The mosquitoes were allowed to
escape. Thirty minutes later a B-25 roared overhead spraying a 5-
percent DDT fuel-oil solution at the rate of 2 quarts per acre. Next
morning some 30 of us—Army medical officers, entomologists, techni-
cians, and others—left Panama City at 4 a. m. and were at the stable
trap before daybreak. With the aid of flashlights we peered into the
trap to see how many mosquitoes had turned up to feed on the pony
the night after spraying. We located just 1. The counts were con-
tinued for about 2 weeks and the numbers of mosquitoes rose slowly
to 200 during that time. The numbers of mosquitoes recorded in one
plot left untreated were then compared with the numbers recorded
in the five treated plots.

For the first time, specific data were available on the effectiveness
of DDT spray applied at a known rate upon a population of Anoph-
eles, Mansonia, Aedes, and Culex adults. It appeared that within
24 hours we had reduced by more than 99 percent the adult mosquito
population within an area of dense jungle 1 mile long and 1% mile
wide. With that kind of result there was every reason to believe we
could control the spread of malaria, dengue, or any other mosquito-
borne disease within a matter of hours.

Before the treatment, members of the Army School of Malariology,
C. Z., had put in several places on the ground small buckets of water
containing Aedes aegypti (L.) larvae. Twenty-hour hours after the
treatment, 70 to 90 percent of these larvae were found dead. Some of
the buckets had been placed under heavy or wide-spreading leaves,
but this protection had not saved the larvae. The results seemed really
too spectacular; some of the experimenters were skeptical of them until
subsequent tests gave approximately the same results.

Two or three weeks after these tests we sprayed an isolated section
of Gatun Lake and the adjacent shore line from a B-25. Anopheles
MOSQUITO CONTROL TESTS—STAGE 350

albimanus Weid., an efficient vector of malaria in Panama, likes to
breed in large unshaded bodies of water where the mosslike aquatic
plant Vaias comes to the surface. This plant forms a mat of vegeta-
tion that protects the larvae from wave action and from predaceous
fish. In preparation for the Gatun Lake test such an area was
found, several acres in size. Technicians from the Army School of
Malariology took 200 half-pint samples of water from the “breeding
ground” and reported an average of a dozen mosquito larvae per
sample. A stable trap was set up on the adjacent shore line and baited
with a pony. At dawn of the day when the B-25 was to put out,
several officers and others visited the trap and estimated that about
15,000 mosquitoes had been caught, about half of them Anopheles al-
bimanus. The pony was then taken out of the trap, the mosquitoes
were liberated, and the signal was given for the B-25 to put out the
spray. Five-percent DDT oil solution was applied at the rate of 2
quarts per acre. That evening the pony was returned to the trap.
The next morning we found 86 mosquitoes in the trap and found not
a single larva in 200 samples of water. Again, the kill appeared to
have been more than 99 percent (13).

The Army and Navy lost no time in getting this new technique
out to the islands of the Pacific. Thereby a great deal of suffering
on the part of our troops was prevented and many, many man-hours
were saved that would otherwise have been lost to the war effort.

Our tests yielded valuable information on the kinds of weather
conditions that are favorable for spraying and on the desirable size
and distribution of particles of the different sprays. An Army officer
trained in biochemistry devised an ingenious method for collecting
droplets of the spray at 10-foot intervals of elevation from the ground
to the tops of trees about 125 feet high. He tied several large balloons
to the end of a stout cord, and at 10-foot intervals along the cord he
secured petri dishes in which glass slides had been fastened. Each
glass slide was covered with magnesium oxide. The pattern of the
pink- or blue-tinted spray was easily seen on the white-coated slides.
The size of the DDT particles and their distribution were recorded.
From this information we could check the amount of spray dispersed
per acre,

DDT RESIDUAL SPRAYS IN MEXICO AGAINST ANOPHELES
PSEUDOPUNCTIPENNIS

It was suggested by A. W. Lindquist and others of the Orlando
laboratory that malaria might be controlled by spraying DDT on
the walls and ceilings of dwellings and farm buildings. Laboratory
tests of pyrethrins against bedbugs by Lindquist and associates in
1942 demonstrated the soundness of the residual principle and the
feasibility of malaria control with residual treatments employing
358 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

DDT. Field tests by J. B. Gahan (5) in that year against Anopheles
quadrimaculatus Say at Tallahassee, Fla., and Stuttgart, Ark., dem-
onstrated reduction of adults by at least 91 to 99 percent and of larvae
by at least 57 to 63 percent. The desirability of treating all the dwell-
ings in a highly malarious district became evident. A satisfactory
location near Cuernavaca, Mexico, was suggested by George C. Payne,
of the International Health Division of the Rockefeller Foundation.
We liked Dr. Payne’s suggestion because the malaria vector in that
locality was a different species of Anopheles and we were eager to
learn whether all species were equally vulnerable to DDT residual
or surface sprays. In the Cuernavaca area this anopheline breeds
almost exclusively in the rice fields, therefore the larvae are restricted
to well-defined areas. Several small Mexican villages a few miles
west of Cuernavaca seemed to offer just the combination of conditions
we were looking for—a new species of anopheline with restricted
breeding habits, an impoverished community, and lots of malaria.

Early in February 1945 J. B. Gahan (8) was detailed to go to
Mexico and, with the cooperation of the Rockefeller Foundation and
the Mexican Department of Health, treat two villages with a DDT
spray. Two nearby villages were to be left untreated as checks.

In April and May a 5-percent DDT water emulsion prepared from
a concentrate containing 25 percent of DDT, 68 percent of xylene,
and 7 percent of Triton X-100 was applied to dwellings at a rate of
about 1 gallon to each 1,000 square feet (about 200 mg. of DDT per
square foot). This work was well done by two trained and responsible
Mexican technicians under the daily guidance of Gahan. The houses
sprayed had walls of adobe, stone, wood, brick, straw, and cane. The
relative abundance of Anopheles larvae in the treated areas and in
comparable untreated areas was determined from samples of water
dipped in the adjoining rice fields.

The numbers of adult mosquitoes found in the treated villages after
May were never more than 2 percent of the numbers found in the un-
treated communities and were usually less than 1 percent, indicating
reductions of more than 98 percent. Assuming that a treated village
and an untreated one used for comparative purposes would have had
about the same mosquito populations had no sprays been applied, we
can say that the DDT residues reduced the number of larvae at least
85 percent throughout a 4-month period. However, if an adjustment
is made for a difference actually found between the two villages before
the spraying was started, the decrease is calculated as 94 percent.

I flew to Mexico City in September 1945 (15) and spent a month
observing this project just before the work was closed down for the
season. Mr. Gahan and his Mexican assistants easily proved to me
the striking scarcity of adult mosquitoes in the villages that had been
treated and of anopheline larvae in the adjoining rice fields, in com-
MOSQUITO CONTROL TESTS—STAGE 359

parison with their great abundance in nearby villages and rice fields
where the sprays had not been applied.

The reduction of malaria during the first season was difficult to
estimate because of the manner in which notifiable diseases were re-
corded. Now, however, after 3 years of treatments, we are justified
in claiming a great reduction in numbers of anopheline adults and
larvae and a significant reduction in incidence of malaria. Also, the
families whose dwellings were treated have been blessed with reduc-
tions in numbers of flies, fleas, bedbugs, cockroaches, and other un-
welcome insects.

THE USE OF A WETTABLE DDT POWDER IN THE TROPICS

The early formulations of DDT included solutions, dusts, and oi]
concentrates, the last-named intended for dilution with water to make
an emulsion. Each had its advantages and disadvantages. ‘There
remained a need for a spray that could be used without creating a fire
hazard and one that could be used safely on animals.

In 1945 there appeared new products in powder form containing
various amounts of DDT. These powders contained a wetting agent,
which made them compatible with water and permitted them to go
into suspension. Sprays made of wettable DDT powder might be
used on foliage, on the surface of buildings, and on animals without
absorption. They certainly would offer no fire hazard. But would
they killinsects? Preliminary tests in the laboratory indicated effec-
tiveness equal to that of the emulsion and solutions, although the
action tended to be less rapid.

In December 1945 a medical officer of the Aluminum Co. of America
called at our office to inquire whether there existed a DDT product
that could be used on dwellings of thatch and rough lumber without
creating a fire hazard. The company wanted to treat the dwellings
of its employees in two bauxite mining villages in Surinam (Dutch
Guiana), South America, as part of its program of sanitation and
malaria control. We told him that wettable DDT powders were avail-
able but that we had no precise information indicating whether they
would be effective; that the new formulations looked good but should
be tested on a practical scale by someone experienced in the use of
residual sprays and in control of mosquitoes and malaria. I could
see the possibility of an excellent research project through which the
company might obtain the information it sought and the Bureau of
Entomology and Plant Quarantine. might obtain information that
would be useful to our military forces and also to our civilian popula-
tion across the United States. A cooperative agreement was signed
by officials of the Aluminum Co. of America and the United States
360 = ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

Department of Agriculture, and early in March 1946 I flew across the
Caribbean again, this time to Surinam.

It would be hard to imagine a more intriguing place in which to
carry on mosquito-control research. In Surinam several peoples from
the Eastern and Western Hemispheres live side by side without los-
ing or greatly modifying their identifying customs, speech, or religion,
and malaria, filariasis, dysentery, leprosy, and other communicable
diseases are common.

Primitive peoples live there. I have been told on good authority
that far in the interior, near the Brazilian border, a tribe of red men
still lives in the stone age, without benefit of fire. The aboriginal In-
dians belong to the Carib, Arawak, and Warau linguistic stocks.
They are mostly of pure stock and live in the interior. Bush Negroes,
or Djoekas, live on the upper reaches of the rivers but not so far in-
land as the Indians. The Djoekas are of pure African origin and are
descendants of slaves brought to the colony 200 to 300 years ago.
Among these peoples the malaria rate is high (17), but I saw no cases
of filariasis among them. Javanese and British Indians were imported
50 years ago as labor. For the most part they remain true to their cus-
toms, religion, and race. The typical native Surinamers are dark-
skinned but have considerable white European ancestry. Among these
people filariasis is common and malaria epidemics have been serious.
A few Chinese storekeepers live in the colony.

Moengo, the mining village where the test was made, is a little para-
dise 120 miles up the Cottica River from Paramaribo. Its isolation by
miles of virgin jungle helped to make it suitable for our experiments.
The Aluminum Co. of America had built it according to modern hous-
ing standards, and, within certain limits, it was a clean, well-sanitated
group of homes. I found that mosquito genera and species were richly
represented and that species of Anopheles (6), including among others
A. pessoat Galvao and Lane, A. aquasalis Curry, and A. oswaldoi
Peryassu were breeding largely in the rice paddies cultivated by the
Javanese. The common house mosquito, Culex quinquefasciatus Say,
was breeding by thousands in the water of moats surrounding the foun-
dations of the houses. These moats were supposed to be cleaned at
regular intervals, but apparently there had been “misses.”

The fly problem was rather severe. Within a few hours I easily
found the source, at a farm about a mile from the center of the village.
There were two cow barns, in which some 60 head of milk cows were
fed and were kept under lights at night as a protection against vam-
pire bats. In an effort to conserve manure the stables were cleaned
only once in several weeks. Each morning a fresh layer of green grass
was spread over the manure that had been deposited the night before.
The fermenting compost served as an excellent medium for breeding of
MOSQUITO CONTROL TESTS—STAGE 361

house flies. Horn flies, also, were present in great numbers on all the
farm animals.

I had brought two kinds of DDT with me. <A ton of a 50-percent
wettable DDT powder was for use as a 2.5-percent water suspension
on most of the houses and barns made of thatch and rough lumber
and elsewhere on surfaces where the white deposit would not be ob-
jectionable. This spray was also used directly on the milk cows and
on a few donkeys. Over 90 dogs were dipped in a bath containing
1.5-percent DDT. I had brought along also several hundred pounds of
technical-grade DDT. This was mixed at the rate of 7 ounces to each
gallon of a refined greaseless kerosene of which 22 drums had been
brought from the States. Three wheelbarrow sprayers had been
shipped from the States, two motor-driven and one operated by hand.
A quantity of flat- or broom-type nozzles, oil-resistant rubber hose,
and other accessories came in and were ready for use a few days after
my own arrival.

The main problem was to reduce the mosquito population. I had
chosen five ways to determine the numbers of mosquitoes before and
after treatment. With plans sent to the company several weeks be-
fore I left the States, carpenters and mechanics had built three stable
traps and a rotary-type trap (1). An extra cone of wire screen had
been provided for use on the fender of an automobile. I brought with
me a New Jersey light trap. The fifth method was collecting by
hand the mosquitoes that landed on two men hired for the purpose.
One of these men was a Belgian, an ex-convict from the French penal
colony 30 miles distant. The second was a British Indian. The me-
chanic assigned to operate the rotary-type trap was a Chinese. These
men and those assigned to me for applying the spray were willing
and reliable workmen, and to them goes the credit for a big job well
done.

The rotary trap consisted of two cones of screen wire rotated
around a pivot driven by a small gasoline engine. The diameter of
the cones was such that each screened exactly a cubic foot of air for
every foot it was moved forward. The pivot was synchronized to
travel at the rate of 20 miles per hour. The two cones were operated
about 3 feet and about 5 feet, respectively, above the ground. An
identical cone trap was mounted on the fender of our automobile.
By driving this car at 20 miles an hour I could screen 52,800 cubic
feet in 80 minutes. The two cones, when operated 30 minutes,
screened twice as many cubic feet of air but in one spot about 10 feet
in diameter. At the small end of each cone I attached a cloth bag
having a bottom of fine screening. As the cones moved forward at
the rate of 20 miles an hour the cloth bags were stretched out parallel
to the cones. At the appointed time each bag was taken off the cone
and placed in a jar containing a piece of cotton saturated with chloro-
362 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

form. In this manner I collected a wide variety of mosquitoes and
other insects. (On one occasion I caught a bat.)

With the aid of D. C. Geijskes, an entomologist from the Surinam
Agricultural Experiment Station, in Paramaribo, I selected five eco-
logical habitats in which to operate the traps: (1) At the cowbarns,
in a low pasture closely adjacent to swamp jungle; (2) at the center
of the village, high and well drained; (3) in an opening in the jungle
halfway between the village and the rice-paddy section; (4) in the
midst of the rice-paddy section; and (5) 3 miles distant at the edge
of a Djoeka village. In the fifth environment, it was found, the cone
traps could not be operated.

The first week, I collected as much information as I could on the
mosquito, fly, tick, flea, bedbug, and cockroach populations. Then
I began spraying the houses, outbuildings, and cattle. I started
with the cowbarns and cattle first in an effort to reduce the number
of fiies that were finding their way to my dining table nearly a mile
distant. Every square foot of walls and ceiling of dwellings and
outbuildings was sprayed. Within a few days the fly nuisance was
no longer a problem. Horn flies and houseflies were actually difficult
to find.

Various tests demonstrated the effectiveness of the new DDT formu-
lations against mosquitoes, cattle ticks, chigoes, fowl ticks, cock-
roaches, bedbugs, and other insects (19). A sheet of white paper 1
yard wide and 2 yards long laid down in the corner of a cool, sheltered
garage was examined daily for dead mosquitoes. Every day several
mosquitoes that had come in contact with the DDT-treated walls fell
on this paper. Over 900 mosquitoes were taken in a light trap over-
night before the village was sprayed. Beginning 2 or 3 weeks later,
for several months this light trap caught only a few dozen mosquitoes
at most. All the collecting devices in three of the stations showed a
marked reduction of mosquitoes. At the fourth station, in the clear-
ing halfway between the village and the rice paddies, there was no
reduction of mosquitoes; here there were no buildings, no cattle, and
consequently no DDT applications within several hundred yards of
the collecting devices. The few data we obtained on the numbers of
mosquito larvae in the rice fields did not indicate any reduction. The
most positive control of mosquito larvae with the wettable DDT
powder was in the moats around the pillars of the houses. As nearly
as I could evaluate the control here, the eradication of Culex quin-
quefasciatus larvae was 100 percent and remained so when I revisited
the village 10 months later.

I returned to Moengo to evaluate the DDT treatments in J anuary
1947. Some of the results were beyond our fondest imagination.
MOSQUITO CONTROL TESTS—STAGE 363

The nuisance of mosquitoes in the village was gone. In the rice-paddy
area they had been absent from the dwellings for several months but
were being noticed again. An offer of cash for living bedbugs found
no takers. Horn flies and the fowl tick, as nearly as I could determine,
were eradicated. Cockroaches were not eliminated, but the previous
population of the American cockroach appeared to have been reduced
about 90 percent. In March 1946, after spraying one house I counted
some 550 dead ones. In February 1947, after spraying this house
again, I counted 49, most of which were immature individuals. ‘Ticks
on the cattle were greatly reduced but were not eradicated by any
means. (The cattle had been sprayed each month from March 1946
to February 1947.) All evidence indicated a 100-percent reduction
of chigoes breeding under the houses in the crushed bauxite.

The most convincing evidence of the effectiveness of the wettable
DDT powder was obtained in the house in which I lived during my
first visit to Moengo. The walls and ceiling were sprayed with a 2.5-
percent suspension of the new formulation, although such treatment
leaves an unsightly white deposit. The house next door was sprayed
at the same time with the 5-percent DDT oil solution. Bimonthly
reports coming up from Surinam showed that the wettable powder
treatment remained effective longer than did the oil solution. One of
the first tests I made on returning to Moengo in 1947 resulted in cap-
ture of 4,000 to 5,000 living mosquitoes in a stable trap. Half of these
were placed in each house one morning at 9 a.m. Sheets had been
Jaid on the floor of each house, along the walls and in the corvers, to
catch the mosquitoes, if any, that fell. At 5 that evening we reentered
the houses. Where the wettable DDT powder had been used, we found
hundreds of dead and dying mosquitoes on the sheets but none that
were able to rest on the walls. Ten months after application in a hot
and humid climate, this potent insecticide was still killing mosquitoes.
In the other house we found dozens of mosquitoes that showed signs
of DDT tremors but also hundreds on the walls that appeared well
and healthy. Fifty hours later I saw two living mosquitoes there
that appeared not to have been harmed.

The crowning piece of evidence that DDT had really taken hold
in Moengo was delivered to me by William Asgerali, the British Indian
boy who had been assigned to me on my first visit there. Bill took
care of the traps and counted the mosquitoes during the months be-
tween my visits to Surinam. He was my interpreter, guide, tech-
nician, and faithful friend. When I stepped off the boat at Moengo
in January 1947 he greeted me with “Mister, one of the Djoeckas named
their baby boy DDT” (18).
364 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

10,

af.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

BIBLIOGRAPHY

. CHAMBERLIN, J. C., and LAwson, F. R.

1945. A mechanical trap for the sampling of aerial insect populations.
Mosquito News, vol. 5, No. 1, pp. 4-7.

. GAHAN, J. B., and Linpquist, A. W.

1945. DDT residual sprays applied in buildings to control Anopheles quadri-
maculatus. Journ. Econ. Ent., vol. 38, No. 2, pp. 223-230.

. GAHAN, J. B., and Paynes, G. C.

1947. Control of Anopheles pseudopunctipennis in Mexico with DDT resid-
ual sprays applied in buildings. Amer. Journ. Hyg., vol. 45, No. 2,
pp. 123-132.

. GAHAN, J. B., TRAVIS, B. V., and LinpquistT, A. W.

1945. DDT as a residual-type spray to control disease-carrying mosquitoes:
Laboratory tests. Journ. Econ. Ent., vol. 38, No. 2, pp. 286-240.

. GAHAN, J. B., Travis, B. V., Morton, F. A., and Linpqurist, A. W.

1945. DDT as a residual-type treatment to control Anopheles quadrimacu-
latus: Practical tests. Journ. Econ. Ent., vol. 38, No. 2, pp. 281-235.

. GIEJSKES, D. C.

1946. Notes on neotropical Anophelinae in Moengo, Suriname. Mosquito
News, vol. 6, No. 3, pp. 113-118.

. Linpquist, A. W., and McDurFfrir, W. C.

1945. DDT-oil sprays applied from an airplane to control Anopheles and Man-
sonia mosquitoes. Journ. Econ. Ent., vol. 38, No. 5, pp. 545-548.

. STAGE, H. H.

1943. Four days in the muskeg. Mosquito News, vol. 3, No. 4, pp. 127-1380.

. Stace, H. H.

1944. Saboteur mosquitoes. Nat. Geogr. Mag., vol. 85, No. 2, pp. 165-179.
STAGE, H. H.

1944. Mosquito repellents and their uses. California Mosquito Control
Association, Proc. and Pap., 138th Ann. Conf., pp. 109-110. (Proc-
essed.)

Stagg, H. H., and CHAMBERLIN, J. C.
1945. Abundance and flight habits of certain Alaskan mosquitoes, as deter-
mined by means of a rotary-type trap. Mosquito News, vol. 5, No.1,
pp. 8-16.
Sracs, H. H.
1946. DDT offers two new methods for controlling anopheline mosquitoes.
California Mosquito Control Association, Proc. and Pap., 14th
Ann. Conf., pp. 9-12. (Processed.)
Stacs, H. H.
1946. Species eradication by means of DDT. Nat. Malaria Soc. Journ.,
vol. 5, No. 2, pp. 99-101.
Stace, H. H.
1946. Mosquitoes and other insects killed by aerial spraying with DDT in
Panama. Mosquito News, vol. 6, No. 1, pp. 12-13.
Stagg, H. H.
1946. The use of DDT residual sprays in native Mexican homes for con-
trolling Anopheles pseudopunctipennis mosquitoes. Mosquito News,
vol. 6, No. 1, p. 38.
StacE, H. H.
1946. A preliminary list of mosquitoes occurring in the vicinity of Nome,
Alaska. Mosquito News, vol. 6, No. 3, p. 131.
17.

18.

19,

20.

MOSQUITO CONTROL TESTS—STAGE 365

Stage, H. H., and GrtysKes, D. C.
1946. Observations on mosquito and malaria control in the Caribbean area.
Part I, Suriname. Mosquito News, vol. 6, No. 4, pp. 177-180.
Stace, H. H.
1947. DDT has a namesake in Dutch Guiana. Mosquito News, vol. 7, No. 2,
pp. 55-59.
Srace, H. H.
1947. Notes on the use of a wettable DDT powder in the Tropics. Journ.
Econ. Ent., vol. 40, No. 6, pp. 759-762.
TRAVIS, B. V., and Morton, F. A.
1946. Use of insect repellents and miticides. U. 8S. Bureau of Entomology
and Plant Quarantine, E-698, pp. 1-6. (Processed.)
Smithsonian Report, 1947.—Stage PLATE 1

1. Technicians in the muskeg country of northern Manitoba, Canada, must be
well protected by heavy clothing and head nets against the mosquito hordes.

2. Mosquitoes by the hundreds would ride on our backs as we marched through
the wilderness adjacent to Churchill on Hudson Bay.
Smithsonian Report, 1947.—Stage PLATE 2

1. Counting mosquitoes on different colored shirts, Churchill, Hudson Bay.
‘“Barebacks”’ were also attractive bait.

2. The author applying mosquito repellents to legs and arms of volunteers in
Alaska to evaluate the most effective materials. (Photograph by Signal Corps,
Ua S205) :
Smithsonian Report, 1947.—Stage PLATE 3

1. Flying from Seattle to Alaska we passed over the 9,000-foot St. Elias Range
and the source of some of the coastal glaciers.

2. The B—25 applying the 5-perecent DDT spray over the Panama jungle. (Photo-
graph by Signal Corps, U.S. A.)
Smithsonian Report, 1947.—Stage PLATE 4

Se ee eo ee i aie ’
ee ay Rage ia A : . :
8S “ee oS ae

1. Leaves showing good coverage of droplets of DDT spray even in the lower

elevations of the jungle. (Photograph by Signal Corps, U. 8. A.)

2. Naias bed in Gatun Lake, Panama, where a dozen Anopheles albimanus larvae
were taken in each of 200 samples before treatment with DDT. Twenty-four
hours after treatment not a single larva could be found.
Smithsonian Report, 1947.—Stage PLATE 5

1. Mexican technician spraying DDT on thatched homes near
Cuernavaca, Mexico.

2. Moengo, Surinam. Practically every square foot of surface of these buildings
was sprayed with a 2.5-percent wettable DDT powder.
Smithsonian Report, 1947.—Stage PLATE 6

1. Rotary-type trap as used in Moengo.

2. Cone trap mounted on the fender of an automobile as used in Moengo.
Smithsonian Report, 1947.—Stage PLATE 7

1. The author’s house in Moengo, Duteh Guiana. The apartment in this house,
sprayed with a 2.5-percent wettable DDT powder, killed mosquitoes 10 months
after application.

‘SMOKING P

2. An example of a perfect deposit made with a wettable DDT powder applied to
a wall surface. Droplets are large, coverage thorough, with no running of
liquid.
Smithsonian Report, 1947.—Stage PLATE 8

2. A Djoeka village in Dutch Quiana.
THE PRIMARY CENTERS OF CIVILIZATION

By JoHn R. Swanton

Collaborator, Bureau of American Ethnology

If civilization is produced, or induced, by biological factors, factors
in the natural environment, or factors in the cultural environment,
a study of the several centers where it originated may enable us to
isolate these and use that knowledge for the benefit of the race.

But at the outset it is somewhat difficult to determine the exact
number of cultural or civilizational centers with which we have to
deal since the archeological survey of our globe is still incomplete. Yet
certain general statements may be made. Taking the Kastern Hem-
isphere first, it would be pretty generally agreed that one such center
existed in Egypt, a second in the Tigris-Euphrates Valley, and a
third in the valley of the Indus, while most would probabiy be willing
to add a fourth, in northern China. Elsewhere in and near the Iranian
Plateau, however, in Syria and Asia Minor and in the island of Crete
there were higher cultures of an antiquity nearly as remote. The
site of Anau north of the Elbruz has shown a series of archeological
types which seem to parallel in antiquity those of India and the twin
rivers, and almost as much may be said for the remains in Crete. This
last center, although undoubtedly dependent on the cultures of Egypt
and Asia, shows from an early age such esthetic maturity as to incline
one to give it semi-independent position. As to the rest, it is clear that
although they pursued in the main an independent course of develop-
ment, they yet influenced one another at times in a very marked man-
ner, This is not so evident in the case of China, but sinologists gen-
erally hold that China was in its beginnings subject to strong influ-
ences from the west.

In the New World we have another series of centers lying, as in the
case of the Old World, along the main mountain massif of the con-
tinent and not far from its center. Here, however, it would be gener-
ally agreed that two stand out above the rest, in Central America and
in Peru, although there were a number of secondary foci and these
two centers themselves show considerable complexity.

In the present study of these several culture centers we shall have

367
777488—48——21
368 |= ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

to leave largely out of consideration that represented by Anau which
calls for more supporting material as the survey of northern Iran is
pursued by undertakings like that of Krogman on Tepe Hissar.

To begin with the westernmost of our centers, Crete (although ad-
mitting that it is doubtfully entitled to a primary position), we find
it generally agreed that the physical type of its inhabitants was what
has been called Mediterranean, dark and dolichocephalic. This was
partially displaced and its culture overthrown by a brachycephalic,
Armenoid type connected with the Alpines of Europe. These brachy-
cephalic people constituted one of the chief Greek strains, and the
partial substitution of one for the other shows that both are capable
of supporting high civilizations.

Most of the ancient Egyptians were dolichocephalic. The brain
cases of the predynastic Tasians and Merimdeans are said to have
been wide. Those of the Badarians, Amratians, and Natufians, who
succeeded them, were narrow. The Badarians are also said to have
had just a hint of the Negroid or South Indian about them. In the
dynastic period a larger and more robust but still dolichocephalic type
makes its appearance in the royal tombs, and during the epoch of the
third dynasty a brachycephalic Armenoid type becomes prominent
among the upper classes. Petrie distinguishes as many as six racial
types among the enemies and followers of Menes. The earliest Sume-
rian skeletal remains suggest a long-headed type, and two long-headed
types have been found at Kish, but at that site there also appear
Armenoids. These last were probably contributed by the Hurrian
or Japhetic population. Our knowledge of the physical types con-
nected with the Indus culture is thus summarized by Childe:

The population of Mohenjo-daro was certainly mixed; the skeletal remains
and figurines undoubtedly belong to several physically distinct types. At the
bottom of the social scale came a primitive Australoid stock; the thick lips and
coarse nose of a little bronze statuette disclose at once the kinship of this group
to the surviving aboriginal tribes of Southern India and the position which it,
like its modern representatives, occupied in the community. A higher type,
long-headed like the last, has been termed Eurafrican or even Mediterranean.
It seems to approximate to one of the long-headed Sumerian types and the
similarity is accentuated in the portrait statues by the beard, shaven upper lip,
and long hair done up in a bun behind quite in Sumerian fashion. Thirdly, a
brachycephalic Alpine or Armenoid type is represented as at Kish in Akkad.
Finally, a single skeleton and several clay figurines belong to undoubted Mongols
or Mongoloids, the earliest dated examples of this racial type yet detected.

It is a fair guess that the people mainly responsible for Indus
civilization were Eurafricans, and if we are to associate vitality as
civilization producers with physical type, the dolichocephalic people
usually called Mediterraneans would seem to have most of the facts
in their favor since they vastly predominated in Crete, in Egypt, at
the head of the Persian Gulf, and probably in the Indus Valley. How-
CENTERS OF CIVILIZATION—SWANTON 369

ever, the circumstance that a brachycephalic, Armenoid type makes
its appearance in Egypt in the Third Dynasty and “in the upper
classes,” the greater significance now attached to the Hurrian broad-
heads in the Tigris-Euphrates Valley and the fertile crescent as a
whole and the neighboring highlands, including the Hittites, the
pronounced brachycephalic element among the Indus people, and
above all the attainments of the brachycephalic Greeks, indicate just
as clearly that they were perfectly capable of taking over a high
civilization and even, as in the case of Greece, improving upon it.

Whatever doubts may remain as to the abilities of brachycephalic
people as discoverers and inventors are removed, however, when we
turn to the remaining centers of civilization. The Chinese are among
the most typically brachycephalic people in the world. There are and
have been from a remote period dolichocephals in eastern Asia, but
evidence is as yet lacking that they originated Chinese civilization.
In the New World, at any rate, the higher cultures are decisively
associated with brachycephaly. The Maya may be mentioned at once,
and in the secondary culture areas along the Mississippi Valley and
on the North Pacific coast brachycephaly is very prevalent. It is again
markedly in evidence among the Quechua and other advanced tribes
of northwestern South America. On the other hand the hunting
peoples of northeastern North America and eastern South America
usually are dolichocephalic. The conclusion seems evident that head
form, pathological cases aside, has nothing to do with cultural status.
Indeed, if that were the case, artificial head-deformation, which often
distorted the occiput vastly more than nature varied it, should have
had a more marked effect on the intelligence of tribes which practiced
the custom. On the contrary, many of them, such as the Aymara,
Maya, and Natchez, were among the more advanced peoples.

Nor do we find, allowing for the later date of those in the New
World, any marked differences between the several culture centers
when we compare their contributions to civilization. Emmer wheat
was cultivated by the Egyptians, and bread wheat by the Sumerians
of the Tigris-Euphrates Valley. Both also had barley. Wheat and
barley were cultivated by the Indus people and they may have raised
rice which, in any case, originated in India or China. The great
American contribution to the staple cereals was corn, and they also
gave us various species of beans and squashes. Olive culture is thought
to have started in the eastern Egyptian delta, but on the other hand
the Sumerians and Indus people cultivated the date palm. Flax was
raised by the Egyptians and Sumerians, cotton by the Indus people,
Maya, and Peruvians, and the Chinese contributed silk to the textiles
of the world. Cattle, sheep, and swine were already domesticated in
Egypt in predynastic times and apparently in the earliest period in
Sumer. Humped and humpless cattle, buffaloes, sheep, fowls, and
370 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

elephants were domesticated by the people of the Indus who seem not
to have had swine. Asses were also known in Egypt and Sumeria
from a remote period, but horses were introduced from Central Asia
much later and were taken up most enthusiastically by the people of
the two rivers. In this particular the New World was much behind
the Old. Nearly all of its tribes including the Maya had dogs, but
they were of very limited utility. The Peruvians with their herds of
llama and alpaca were somewhat in advance of the rest.

Stone masonry was, of course, further developed in Egypt than
in any other Old World center except Crete, the Sumerians and Indus
people depending on brick. In the New World the Peruvians were by
all odds the best masons. Copper seems to have been known to the
Egyptians and Sumerians at an early date, but bronze was employed
first by the latter and by the people of the Indus. The Indus people
also prepared an alloy of copper and arsenic. In the New World
copper was widely known and considerably used, but we do not know
where it was first employed. The Peruvians had learned to make
bronze, and it is believed to have been invented independently by them
though it appears also in Central America.

The plow was independently invented in Egypt, Sumeria, and
China, and the foot plow was known to the Peruvians. The potter’s
wheel seems to have been used earliest in Sumeria and India, and the
wheel for vehicles appeared first in these centers or the intervening
territory. We apparently owe the true arch and dome to the Sumeri-
ans. The invention of glass is attributed to the Egyptians, but the art
of glazing goes back to the earliest Sumerian epoch. To China we owe
the mariner’s compass, block printing, rag paper, paper money, playing
cards, procelain, and gunpowder. To medicine Peru has made two
notable contributions, quinine and cocaine. Chocolate comes from
Central America; tea, from China or India. Tobacco is again an
American product, but we do not know at what center it was first
taken over by man. A boat used by the Egyptians in predynastic
times is regarded by many as the ancestor of all laterships. Sumerians
had discovered at a very early date the principle of the modern ax-
head perforation to admit the handle.

The rebus system of writing was evolved independently in all these
centers except apparently Peru, where its place was taken by the device
of the quipu. Our alphabet comes from Semites, who derived their
inspiration, it is generally held, from the Egyptian hieroglyphs. It
is also believed at the present time that the Maya hieroglyphs had
evolved to the threshold of phonetic representation.

The Egyptians seem to have been the first geometricians, and they
led the Old World in the development of an accurate solar calendar
of 365 days. Incidentally they gave us our earliest fixed date, 4241
B. C., but the Maya independently, though later, evolved a calendar
CENTERS OF CIVILIZATION—SWANTON By il

equally accurate. The Sumerians and their Semitic successors, on the
other hand, surpassed both in astronomy in spite of having associated
it with astrology. They identified five of the major planets, and could
predict eclipses with a high degree of accuracy. They introduced
the use of degrees, minutes, and seconds, divided the day into 24
(originally 12) hours, and the circle into 360 degrees and were the
originators of the Zodiac. Breasted states that “the earliest known
literature of entertainment was produced in the Tweifth Egyptian
Dynasty, 2000-1788 B. C.,” and he also claims for the Egyptians the
doubtful honor of having created the first empire in the world, 1580-
1350 B.C. Philology apparently received first serious study in India,
but that probably did not go back to the Indus culture. The same may
be said of Hindu philosophy and religion, though it has been demon-
strated that its non-Vedic elements stemmed from the Indus. India
is also supposed to have influenced the second great center of philos-
ophy in the ancient world, Greece, through Pythagoreanism, but it is
probable that Greece also drew philosophical inspiration from the
cultural centers nearer at hand. If we attempt to characterize the
governments of the several centers, we may say that Egypt, the Inca
Empire, and to a certain extent the Maya impress us as theocratic
despotisms, Sumeria as a group of military states, Crete as a trading
empire, and the Indus culture as one finding its outlet in communal
civic enterprise.

Something has already been said regarding the physical types of
the occupants of the several cultural areas. Let us now take a somewhat
broader world view of this subject. The first classification of human
races to receive wide acceptance was that of Blumenbach into the
Caucasian or White, Mongolian or Yellow, Ethiopian or Black, Ma-
layan or Brown, and American or Red. Cuvier reduced these to three :
White, Yellow, and Black; and Huxley recognized five: Australoid,
Mongoloid, Negroid, Xanthrochroic (yellow-haired), and Melanoch-
roic. Haeckel based his classification on hair texture, and gave the
following divisions: Wooly-haired (subdivided into fleece-haired
and tufted-haired), and smooth-haired (subdivided into straight-
haired and curly-haired). Retzius based his on types of heads and
prognathism; narrow heads and projecting jaws, narrow heads and
straight jaws, broad heads and projecting jaws, and broad heads and
straight Jaws. The American anthropologist, D. G. Brinton, set up the
following groups: The Eurafrican race (including a north Mediter-
ranean and a south Mediterranean branch), the Austrafrican race
(including the Negrillo, Negro, and Negroid branches), the Asian
race (including the Sinitic and the Sibiritic branches) , the American
race, and Insular and Littoral peoples (including the Nigritic, Malayic,
and Australie branches).
372 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

F. Miiller and Latham classified by language and Waitz and Ratzel
by progress in culture. These, of course, are not classifications of races
at all.

In his classic work on “The Races of Europe” Ripley laid down a
trinal grouping for that area which has affected all later studies.
These three are the tall, fair, dolichocephalic Nordics centering about
the Baltic Sea, the brachycephalic Alpines in the central part of the
grand division, and the dark, dolichocephalic Mediterraneans abcut
the sea of that name.

In more recent years Dixon attempted a sweeping change in bio-
logical classification by dividing all peoples in accordance with three
indices, the length-breadth index, usually called simply the cephalic
index, the height of the skull, and the nasal index. Different com-
binations of these yielded him eight races which he called Caspian,
Mediterranean, Proto-Negroid, Proto-Australoid, Alpine, Ural, Palae-
Alpine, Mongoloid. His system has had few followers or imitators,
the tendency being to return to simpler categorizations more nearly
like those of Blumenbach and Cuvier. Thus Kroeber gives us the
following: Caucasian or White, Mongoloid or Yellow, Negroid or
Black, of doubtful classification Australian; Vedda, Irula, Kolarians,
Moi, Samoi, Toala, etc.; Polynesian; Ainu. In other words, we have
three great races and a wastebasketful of odds and ends. Some would
probably add the Australoid to the three majors, and some would fit
all the odds and ends into the three-race pattern, in effect a return to
Cuvier. Boas is inclined to make two major divisions of mankind,
a Northern Fair and a Southern Dark, and to consider the Whites and
Yellows first major subdivisions of the former.

The troubles of would-be classifiers show at least the difficulties
attending the attempt, and indicate at once that races do not fall
spontaneously and readily into a set of clearly indicated patterns, yet
the fact that from two to four somewhat vaguely defined grand divi-
sions can be made out and have been specified by several students shows
that there is “something there.” It is only when we attempt to draw
boundary lines rigidly about them that we get into difficulties.

Now when we come to compare our culture centers with these racial
divisions we find that four of the former, Egypt, Sumeria, Crete, and
the Indus Valley, fall within the boundaries generally assigned to the
White race and one within the boundaries of the Yellow, while the
American cultures, once assigned to the Red race, must be added to the
Yellow in the more general categorizations. It is noteworthy, how-
ever, that all these primary culture areas were tenanted by dark peo-
ples, not by ultrablacks or ultrawhites. Gobineau’s preposterous at-
tempt to attribute Central American and Peruvian civilizations to
colonization by prehistoric Whites of course has no basis in fact.
There was probably a Nordic strain in Greece, but since we know that
CENTERS OF CIVILIZATION—SWANTON 373

Greek civilization received its stimulus from Crete, Egypt, and western
Asia, and not from the north, any such strain could have had no
significance for the primary civilizing effort. The inhabitants of
those three regions belong to the darker subdivisions of the White
race, those which approximate in some measure the Yellow peoples
of eastern Asia and the Blacks to the south. In a trinal classifica-
tion four centers, Egypt, Sumeria, Crete, and the Indus, may with
the reservations just given be attributed to the Whites; and three
others, China, Central America, and Peru, to the Yellows.

If we fall back upon a dual classification, a Northern Light race
and a Southern Dark one, the centers of civilization fall within the
former. However, any deduction regarding inherent racial ability
has to be qualified immediately by the admission that none of these
centers was in territory occupied by the ultrawhite subdivisions. All
are among darker Whites and among Yellows. In Egypt and the
Indus, moreover, we have to admit the intrusion of a Negroid strain.

Apart from the above-noted slight advantage which light strains
seem to possess in a dual classification of mankind, we may say that
the primary centers of civilization show diversity in physical type,
language, and general culture, and that all have contributed to the
sum total of human attainment. Moreover, there is evidence of
heterogeneity at an early period in the population of these centers and
subjection to heterogeneous influences from without. As we have
seen, at least two types made their appearance in predynastic Egypt,
three at Kish in Babylonia, and three or four at Mohenjo-daro in the
Indus Valley. Wemay add that Egypt lay on the edge of the Hamitic
family of languages and had constant dealings with both the Semites
and Hurrians, Sumeria lay between the Hurrians and Semites and
had constant dealings with the Indus, and the Indus Valley lay be-
tween the Dravidians and Aryans with Mongoloids not far to the north.
Both of the Chinese culture centers postulated by Eberhard lay where
three culture areas came together. In the New World the Maya
country was between the Uto-Aztecan peoples—with whom they were
perhaps connected—and tribes with cultures following South Ameri-
can patterns. The Peruvian area really contained two cultures, one
belonging to the interior and one coastal, the latter, and perhaps the
former as well, consisting in turn of several minor centers.

The question thus arises whether human culture in these areas did
not respond to influences other than those of race. There were no
Blacks or Whites in the New World to affect culture either way. In
the Eastern Hemisphere all primary culture centers lie in semiarid
areas between 25° and 50° north latitude and toward the center of the
land mass of the continent. The fact that they lay far north of the
Equator has given rise to the supposition that climate had much to do
with their origin. It has been claimed that a temperate climate fur-
374 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

nished the necessary stimulation discouraging human energy neither
by its enervating warmth nor its paralyzing cold.

Without denying that climatic influences played a part here, atten-
tion should be called to one other factor not as yet sufficiently empha-
sized. This is the possibly relative nearness of the Old World cultural
centers to the original home of mankind. It might naturally be as-
sumed that in moving outward from any given center the tribes which
went farthest would have least leisure in which to make themselves at
home in their environment and build up elaborate adjustments, 1. e.,
civilizations, within it. But when we note that, although the New
World was populated at a late period, centers of civilization not much
inferior to those in the Eastern Hemisphere had appeared there in a
relatively brief section of the human time scale, we are warned against
laying too much stress on this particular factor. However, it remains
true that Old World civilizations lay in regions where some of the
oldest human skeletal material has come to light. Other materials of
this kind, including the Piltdown man of England, the remains of
early man in South Africa, and Pithecanthropus erectus, are remote
from these centers, but if a point is selected central to the area
determined by them and as nearly equidistant as possible from them it
will bring us to southwestern Asia and India. It is, admittedly, much
too early to dogmatize as to the earliest home of our race. Asia,
Africa, and Europe each has its champions, and at any moment some
new discovery may incline the weight of evidence to an entirely unex-
pected quarter. The only thing that seems reasonably certain is that
mankind is of Old World provenience. However, southwestern Asia
and India happen to lie about midway of the oldest human remains.

Central Asia has been one of the spots most favored by searchers
for human origins. It attained its first prominence as a result of the
early studies of Indo-European languages, although of course the
speakers of those languages were only a portion of the human race, and
in more recent times it has been recognized that the spread of languages
and the spread of peoples may follow entirely different paths. Never-
theless, Central Asia was taken up by the biologists, particularly
under the stimulus of the late Prof. Henry Fairfield Osborn and his
followers, and still exerts a powerful influence among both biologists
and anthropologists. It was made to fit very neatly into the wave
theories of race movement of such men as Griffith Taylor, and seemed
to be strengthened markedly by the discovery of China man.

At this point, however, we may introduce another line of evidence
which may have some bearing upon the question. In the evolution
of animal forms it is usually assumed that the generalized types pre-
ceded the specialized, and that the main stem of evolution consisted
of forms retaining the ability to adapt themselves to a greater range
of situations than the rest. The specialized forms given off by these
CENTERS OF CIVILIZATION—SWANTON 375

are believed to have continued to reproduce in the environments to
which they had become adapted and to have died out if radical
changes in such environments took place. Under perfectly uniform
environmental conditions it might be assumed that new species,
genera, families, orders, and so on would spread wave-fashion from
this center, but external conditions introduce modifications in any
theoretical pattern so that considerable samples of these forms are
found from center to circumference. In numerous cases, in fact,
earlier and later forms persist in the same environment. In large
areas like continents we should expect differentiation to extend over
considerable areas and to bear some relation to the completeness of the
separation between continent and continent and the time when such
separating occurred.

In volume 5 of Bartholomew’s Physical Atlas the following zoo-
geographical provinces are indicated, based upon earlier work by a
number of students and valid in the main today :

The Palaearctie region, including all of Eurasia except India, Indochina, and
southern China; the Ethiopian region, including Africa south of the Sahara and
southern Arabia; the Oriental region, including nearly all of India, Indochina,
southern China, and the nearer East Indies; the Australian region, including
Australia, Tasmania, New Zealand, the East Indies from the eastern end of
Java to the Solomon Islands, and Polynesia; the Nearctic region, including all
of Canada, Alaska, the United States, and northern Mexico with a tongue of
land down the Mexican highlands to the Isthmus of Tehuantepec; and the
Neotropical region, including the rest of central and southern Mexico, Central
America, and South America.

It is undoubtedly significant that the number of these regions is
exactly equal to the number of grand continental divisions, and in some
cases at least we can account for their differentiation by the isolation
of the continent in question at a particular period in its history. Thus
the Australian region owes its peculiar land fauna to the fact that it
was set apart from Asia by the Wallace Deep shortly before the appear-
ance of placental mammals. Considerably later South America was
separated from North America by the submergence of the Panamanian
section, although North American fauna intruded into it when union
was reestablished. Again, the fauna of North America is known to
resemble that of the Palaearctic region owing to the existence of a land
bridge which persisted to a much later period than the Central Ameri-
can isthmus. The African region has been differentiated from the
Palaearctic in part by the interposition of the Mediterranean but still
more by the sea of sand which we call the Sahara. Farther east the
Palaearctic and Oriental regions have acquired their differences in
part owing to the interposition of the Indian Ocean which once ex-
tended entirely through to the Arctic and in part by the great deserts
of central Asia which succeeded.
376 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

The two last-mentioned regions and the African region very nearly
come to a corner in southwestern Asia, the African extending as
far east as Oman while the Oriental region includes the Indus Valley.
The Iranian Plateau intervenes as a tongue of the Palaearctic, and
separates not merely the Ethiopian and Oriental regions but many
related stocks of the higher fauna as well, including civets and ichneu-
mons, chevrotains, pangolins, false vampire bats, elephants, wild asses,
buffaloes, lemurs, and Old World monkeys. Particularly it severs the
present habitats of the anthropoid apes, man’s nearest relatives. This
fact indicates some intermediate point as a probable center of distri-
bution, and has given rise to the hypothesis of a former continent in
the Indian Ocean which has been called Lemuria since the segregation
of the lemurs is particularly striking. Without creating a new con-
tinent, I think economy of movement calls for an intermediate center
of origin. If our areas were ranged concentrically, we should be
justified in supposing that the one on the periphery was the oldest and
that nearest the center the youngest, and this is measurably true of the
Australian and New World regions, but the three others are placed
radially and not concentrically. A center in western India or south-
ern Iran would therefore be nearest to the greatest number of organic
forms and involve the least motion in bringing them to their present
habitats. We might imagine one genus to have originated at one end
of their later habitat and spread lineally to the other, but to suppose
two to have done the same thing and to have covered practically the
same territory moving in the same direction would be less likely; with
three, four, or more the unlikelihood increases rapidly. And if the
region indicated gave rise to the higher animal forms, the argument is
good that the same was the case with mankind.

Culture centers need not necessarily have arisen near the very spots
which witnessed the birth of mankind, but relative nearness to that
spot is to be expected. Another argument for southwestern Asia, how-
ever, is the fact that cultures are apt to appear where peoples are sub-
jected to a variety of environmental influences or to racial admixture.
Thus, the high spot in the aboriginal Northwest Coast culture in Amer-
ica came just where racial and linguistic diversity was most pro-
nounced. The same was true of Southeastern culture, and we have to
remember that the Pueblo culture of our Southwest existed among
people belonging linquistically to four distinct stocks. Similarly we
find that the Maya lay between cultures and languages which are dis-
tinctly North American and others clearly connected with South
America. Incaic, and the earlier Tiahuanucuan culture arose side by
side with two or three somewhat diverse coastal manifestations. We
may add that the Maya also lived very nearly on the boundary between
the Nearctic and Neotropical biological regions and that two of the
principal subregions of the latter, the Brazilian and Chilean, are
CENTERS OF CIVILIZATION—SWANTON 377

bounded by a line cutting through Peru and Bolivia from north to
south.

Returning to the Old World we note that the boundary between the
Oriental and Palaearctic regions cuts directly through the Indus cul-
tural center and that the boundary between the Palaearctic and Ethi-
opian regions crosses the Nile close to Upper Egypt. ‘The Sumerian,
Cretan, and Chinese centers lie considerably north of the southern
boundary of the Palaearctic zone in the general map of Bartholomew,
but on the maps of some zoogeographers they lie much closer.

CONCLUSIONS

From the foregoing discussion it appears that the higher civiliza-
tions have made their appearance and have spread among peoples of
varying physical types and that these centers have contributed to the
higher culture of mankind in about equal measure. If the races are
ranged in a dual category, Northern Fair and Southern Dark, the
centers of civilization fall within the former as usually defined, but
in all cases among marginal peoples, not far from the boundaries of
the darker races. If it is true that no primary center of civilization
arose among the ultrablacks, it is equally true that none arose among
the ultrawhites. In one or two of these centers, moreover, there was a
black strain at a very early period. Some of these centers—Egypt,
Sumeria, the Indus—show early evidences of considerable hetero-
geneity, and all of them signs of trading contacts with the outside
world.

There is thus evidence that factors other than race were responsible
for the position of these cultural centers. All of them show signs of
contact, and none of those in the Old World, except the one in China,
is far from the Plateau of Iran where three of the principal zoogeo-
graphical areas come together. This would seem to be a natural point
from which life forms spread as indicated by their present geograph-
ical distribution. Although skeletal remains of primitive man have
been found at widely separated points very far from the region under
discussion, it is a fair question whether the distribution of animal life
may not indicate the actual center more accurately, and that there is
reason to look for the great cultural centers of mankind in the same
general territory.

A summary of the foregoing discussion would result about as
follows:

1. The primary culture centers lay among people of both dolicho-
cephalic and brachycephalic head form and among those who were
intermediate in pigmentation.

2. They were in warm temperate latitudes.

3. They were in areas containing heterogeneous populations or close
to areas of divergent cultures.
378 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

4. Their contributions to civilization were fairly equal, allowing for
the distance which separated American civilizations from the rest and
the consequent handicaps under which they labored.

5. The centers in both Old and New Worlds lay near the central
portions of the continents and close to the main mountain chains.

6. The Old World centers (except perhaps that of China) lay near
the junction point of the three most important zoogeographical areas
north of the Arabian Sea and rather distant from Central Asia, the
favorite racial homeland of so many theorists.

7. These centers of civilization apparently depended on factors other
than those of race.
THE RYUKYU PEOPLE: A CULTURAL APPRAISAL

By MarsSHALL T, NEWMAN
Associate Curator, Division of Physical Anthropology, U. S. National Museum
and
Ransom L. ENG

Former Executive Officer
Military Government Research Center
Okinawa

[With 5 plates]
INTRODUCTION

As United States forces conquered island after island in the Pacific,
hitherto obscure peoples suddenly became headline news. Such a
people were the Ryukyuans who were living a simple agrarian life as
vassals of the Japanese on a chain of small islands between southern
Japan and Formosa. But with the invasion beginning March 27,
1945, the islands, especialiy Okinawa, became household words over-
night. After organized Japanese resistance ceased, following 82
days of bitter fighting, Okinawa and the Ryukyus left the headlines.
Since the Japanese surrender, Okinawa continues to be important as
one of the reduced-status bases in the Pacific retained by the United
States. Currently the civil affairs of the Ryukyu people are admin-
istered by the United States Army Military Government.

In view of our interest in the Ryukyus, we have summarized avail-
able information on the native people from earliest times to the present.
We have attempted to relate the natural environment of the islands
and the long history of foreign influence to the native way of life up
to World War II. Thus we hope to show not only what the native
life was like but how it came to be that way. To complete the picture
we have considered the impact of World War IT and the effects of the
American occupation upon the islanders.

This has not been easy. The archeology of the Ryukyus is little
known, and the early written records usually show either a Chinese
or Japanese bias. Satisfactory racial and cultural studies of the

379
380 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

Ryukyus do not exist. Although many Americans have observed
the wayr’s effect upon the Ryukyuans and their culture, no one has
published a full account. In the following summary, therefore, we
have had to do our best with the information at hand.!

THE NATURAL ENVIRONMENT

The Ryukyu islands form a curving chain extending 775 miles
southwest from southern Japan to within sight of Formosa off the
China coast. Consequently cultural influences and political pressures
from China and Japan have bulked large in the Ryukyus’ destiny.
The Ryukyuan chain consists of 11 island groups and numerous scat-
tered islets totaling a land area smaller than Delaware, larger than
Rhode Island, but housing almost as many people as the two States
together. Geologically the islands are the tops of three submerged
mountain chains closely ranged together as if they were the strands
of a necklace.

Ryukyu waters are warmed by the Japanese current, intensifying the
heat of the southern monsoonal winds in the summer and ameliorating
the cold of the northern morisoons in the winter. In this way seasonal
climatic variation is less in the south than in the northern part of the
chain. Rainfall is sufficiently heavy to stimulate lush natural vegeta-
tion on most of the islands, but the scarcity of natural reservoirs and
the great depth of the ground-water table render the water supply a
major problem on most of the islands. In addition, typhoons are
frequent between May and October. Ryukyu homes and other build-
ings are built with the destructive forces of these storms in mind, but
great property damage still results. Since typhoons usually strike
in the growing season, crops are often destroyed.

The islands themselves have such varied terrains that they defy
description as a group. Except for some of the low-lying islets, few
have much flat land. Some have narrow coastal plains of clayey loam
or sandy soil, overlying limestone deposits. These soils are rather
fertile, but low-lying strips near the shore are frequently ruined for
agriculture by tidal waves. Most shore lines show signs of submer-
gence and the larger islands have bays suitable for anchorage. Where
the coral reefs have not provided protection along the slowly sinking
coasts, the sea has attacked the shore and cut cliffs and headlands,

1 The best source material is in the Navy Department’s Civil Affairs Handbook—Ryukyu
(Loochoo) Islands. It was compiled before the invasion by a Navy Research Group at
Yale University headed by Prof. George P. Murdock. Yale’s Cross-Cultural Survey was
the major source of information, but data provided by various Federal intelligence agencies
were also used. We have leaned very heavily upon the Civil Affairs Handbook and the
Cross-Cultural Survey, and are especially indebted to Professor Murdock for the large part
he played in both of them.

We wish to thank Professor Murdock for his cogent criticisms of the manuscript, and
Dr. Gordon R. Willey for helpful suggestions on organization. We are grateful to the

U. S. Navy, J. Allen Chase, Dr. Leon Lewis,,and Dr, A. C. P. Bakos for the use of their
photographs.
RYUKYU PEOPLE—NEWMAN AND ENG 381

RYUAYU ISLANDS

728

WA
ee 90 igo o :
AILOMETERS S i
° g
Fi YAKU SH/MA O
we i
om 8 ae
ra |
fh N)
ye So o
40
°
NORTH = “

pe x AMAMI O SMIMA

RS O KIKAI JIMA
y' .
le 28°
Ss TOKUNO SHI/4A

yt “OA OKINOYERABU JIMA
CENTRAL i 2
woe
of 2
26° >? ° OKINAWA JIMA
°%
SOUTH 40 éi
ys
és 6
7 h
3
\
YONWAKUN/ of ° vas MIYAKO JIMA
SUIMA | EL ISHIGAR! UiMa
o~IRIOMOTE JIMA Si
eo
ae
124° 126° ya? ere

Figure 1—Map of the Ryukyu Islands (adapted from the Navy Department’s
Civil Affairs Handbook, p. v).

Inland from the coast on most islands, the sloping or gently rolling
terrain merges into rugged hills beyond. The plateaus and gently
rolling lands are usually covered with well-drained, moderately fertile
soils of clay and sand. The best lands are the alluvial soils in the
shallow valleys. On the slopes of the rugged hills the covering of
sandy loam has been washed thin, except where it accumulated in
pockets. At best it is of mediocre fertility. Usually the smaller
islands are less fertile than the larger, provide a less certain water
supply, and consequently are less habitable. As in all but the most
advanced civilizations, the environment has strongly molded and lim-
382 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

ited the way of life. In the Ryukyus, long considered culturally back-
ward, we shall see how true thisis. But first we must give background
to the cultural picture.

THE PREHISTORY AND HISTORY

The Ainu.—The earliest inhabitants of the Ryukyu islands were
probably a preagricultural food-gathering group closely related to
the Ainu of northern Japan, but there is no positive evidence for this.
Allegedly Ainu archeological remains have been reported? but the
identifications need checking. It is possible that cultural traits hark-
ing back to the Ainu ’ have existed in Ryukyu society within the past
100 years, but the matter has not been fully explored. Physical traits
of almost certain Ainu origin, however, are said to have been present
in many Ryukyuans living in the latter part of the nineteenth century.*
This is the strongest suggestion of an Ainu occupation. If the Ainu
were the first people in the Ryukyus, they were there in early times—
the first or even the second millennium B. C.

The early Japanese.—Sometime before the third century B. C. a new
people entered Japan from Korea, and spread slowly over the Japanese
islands pushing back the Ainu there. These invaders were the early
Japanese who bore a maritime culture of manifest South Asiatic char-
acter, and were closely related racially to the Southern Mongoloids.
Some of these early Japanese settled in the Ryukyus, where they prob-
ably outnumbered the Ainu. The Ryukyu language, a sister tongue
to Japanese, is attributable to these newcomers, and it is likely that
they brought agriculture to the islands.

The early history of Chinese and Japanese contact.—Chinese annals
of the third century B. C. contain the first historic mention of the
Ryukyu Islands. But it was not until the early seventh century A. D.
that the Chinese sent an information-collecting embassy there. Twelve
years later Japanese records indicated that a delegation from the
North Ryukyus paid their respects to the empress in Tokyo. During
this early historic period Ryukyu relations with Japan were even more
tenuous than with China, and were almost wholly carried on by upper-
class people in the port towns of the island chain.

In the eleventh and twelfth centuries Japanese legendary history
mentions small movements of people from Kyushu to the Ryukyus.
Some of these emigrés were displaced nobility. The most famous was
the archer Tametomo, who is said to have sired King Shunten—the
ruler of Okinawa from 1187 to 1237. When Shunten ascended the
throne, the Kyushu prince of Satsuma was given theoretical jurisdic-
tion over the Ryukyus. This is part of the modern Japanese claim to
the islands.
~ 2 See Newman and Eng, 1947, pp. 114-116.

3 See Murdock, 1934, pp. 163-191, for a description of how the recent Ainu lived.
4 Newman and Eng, 1947, pp. 121-128.
RYUKYU PEOPLE—-NEWMAN AND ENG 383

The period of greatest Chinese influence (1372-1609).—In the late
thirteenth century China attempted to dominate the Ryukyus politi-
cally, and by 1372 had the Okinawa king paying tribute. With this
entering wedge, Chinese-Ryukyu trade increased. This started a flow
of more advanced customs and ideas into the islands, producing modi-
fications in political structure, law and medical practice, the arts and
literature, and funerary procedures. These modifications were largely
felt by the upper classes, while the Ryukyu commoners continued their
work-a-day life with little change. The net effect, however, was cul-
tural advancement for the Ryukyus. In 1579 a Chinese emperor called
the islands “The Land of Propriety.” This title is deserved even to
this day.

In the fifteenth century Japan forced the Ryukyuans to pay tribute
to them as well. Perceptive islanders at that time could probably see
that they were caught between their more powerful neighbors.

The sweetpotato, destined to become the staple food of the Ryukyus,
was introduced from China in 1605. In 1623 sugarcane was brought
in. Neither became vital to the Ryukyu economy for over two
centuries.

The period of the Japanese protectorate (1609-1871).—Angered by
the Ryukyuans’ refusal to help in the Korean war, Japan conquered
the North and Central Ryukyus in 1609. The North Ryukyus were
ceded to her, and these islands were Japanese-governed from then on.
The other islands retained more independence, at least in domestic
issues, but larger questions of policy were settled by agents from Japan.
Nevertheless the Chinese-style civil state was permitted to exist there
for 260 more years.

Since China’s ports were closed to Japanese ships from 1552 to 1643,
and in 1636 Japanese merchants were forbidden to leave their country,
the Ryukyu Islands became extremely useful as a means of indirect
trade between the two countries. Naha, the main port of Okinawa,
was used as a way-station in commercial transactions of high profit to
China and Japan. The Ryukyus gained little capital benefit, and
their position in this commerce can be likened to the trained fishing
cormorants in the Orient that are kept on a string and forced to
relinquish most of their catch.

The period of Japanese rule (1871-1945.)—In the nineteenth cen-
tury the Western powers showed enough interest in the Ryukyus to
make the Japanese apprehensive. So in 1871, just 18 years after
Admiral Perry broke the Japanese policy of seclusion, the Ryukyus
were formally annexed by Japan over China’s protests. Within a
few years all the island chain was organized along Japanese lines.
The colonial policy fostered complete assimiliation of the Ryukyus
into the political, economic, and cultural structure of the expanding
Empire. In the 68 years before World War IT this assimilation was

177488—-48—_28
384 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

most complete in the North Ryukyus which Japan had dominated
since the early seventeenth century. It was least complete in the un-
developed South Ryukyus, where much of the old culture still exists
today.

Yet complete assimilation of the Ryukyu people was impossible
since, despite official protestations of brotherhood, the islanders were
looked down upon as uncouth rustics by the Japanese. The Ryukyu-
ans had their own pride and according to Murdock (personal com-
munication) considered themselves a subnationality of the Japanese.
Thus they were Japanese in about the same way the Scots are British.

Cultural changes under the Japanese.—Oflicially imposed changes
in Ryukyu culture were effected during the 74 years of full Japanese
rule. These changes were cataclysmic to the upper-class natives, but
were much more lightly felt by the commoners. And the smaller,
less accessible islands were affected the least.

The Japanese commenced their assault on Ryukyu culture by lop-
ping off the top of the native social hierarchy. By the 1920’s the rigid
and numerous class distinctions had disappeared. Almost everyone
was a commoner, except for the Japanese officials, who were strictly
top-dog. With the social reform, there was a reapportioning of arable
land. Under the Ryukyu monarchy, land had been granted in fief
to the upper classes, and the rest was divided communally among the
peasants. But beginning in 1899 the land was allotted in small plots
to independent farmers. Contrary to Japanese expectations, this did
not increase the over-all yield, but it distributed the food supply more
evenly among the people.

The Japanese inheritance laws were properly designed to keep the
land within the family, but younger children did not receive a share.
Since the small plots could only support an expanding family with
difficulty, landless young men and women were often forced to seek
a livelihood elsewhere. This tended to weaken the family structure.
Although Japanese administrators were aware of this danger, they
merely resorted to palliative measures.

The changes in planting of crops stimulated the food economy. In
the final centuries of the Ryukyu monarchy, heavy subsidies were paid
to wet-rice growers, and the number of flooded fields greatly increased.
At the same time sugarcane growing was restricted. Since Ryukyu
rice lacked hardiness and abundant yield, required scarce water, and
took a lot of work, this was an impractical plan. Under the Japanese,
sweetpotato and sugarcane raising were encouraged, and were, respec-
tively, the primary food and cash crops of the islands.

Ryukyu food habits in the 1930’s showed a strong shift to rice, but
only half the required amount could be produced locally. Conse-
quently, to reduce the necessary imports, Japanese agronomists
introduced Formosa No. 65 rice, which was hardier and had several
RYUKYU PEOPLE—NEWMAN AND ENG 385

times the yield of local varieties. As a result, in the few years before
World War II, Ryukyu farmers were shifting back to wet rice where-
ever the land permitted.

Direct economic ties with Japan also stimulated local industries,
especially sugar and silk production. This brought money and goods
to the Ryukyus, but having part of the economy geared to world
markets rendered the islands more susceptible to depressions. This is
especially true when a country exports only two major products. So
the drop in sugar prices after World War I caused widespread suffer-
ing in the Ryukyus, and large numbers left for lands of better
opportunity.

Although industrial development never proceeded far in the Ryu-
kyus, there was enough to threaten the old system of household crafts.
This forced a shift in certain manufactures from the household to the
factory, and required some workers to leave their homes and villages
in pursuit of work. The Japanese-style mutual benefit associations,
which appeared to be eagerly seized by Ryukyu craftsmen, did not
compensate for the threat to the household.

A corollary change was the decline of native arts and crafts which
the local market could not support and Japanese consumers did not
care for. Asan example, Ryukyu lacquerware of considerable artistic
excellence used to be made, but the traditional designs lost out to
Japanese styles. The native theater, dances, and music, formerly
sponsored by the upper classes, disintegrated with their disappear-
ance. ‘The folk art of the peasants in the rural and more isolated areas
is all that remains,

The effects of the assault on the old-time native religion are hard
to gage, although no foreign creed ever had a large popular following
in the Ryukyus. With the social and land reforms of this century,
however, the native priestesses or “noros” lost their hereditary lands.
Lacking their former wealth, these priestesses lost some influence, but
were said to be still powerful in out-of-the-way places. With the rise
of Japanese nationalism, official efforts were made to impose state
Shintoism on the Ryukyus. This met with greater success in the
North Ryukus than elsewhere.

Under Japanese rule, the population of the Ryukyus increased tre-
mendously. From about 600,000 in 1890, it reached a peak of almost
880,000 in 1935. The natural increase was actually greater than this
since about 200,000 Ryukyuans left the islands between 1920 and 1940
in search of better opportunities. Since immigration to the Ryukyus
has been negligible within historic times, this rise in population meant
an increased live birth rate, a lowered death rate, or both. Whatever
the exact reasons for this gain, it was surely the most compelling
reason for the great exodus of people to other lands. Out-movement
became essential to the economic balance of the overcrowded islands.
386 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

It got rid of extra mouths to feed, and remittances sent home by
prospering relatives abroad helped offset the unfavorable balance of
trade recently characteristic of Ryukyu economy.

THE CULTURE
THE Foop HcoNoMY

The earliest inhabitants of the Ryukyus were probably scattered
bands of hunters and fishermen, totaling only a very few thousand.
Later, the introduction of agriculture, perhaps by the early Japanese,
set the stage for a dense population. The intensive exploitation of
arable land is as basic as the heavy Chinese and Japanese influences
in the establishment of the complex feudalistic pattern of Ryukyu
culture. Other factors which greatly influenced the local food econ-
omy were the seventeenth-century introduction of the sweetpotato,
and the twentieth-century contributions by the Japanese toward more
scientific farming.

The physical nature of the islands themselves has largely deter-
mined the limits of Ryukyu food production. In the Central and
South Ryukyus, about one-quarter of the total land area was culti-
vated in 1939, with a smaller proportion under cultivation in the North
Ryukyus. The total cultivated area perhaps could be increased 50
percent by farming potentially arable but untouched land, especially
in the relatively undeveloped southern islands.

Almost three-quarters of the Ryukyu households engage in inten-
sive subsistence farming, with many of them growing sugarcane as a
cash crop. The prime food crop was the hardy sweetpotato, although
just before World War II rice was becoming more of a dietary main-
stay (see p. 384). In the late 1930’s almost half of the cultivated land
was devoted to raising sweetpotatoes. The small family plots of land,
usually on the less fertile plateaus and gentle hill slopes, often pro-
duced two crops a year. As with all Ryukyu farming, cultivation
was almost entirely done by hoe, although single horse or ox plows
were occasionally used. Since sweetpotatoes are likely to rot in
storage, it was customary to grate and then dry the surplus for future
consumption. Lacking the knowledge of how to preserve part of
the crop against a “rainy day,” the sweetpotato never would have
become a year-round staple food.

Rice was second in importance as a food crop, and was mostly grown
in irrigated paddies in the shallow valleys and alluvial plains. Irri-
gated fields total about 10 percent of all the cultivated land in the
Central and South Ryukyus, with a higher figure for the North
Ryukyus where more rice was grown. In the North, there was one
crop a year; in the Central and South, two were raised. Although
about 40 percent of the farms in the two-crop area had rice paddies,
RYUKYU PEOPLE—NEWMAN AND ENG 387

they were usually small and averaged half an acre. With the demand
twice the supply in the late 1930’s, rice imports from Japan were high.
During World War II, these imports were reduced.

Ryukyu methods of wet-rice culture were virtuaily the same as those
of other Far Eastern countries. Irrigation involved no reservoirs or
canals, but only called for diverting stream water into narrow chan-
nels to the terraced paddies. The water then filtered from higher to
lower paddy. Manure, night soil, cover crops, compost, and some
commercial fertilizers were used on rice and other fields. The use of
all available natural fertilizers, so shocking to people of the Western
world, was characteristic of the extreme economy of Ryukyu life.
The hoeing or plowing, harrowing and leveling, transplanting of
seedlings, weeding, and harvesting were almost wholly done by hand.

Other grains were grown, but did not bulk as large as food crops.
These were wheat, millet, and barley. Although broadcast sowing
was known, it was more usual to plant seed in rows of holes with a
simple digging stick. Some root crops other than the sweetpotato
were cultivated in minor quantities. Truck gardening and raising of
hay and other forage crops were little practiced. On steep slopes and
otherwise infertile lands, cycads (Cycas revoluta) were grown from
seedlings. The pith of these trees was washed, dried, and made into
sago flour, which was used by the very poor, or in times of famine.
Under the Ryukyu monarchy, cycad cultivation was sufficiently im-
portant to have an official in charge of it.

Sugarcane was grown as a cash crop on about one-quarter of the
cultivated land in the Ryukyus. It was preferably planted in the clay
soils of the coastal plains, but was especially susceptible to typhoon
damage there. Most plots were small, rarely over an acre in size.
Although there were a few large sugar “centrals” most of the cane was
crushed in small, literally one-horse mills of original Chinese design.
The cane juice was then boiled, put in clay trays for drying, and ex-
ported in unrefined state.

Animal husbandry and fishing were overshadowed by agriculture.
Most farm households had a hog or two and several goats. Fewer
owned horses and cattle. Stock farms were almost nonexistent in the
Ryukyus, so most of the slaughterhouse meat came from the small
farms. Home-grown pork was more frequently eaten than other meat.
It was a large enough item in the diet to elicit the contemptuous nick-
name “Pork-eater” from the Japanese. At the onset of the war, meat
consumption was cut until it reached the average table only about four
times a year.

Most Ryukyu fishermen operated from small offshore craft. (See
pl. 3, center.) Their commercial catch was small compared to the few
deep-sea fishermen who seined, drag-netted, and hooked bonito from
large boats. More commercial fishing was done in the North Ryukyus
388 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

than elsewhere. Lack of a well-equipped fishing fleet restricted the
over-all catch, although Ryukyuans were famous all over the Pacific
as fishermen. Their commercial fishing techniques were unexcelled
throughout the world, according to professional fishing men (Mur-
dock, personal communication).

OTHER WoRK

While three-quarters of the gainfully employed produced food, the
remainder made a living in crafts, services, and commerce. The pro-
portions employed in these categories were, respectively, 12, 7, and 5
percent in 1930° for the Central and South Ryukyus. Most of those
engaged in crafts made goods of Japanese design for export. A smaller
number produced hand-made utilitarian items for the local markets,
or were in the building trade. The rest did relatively unskilled manual
work in such industries as mining, quarrying, and lumbering.

In the Central and South Ryukyus, the major service occupations
were, in descending order, banking and insurance; hotel, restaurant,
and entertainment; transportation; domestic service; education; and
government service. The numbers in religious, legal, medical, literary,
and artistic fields were notably small, but need not indicate intellectual
impoverishment under the Japanese. On the contrary, the literacy
rate was high, and even the peasant homes appear to contain more and
better books than the average American home (Murdock, personal
communication).

In the field of commerce, most of the people were small local mer-
chants, although a few had trade connections with Japan and For-
mosa. Most rural settlements had general markets where vendors
sold food, ceramics, cloth, and tools, but these were on a decline in
the 1930’s and 1940’s. Specialized markets for such commodities
as livestock were located in the larger towns. Retail shops in the
cities increased in number, owing perhaps to the influx of Japanese
capital there. In addition, a few branch stores were established by
Japanese firms.

Foop HAgits AND DIET

With the exception of some food imports and local barter, the
Ryukyuan people ate what they raised and caught. Sweetpotatoes,
therefore, were the national food, with rice an important secondary
item. Other vegetables, such as soy beans, cabbages, carrots, green
onions, eggplants, squash, cucumbers, taro, and small tomatoes, were
eaten only in minor quantities since many households did not raise

5It is improbable that the 1940’s brought much change in these figures. As Japan
girded itself for war, some Ryukyuan weavers were forced into other occupations, and others
were conscripted for work in the Empire’s war plants, or for military service abroad. Of

those remaining in the Ryukyus, the proportions engaged in food production, crafts, services,
and commerce probably remained the same. .
RYUKYU PEOPLE—-NEWMAN AND ENG 389

truck gardens. Some flour from wheat, millet, or barley was used,
but usually just for occasional fancy baking. Noodles and imported
vermicelli were also used. Fresh fruits were rarely eaten. Fish and
especially meat were “prestige” foods, which is another way of saying
that not everyone could afford them. They appeared on the family
table as often as availability and buying power permitted. Horse
mackerel, shark, flyingfish, tuna, and bonito represented the largest
coastal catches. Cuttlefish, octopus, shellfish, and seaweed were also
taken. In times of famine, the coral reefs and rock pools were
thoroughly searched for edibles. Most of the meat was pork, with
goat flesh secondary in importance. When not eaten fresh, it was
salted down for future use. Beef was also eaten, but was more likely
to be exported on the hoof. Indeed, many farm households felt they
could ill afford not to sell much of their livestock.

Food was most usually boiled or cooked in vegetable oil or pork
fat. Steaming and baking in brick ovens were practiced in some
households. Foods were seldom eaten fresh or raw. The most com-
mon seasoning was soy bean sauce, and in addition salt, vinegar, and
tomato paste were used.

Compared to Western dietary standards,® Ruykyu diet appears to
be bulky and to have a high carbohydrate content. It has been sug-
gested that the unusually long, large colon of the Ryukyuans may
be an adaptation to this bulky vegetarian fare.?’ High-quality pro-
teins and fats seem somewhat lacking in their diets. Further analysis
might indicate a low intake of one or more of the B vitamins. But
regardless of how the diet measures up to modern nutritional de-
siderata, the Ryukyuans did very well on it. On the basis of their
hardiness, longevity, fertility, and small amount of metabolic dis-
turbances and deficiency diseases, Steiner (1947, p. 241) feels the
diet to be well suited to the people. This in turn would imply the
basic adequacy of the food economy.

TECHNOLOGY AND ART

Architectwre.—Public buildings built in modern times closely fol-
low Japanese and occasionally Western architectural styles and are
usually of cut and mortared stone or concrete construction. The old
castles and shrines of yesteryear Ryukyu show considerable Chinese
as well as Japanese influence. The larger ancient structures were
strongly constructed of cut stone, and ones like Shuri castle were even
hard to reduce by bombing and shellfire. Smaller edifices were made
of stone or mortised frame and panel construction.

Home dwellings range from the temporary rural hut shown in plate
4, lower, to urban homes as elaborately made as the priest’s house in

5 See Steiner, 1946, pp. 18-19 ; 1947, pp. 240-241.
7 Steiner, 1946, p. 5.
390 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

plate 4, upper. The simple rural houses were usually rectangular with
thatched roofs and walls made of two layers of bamboo lattice with a
straw filler in between. No windows were used, sometimes even a smoke
hole was lacking, and the floors were often packed earth. Better rural
homes had more rooms, paneled walls, raised board flooring, and even
tiled roofs, but this was more the urban style. In these homes the
family shrine occupied an important place in one of the rooms. It
was a highly stained and polished waist-high cabinet with frames and
sliding panel of elaborately cut lattice. Within were at least two steps
housing family name plates and other objects. The rest of the house
might be very plain, but the family shrine was as exquisitely made as
the household could afford.

Rural dwellings were almost always surrounded by a live hedge, a
stone wall, or both, if money permitted. As can be seen in plate 3, up-
per, the entrance to the compound was sometimes guarded by a short
wall just within. In addition to the main dwelling, there was a stable,
small storage house, and a pigsty directly under the latrine. A cistern
or well usually completed the farmstead structures.

In the urban homes, sliding paneled walls, board flooring, and
hipped tile roofs were used where they could be afforded. Usually
these homes were surrounded by a high stone wall. Within the court-
yard, small storage structures and pigsties were usually present.

The most unusual feature of Ryukyu architecture was the womb-
shaped tomb of South Chinese inspiration. (See pl. 3, lower.) Most
tombs were set into steep banks and hillsides unsuitable for farming,
but were by far the most costly family edifices. The approach was
through an outer courtyard walled by hewn rock. These walls
joined the lateral abutments of the tomb. The tomb itself, carefully
constructed of concrete or cut stone, was pear-shaped with a flat or low-
domed roof. The entrance to the funerary vault was large enough to
admit a coffin. Within the vault the remains of recently deceased fam-
ily members lay in coflins, while the carefully cleaned bones of the long
dead were deposited in elaborate pottery jars of native make.

The burial customs were part of the ancestor worship, an integral
part of the old Ryukyu religion, embellished by Chinese customs.
Currently the Japanese cremate their dead, and have disseminated
this practice to the North Ryukyus. Cremation was rare, however,
in the South and Central islands, although not every family could
afford a burial tomb. Poor families were more likely to place their
dead in caves or cemeteries.

A fine family tomb was a prized possession, and took great sacrifice
to construct. Often a family might live in a hovel, but would labor
lifetimes to possess a suitable resting place for its dead. A fine tomb
was considered much more important than a fine home.

Transportation and communication —The larger and more heavily
RYUKYU PEOPLE—NEWMAN AND ENG 391

populated islands have narrow roads, mostly running along the coasts
and connecting the larger towns. Few roads were cut through rugged
terrain, so that the more isolated areas were served only by footpaths.
Most of the smaller islands had only trails. The roads were usually
made of limestone topped with coral sand, and were nationally, pre-
fecturally, or locally maintained. Cut and fitted rock bridges were
used to traverse streams on the major roads.

Owing to a heavier population and more favorable terrain, most of
the roads were in the Central and South Ryukyus. The bulk of these
were on Okinawa Jima. Even so, the total of 4,000 miles of roads over
the entire Ryukyus in 1989 is small as compared with areas the same
size in this country.

Major Ryulkyuan cities had many broad and well-paved streets. In
1939 Naha and Shuri (combined population of over 80,000) had a street
system totaling almost 1,300 miles.

Most of the vehicles were bicycles, rickshas, and horse-drawn carts.
There were few automobiles and busses. In 1939 the Central and
South Ryukyus had a total of 504 miles in bus routes.

Railroads were of little consequence in Ryukyu transportation and
were only narrow-gauge spur lines between large towns, or were used
in nationally-promoted mining and lumbering activities. Steam and
gasoline engines were used, as well as horse cars.

Means of water transportation ranged from the single-log native
dugout through motor launches to the small Japanese steamers which
touched only the several main ports. Most of the interisland traffic
was by motor sampans and larger sailing craft. The bulk of the ocean
travel was by Ryukyuans in search of seasonal or permanent employ-
ment. Few Japanese or other foreigners visited the islands.

Communication between the larger islands and Japan was possible
by radio, submarine cable, airmail, and regular mail. Small post
offices were located in almost every township, in addition to those in
the larger towns. Telegraph and telephone lines connected the post
offices on the same island. In addition to a small circulation of Jap-
anese newspapers, a handful of 2- to 8-page local papers were printed.
The circulations were not known, although plenty of newspapers were
found in abandoned rural homes during the invasion. Both the
Japanese and local press were rigidly controlled.

Utility crafts —The textile industries employed more people than
all the other crafts combined, and rivaled sugar production in capital
return. Most of the work was done by hand, producing goods of excel-
lent quality mainly for Japanese luxury trade. The first ranking tex-
tile industry was silk, wherein an expert weaver would take 2 or 3
months to produce 10 yards of high-grade material of 14-inch width.
Most silk was made in the North Ryukyus. The next most important
392 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

was the Panama-hat industry, confined largely to the Central Ryukyus.
Linen cloth made from the fibers of the textile banana constituted the
third industry. Its manufacture was concentrated in the South
Ryukyus. Other textile products were rush matting, cotton cloth, and
straw articles. A large part of the weaving in all textile industries
was done by women on hand loomsin small shops or athome. Natural
dyes, especially indigo and the juice of the Japanese hawthorne, were
still used, although larger factories had begun aniline dyeing. Both
batik and vat dyeing were practiced.

Other manufactures in the Ryukyus were conducted on a very small
scale. Carpenters and stone masons still performed high-quality
work in the cities, despite their rather primitive tools. Food process-
ing and canning accounted for a few more workers, and dealt largely
in dried bonito, and canned meats and vegetables. Other small in-
dustries only worthy of mention were machine and metal work, wood
and bamboo working, paper manufacture and printing, ceramics and
tile, and mining and quarrying.

The arts.—The leveling of the native class system by the Japanese
had the effect of abolishing the national art of the Ryukyus. Lacking
upper-class patrons for luxury goods of traditional design, craftsmen
turned to Japanese markets for an outlet. This meant that the pat-
terns and decorative styles were dictated by Japanese fashions. Tra-
ditional designs lost out, except in crafts such as architecture and
woodworking which catered to the small local market. Ryukyu ce-
ramics and lacquerware used to be of high artistic excellence, owing
largely to Chinese influence. Recently, however, only building tile and
pipe and cheap utilitarian and ornate funerary ware were produced
for local consumption. The exports followed Japanese designs, usu-
ally the more gaudy. The textile industries alone retained much of
the old-time technical excellence, but had to use Japanese styles.

As with the artistic crafts, the Ryukyu theater, music, and dance
had distintegrated from lack of upper-class patrons. In the cities
traditional forms of entertainment were largely replaced by Japanese-
style performances, especially by geisha. The rural areas still retained
their folk music and dances, which figured largely at the annual
festivals.

THE Socto-POLITICAL PATTERN

Settlement pattern: The family—The biological family, consist-
ing of parents and their children, was the basic unit of Ryukyu soci-
ety. Economic and religious pressures made family ties particularly
strong. Great family solidarity, almost to the exclusion of other
loyalties, was encountered by Americans during the invasion. It
was almost impossible to secure volunteer blood donors or nurses
RYUKYU PEOPLE—NEWMAN AND ENG 393

among the Okinawan civilians unless the welfare of an immediate
family member was involved.®

Within the family, the father was the household head, but did not
achieve the authoritarian status found in Japan. The status of
women was considerably higher than in Japan or any other country
in East Asia (Murdock, personal communication). Although all
contributed to the household’s support, the members of a Ryukyu
family controlled their own finances, and only lent money to other
members at interest. The differential behavior toward younger and
older family members, and toward those of the opposite sex was
almost as formalized as in Japan. These distinctions are reflected
in their kinship terms, which otherwise are comparable to our own.

Although some family households were large, the average one
consisted of four to five people. Many households lost at least one
member as a result of the heavy 1920-40 emigration, so the size of
the average family would have been somewhat larger. Reliable in-
formation on the number of children per family is not available.
On Okinawa Jima, Steiner (1947, p. 240) states that it averaged five
or six, but questionnaire returns in 1945 from 1,000 Okinawans gave
a mean of 3.7 for families having children.

In Ryukyu society a group of families related in the male line
formed a clan. Since married sons often settled near their parents’
households, clan members tended to cluster in communities. In former
times, these patrilocal clans had considerable power, but more recently
were overshadowed by the village group and the mutual benefit assoc-
iations. In out-of-the-way places, the clan still retained its strength.

Landholding and land tenure.—In the North Ryukyus the Japanese
pattern of extensive tenancy prevailed, but to the south reallotment
of small plots to individual farmers early in this century made for
wide diffusion of private ownership. In 1935 the tenancy rate for the
Central and South Ryukyus was only 10.5 percent. One thousand
questionnaire returns from Okinawans in 1945 indicated that 24 per-
cent were tenant farmers. Small as this sample is, it suggests that
tenancy increased from 1939 to 1945, possibly as a result of bankruptcy
of small independent farmers or the breaking up of their families by
conscription and emigration.

Most of the privately owned and operated farms in the Ryukyus
were very small. In 1939 they averaged 2.1 acres in the North, 1.6
acres in the Central and South Ryukyus. Rights of possession and
transference of private land were regulated by the Japanese civil code.
The chief aim of the inheritance laws was to keep the land within
the family as far as possible. This tended to bolster the household by
protecting its means of material support. Nevertheless, creditors had
the right to seize private land in lieu of a debt.

8 Moloney, 1945, p. 395.
394 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

The physical nature of the communities and their functions.—Since
the arable land was largely divided into small plots, farm houses were
not far apart. This can be seen in plate 1, upper. More often, how-
ever, these houses were clustered in small villages (see pl. 1, lower)
ranging in size from only a few families to over 1,000 people. These
villages resulted from a natural growth, perhaps starting with only a
few related households, and later adding other kin groups and single
families. These kin groups of a number of households related in the
male line often formed subsettlements in the rural villages, but were
generally of less functioning importance than the village group.

The locations of villages were determined by several factors. The
desire to conserve arable land for crops favored using the less fertile
areas for villages. On the other hand, the less readily cultivated
hilltops and ridges were exposed to the full force of typhoons, and
hence were often avoided for village sites. For this reason, some
Okinawans were dismayed at the American tendency to erect hospitals
and other installations on the higher and more exposed land. More
usually, therefore, Ryukyu villages were located along the flats, in
valleys, and on the lee slopes of the hills.

Most villages had a central area for markets and other communal
affairs. Festivals, geared to the economic and religious annual cycles,
were also held there. Also administrative matters, in part passed on
to the village headman from the township officials, were discussed and
put into practice in the central area. In any village, this area embodied
the core of the local society. This was where the people got the word.

Although the Ryukyus were largely rural, nine settlements became
large enough to classify as towns or cities. These ranged in size from
about 7,000 to 66,000, and totaled almost one-quarter of the total
1940 population of the islands. Several of these, notably Naha on
Okinawa Jima and Naze on Amami O Shima, were port towns or cities.
The rest were merely overgrown villages, set apart only by their
size and the presence of modern administrative and commercial build-
ings. The towns and cities served largely as mercantile centers, and
also in most cases were the focal points for voting, agricultural, police,
and postal organizations.

Class structure-—Although early in this century the Japanese lev-
eled the native hierachy of social classes, enough time has elapsed
since then for a social system patterned after the Japanese to begin to
take hold. In this system holders of administrative and educational
posts enjoyed the highest status. Next, and pressing these oflicials
closely, were the larger landowners. As Murdock (personal com-
munication) says, a man with five or more acres of farm land was
considered rich and was much respected. Village heads, assemblymen,
and teachers were usually drawn from upper middle class landed
households. Below them were the'rank and file of artisans, fishermen,
RYUKYU PEOPLE—NEWMAN AND ENG 395

tenant farmers, and small shop, restaurant, and hotel keepers. In
addition, when sugar prices were high, a small group of nouveau
riche sugar producers sprang up to occupy top positions in the upper
middle class until the market turned downward.

A ssociations.—Occasionally cutting across the growing class lines,
but mostly operating within the class level were the characteristically
Japanese associations, designed to align those people interested in ac-
complishing specific things. Some of these were government spon-
sored and controlled, especially the patriotic, reservist, and youth or-
ganizations. Others were more spontaneous and developed from spe-
cific economic needs. Of these, farmers’ buying and selling coopera-
tives were the most numerous. As Japan tightened its economic belt
for war, the government took over many of these spontaneous associa-
tions to achieve higher production. Other minor associations were
concerned with civic, cultural, and wholly social affairs. All associa-
tions were checked by the police, but sometimes this was only
perfunctory.

Formal government.—In the Japanese administration, the prefec-
ture stands immediately below the Imperial Government and usually
deals with the local units directly. The Northern Ryukyus were ad-
ministered as part of Kagoshima prefecture; the Central and South
Ryukyus, comprising the whole of Okinawa prefecture, were admin-
istered asa unit. Prefectural governors were appointed by the Prime
Minister, and operated with a secretariat and four departments—
General Affairs, Education, Economic Affairs, and Police. An elec-
tive assembly served the governor in a largely advisory capacity and
had virtually no power. In addition representatives of the various
Imperial Ministries were assigned their specific duties in the Ryukyus.
Except for the governor, his advisors, and an occasional high official,
most of the administrative posts were held by Ryukyuans.

Within the prefectural governments in the Ryukyus, branch oflices
were established on the more remote islands to facilitate their admin-
istration. Two such offices were present in the North, two more in
the South Ryukyus. The Central islands were themselves the seat
of the Okinawa prefectural government and needed no branch offices.

The seats of the local administrative units were the cities, towns, or
in rural areas, townships. In all cases the mayor or headman and
their staffs were elected by the local assembly, which in turn was
chosen by popular vote of all male residents over 25 years old. These
city, town, and township administrations could operate autonomously
in purely local issues, subject of course to a veto from higher up. On
policy matters, however, their courses of action were dictated to them.
In rural areas the village heads were appointed by the township head-
man and served without salary, but had local prestige well worth the
troubles of office.
396 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

RELIGION

The native animistic religion has survived in little-modified form
in the Central and South Ryukyus. Owing to long-time Japanese
domination, it was less strong in the Northern islands. Its strength,
however, from Okinawa south is indicated by the absurdly small num-
ber of adherents to foreign religions in that area. For 1937 less than
4 percent of the people were Buddhists, less than 2 percent Shintoists,
and only 0.2 percent Christians. This means that 94 percent of the
people practiced their old-time religion, although a few may have
had no religious feelings at all.

The essence of this folk religion was the endowment of natural
phenomena with supernatural forces. Thus fire, mountain peaks, the
sea, and groves of trees made up a pantheon of spirits, to which the
people paid homage. Locally sacred areas were marked by fetishes.
Temples came as a later, probably foreign-influenced, development.

The worship of these vague naturalistic spirits is an old and very
widespread form of religion. Particularly striking in Ryukyu
religion was the veneration of the hearth, which was sacred to the
fire god. Also noteworthy was the cult of sacrosanct priestesses, or
“noros,” for whom celibacy was once a requirement of office. These
“noros” were almost the sole religious practitioners of the native reli-
gion, although lesser female assistants took minor roles. The office of
“noro” was largely confined to certain families and was passed on from
generation to generation with the paraphernalia of sacred objects—a
vesture, tablets inscribed with names of ancestral priestesses, a string
of crystal beads with jewels or stones in between, and a fire-god fetish.

Almost every village had a “noro” who sometimes wielded great
enough power to reverse the will of the people. A “noro” figured
prominently in the village-square festivals and was consulted at other
times for prayers and advice. Less benevolent practitioners were the
fortune-tellers, or “yuta,” who in addition to clairvoyance, would pro-
pitiate evil spirits and ghosts. The Japanese administrators felt the
“yuta” abused their influence and in recent times outlawed their
operations.

THE LiFe CYCLE

There is little information on childbirth practices in the Ryukyus
immediately prior to the war. In 1939 the ratio of physicians was
about 3.5 per 10,000 population, and the number of registered mid-
wives not much higher. The 1945 questionnaire administered to 471
Okinawan mothers indicated that 58 percent of the women were
attended by midwives for the last child, with the remainder almost
wholly unattended professionally.

Formerly, both mother and child were kept close to the sacred
family hearth for a week, while friends and relatives made loud music
RYUKYU PEOPLE—NEWMAN AND ENG 397

day and night. This custom may still persist in out-of-the-way areas.
Other ancient customs, such as placing a crab on the male baby’s head
to insure early crawling, may also be found in the recent culture.

Once the baby came into the Ryukyu world, we have the word of
an American psychiatrist ® that it was well mothered. Of 241 Oki-
nawan mothers questioned in 1945, the average age of weaning their
last child was 3.8 years (Japanese).° During that time a mother
seldom left her child, but carried it on her back in a sling. No set
feeding schedules were followed, but the baby was nursed when it
desired. When it was weaned the baby was taken over by a substi-
tute mother, usually the next elder sister. These “little mothers”
carried their charges in slings or led them around, and continued the
Ryukyu system of good mothering. In contrast to the Japanese who
commence rigid bowel training well before a baby is 1 year old
(Western), Ryukyu mothers made no such attempt until their off-
spring reached at least a year and a half. At that time the training
was largely a matter of emulating the older children. A significant
aspect of child training is pointed out by Moloney (1945, p. 394), who
states that only once did he see a Ryukyu mother corporally punish
her child,

When the child was over 314 years old (Western) it was ready for
school operated under the Japanese educational system. As Moloney
(1945, p. 394) says, “One not familiar with psychological maturative
processes would be inclined to believe that the Okinawan brand of
mothering would produce a self-centered, a spoiled, an undisciplined
child. On the contrary, they show themselves capable of harmonious
social cooperation * * *, Calm, confident, and without fear, they
obeyed their elders, but were not obsequious.” He emphasizes that
Japanese doctrine did not reach a Ryukyu child until, under the pro-
tective tutelage of the home, its basic personality structure was al-
ready well consolidated. During the next 6 years in the nominally
compulsory lower elementary school, Japanese indoctrination only
made a superficial impression on the children. Like their parents,
they learned to pay “a superficial and expedient homage to Imperial
Japan.”

Differential treatment of boys and girls began at preschool age and
was continued with more force in the schools. At early ages, both
sexes were taught their ascribed status in society, so that they knew
how to treat those people with whom they came in contact. These
behavior patterns for girls required more humility and deference than
for boys. In the early training of both sexes, however, respect for

® Moloney, 1945, pp. 392.

In Japan and the Ryukyus a baby is considered 1 year old at birth, and picks up
another year the following January 1. Thus a baby born December 31 is 2 years old the

following day, but a baby born January 1 does not become 2 years old until the following
January 1. On the average, Japanese ages are 114 years ahead of Western ages.
398 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

elders was emphasized. The etiquette of ostentatious self-abasement,
however, never reached the heights seen in modern Japan. “Face”
was nevertheless important in Ryukyu society, and the mechanisms
of face-saving were learned early in life.

Ordinarily a child attended school for 6 to 8 years. Emphasis there
was placed in the following order upon Japanese-style “ethics,” the
Japanese language, use of the abacus for working arithmetical prob-
lems, and memorization of large numbers of Chinese characters. For
the sake of “health” and also to promote national solidarity, group
calisthenics were often coordinated by radio with similar activities
all over Japan.

During the school years, boys and girls were taught to be useful at
home, and shouldered household burdens as soon as they were able.
Girls usually took care of younger brothers or sisters. Boys assisted
older men in the family in the more specialized male tasks. Both
boys and girls did their stint in the field, especially at harvest time,
often dropping out of school to do so.

At the age of 13 (Japanese), both went through coming-of-age cere-
monies. These involved the first wearing of adult clothes, symbolic of
the end of childhood and the assumption of a grown-up role in soci-
ety. In recent times these ceremonies were of a more perfunctory na-
ture, particularly since schooling might not be completed until the next
year, or even later if more advanced education was desired and could
be afforded.

At about the turn of the century, 14 to 17 years was considered the
proper time for marriage. Matches were almost always arranged by
the parents. In the 1920's and 1930's, however, marriages began taking
place later in life. By 1937 the average ages for first marriages were
27 for men and 24 for women. Obviously, as in Japan and the United
States, most young Ryukyuans were not well enough fixed financially
to marry in the ’teens. In addition, military conscription took many
young men out of circulation for a while when they reached 20 years
of age.

The betrothal in an arranged marriage involved visiting ceremonies,
led by intermediaries. Details varied locally, and some of the mar-
riage customs described in the literature may no longer be practiced.
Both the “wife search” in the North, and “bride capture” in the South
Ryukyus may now be things of the past. The marriage ceremony it-
self was held in the groom’s home. It was sometimes customary for
the groom’s party to leave the bride for a belated and lengthy “bach-
elor dinner” but this luxury could not be afforded by the average young
farmer.

Ryukyu marriages were easily broken by common consent with a
minimum of family turmoil. The divorce rate in the Central and
South Ryukyus was higher in the 1930’s than in any other Japanese
RYUKYU PEOPLE—NEWMAN AND ENG 399

prefect. The broken hones occasioned by easy divorce apparently
did not cause appreciable maladjustment in the children. The reasons
for this are obscure and would merit special study.

Almost all married couples and their children lived in a narrow
work-a-day world which called for hard labor and great frugality.
Americans were particularly impressed with Ryukyu woman’s hard lot,
not realizing her relatively high social status. It is true that the
women worked in the fields, did the housekeeping, raised children,
carried heavy burdens, marketed much of the produce, and performed
many other routine tasks. But the men of the working class also
worked hard. Theirs were more specialized tasks, such as building,
carpentry, and irrigation, as well as a good part of agricultural work.
Both sexes were extraordinarily well muscled and hardy. The small
number of days a year when they were too sick to work would make
a proud record in the United States.

This physically strenuous life, coupled with low emotional tensions
and a simple and largely vegetarian diet, apparently made for late
senility (Steiner, 1946, pp. 22-23). The number of elderly people
compared favorably with that of Western countries noted for their
medical science. Outstanding in the Ryukyus was the very small
amount of heart disease, alimentary and kidney disorders, cancer, and
other degenerative changes so common in the more civilized world.

Old people were able to remain active most of their lives. When
they could no longer carry on, their families took care of them. Above
all, special care was taken to give them a proper funeral and place the
coffin in the family tomb. Years later the unmarried girls of the fam-
ily would carefully clean the bones in sweetpotato brandy, and rev-
erently place them in a funerary urn. Within the vault these urns
were arranged on an altar according to the status and kinship of the
persons whose bones they contained. The bones of the husband and
wife were often placed together in a single urn, so they could grow
old together. It is reported“ that the tombs were deliberately fash-
ioned in the shape of a womb, and that the Ryukyuans considered death
merely a return to the place from whence they came.

THE Ryukyu CULTURE PATTERN AND THE RYUKYUAN’S WoRLD VIEW

In the past 1,000 years or more, the influences of Chinese and Jap-
anese civilizations were largely absorbed by the upper class of Ryu-
kyuans. Some of these foreign customs filtered through to the com-
moners, who in the main went on eking out their simple rural exist-
ence much on the same cultural level as the medieval Japanese peasant.
After Japan annexed the Ryukyus, she lopped off the upper classes
there, placing almost everyone in commoner’s status.

“ Moloney, 1945, p. 396; Steiner, 1947, p. 311. We consider these reports of questionable
validity, but cannot disprove them.

T77488—48 29

400 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

What remained of the indigenous Ryukyu culture was only the
peasant part of it. The esoteric character of the upper-class native
life was lost, to be replaced by Japanese customs. ‘The peasant cul-
ture has been outwardly changed by new food plants, limited partici-
pation in world trade, Chinese manners, and Japanese regulations.
Yet inwardly it reflects an old pattern, the core of which probably
goes back to an early agricultural level.

This core is the food economy. It has never been easy for peasants
to make a living in Ryukyus, and to do so most effectively has re-
quired hard physical work, cooperative effort, and frugality. This
hard work was performed cooperatively by family members, who
farmed small plots of land in tenancy or actual ownership. This
placed tremendous strength in the in-group solidarity of the family,
which was reinforced by a religion emphasizing the sacredness of the
household hearth and the veneration of ancestors. Within the family
relationships were regulated by differential behavior patterns for
each member. Only enough freedom of action was permitted to ab-
sorb domestic tensions and alleviate otherwise intolerable personality
clashes. Where husband and wife were so unsuited as to threaten
family solidarity, divorces occurred. These were accomplished with
a minimum of controversy, the wife returned to her people, and the
rest of the family carried on until a more suitable wife and mother
was brought in. Children were usually extremely well mothered,
and were serenely brought up to take their ascribed adult status in
the family and the immediate society. Family “face” was as impor-
tant as individual “face.” Both were preserved at almost any cost.

Village ties were much less important than the solidarity of the
family, but in modern times transcended the bonds of the patrilineal
clan. Ties to the village were motivated largely by economic matters.
Cooperative building, construction of roads, and improvement and
repair of irrigation systems were some of the village enterprises.
Group participation in religious ceremonials and social events, mar-
riage bonds between village families, and the village market helped
cement village solidarity. In times of great stress, although a
Ryukyuan would do a great deal for his family, he would probably
make no great sacrifices for a fellow villager. In all probability, he
would reject the thought of aiding an outsider. The loyalties were
first to the family and then to the village. In his world view, the
Ryukyuan probably did not see far beyond either one.

To make a living in the Ryukyus, everything had to be used. How
else could four or five people derive their support from an acre and a
half of hand-tilled soil? Projecting this frugality into the psychologi-
cal realm, Moloney (1945, pp. 394-395) suggests that it makes for the
realistic attitude that worthless things, people included, are to be
rejected. As he says, “Apparently * * * social consciousness
RYUKYU PEOPLE—NEWMAN AND ENG 401

does not extend to that which is no longer valuable” (ibid, p. 395).
As an Okinawan might have expressed it in a United States Navy
hospital (see p. 392), “Why should I give blood to a countryman whom
I don’t know, and who will probably die anyway?” In terms of this
realism, and the in-group solidarity which blots out other ties, there
would be no answer to him.

The possession of a sometimes ruthless realism did not render the
Ryukyuans “almost devoid of religious sentiments,” as Leavenworth
(1905, p. 38) would have it. To be sure, few natives were converted
to Buddhism or Christianity, but in their own way they made strong
identifications with the supernatural. It is important to note that
these identifications were on a practical level. The old-time religion
held that all of nature was alive and endowed with spirits. Because
the people realized their helpless dependence upon nature, fire, moun-
tain peaks, groves, rivers, and the sea were construed as vague but pow-
erful friendly or unfriendly forces. The prayers and ceremonies were
to please the friendly forces, and, insofar as their feeble powers per-
mitted, placate the unfriendly ones. There are no indications that the
belief in inimical spirit forces made for a fear-ridden society. Possi-
bly the popular attitude was rather one of resignation, which might be
expressed as “We will do what we can, and observe all the proprieties.
Then come what may.” In their practice of ancestor worship, the
elaborate funerary procedures were also carried out to the letter.
Apparently there was deep satisfaction to be derived from properly
honoring the dead. A fine tomb for this purpose was a prime goal in
Ryukyu culture.

THE WAR AND THE FUTURE

The assigned task of the Ryukyus during World War II was to
provide military conscripts and war workers to the Empire and to
tighten the belts at home. As the Japanese military position became
desperate, more and more Ryukyuans were fed into the war machine.
And beginning with the heavy United States air strike on October 10,
1944, bombed-out natives fled to southern Japan. So by the time of
the invasion, the civilian population of the Ryukyus was as low as
it was about 1900.

Okinawa and adjacent islets felt the smashing effect of a shooting
invasion, while only the military areas of other islands were bombed
and shelled by American and British forces. On Okinawa itself,
some 30,000 able-bodied native men were pressed into the Japanese
defense force of some 120,000. In many cases their families went with
them and were caught in the bitter fighting. Most of the civilians,
however, hid out in the hills and in caves under overcrowded and
difficult conditions until they were brought out by the Americans.
In addition to the injuries of war, the lack of food, warm clothing,
402 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

sanitation, and medical care took heavy toll. One out of eight died
as a result of the invasion and the losses of able-bodied men and of
infants were proportionally much higher.

The Okinawan civilians were crowded into Military Government
camps back of the lines (see pl. 2). Until the salvaged food in the
area of these camps was exhausted, most interned Okinawans were
fed enough to sustain life. None were fat, and emaciation, while not
the average condition, was common enough. By early summer, their
losses in body weight were not as great as their hardships would lead
one to suppose.

In midsummer of 1945 most of the 300,000 civilians were transported
to new Military Government camps in the more barren northern part
of Okinawa. There they suffered great privations despite American
efforts to take care of them properly. Housing was most primitive
(see pl. 4, lower), sanitary facilities and water supply were meager, and
food was considered abundant if one day’s supply was on hand. In
the early fall a nutritional survey (Culbert and Lewis, 1945) reported
that 10 percent were on the borderline of starvation, while 43 percent
showed signs of early malnutrition. Average body weights taken by
ages were down 10 percent as compared to the early summer figures.

Commencing in the late fall of 1945, the internees were gradually
released and permitted to settle in their home areas. The homes of
90 percent of them had been destroyed during the invasion, and many
of their fields had been ruined or were reserved for military installa-
tions. Part of the tremendous task of resettling involved aiding them
in building new homes, reclaiming and releasing arable land, and
feeding and clothing them until they could become self-sufficient.

The problems of Military Government were somewhat less difficult
on the less war-torn islands. In 1947, however, the total Ryukyu
acreage planned for cultivation was only about 60 percent of the pre-
war figure. This reflects the over-all dislocation of Ryukyu economy,
and explains why even in the first half of 1947, one-third of the food
consumed in even the most basic rations had to be imported from the
United States. These imports are being gradually reduced, pending
the time when the Ryukyus will be self-sufficient in food supply.

While this reconstruction of Ryukyu economy was going on, over
200,000 Ryukyuans from all over the Pacific were brought back to
their homeland. This repatriation began in early 1946 and was vir-
tually completed that year. This brought the June 29, 1947, popula-
tion to 44,000 more than the early 1944 figure, so that the Ryukyus are
now as overcrowded as they ever were. ‘The current hope for render-
ing the Ryukyus self-sustained in food supply is the work of mechan-
ized land-reclamation teams, cooperating with the farmer’s associa-
tions. If all the arable land is utilized (see p. 386), it may be suffi-
cient to support the present population. Rehabilitation of the fishing
403

RYUKYU PEOPLE—NEWMAN AND ENG

‘CABUIYO JO PURIST oY} JO deur o1uvloUKd UOISBAUTL-vIg—'Z ALOOLA

WUNOA dnoz9 qiyg wo

is

OLOHS TaSNVN

“sl / wwiHs NAWNIMO

HILINS FYAILIIdSaId

WHIKE “OY

Fee? *)
UM 9 D> ALS
Promoy) /, LOPS,
C3 oh

i=

404 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

industry should also aid in providing food. In this connection, sal-
vaged United States landing craft have been turned over to Ryukyu
fishermen.

Efforts are also being made to rebuild other Ryukyu industries, and
apparently the results have been satisfactory where raw materials
and in some cases salvaged equipment are obtainable. The Military
Government rehabilitation program envisages trebling the stone quar-
rying and woodworking production to meet high current needs; build-
ing up the cement, Panama-hat, and lacquerware industries for export;
eventually developing silk production to meet the local demand; and
bringing back the ceramic, brick, dyeing, sulfur, and coal output to
prewar levels. The household crafts, such as mat making and linen
weaving, went back into production with less difficulty than other
industries.

As early as September 1945 temporary elementary schools were or-
ganized. By early 1947, enrollment was as high as in 1937. High
schools and technical schools were being organized, and present labor
laws require school attendance until 18 years of age (Japanese). School
texts have been mimeographed and distributed. Certainly the curric-
ula of present-day schools represent a decided change from prewar
days. In addition to educating the youth, special adult classes have
received practical instruction. Motor maintenance and repair, use of
heavy equipment, and preparation of unfamiliar imported foodtstufis
are examples of this training program.

Recently malaria, influenza, and trachoma have been the most preva-
lent communicable diseases. Before the war, malaria was endemic
only in certain areas of the Ryukyus, but the thorough shuffling of the
native population during and after the invasion has rendered the dis-
ease an island-wide problem. Mass immunizations for smallpox, dys-
entery, and diphtheria (see pl. 5, lower) have been carried out by
Military Government authorities. The prevalence of intestinal para-
sites and filariasis in the native population needs the attention of a co-
ordinated program, but will require sanitary measures to which the
Ryukyuans are unaccustomed.

In early 1947, 25 Christian churches were holding services in the
Ryukyus, with about 200 more members than in 1937. (See p. 396.)
Attendance doubled by the end of that year. It will be interesting to
see whether or not a Christian philosophy can be successfully grafted
to the Ryukyu culture pattern.

The rehabilitation of the Ryukyu people is proceeding apace under
American administration. The immediate goal is to make them econ-
omically self-sufficient. The ultimate problem is how to best facili-
tate the adjustment of a simple agricultural people to the modern
industrial world.
RYUKYU PEOPLE—NEWMAN AND ENG 405

LITERATURE CITED

CULBERT, R. W., and LEwIs, LEON.
1945. Nutritional study—Okinawa (a preliminary report). November 4.
(Manuscript. )
Ene, Ransom L.
1945. Okinawan opinion study (a preliminary survey). April 30. (Manu-
script.)
LEAVENWORTH, CHARLES 8.
1905. The Loochoo Islands. 186 pp. Shanghai.
Motoney, JAMES C.
1945. Psychiatrie observations on Okinawa Shima. Psychiatry, vol. 8, No.
4, pp. 391-399.
Murbock, GEORGE P.
1934. Our Primitive Contemporaries. Macmillan Co., N. Y.
Navy DEPARTMENT.
1944. Civil Affairs Handbook, Ryukyu (Loochoo) Islands. OPNAYV 13-21,
345 pp.
NEWMAN, MarSHALL T., and Ene, Ransom L,
1947. The Ryukyu people: A biological appraisal. Amer. Journ. Phys.
Anthrop., n. s., vol. 5, No. 2, pp. 113-157.
STEINER, PAUL E.
1946. Necropsies on Okinawans. Reprinted with additions from Arch.
Pathol., vol. 42, pp. 359-380, by Amer. Med. Assoc., pp. 1-28.
1947. Okinawa and its people. Sci. Month., vol. 64, No. 3, pp. 283-241; No. 4,
pp. 806-312.
YALE UNIVERSITY.
No date. Cross-Cultural Survey—the Ryukyu Islands. (Unpublished.)

Note: A full bibliography on the cultural anthropology of the Ryukyus is listed
in the Navy Department’s Civil Affairs Handbook. References on the physical
anthropology are covered in Newman and Eng, 1947.
Official documents dealing with the American occupation of the islands are:
Army Military Government Summations of the United States Army Military
Government Activities in the Ryukyu Islands, July 1946 to current.

Navy Military Government, Ryukyu Islands, 1 July 1946. Report of Military
Government activities from 1 April 1945 to 1 July 1946.

War Department, Public Information Division, Press Section releases.
Sr yAihel UTES oft

Carlisi) i eater WAY)
AO | / MAE i haem catia
Rs cakteaieed Tee i aie: iaetorasace: datedont

hie

ied Fab ninth ny: hee” tak Ne =i

A, j \
hut f
tt sa ! he es

nh ‘aes Tit is Ey or!

ie i 4 ae

jee

Smithsonian Report, 1947..-Newman and Eng PLATE 1

1. Aerial view of the Bisha River and adjacent countryside in west-central
Okinawa. The first invasion waves of landing craft are in the background.
(Official U. S. Navy photograph.)

2. Aerial view of an Okinawan village. Many of the houses have been bombed
or fired. (Official U. S. Navy photograph.)
Smithsonian Report, 1947.—Newman and Eng PEATE 2

‘ 42

1. Okinawan women and children who just arrived at an M. G. civilian camp in
the early days of the invasion. (Official U. 8. Navy Photograph.)

eee 2 se Pe sue Nees ae : : eS ee
2. One of the first M. G. civilian camps set up on Okinawa. (Official U.S. Navy
photograph.) "
Smithsonian Report, 1947.—Newman and Eng PLATE 3

Upper, native village on Ishigaki-Jima in the South Ryukyus; center, native
sailing craft in the Iriomote Jima group; lower, concrete tomb from Okinawa.
(Photographs courtesy J. Allen Chase, Leon Lewis, and A. C. P. Bakos.)
Smithsonian Report, 1947.—Newman and Eng PLATE 4

}
“%
4

Upper, home of a Shinto priest at Kin, Okinawa; lower, temporary home of a
refugee at Gimbaru, Okinawa. (Photographs courtesy J. Allen Chase and
Leon Lewis.)
Smithsonian Report, 1947.—Newman and Eng PLATE 5

Upper, a group of lepers in the colony on Yagaji Shima, off northwest Okinawa:
lower, school children of Kanna, Okinawa, being immunized for dysentery.
(Photographs courtesy J. Allen Chase and Leon Lewis.)
PUZZLE IN PANAMA?

By WALDo G, BowMAN

Rditor, Engineering News-Record

[With 8 plates]

A good many things came to an end when the atomic bombs exploded
over Hiroshima and Nagasaki. And not the least of those things that
were lost forever was our confidence in the security of the Panama
Canal.

That fact is now being reflected in a comprehensive engineering
study to determine whether the present Canal or any canal in the
same or any other location can be made safe for our merchant and
naval fleets in wartime. And, of equal concern, if not of the same
grimness in consequences, is the problem of the adequacy of the Canal
to meet the growing demands of peacetime shipping. It all adds up to
a puzzle of first-order magnitude.

Nor is the puzzle simplified (although the scope for its solution
is undoubtedly broadened) by the fact that the atomic bombs not only
blasted confidence in the present Canal, but also raised up a ghost—
that of a Panama sea-level canal whose earthly body was interred on
June 29, 1906, when Congress adopted the lock-type canal favored in
the minority report of President Theodore Roosevelt’s board of con-
sulting engineers. And to this sea-level canal ghost the present in-
vestigators may well repeat Hamlet’s famous questions to the ghost
of his father, “Be thou a spirit of health, or goblin damned? Say,
why is this? Wherefore? What should we do?” Sea level or not,
and if not, then what? That is the question, and the present puzzle in
Panama.

Because a proper solution is of vital importance to every American,
and of major interest to all engineers and construction men, a first-
hand account of the progress of the studies was deemed timely and
desirable. What the conclusions and recommendations will be is not
now known, indeed will not be known until they are reported to Con-
gress late this year (1947). But after 2 weeks in the Canal Zone talk-
ing to officials, witnessing tests, traveling the canal, clambering over

1 Reprinted by permission from Engineering News-Record, vol. 138, No. 18, May 1, 1947.
407
408 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

its famous once-sliding banks, inspecting its locks and dams, and listen-
ing to scuttlebutt and rumor, a reasonably complete account of “Isth-
mian Canal Studies—1947” can be rendered. ‘This is it.

OBJECTIVE AND PLAN OF THEIR STUDIES

The studies had their beginning on December 28, 1945, when Public
Law 280, Seventy-ninth Congress, first session, was passed. In it
Congress said to the Governor of the Panama Canal, “Tell us how we
and the American people can best be assured of a ship crossing of the
isthmus that will be safe from war hazards and of ample capacity for
many years to come. Give us a recommendation for the best type of
canal and the best route, no matter where located, in Panama or out.”
Included in the studies, of course, was to be a revaluation of the $277,-
000,000 project to build a third set of locks, larger and removed some
distance from the present pair, begun in 1939 (Engineering News
Record, September 14, 1939, p. 330) and suspended because of the war
in 1942 after most of the necessary excavation had been completed.

Maj. Gen. Joseph C. Mehaffey, Governor of the Canal Zone, and him-
self an Army Engineer officer with a long record of service on the
Canal, lost no time in initiating the authorized study, for which about
$5,000,000 has been provided. Assigning the task to the Canal’s
special engineering division, which was created to handle the third
locks project, he appointed Col. James H. Stratton as supervising engi-
neer. Enjoying an outstanding reputation as one of the ablest tech-
nical men and administrators in the Corps of Engineers, Colonel
Stratton was soon successful in assembling an unusually capable staff
of civilian engineer specialists to head up the various phases of the
work. Supplementing his own organization with a board of eminent
consulting engineers to afford continual guidance and advice, he went
to work. And as need developed, individual specialists from private
life and from the Office of the Chief of Engineers were called in while,
in addition, special research contracts were awarded so as to bring the
nation’s best talents to bear on the problem.

The procedure of the studies is simple and effective. Investigations
of each particular subject—routes, lock design, dredging, drilling and
blasting, soil mechanics, flood control, hydraulics, construction plan-
ning, to name a few—are carried out by the staff specialists through
their own research and analysis and aided by the outside research con-
tracts. As the study of each phase or subject is completed, a report
or memorandum is prepared. Then, at the periodic meetings of the
consulting board, the section heads present the memos (No. 183 hav-
ing been reached on March 1, 1947), which are approved, turned down,
or returned for further study.

The eventual result of this whittling and sifting will be a set of
conclusions from which a final recommendation can be made to the
PUZZLE IN PANAMA—BOWMAN 409

Governor by Colonel Stratton and the board. If the Governor accepts
it, as is probable since he keeps in close touch with the work even to
taking part in the consulting board meetings, the recommendation
will be presented to the War and Navy Departments for review, and
will then go to Congress. What happens after that in the way of
actual design and construction is up to the law makers, the President,
and the American people.

q, eocsaet | bee uneeraeaee ees eee
SOIT A OE

Seaiein Miles

Ca, crete
Sar fg

* ate
3 as LF ‘i =

rae

a 3 |
« 5 ‘
nt

— Pp PANAMA CANAL

2 AF,
if
i io : SSILLILE GG Medi, y ¢
“i ‘_ SONG ee
i 4 Wen > , aan ts
*

PANAMA CONVERS/ON

o

Yo

¢ M4
CONTRACTORS “SB {is A
ee . MIRAFLOR ES
, ss) i LocKs \
. GZ,

\ AL

fo
eg

7 S A, dA )
A, oe Cie ih
meer of acme Sate ed
KOE ¥ fia
be raat

E ed 9
pat \@ 2627 '

cirt

CONTINENTAL
OIVIDE

Ficure 1.—The Panama Canal and three of the alternate routes in its vicinity
whose engineering feasibility and relative cost and security are under investi-
gation.

Considering the study procedure and the topnotch technical talents
of the men engaged on the work, and observing their earnestness of
purpose and high sense of responsibility, one cannot but feel that the
recommendation will be honestly arrived at, technically sound, and
unaffected by frivolous whims or superficial reasoning. There almost
surely will be those who will disagree with the recommendation, but
none except the carelessly biased or the unscrupulous who would ques-
tion its integrity.
410 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

Since Congress ordered examination of all possible routes, the ob-
vious line of attack was to study each possibility in turn to the point
where it eliminated itself from consideration because of lack of water
for lockages, too great length, poor terminals, excessive excavation,
lack of security, and other applicable reasons. If followed thoroughly
and fairly, this procedure should leave for final consideration the best
type canal on the best route. To achieve a degree of comparison among
all routes a hypothetical canal was initially assumed in each case, with
a bottom width of 500 feet and with side slopes of 1: 1.

a a ae

“CUBA _ o]
o =
Cae JAMAICA
e HAITI
/

a P)

mls v-J
‘iain. | VsritisH s e

| *( HONDURAS Sf 4
: 4 wv
|
L

4

( GUATEMALA ee HONDURAS
., a:
fr~. if
i, wae =e,
a OW
SAN” gag NICARAGUA
SALVADOR Soar ike
Micaroguad
ea z Panama Candql Son Blas
Nicer a yet ‘ | Galedonia

COSTA Chorrera, \
RICA “sk

| Bay

COLOMBIA

Ficure 2.—Engineering and construction studies initially encompassed 22 isthmian
routes from Mexico to Colombia. Those named plus two others—the Panama
Parallel and Panama Conversion Routes near the present canal—warranted
the most study.

A total of 22 routes was examined, as shown on the map, figure 2.
Including practically all of the routes that have been proposed or
studied over the past century or more, the list contained some that were
readily dropped from consideration as patently impractical, others
that required more detailed study, and a few upon which special field
work was deemed necessary. Indicative of routes easily eliminated was
Tehuantepec in Mexico, which has the advantage of being nearest
the United States, but would require 61% billion yards of excavation
for a sea-level canal and 15 lifts of about 39 feet each for a lock canal.
Another even more easily eliminated was Chiriqui in Panama near
the Costa Rican border where an even greater yardage would have
PUZZLE IN PANAMA—BOWMAN 411

to be removed to create a sea-level canal and where there is no water
at high elevation to supply a lock canal.

MOST STUDY GIVEN 4 OF 22 ROUTES

Elimination of the patently impractical routes left four, outside the
immediate area of the existing canal, for further study—San Blas
(named for an area and an Indian Tribe) and Caledonia Bay, for either
a sea-level or a lock canal; Atrato-Truando (named for the two rivers
that it follows) for a sea-level canal; and Nicaragua (with Pacific
terminus at Brito) for a lock canal. Except for Nicaragua, the avail-
able field data were less than desirable to permit a satisfactory an-
alysis. Field surveys were, therefore, undertaken, using both ground
and aerial mapping procedures. Such ultramodern aids as two-way
radio communication between ground and air, radar profiling from the
planes, mapping cameras that take pictures at 1-second intervals, and
special ground altimeters provided much better data than were avail-
able before, so that the decisions that will be made as to these routes
should be correspondingly better.

Whether San Blas, Caledonia Bay, or Atrato-Truando will be
shown to have potentialities comparable to Nicaragua, whose merits
have long been recognized, remains to be seen. However, a sea-level
canal at Nicaragua is probably ruled out because the necessary drain-
ing of Lake Nicaragua would deprive the country of an important
body of water and probably alter its climate. The lock canal, favor-
ably reported on in 1931 by the late Gen. Daniel Sultan, is still one
of the best possibilities if a supplementary canal at another location
than Panama is deemed necessary. Its cost now could easily be twice
the $722,000,000 estimated by General Sultan, and its safety from
modern weapons of destruction would be no greater than that of the
present canal, but such disadvantages are relative, and might, in a
comparison with other routes, be worth accepting.

IMPROVING THE PRESENT CANAL

Obviously, any new route for a canal must be far superior to the
present one to warrant serious consideration, unless, of course, we are
to have two canals, a possibility that cannot be ruled out and one which
it is understood has been considered in connection with some proposed
routes near the present canal. These will be described later in this
article, but first the proposals for improving the present canal need
tc be considered.

The existing Panama Canal has many advantages. It has operated
successfully for over 30 years. Its length is comparatively short. Its
total lock lift of 85 feet is moderate. It has ample water supply. Its
terminals are established communities with efficient harbor and port
facilities. It represents one of our proudest national possessions, and
412 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

is among one of our largest capital assets. What then does it lack?

First, its present capacity is estimated to be inadequate for com-
mercial shipping after 1964, and its locks are not wide enough for
modern and future naval vessels. (It was to overcome these dis-
advantages that the Third Locks Project was initiated, providing
lock chambers 140 feet wide as compared with the present 110 feet.)
Second, it may not be safe against modern bombing. These were the
items—capacity and security—on which Congress asked to be assured.

Insofar as capacity is concerned it is certain that the lockage load
of the present canal can be increased. The Third Locks Project would
do it. Replacement of the existing locks with new ones of larger
dimensions and increased efficiency would also do it. Even the in-
stallation of a type of gate that could be removed for maintenance
and repair (while a temporary gate replaced it) would greatly in-
crease capacity by reducing the present overhaul time that keeps one
lane of the existing locks out of service 4 months every 2 years.

The present investigators, however, are believed to favor a fourth
way as best meeting the needs of increased capacity and security for
the present lock canal. This is by means of the so-called Pacific termi-
nal Jake plan in which all lock lifts on the Pacific side would be
concentrated in the vicinity of Miraflores; in effect this would elimi-
nate the single-life lock at Pedro Miguel, and raise Miraflores to
elevation 85 feet so that it would become an integral part of Gatun
Lake, connected to it by Gaillard cut.

To understand this plan, as well as ones proposed to convert the
lock canal to one of the sea-level type, it is necessary to have the lay-out
of the present 45-mile long canal clearly in mind. Briefly, it consists
of a large artificial lake, called Gatun Lake, at elevation 85 feet above
sea level, reached by three lock lifts on both the Atlantic and Pacific
sides. Ships entering from the Atlantic side, for example, are raised
in the Gatun locks whose three lifting chambers, each 110 feet wide
and 1,000 feet long, are continuous and in the same structure. They
then traverse the lake for some 20 miles in a winding channel 500 to
1,000 feet wide that follows the former valley of the Chagres River
whose waters have been impounded to form the lake.

Leaving the lake, ships enter Gaillard cut, 300 feet wide at the bot-
tom and 7 miles long, emerging to enter a single-lift lock at Pedro
Miguel, which drops them 30 feet to Miraflores Lake at elevation 55
feet above sea level. Miraflores Lake is about a mile long, closed
at its southern end by Miraflores locks, a two-lift structure in which
the ships are lowered to the level of the Pacific Ocean, which is 7 miles
farther on. It will be recalled that the single-lock lift at Pedro Miguel
was separated from the twin lifts at Miraflores (instead of putting all
three together as at Gatun) because of poor foundations at the north
end of the Miraflores site. Some of the early canal engineers did not
413

PUZZLE IN PANAMA—BOW MAN

‘QoURIZU DBPV_ OY} JB YOO] opt} BV A[UO YIM [VUB [aAVT-Vas vB 0} IT JAaATOD
0} petinbed aq P[NOA VY} UOTJBAvOS 94} PUB SaYL] PUB SYIOT JO in0-AvT JUaSeId YIOq so}vorpUT TeuLO vuvurd Jo ayolg—'e ayaong

| |sazqyow
he = -8IUOYUZ 24120f—-——

- 17 Of WOOT J0A9

ranbiy ospad.

unoa)
-— PQUDNUI IIJUD/{7- - — a Sree e ae eS eee meee Oyo]? UNjoj—— SW ur aouD\sIg ~ -<---

OS

., OOl- og
oi- - Of OG- wor Sadojs WOYOG—r- {a ES OS-_.--OD MO7
aa es aN WW NN} Oo
oop i SOP iat 05 wat Aor SONIA BS SSUES ERS | ose anu ube
4-— —— ——--f abuos apy
ebualePH ors NVIIO DLUNVILY | 7 F COl* awayx7
awayxz A S819 Sh 48st — MVI90 D141DVE
g $ & § 2
° s 2 ray
5 § g 2
8 BUI] 49{UAD UO VONOADIXE = 8 $
& 40 yuiod jsay6y ZI 17 Son 2
Jouog jena7-0ag 40j uoyon09x7 KYWSSS itt oan
WH $4042044U0D {0 Ki 8 oy
JouDD 207 404 suogueuy xq paon0oxz [___]} uoyanooxe 4o quiod 4seybYy 0! 17 a

youaly Ag pajon09xzZ EZ.

ih
Ut
\

HHH Ppeg {0
UoYOADIxa 40 Julod ssaybiy SS 17

c
414 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

agree that the conditions were as “poor” as represented, and many
concur in that view today.

IMPROVING THE LOCK LAY-OUT

The Pacific terminal lake plan referred to above, advocated by sev-
eral engineers at the time the present canal was being planned, and
before that by one of the early French engineers, would increase the
capacity of the canal by putting Miraflores Lake between the last lock
lift and the entrance to Gaillard cut, thus providing an anchorage
area for Atlantic-bound ships above the locks in case the cut were too
foggy to navigate. Now ships have to wait below Pedro Miguel lock
or out at sea until the cut is clear.

The theory is that in bad weather a good many ships could accomplish
the slow process of locking-through whereas now the locks are idle if
the cut is shrouded in fog. In any such improvement scheme, of course,
the new locks could be built of increased size and efficiency (some of
as much as 200 feet width, 1,500 feet length, and of two-lift design,
having been studied), which would further augment the canal capacity.
Also, most of the schemes studied have contemplated raising the level
of Gatun Lake from elevation 85 to elevation 92 to increase the supply
of lockage water.

As to increased security, the supposition apparently is that a con-
centration of all lock lifts in one place would also permit more effective
concentration of protective facilities and defensive measures. Addi-
tional security could also be achieved by separating the two lanes of
any new locks safe distances from one another.

CONVERSION OF CANAL TO SEA LEVEL

But is any type of lock canal secure in the sense that Congress used
the term in the request for the study? The decision of the investi-
gators on that point is vital. One has only to recall the movies of the
Bikini atomic bomb tests, where a column of water that looked to be
half a mile across was thrown several thousand feet in the air, to visu-
alize what would happen to a lock. Or look at the hole in the ground
caused. by the explosion of a hundred pounds of dynamite and inter-
polate to the equivalent effect of millions of pounds of TNT. And
once a hole were breached in a lock or one of the impounding dams,
the lake would drain out, and no amount of repairs could restore the
cana] to service until rainfall and run-off refilled the lake. It is a
sobering thought, and one that cannot be ignored under the mandate
that Congress wrote into Public Law 280.

One way to eliminate the danger is to eliminate the lake and the
locks, to convert the canal to a sea-level waterway. And there is ample
evidence that the investigators are studying the possibilities long and
(‘ouy ‘uoryBIDossy Ssorg Aq Ydeisojyoyd) “[BUB) BIIBURY ‘Syoo'T [ONSI[Y Olpod

| 3LW1d ueWIMOg-—*/pG] ‘Oday URIUOSY {IWS
(ydeasojoyd
SaenN ‘SQ [RHOWO) ‘uoysenb ur ore Aqozes ourrjaem pue Aownbeps oangny osoyM ‘uUNZeL) 4B osoy} SB Yons "[BuB) BUIBUBT oY} UL Syao'T

ec 3LV 1d uewiMog—*/p6| ‘Woda URTUOsYyWIG
(peyou se ydooxe royyne
Aq sojoyd [[y) ‘soB8ueU oplys oy} YIM odoo prnods ‘poaotpeq st 41 ‘ISPI[MOUY JUOSeq  “popuoUIUOdJeT ST Suu LYSIRIYS 10 4 Itueda0p
“SUIUOPIM SULATOAUL oULoyOs AUB Jt UOTJONASUOD AOlBUT JO BUDS aYy4 9q UTeSR p[NOM ‘oPqnod} YONUT OS posnBd BABY SYpPT]S SOYA “YNL) PaBT[Lery

€ 3LV1d uPUIMOGQ—"/b4) *]20da\y URIUOSUqIWIC
‘OyBT] unjery unos 41 Soyeaiedes yey) Snid wody pawMvBes SuTyOOo] pus
ouUByY 9B 4nd “VYSU foye] somoperllyy WodJ 41 soyeuedos yevy} Snyd ssosioe Suryoo] pus ogloeg 4B 4nd “yyoT “ABpoOy 4stxo Aoy} SB SyNd YOoT
Mou paje[duroa Moys sydevisojoyd aaoqe ‘syoo] quasead 0} 9AT} BIOL YOoford Jo UOTZBOOT 9}BOIPUL F 9INSY ul sdvyy “UOTYwSTysoAut yuesoad
ay} Noe IYySnorq TeuBs yusserd oy Jo AyLund9es puw Ayoedeo osvorout 07 Aoenboepe pouorsenb ssoyM ‘GEG, UL UNseq “ooford SyDO'T pay,

2. Se OAS eats
ee Ps ig ee as ce
Yt

py 3ALV1d uewMog— /p6] *‘qaodayy URIUOSYIWIG
Smithsonian Report, 1947..-Bowman

Ee
a

1. Test drilling and blasting at unprecedented depths of 135 feet below water
surface are being carried out from a barge plant in the approach to the Third
Locks Cut on the Atlantie side.

2. Tide-control structures simulated in the half-mile-long hydraulic model of a

sea-level canal built to the alignment of the existing canal. To the left is the
tide lock. The man is standing over the navigable pass gate, and to his left is
the water-control structure. During tests the model is covered with canvas,
as at the right, to shield it from the wind.
‘tunap oy} wo punomM soded
yYdeis WO popdlOdol OLB SUOLVBNCA Op, “[BUBI oY} OF JOB
jo yunowe todoid oy} syIWapB’ YOIYM DATBA YBOY B soyVnjow pus
ddLAop out} B Aq poaout st ‘potiod anoy-FZ B ULSapT} oy} Jo yoyd
ivjod B sjyusseidod OUITINO VSO “Jo, oY} 9B WB OY, [Popout
oyneapAy oy} jo puso Yowo ye wistuBYyooul sufonpold-oply, °Z%

PES |

‘OUOZY [BURY OY) UL pojyoNAJSUOD UOOG SBY YBY TBUBD [OAD|
-Bos B JO jopoul oYyy JO UOLpodsSUL UB UO. PPG, —SvIpnys
yeuBy)

UBIUIYIST,, JO OSIBYO UL UOZWBIYQ “FY soMlBE "[OD “|

uReWIMOog ‘Lrol *quoday ueRIuOsy WG
‘poAOUldl IG ppuomM deo }[BSBq 9} UOTONAISUOD —OIN Ny UT “[BUBD jo uto}10Oq JABIY OF
LO} IR] OY) IO] AQUAPUdy R SULYROL) “HOLYBULLOT BYYBAIBON,) WOS UO dro }[Bseq parley jo }USTOM Aq PosNBo St [BUB) BUIBUBRY] UO @pl[s jo 3d Aq Ju)

-Y204 Ud/I0-J

ZALV1d uRUIMOG- “7 p46] “q4oday URIUOSy TWIG
‘pus oy1oReg 3B 4y[Bseq ABUUINTOD
‘Qysia {pus orjuR]yy 9B OUO4SpURS UNnIeyH “QJoT ‘synDd syoo7T pay T, oy) Ul suUOTIyeUTIO; Aq pozisvydute si [RUB ou) SuO;e ASosoos Burda
{oll .} t HV 4 4S} DY +9T QO SYIOT party y, oy} Ul ! J A pozisvy a O 944 I | TALB A

8 ALVId uewiMog—'/p6| ‘140dayy URIUOsYy WIG
PUZZLE IN PANAMA—BOWMAN 415

carefully. For one thing, they have built a half-mile-long model of a
sea-level canal to the alignment of the present lock canal to test the
effect of tides on currents. They have set up criteria for improved
alignment, and are having the Navy study the behavior of ships in
canal models built to these criteria in the David W. Taylor testing
basin at Carderock, Md. They have let design and study contracts in
the United States for the development of dredges that can dig at un-
precedented depths, as would be necesary in Gatun Lake. And they
have recently tested tide-gate and navigation-pass lay-outs in their
sea-level model in the Canal Zone. All these activities point to unusual
concern with the possibility of converting the present lock canal to one
of sea-level type.

Gold Hill Cristobal <%

en,

To Atlantic Ocean ---~

‘
‘ fa’ \ A
1 As
Proposed additional A
"
.

un} \ “Proposed ae t
! hee pet ee \
i ass
y N R
U
PACIFIC END We Pea pee Pe a

OF CANAL aK 5 it OF CANAL

b

Fieurr 4.—Maps indicating location of Third Locks Project, begun in 1989,
relative to present locks, (See plate 4.)

Of the numerous ways by which the conversion could be effected, at
least two are known to have been studied, one involving lowering Gatun
Lake to sea level in stages, the other lowering it in one operation.
They have been called the stage-lowering plan and the deep-dredging
plan.

TO SEA LEVEL BY STAGES

The essential element of the plan for lowering Gatun Lake to sea
level by stages is a temporary lock at each end to permit the passage
of traffic at each lowering stage, first from elevation 85 to 50; second
from elevation 50 to 20; and third from elevation 20 to sea level. The
location for these temporary or conversion locks is ready-made in the
cuts that were dug for the Third Locks Project, 14 mile east of the
existing Gatun locks at the Atlantic end and 3 mile west of Mira-
flores locks at the Pacific end, although some widening might be re-

777488—48-—30
416 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

quired if locks wider than the 140 feet originally planned were deemed
necessary. Should the third locks idea be abandoned, this plan thus
provides an effective way to save a large part of the investment already
made in that project.

Two variations of the conversion locks have been studied, one using
a single-lane lock, the other a double lane. Since two lanes for traffic
must be maintained during all lake-lowering stages, adoption of the
single-lane conversion lock would require also that first one lane and
then the other of the existing locks be modified to operate at the lower
lake stages. This would entail a construction operation of consider-
able magnitude and difficulty, since the center wall between the existing
locks would have to be underpinned during the time that the upper
chamber of one lane was being removed so that this lane could be
available for traffic when the lake was lowered to elevation 50. Later,
when the other lane was cut down from elevation 85 to elevation 20 to
serve traffic at this lake level, the same ticklish operation would have
to be repeated. As a corollary of the construction difficulties of this
method there would be considerable risk, for a failure of the center
wall might result in draining the lake.

The two-lane conversion plan is both simpler and more certain, for it
would permit complete abandonment of the existing locks during the
lowering stages. The idea would be to make the conversion lock of
one-lift design, capable of being used at all stages from elevation 50 to
sea level. While the lock at the Atlantic end, for example, was being
built in the third locks cut, seaward from the unexcavated plug that
separates the cut from the lake, the deepening of the channel in the
lake would be carried out. This would entail dredging to a maximum
depth of about 85 feet (present water surface, elevation 85, minus
future water surface, elevation 50, equals 35, plus a 50-foot channel
equals 85 feet). Such a depth is well within the capabilities of con-
temporary dredging equipment.

Once the channel was deepened, the plug ahead of the conversion
lock would be blown out, and the lake water surface rapidly lowered to
elevation 50. Then, with the two-lane conversion lock in constant
service, the channel could be deepened as the water surface was progres-
sively lowered until the bottom of the excavation reached project grade
of 50 feet below sea level (and increasing to 60 feet at the Pacific end
because of the greater tide variation there).

At the Pacific end the conversion plan would be only slightly differ-
ent. The single-lift conversion lock would be built in the third locks
cut at Miraflores. When it went into service, as the Gatum Lake water
level was dropped to elevation 50, Pedro Miguel lock, which operates
between elevation 85 and elevation 50, would be high and dry. Since
the third locks cut at this location was hardly more than begun before
that project was shut down, a bypass around the existing lock would
PUZZLE IN PANAMA—BOWMAN 417

have to be provided. This, however, would be a part of the required
channel deepening and not lost motion.

Finally, with respect to any of the stage-lowering plans, there is one
special requirement to be met that would involve extra cost and con-
struction difficulty. Thisis the provision of salt-water pumping plants
to make up a deficiency of water for lock operation after Gatum Lake
is lowered to elevation 50. Estimates indicate that such plants might
have to aggregate over 4,000 second-feet in capacity.

DEEP-DREDGING PLAN

All the expense and trouble of conversion locks could, however, be
eliminated if dredges could dig as deep as 135 feet below the water
surface, i. e. from elevation 85, existing lake level, to elevation —50,
the required sea-level channel depth. It is the great appeal of this
plan, as to simplicity and to probable lessened cost, that has led the
investigators to award the special dredge-development contracts.
Should this plan prove feasible it would only be necessary to dredge
channels in Gatun and Miraflores Lakes to elevation —50, and then
knock out the protective plugs in the third locks cuts, draining the
lake. There would be 8 to 10 days interruption to canal traffic while
the plugs were being removed and the channels cleared of debris, but
after that the sea-level canal would be a going concern.

Simple in concept though it is, the deep-dredging plan raises some
puzzling questions. One of these is basic: Can dredges be designed
and built to dig at 135-foot depths, and fast enough to be practicable
from a cost standpoint? To find out, two contracts have been awarded,
and to date the results are encouraging.

One of the contracts, covering both the design of a hydraulic cutter
head dredge and studies and estimates of a construction plan, is held
by a combination named Panama Contractors and consisting of
Gahagan Construction Co., Standard Dredging Co., and the Atlantic,
Gulf and Pacific Co. Their contemplated dredge is said to have a
46-inch suction and a 40-inch discharge, and to incorporate the unique
feature of a booster pump set about 65-foot down on the 185-foot long
boom. Lifting and swinging gear would be of unprecedented size,
and large buoyancy tanks would help support the boom. The spuds
on this huge machine would be 150 feet long, the lower 80 feet of which
telescopes into the upper part as required for adjustment.

The second deep-dredge contract covers design only of a bucket
ladder dredge and is held by the Yuba Manufacturing Co., specialists
in these types of dredges. Although ladder dredges with 24-yard
buckets have operated at 124-foot depths in California gold-mining
work, nothing approaching the high capacity and 135-foot depth
required for the Panama dredging has ever been built. Buckets as
large as 6 cubic yards were investigated, but it is believed that the
418 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

greatest efficiency, relating power input to excavation production, can
probably be attained with 2-cubic-yard buckets. Designed so that six
such buckets would always be in contact with the bottom, a ladder
dredge, it is claimed, would provide an efficient means for digging at
135-foot depths.

Large dipper dredges, although impracticable for such deep work,
can be used for slightly shallower digging, particularly in hard ma-
terial, and the Bucyrus-Erie Co. holds a third design contract for such
a machine capable of working at a 90-foot depth. With a 20-yard
bucket for hard digging and a 30-yard size for softer material, the use
of four 250-horsepower motors on the main hoist of such a dipper
dredge, supplemented by a 165-ton counterweight, would provide
speedy operation and large production. For all the proposed dredges
there seems to be a preference for self-contained Diesel-electric power
units rather than relying on an outside energy source. The cost of any
one of the dredges, it is rumored, might run as high as $5,000,000.

Another important consideration in the deep-dredging plan relates
to drilling and blasting procedures under such great depths of water.
Such work has never been done before, and powder-company estimates
of the amount of explosives required are quite variable—from 2 to 4
pounds per cubic yard of rock removed as compared to conventional
charges of 144 to 1 pound. Tests now under way in the Atlantic
approach to the third locks cut, however, prove that the Gatun sand-
stone, a relatively soft rock, can be broken to sizes for handling by any
of the contemplated dredges with only slightly over 1 pound. Similar
deep-drilling and blasting tests are planned in the hard basalt rock
that prevails on the Pacific side.

Powder costs could, however, be doubled or tripled without any im-
portant consequence. Getting the holes down is what will run into big
money. The actual drilling at great depths adds no new difficulties,
according to the present tests, so that the crux of the drilling question
will be speed and how to attain it; whether by exceptionally long drill
steel or by the development of techniques to connect more conventional
lengths rapidly; whether by a few supersize drill boats or by large
numbers of smaller ones; and whether by rotary or percussion-type
drills.

TIDH CONTROL

Any sea-level canal, no matter how or where built, will require a
number of auxiliary structures and special construction operations.
Thus, structures that will exclude unwanted currents, as from tides
or from entering rivers, are of prime importance; while the necessary
canal alignment to assure ease of navigation and the required side
slopes to obviate slides will affect dry as well as wet excavation
practices.
PUZZLE IN PANAMA—BOW MAN 419

A great deal of design effort and model study has been expended
on the subject of tide control, since the large difference in tide ranges—
20 feet maximum on the Pacific side and only 2 feet on the Atlantic—
would be expected to generate a considerable current. Actually the
maximum velocity has been shown on the sea-level model to be only
4.2 knots, and interestingly enough this occurs at the Atlantic end and
farthest removed from the high Pacific tides that create it. Never-
theless, this is considered excessive for ordinary merchant-ship opera-
tion in a canal much of whose bottom and banks would be rock, as con-
trasted with the sand in the Cape Cod Canal where such a velocity
occurs, and means are being sought to reduce it.

One method, and the one proposed in the majority report on the
original canal in 1904, is to use a barrier dam and locks. But since
it would take time to lock every ship entering or leaving the canal,
even though the average lift would be only about 6 feet and the maxi-
mum 10 feet, the present investigators have been studying a “navigable
pass” arrangement similar to those used on the Ohio River by which
ships could pass between canal and ocean at certain tide stages without
using the locks. Not only would this speed canal operation, but the
navigation-pass lay-out would provide maximum security from bomb-
ing since, if hit, the closure dam could be quickly dragged out of the
way. Then the canal could be used without tidal regulation, which is
deemed practicable in an emergency.

An opening could of course be cleared through a barrier dam and
lock, if they should be bombed, but it would be a time-consuming
operation. Moreover, it is believed to be the present thinking of the
investigators that use of the navigable pass would so familiarize the
pilots with open-water operation of the canal that they would be
ready for any emergency, whereas the lock-and-dam plan would not
permit this advance training.

ELEMENTS OF NAVIGABLE-PASS PLAN

The proposed navigation-pass lay-out would include three ele-
ments— the pass equipped with a movable dam, a set of locks, and a
gated water-control structure. Just how these would be arranged
would depend upon the location chosen for the tidal-control works.
One of the arrangements tested on the sea-level model places the tide
lock, equipped with sector-type gates, in the third locks cut at Mira-
flores; the navigation pass, with a 750-foot-wide opening, in the ap-
proach to the present canal; and the water-control structure, of
whatever width necessary, beside it. An interesting aspect of this
arrangement is that the tidal lock could temporarily be increased in
height and used as the conversion lock should the stage-lowering plan
of canal conversion be adopted.
420 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

From the lay-out on the sea-level model it is apparent that the
designers are thinking of a retractable-type dam across the navigation
pass. And, since the dam must be capable of withstanding a 10-foot
hydrostatic head on either side, a triangular cross section steel box
has been chosen. Mounted on rollers, the prototype dam would be
80-foot high, extending 60 foot below and 20 foot above the sea bot-
tom. One contemplated way of operation is by hydraulic pressure,
introducing water into the retracting chambers to close the dam and
evacuating the water to open it.

The water-control structure involves a normal tainter gate set-up,
its purpose being to bring the pool elevation inside the navigation
pass to the tide elevation outside as early in the tide cycle as possible
so that the navigation dam can be open the maximum length of time.
Under the tentative criterion of a maximum permissible current of
1.8 knots (8 miles per hour) the tests indicate that the navigation

750’ novigable Woter contrat
Present Canal axis i Structure
co GE See reemieen Ban |);

Construction
byposs channel-

%
&
c
is)
~
w
at
ite
HESS
aS

\ NY
‘Sector gale recess Retractable gate recess

Ficure 5.—One of the tide-control schemes studied locates the necessary structures
in the vicinity of the present Miraflores Locks. <A tide lock is placed in the exist-
ing Third Locks Cut, a navigable pass, with retractable-type gates, in the present
canal, and a tainter-gate water-control structure in an adjacent bypass channel.

pass can be used on an average of one-third of the time, or from 114
to 314 hours out of each 6-hour tide change depending upon the time
of year.

How the tidal variations in the model are produced is of interest.
The model itself, built to a geometric scale of 1:100, is a half-mile-
long slab of 4-inch concrete laid to the alignment of the present lock
canal and supporting concrete curbs to simulate the canal slopes and
define the channel. At each end are basins representing Balboa and
Cristobal Harbors, and to these a constant amount of water is sup-
plied. Then, by wasting varying quantities of this water through an
electrically operated gate, the desired tide elevations in the harbors
are obtained.

The waste gate is controlled by a special tide apparatus, chief ele-
ment of which is a cam whose shape was scribed by a polar plot of
the tide elevations at each hour of the cycle. Connected to a time
mechanism this cam keeps the waste gate as far open or closed as
PUZZLE IN PANAMA—BOWMAN 421

the tide at a particular time in the cycle requires. Water levels in
the canal during the tests are measured by automatic recorders, and
velocities by pygmy current meters or by time-exposure pictures of
floating confetti.

FLOOD CONTROL

One of the requirements of a sea-level canal will be complete ex-
clusion of entering streams. It would be expected that fiood flows
would have to be kept out, but recent tests indicate that even smaller
flows, which could otherwise be carried by the canal, create objection-
able currents. Salt and fresh water do not mix quietly.

Observed natural

A tide at Balboa

Desired tide in
we Balboa basin

4
{
!
t
aS
=e) : O04 ft oifferential ~
5.0 .B head causing current _&
Pa %,/ of 18 knots in pass a 3S
@ y lay, ies hy
oO es
S 7 SSeS
5 2% BS
a © BIS &
— So S
SE ex Ss
eo) w ®
san ©
S
‘i
|

62
Time in Hours

IicureE 6.—How tide-control structures would be operated at various stages of
tide cycle. Between B and C flow would be out of canal through water-control
gates, and between E and F the flow would be into the canal. During these
periods ships could use the pass.

Were the Panama Canal to be converted to sea level, such im-
portant rivers as the Chagres and the Gatun from the east and the
Trinidad and Cano Quebrado from the west would have to be blocked
and the water carried to the sea through diversion channels. A dam
would no doubt be required at Gamboa on the Chagres to impound
the excess run-off of that stream, which is not now held by the existing
Madden Dam farther upstream. But it would probably not have to
be as high (in view of the supplementary effect of Madden) as the
one proposed for the same location in some of the original canal plans
and which then caused so much discussion with respect to foundations
422 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

and type of structure. Moreover, our present knowledge of dam
building generally and of foundation conditions at the site is far
advanced over that of 40 years ago.

IMPROVED CHANNEL ALIGNMENT

One of the necessities for a safe canal of ample capacity is an align-
ment that permits easy handling and maneuvering of ships, and the
present canal is far below a reasonable standard in this respect. The
investigators have, therefore, devoted much attention to this subject,
since it is appropriate to any canal route that is to be chosen.

As a target to shoot at and test, rather severe criteria were set up.
These include a 500-foot-wide channel bottom, a 50-foot depth, curves
of 20 degrees maximum deflection angle (some of the present ones
are near twice that), sight distances on curves of not less than a mile,
and 5-mile tangents between curves. These dimensions and others,
both more severe and more conservative, are being tested in the Navy
model basin at Carderock, Md., where the handling of model ships
under various current conditions will also be studied. When conclu-
sions are reached, the outdoor sea-level model in the Canal Zone will
be rebuilt to the new criteria as a further check on performance. Since
all studies are based on providing ample canal capacity up to the year
2,000 such modern and future navigation aids as infrared lights, fog-
dispersal equipment, and radar and electronic devices are not being
overlooked.

Whatever the alignment and dimensions chosen, they will materially
affect the cost and construction methods of a canal, lock or sea level,
since a greater or lesser bottom width or degree of curvature brings
different geological formations into the picture with their differing
side slopes that are safe from sliding.

GEOLOGY POSES MANY PROBLEMS

The area traversed by the present canal is noted for its upside-down
geology, hard rock occurring regularly on top of soft material. It
was the weight of this cap rock that initiated much of the disastrous
bank sliding in the early days of the present canal, and great care
is being taken to avoid any return engagements on future construc-
tion. Evidence of the seriousness of this situation is contained in the
figures of the amount of slide material removed from the present ca-
nal: 23 million yards before water was turned in in 19138, and about
50 million yards in the following 10 years.

Every opportunity is, therefore, being used to gain new knowledge
through tests and study of past experience. Many data were col-
lected during the third locks design and construction, and continued
maintenance of the canal banks for over 30 years has produced many
more.
PUZZLE IN PANAMA—BOW MAN 423

Not being blessed with these data nor with our present knowledge
of soil mechanics and engineering geology, the designers of the present
canal, whose decisions on so many vital matters have stood the test
of time, used bank slopes of 3 horizontal to 2 vertical for all materials.
For any new canal, slopes will be varied, and there seems to be com-
plete confidence among the investigators that both safe slopes and

w
x
PACIFIC o- & my g
§ 33 2 a Oo =
ww SS Sw 5S ov ES sed
=a i} = = wo
a= = nn Aes = = = 2 =
600 3 NS g = 2 = a) ro) 3
£00 iin so 5 5 3 oox so 2 oO
400 2 bs OS aS Ss Pe mh Le 2
_ =: o ss ; - is)
& 300 § == = e 2 25 = ms % 2
u 200 z = 8 «Ww
« !00 8 5.0 Gin ee =
2 “3 paper =
5 j 4 = =
7)

6 7
Scale in Miles

°o
a)
i=]
=
=0
g 8s
& 2 oD
Fed ad aa
oO
S g g § a
= 3 3 3 =
6 c a
\ 5 2 3 A
S _8 8
+ ‘ . ° —

‘lee eee
tereee

2!
cale in Miles

Puma Island

39
Scale in Miles

LEGEND

SEDIMENTARY r——__ |GNEQUS———_,

4 Fas re feed BASS

=f bd — ar
Basement Bosolt Andesite Rhyolite Contact

Faull

SA
Allontic Gatun Lo Boca Pedro Cucaracha Emperador Culebra = Caimito ohio
ond Formayon Formation Mique! Formation Limestone Formation Formation Formation Complex
Pocific Agglomerate
Mucks =,
| ee
ocene
Pleistocene Miocene Oligocene Oligocene ond Miocene
and LCretSiceous

Recent

Ficure 7.—Geological sections across the Isthmus of Panama at the Canal Zone
indicating the types of formations to be excavated to convert present canal to
sea level.

bearings pressures can be set, and that correct construction procedures
can be outlined, certainly for any canal in the vicinity of the present
one.

For one thing they have determined that the Cucaracha clay, the
famous slide material, will stand on relatively steep slopes (1 vertical
to 3 horizontal) when it occurs alone, which is about the same as for
the similar but harder Culebra formation, but that if overlaid by such
hard and heavy rock as agglomerate or basalt the Cucaracha slopes
424 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

must be quite flat, 1:5 or more. For safety and eventual economy,
much of the overlying hard rock would have to be removed.

The third locks cuts indicate that Gatun sandstone will stand on a
6 vertical to 1 horizontal slope, and that 12:1 is safe for agglomerate
and basalt: for the latter, berm widths and spacing criteria have also
been established. Extensive loading tests have demonstrated that
Cucaracha will safely carry 6 tons per square foot, while the harder
Culebra, upon which the Pedro Miguel locks are founded, will carry 15
tons. It is facts such as these that give the investigators confidence
in designs and construction methods being assumed for the purpose
of their estimates.

As to devising actual construction methods, the present studies
are going only so far as is necessary to prepare the cost estimates for
construction periods of either 10 or 15 years. It is, nevertheless, un-
derstood that one of the most promising possibilities for moving the
huge quantities of dry excavation involved has been shown by the stud-
ies to be a combination of batteries of 30-yard shovels and barge dis-
posal. Some recasting of materia] by draglines would be necessary
to reach the barges, or this could be largely eliminated by digging
auxiliary channels into the banks through which the barges could be
towed to within reach of the shovels. With a half billion yards of
dry excavation to be handled large and expensive plant lay-outs are
obviously justified.

TWO CANALS IN PLACE OF ONE

Earlier in this article mention was made of the possibility of a rec-
ommendation that would provide for building a new sea-level canal
while at the same time the present lock canal would be kept in service.
San Blas, Caledonia Bay, and Atrato-Truando were among the possible
locations, but there are also routes near the present canal, and particu-
larly one known as the Panama Parallel Route, that have also been
seriously studied.

This Panama Parallel Route, whose alignment corresponds closely
to that of the present canal except that it eliminates the big bends in
the latter, is an original conception of the present investigators grow-
ing out of their studies of several routes having a Pacific terminus in
Chorrera Bay a short distance outside the west boundary of the Canal
Zone. One of these routes crosses the isthmus to the small town of
Lagarto and is entirely outside the Zone. It has the advantage of
offering dry excavation for the major part of its length, but the yard-
age would be formidable and the construction of new ports and har-
bors at both ends would entail tremendous expense, with Lagarto being
practically in the open sea.
PUZZLE IN PANAMA—BOW MAN 425

To eliminate the problems at Lagarto, two other Chorrera routes
with Atlantic terminals near those of the present canal in Limon Bay
were studied, followed by the next logical idea of shifting the Pacific
terminus from Chorrera to the vicinity of Balboa on the present canal.
Thus the Panama Parallel Route came into being.

A common element of all these routes was a crossing of Gatun Lake
that would be blocked off by barrier dams, which would also provide
flood protection from the various lake-feeding streams. By digging
the other sections of the canal first, the resulting spoil could be used to
build the dams, after which the Gatun Lake sections could be exca-
vated in the dry behind their protection.

This idea has great appeal, its principal drawback being, of course,
the tremendous dam-building job involved, since the total barrier dam
length would exceed 14 miles. A conventional cross section of say
100-foot top width would not be too serious, but if this were increased
10, 20, or 30 times to provide security against modern weapons, grave
doubts arise as to the advisability of the scheme. Nevertheless, once
built, it would undoubtedly represent a reasonable solution of the
problem that Congress set up. In the final analysis, also, it will have
to compete with one of the Panama conversion plans on the basis of
cost.

THE SITUATION SUMMARIZED

What then are the possibilities of solving this puzzle in Panama?
What considerations must be resolved to come up with a recommenda-
tion for a canal that will best meet the requirements of security and
ample capacity set up by Congress? Among the obvious ones are
sound engineering, practicable construction, and minimum possible
cost. To which must be added resistance to or possible protection
from the destructive effects of present and future weapons of war.
Adding up these considerations as they apply to each of the proposals
and then comparing the results is the present task of the investigators.
It is futile, and it would be improper, to anticipate or speculate upon
their conclusion, but a few applicable facts will serve to summarize the
situation as it now exists.

There are four routes removed from the present canal and three in
the vicinity of it whose merits must be weighed. Of the former, three
are sea-level routes whose yardages, estimated on a 1:1 bank slope
assumption are as follows: Atrato-Truando, 1,590 million; San Blas,
1,520 million; and Caledonia, 1,260 million. What these yardages
would prove to be were sufficient knowledge available to use geological
slopes in estimating them is problematical, but they would increase
rather than diminish judging from the Panama Conversion Route;
using 1: 1 slopes, this plan required 688 million yards, which increased
to 917 million when geological slopes were applied.
426 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

Any one of these sea-level routes thus might require up to 2,000
million yards of excavation. It is also pertinent to note that they are
in isolated locations without terminal ports or harbors, and that the
construction problems to be met are uncertain and difficult to appraise.
On the credit side any one of them would provide a route supple-
mentary to the present canal, not only far removed from it, but devoid
of locks, so that requirements of both security and capacity could be
satisfied. It would seem that cost and construction difficulties relative
to the other routes—and perhaps political considerations—would be
the determinants in deciding whether one of these three crossings would
be recommended.

The Nicaragua lock canal has many advantageous aspects. 'Topo-
graphical and geological conditions of the route are well defined.
Excavation would be less than for a sea-level canal. On the basis of
the 1931 cost estimates, the present cost might be fixed in the neighbor-
hood of 114 billion dollars. Political considerations are favorable
since the Nicaraguan Government has offered complete cooperation.
From the standpoint of dispersion, canals in Nicaragua and Panama
would satisfy security to the degree that a lock canal can be considered
secure; or, stated in another way, to the degree that they increase the
difficulty of an enemy to deprive us of a trans-isthmian crossing. This
latter consideration is the one to be resolved in deciding for or against
recommending the Nicaraguan route.

The Chorerra routes in Panama offer the possibility of a sea-level
canal with a minimum of wet excavation. Topographical and geo-
logical conditions are reasonably well known, which may or may not
be an advantage since they presage expensive harbor and port facilities
and total excavation of over 114 billion cubic yards. A distinct dis-
advantage is that their construction would require an enlargement of
the Canal Zone and removal of one or both terminals from the vicinity
of existing Panamanian cities.

The Panama Parallel Route would permit a sea-level canal to be built
in the Zone without disturbing the present lock canal. By its construc-
tion we would have two canals, although their proximity one to the
other would raise the question of complete wartime safety. Construc-
tion could be done in the dry, but the building of the barrier dams
required to hold back Gatun Lake would be a task of great magnitude,
while their breaching in case of attack might put both canals out of
service. Relative cost and security from attack are the factors to be
considered in choosing this interesting scheme.

Converting the present canal to sea level will entail less total exca-
vation than on any other sea-level route and probably no more than
for a lock canal in Nicaragua. Terminal facilities are established and
thus do not enter into the future costs. On the other hand, the neces-
PUZZLE IN PANAMA—BOWMAN 427

sity for dams and diversion channels to control floods in intersected
streams and for temporary locks to maintain traffic through the canal
during the construction period willadd greatly totheexpense. If deep
dredging is feasible, construction difficulties and costs will be greatly
lessened, but even if the alternative of building temporary conversion
locks, as required for stage lowering of Gatun Lake, is necessary, no
insurmountable troubles are involved. Asa matter of fact, the deep-
dredging and stage-lowering plans are not mutually exclusive initially.
It would be possible to start with either one and then shift to the other
after the first 2 or 3 years of preliminary work, without appreciable
loss of time or money.

Finally a sea-level canal undoubtedly offers the greatest assurance
of security and minimum interruption in wartime, since damage from
bomb hits could be repaired by dredges in a matter of days as con-
trasted with the many months that a lock canal would be out of service
if its water supply should be lost. The sea-level canal also promises
no real navigation hazards because of tidal currents. Cost is the
principal question upon which a recommendation favoring conversion
of the present canal to sea level is believed to rest.

Insofar as improving the present lock canal is concerned the Pacific
Terminal Lake Pian is the one to be weighed and compared. Building
the new, enlarged two-lift locks required, and dispersing them as much
as necessary for safety, makes this by no means a low-cost solution.
Here, too, relative cost and security will control the decision.

In summary, the choice of the investigators must rest between sup-
plementing the present canal with another removed a safe distance
from it or converting the present canal to sea level. After that the
choice shifts to Congress and the American people. If they want a
safe canal badly enough to invest what it costs—1 billion, 2 billion,
perhaps 3 billion dollars—they can have it. If security comes too
high, and they will settle for increased capacity, any one of the schemes
mentioned earlier in this article for improving the present canal, in-
cluding completion of the Third Locks Project, will suffice. Upon
such a decision rests finally the solution to the puzzle in Panama—
and incidentally the silencing or the resurrection of the ghost of a
sea-level canal.

CONSULTANTS ON THE WORK

In addition to the staff of the investigation, numerous consultants
have been engaged on the work, as mentioned earlier in this article.
Most important of these, of course, are the members of the consulting
board, which consists of Rear Adm. John J. Manning (C. E. C. USN)
Chief of the Bureau of Yards and Docks; Brig. Gen. Hans Kramer
(C. E. Retired) ; Prof. Boris A. Bakhmeteff, Columbia University;
428 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

Joel D. Justin, consulting engineer, Philadelphia; W. H. McAlpine,
office of the Chief of Engineers, Washington: and H. M. Hill, North-
ern States Power Co., Minneapolis.

Harvey Slocum, well-known construction specialist, has advised
upon construction plans and estimates, while such experts from the
office of Chief of Engineers have been called in as Gail A. Hathaway
on flood control, Carl Giroux and B. W. Steele on dams and hydro
power, and Leon Zach on construction camps and permanent town
planning. Soil mechanics and foundation guidance is being supplied
by Profs. H. M. Westergaard, Arthur Casagrande, and L. Don Leet
of Harvard University, and E. M. Fucik of Chicago. Prof. Roland
Kramer of the University of Pennsylvania has made extensive studies
and advised upon canal traffic growth.
COMPARISON OF PROPELLER AND REACTION-
PROPELLED AIRPLANE PERFORMANCES?

By Benson HAMLIN
Project Engineer

and

BF. SPENCELEY

Performance Group Aerodynamicist
Bell Aircraft Corporation

INTRODUCTION

Coincident with the development of successful turbojet power plants
for aircraft, a broad new field of propulsion has come to light. Power-
plant research and development has progressed so rapidly that a wide
choice of power plants is now available to the aircraft manufacturer,
who as yet has had little opportunity to demonstrate the practical
applications. The purpose of this paper is to evaluate the airplane-
performance potentialities of four types of widely differing power
plants and to indicate their trends and particular fields of application.

Conventional power plants of the reciprocating, internal-combustion
type, both direct and indirect air-cooled, have been extended to com-
pounding with a gas-turbine wheel operated by the normal exhaust
gases and delivering the power thus generated back into the crank-
shaft. The independent gas turbine is also available for use in con-
junction with the propeller, in which case approximately 80 percent
of the energy in the gases is absorbed by the turbine to drive the
propeller and the remainder is utilized in the form of reaction propul-
sion. Air-stream engines include the turbojet, reso-jet (or intermit-
tent duct), and the ram-jet (or athodyd), all of which are reaction
motors depending upon atmospheric air supply. A third classifica-
tion of available power plants consists of dry- or liquid-fuel types of
rocket motors, which are distinguished principally by the fact that
atmospheric oxygen is not used for combustion as in the case of other
power plants.

1 Presented before a closed meeting of the Institute of the Aeronautical Sciences, Holly-
wood, Calif., Aug. 15, 1945. Reprinted by permission from the Journal of the Aeronautical
Sciences, vol. 13, No. 8, August 1946.

429
430 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

For this paper four power plants having distinctly different per-
formance characteristics have been chosen: (1) a V-type, reciprocating,
liquid-cooled engine employing water injection for emergency power;
(2) a turbojet engine having about 23 percent less sea-level static
thrust than the former; (3) a hypothetical subsonic ram-jet; and (4)
a bipropellant liquid-fuel rocket motor. For brevity, these power
plants will be referred to as a propeller, turbojet, ram-jet, and rocket,
respectively.

Because these power plants differ so radically in performance char-
acteristics, it is difficult to determine a sound basis for comparison.
Ji has therefore been decided to design a single-engined, single-place
fighter or pursuit type airplane employing each type of power plant
and limiting the size to some reasonable weight, say less than 14,000
pounds. It is feit that the results submitted, together with the analy-
sis presented, offer sufficient justification for classifying these types of
power plants in specialized categories in which they excel. Thus, if a
particular type of engine shows outstanding merit in a high-altitude
and high-speed performance for a fighter, similar reasoning may be
judiciously applied in considering other aircraft types.

The text is divided into three parts. Part A compares the various
types of engines independently of airplane characteristics insofar as
possible. Part B briefly describes a logical and practical airplane
design configuration for each power plant. In part C, the results of
the airplane performance characteristics are presented from which
comparisons and conclusions may be advanced.

PART A—POWER-PLANT CHARACTERISTICS

1. Reciprocating engine and propeller—A typical high-perform-
ance engine employing water injection is assumed, which delivers 2,000
b. hp. for take-off, the power varying linearly with density to 1,700
b. hp. at an engine critical altitude of 20,000 feet. Typical propulsive
efficiencies have been used in converting power to available thrust in
order to afford a direct comparison with the other types of power plants
in which thrust is the fundamental consideration. Exhaust jet thrust
has also been included.

The gas turbine driving a propeller has not been considered because
the differences when compared to the remaining three power plants
are not radically different from those of the reciprocating engine.
Specific engine weight and size are improved, but fuel consumption
will be increased in comparison to reciprocating engines. Also, the
propeller itself imposes a definite limitation on maximum speed. Both
the gas turbine and compound engine may be considered to be alternate
developments in relation to propeller-driven airplanes.

2. Turbojet engine.—The turbojet engine selected is typical of the
single-stage centrifugal blower type employed in a number of aircraft.
AIRPLANE PERFORMANCES—HAMLIN AND SPENCELEY 431]

Performance characteristics represent those already attainable at the
present state of development.

3. Ram-jet engine.—Of the four power plants considered, the ram-
jet represents the only hypothetical design under consideration, it being
the only type of propulsion not actually known to exist as a flight
article. Asa basis for the theoretical engine performance, the analysis
presented in reference 1 is used herein. This type of power plant will
not operate at zero air speed, and consequently cannot take off. Aux-
iliary take-off means are assumed to launch the airplane and accelerate
to a flight speed of 350 miles per hour, at which time the ram-jet is
started. Since no logical engine output rating exists in this case, a unit
of a size suitable for 10,000-pound fighter is assumed.

Combustion temperatures of the order of 3,000° F. are assumed to be
structurally possible since moving parts do not exist to complicate the
problem. Successful operation in this regime has been demonstrated.
Already turbine buckets are operating in a 1,500° F. gas temperature.
Kerosene fuel to the engine is provided by a turbine-driven fuel pump.

4. Rocket motor.—The rocket motor, being small and light, has been
chosen as a 9,000-pound thrust unit, which takes advantage of a high
thrust output without presenting impractical arrangement or installa-
tion problems. An example of actual application is the well-known
German Me 163. For practical reasons an existing type of rocket
motor using a bipropellant fuel system has been chosen, leaving room
for considerable improvement with further research in the relatively
near future.

The problem of supplying the fuel and oxidizer to the motor at high
pressure is solved by turbine-operated pumps using the same propel-
lants for power.

5. Maximum thrust available (figs. 1-8).—Immediately apparent
is the fact that the conventionally powered airplane will have the low-
est maximum speed at all altitudes and, also, that it is essentially a low-
altitude power plant. Obviously, the ceiling of this airplane will be
inferior. Furthermore, the maximum speed limitation is absolute as
indicated by the fact that above 600 miles per hour the propulsive effi-
ciency limitation due to compressibility effects causes the thrust avail-
able practically to vanish. ‘The slope of the curve indicates good accel-
eration characteristics in level flight below maximum speed and also
that climb characteristics will be relatively good.

Considering the rocket airplane, maximum performance is obviously
superior under all conditions. Inasmuch as atmospheric pressure
variation is but a small percentage of the motor chamber pressure, the
small variation in thrust with altitude has been neglected. Air speed
has no effect upon thrust output. At low altitudes only does the
ram-jet offer competition in available thrust, but this is offset by the
fact that airplane drag at high air densities is also extremely high.

777488—48——81
432 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

TRUE AIRSPEED—M.PH.
Ficure 1.—Thrust vs. air speed at sea level.

© Ae te i es aoe
= sie att
8 PO

Slt ate
RERCuaearnue: ones

TRUE AIRSPEED — MPH.

Ficure 2.—Thrust vs. air speed at 20,000 feet.

= ae aes a
se EC

Outstanding is the rocket’s complete superiority in performance at
high altitudes where airplane drag is greatly reduced. Thus, high-
altitude speeds will necessarily be outstanding as will also the high
rate of climb at all altitudes.

Relatively constant thrust with speed variation is also apparent for
the turbojet. In this case output suffers considerably with altitude,
AIRPLANE PERFORMANCES—HAMLIN AND SPENCELEY 433

as a eae ee aed ea
PCa s

<I

ie
a
a Ne sland

2000

ae
Seo
|

=

ihneeas

A

Cres

1000

eae

ed
mA

Hoe
alae Sle ea ll

Ch
ie
ag
ry
|
i

500 6600 Too
TRUE AIRSPEED —- MPH

Ficure 3.—Thrust vs. air speed at 40,000 feet.

but maximum speed performance compared to the propeller-driven
airplane affords a sharp contrast.

From the standpoint of self-sufficiency, the ram-jet is the least
desirable since an auxiliary means of propulsion is required for take-
off. Although thrust varies roughly as the velocity to the 2.0 to 2.5
power, it falls off with atmospheric density. In other words, thrust
is a direct function of differential pressure, which, in turn, is deter-
mined by the airplane drag characteristics. This results in a relatively
low airplane ceiling but an excellent maximum speed at sea level where
the air forces become prohibitive for sonic air speeds. Loss of energy
due to shock waves in the duct entrance has been taken into account.

6. Specific engine weight (fig. 4) —Important in the airplane design
configuration is the power-plant installation weight. For comparison,
the complete power-plant weight, exclusive of fuel-supply system, per
unit of maximum available thrust, is presented in figure 4. (See also
sec. 9.) When the reciprocating engine is used for high-altitude op-
eration it becomes an extremely complicated and heavy power plant;
in fact, beyond 40,000 feet it becomes prohibitively so. Also, the
improvement in specific engine weight with decreasing air speed and
altitude again classifies propeller propulsion as best suited for rela-
tively low air speeds and altitudes. Even when compared at low alti-
tudes, the reciprocating power-plant dry weight is some 20 times as
heavy as the rocket motor.

The turbojet offers a considerable improvement in engine weight
which will probably continue to be improved. Again, with increas-
434 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

ing altitude specific engine weight increases, but not to the prohibitive
degree evidenced by the propellertype. Also, contrary to the propeller
type, specific weight improves at the higher air speeds, which empha-
sizes the practicability of higher air speeds.

Considering the ram-jet, its design depends to a large extent on
both speed and altitude. Marked improvement obtains at higher air
speeds, and, when considering the reduction of thrust with altitude,
it tends to become bulky and heavy for high-powered, high-altitude
application. Apparently, the ram-jet is a medium-low-altitude, high-
speed type of power plant.

LBS. ENSINE W/L

ALTITUDE - 1000 FEET

Figure 4.—Power plant weight-thrust ratio.

Simplest of all is the rocket, which again makes no compromise
for air speed or altitude variation. In terms of specific power-plant
weight it is unexcelled.

7. Specific fuel consumption (S. F. 0.) at maximum continuous
thrust (fig. 5).—The propeller-type plant offers a large saving in fuel,
especially at the lower air speeds, as evidenced by its specific fuel con-
sumption at maximum continuous thrust rating. At speeds exceeding
500 miles per hour this fuel consumption would become greater than
that of the turbojet. However, employing this thrust rating, speeds
AIRPLANE PERFORMANCES—HAMLIN AND SPENCELEY 435

much in excess of 400 miles per hour are not obtainable. Curves for
both the propeller and turbojet are based upon maximum continuous
available thrust, which, unlike the ram-jet and rocket, are less than the
maximum available as shown in figures 1, 2, and 3. Specific consump-
tion at maximum continuous thrust for the turbojet does not vary
significantly with air speed and improves appreciably at the higher
altitudes.

sy SESnaeas aan
a

ae
ieeeeeh ag

=
le
Ae
aig
:

i
|

cs _ THRUST)

can
ae
ee
aa ba
Zs
Bs
VAs
ie
peel

[| Pee rean

ra

e_]
qi
LI
“HL
|| iH
fy

te
tl
H
4

Soae ses
seabgecessaeeeaes

Fiqunre 5.—S. F. C. at maximum continuous thrust.

In the case of the ram-jet, an entirely different variation is found.
Here, efficient operation is decidedly improved at extremely high
speeds, in the region of Mach Number=1.0, while at lower air speeds
the fuel consumption is prohibitively high, and, as seen from figures 1,
2, and 3, the maximum thrust available at low air speeds is exceedingly
small. Again, the ram-jet clearly belongs to the very high-speed
regime.

As usual, the rocket is not influenced by speed or altitude, resulting
in a constant, but high, specific fuel consumption, since the oxygen to
support combustion must be included.
436 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

Selecting S.F.C. values, (lb fuel/Ib. thrust times hours), maximum
continuous thrust operation for each power plant results in the
following comparison:

S. F. C. at maximum continuous thrust

Sea level 20,000 feet
Power plant So ee
Actual | Relative | Airspeed| Actual | Relative | Airspeed
Propellers: e502. op yeukeet a2 ty a) Ue al es 0. 56 1.0 300 0.71 1.0 375
Trbojet. 22-2 22 ssbec aie ee nates 1.72 3.1 620 1, 46 2.1 520
Ram-jepst22c2 EOE 08 CAR ret ML Oe 6.10 9.1 650 §.15 (he? 590
Rockets coe Se esa in 18.75 33.5 675 18.75 26.4 685

Air speeds corresponding to the four airplanes are included in the
table as a matter of interest. A considerable improvement in efficiency
at the higher altitude is noted for the last three power plants compared
to the propeller and the price that must be paid for increasing air
speeds above 500 m. p. h. is painfully evident.

8. Variation of S. F. C. with reduced thrust (fig. 6).—Comparison
of specific fuel consumption at various level flight speeds is not possible
without considering airplane characteristics, because the thrust re-
quired depends directly upon the airplane drag. Therefore, the curves
drawn in figure 6 necessarily coincide with the particular airplanes to
be considered later but the general trends and comparisons are valid
in other applications.

Obviously, the best range performer is the propeller, which, at low
thrusts, may be operated on a lean mixture. Here the variables, engine
revolutions per minute, manifold pressure, degree of supercharging,
fuel mixture setting, and engine operating temperatures must all be
carefully controlled in order to obtain maximum economy. Neverthe-
less, a reduction in S. F. C. of the order of 50 percent from that at
maximum continuous power represents a decided saving. Based on
both figures 5 and 6, the propeller has no serious competitor for maxi-
mum range or endurance at moderately low air speeds.

Unlike the propeller, the turbojet evidences a loss in economy when
operating at lower than maximum output, representing about a 10
percent increase in S. F. C. for cruising conditions. Cruising S. F. C.
is better at high altitudes than at low levels in all cases with the
exception of the rocket.

An appreciable improvement in economy of the ram-jet at cruising
speeds is shown tending to offset its disadvantage when compared to
th turbojet at high speed. Maximum thrust and the corresponding
S. F. C. are necessarily established as those produced at the maximum
speed of the airplane.

The rocket, as always, appears as the only power plant whose char-
acteristics are independent of its application. In this respect, how-
AIRPLANE PERFORMANCES—HAMLIN AND SPENCELEY 437

ever, the individual rocket motor units are operated at their maximum
efficiency conditions dictated by design. In other words, a selected
number and size of individual rocket motors are chosen so that thrust
available exists in steps according to the motors selected during

operation.

FIGURE 6.—S.

F. C. variation with thrust.

Having analyzed the airplane range characteristics, the following
table comparing the S. F. C.’s for conditions of maximum range is

obtained:

S. F. C. at economical cruising conditions

Power plant

IPTODGUGLS oe oo eee owas ane ent
nr Dojo tesa et ee ee ee a

Sea level 20,000 feet

Actual | Relative | Airspeed} Actual | Rolative | Airspeed

0. 28 1.0 175 0. 32 1.0 225
2.18 7.8 325 1, 66 5.1 365
4. 70 16.8 535 4. 43 13.7 500
18,75 67.0 415 18.75 58.0 425
438 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

The influence of part thrust S. F. C. variation from figure 6 is clearly
seen. For instance, the opposite cruising trends shown for the turbojet
and the propeller increase their relative specific fuel consumptions
from 2 or 3 to 1 at maximum continuous thrust to 5 to 8 to 1 at optimum
cruising thrust.

Here again, the fact that an enormous sacrifice in economy accom-
panies premium performance, that is high cruising speeds, is empha-
sized. Ridiculous comparative S. F. C.’s and cruising speeds for the
rocket seem to eliminate this power plant from any consideration
involving economical ae:

HEE

a
AS ae
ae S Ateerananes

nail
abel |
eet

Figure 7.—Power plant plus fuel weight.

9. Power plant plus fuel weight (fig. 7).—-Figure 7 is a plot of
power-plant weight plus fuel weight, excluding fuel tanks, taken at
maximum continuous rating versus duration. Weights of power plant
are assumed as follows:

Power-plant weights

Propeller | Turbojet Ram-jet Rocket

Motor + controls and plumbing-__-..__.-._-_----------- 1, 900 2, 000 550 450
@oolingisystem: '=}- ‘coolants: 2 o2e- =e coe one ee eee cae 450 0 0 0
Mropellerteed nase ee Ne Se ees 500 0 0 0
Turbineland pum psSscss- acs eee ae cee ee 0 0 150 225

Totalipounds 42-00 4 = oe es aa ae ay 2, 850 2, 000 700 675

For the rocket motor the power plant plus fuel weight is startling,
being 10,000 pounds for less than 4 minutes duration, with no weight
allowance for fuel tankage. However, when the vastly superior thrust
rating is considered the picture improves somewhat.
AIRPLANE PERFORMANCES—HAMLIN AND SPENCELEY 439

Investigations have revealed clearly the fact that for any given
airplane and gross weight, the minimum pounds of fuel expended per
1,000 feet of altitude gained in climbing always occurs at the maxi-
mum available thrust. This phenomenon is valid irrespective of com-
pressibility drag increases. Consequently, an extremely high thrust
rocket compared to the other power plants has been chosen because it
is practical to do so in this case where the power-plant specific weight
is small. The tremendous amount of energy available in an extremely
short period of time provides dazzling performance for a decidedly
limited duration. Even under maximum range operating conditions
at vastly reduced thrust the high S. F. C. still obtaining irrevocably
limits range and endurance. The only possible recourse would be
some means of launching or commencing rocket flight at high altitudes
where exceptionally high air speeds will offset the high rate of fuel
consumption. Thus, rocket-powered flight in the present instance is
considerably limited in range.

Next comes the ram-jet, in which case the fuel consumption depends
directly upon speed and altitude. Assuming a maximum speed of 700
niles per hour at sea level and 550 miles per hour at 30,000 feet, it is
apparent that at low altitudes a substantial, though not large improve-
ment over the rocket obtains. At altitude, the fuel consumption is
not a great deal more than the propeller or turbojet-propelled air-
planes. In this case 10,000 pounds of power plant plus fuel results in
a practical average duration of 30 minutes. Generally, it may be con-
cluded from the figure that the ram-jet is suitable for relatively high
maximum speeds at medium to low altitudes for relatively short
duration.

By virtue of a lower power-plant weight the turbojet excels over the
propeller up to 15 minutes at sea level and 30 minutes at 30,000 feet,
after which the propeller takes over. Considering the decided advan-
tage of speed for the former, it may be generalized that for excellent
high-speed performance at all altitudes up to 40,000 feet, the turbojet
endurance at maximum continuous thrust is a good half-hour. To
compare with the rocket and ram-jet a 10,000-pound power plant
would show an average duration of some 135 minutes, or 214 hours.

The propeller and internal-combustion engine is by far the best
power plant for long endurance at maximum continuous power but
at a considerable sacrifice in speed. Extrapolating an average curve
to a 10,000-pound power plant results in an endurance of about 12
hours. Note that the ram-jet and turbojet show an increased econ-
omy at altitude as does the propeller, but the latter is the only one to
show an improvement in high speed at altitude.

10. Power plant plus fuel volume (fig. 8).—In addition to power-
plant weight its size is also a critical factor in the design of the aircraft
440 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

Figure 8 shows the volume of power plant plus fuel corresponding to
the weights shown in figure 7. Power-plant volumes are the volumes
occupied by the units if wrapped with cloth. In other words, power
plants having an odd shape will result in still more space unusable
for other airplane components. Power-plant volumes in cubic feet are
estimated as follows, representing the minimum space not available
for other airplane components:

Power-plant volumes

Propeller | Turbojet Ram-jet Rocket

Engine, blower and gear. box. <)222s2e2e5 Se eee RS aera OGs aust 230vaselwEs 9.

STNG WHC UO Ve 10 4 papa A il ant Ok pI Me | a ea PARTNER Plvorbecpe tt he Qik eis 0.
‘Munbine and pumps ss foe eee oe ee een (eee ee [a ree Bie Beeld Bi
Ollland!coolantiSystems. = coos 2s. cea oe ase eee a ani a [0 ee Lr Op cetera 0.
Total oe Gee ee eS ee as al er et Se eae (Ob ary eee 120 ft.3____| 240 ft.3____| 14 ft.
Hauivalent frontal diameter.2-=.2.222:222 see ne Se elke SSiiniss sane opine eee b0une s=2-4| asin:
Irontall area 228s ss ae eek Se ie ee Ls3p | 14.8 ft.2..__| 13.6 ft.2..__| 1.8 ft.?

“J

a
7

aoe
rd
Pr

Zh

ke PA
ie Aiea 7 al
rt
eld
ablasulit
va

fe cS2ce
BSS cGeee
TERS PaaSee

0
6

ea
Ei
2ne
fo
ee 2eee
ee aisle ba Sle]

TZh Glen
Ta \ene
E

FicurE 8.—Power plant plus fuel volume.

In comparing the engine volumes, the power plants in order of
preference are the rocket, propeller, turbojet, and ram-jet. Fortu-
nately, although the last-named has a considerable volume, its weight
and installation considerations are such that it is practical to convert
the aft fuselage, which always is relatively vacant because of balance
considerations, into the power plant proper. Tending to offset this
effect is the fact that the large mass airflows consumed dictate large
duct inlet scoops. The simplicity of mechanisms alleviates installa-
tion problems considerably.
AIRPLANE PERFORMANCES—HAMLIN AND SPENCELEY 44]

Next in bulky space requirements is the turbojet, nearly one-quarter
of the volume of which is compressor entrance air supply ducting in
an average installation. This feature requires a relatively large nacelle
or, because of the weight and diameter, dictates the fuselage size and
arrangement in a single-engined airplane.

Although the internal-combustion engine is small, the space require-
ments are nearly doubled by carburetor, oil cooler, and Prestone radia-
tor air scoops and ducting. Fortunately, the main component parts,
the engine, oil coolers, and Prestone coolers, may be disposed about
the airplane structure to best advantage.

The rocket motor is by far the smallest and simplest from the design
standpoint. <Air-intake ducts are always a problem, and at high flight
speeds considerable research is necessary before satisfactory solutions
will become available. In the case of the rocket, no air is taken aboard
for the power plant, thus eliminating this problem. Note that the
total rocket motor volume equals only the air ducting required for the
reciprocating engine and that the power plant consists of two simple
components that may be located at the designer’s discretion.

In the frontal area comparison both air-stream engines will dictate
the fuselage maximum cross section; the conventional engine and
cooling system will definitely have an influence upon this design
feature, but the rocket eliminates this problem.

Referring to figure 8, the additional volume required by the fuel is
indicated by the slope of the curves. Here again, the rocket is criti-
cally limited in duration. Following in increasing order of prefer-
ence are the ram-jet, turbojet, and propeller. Fuels are gasoline at
6 pounds per gallon for the propeller, kerosene at 6.7 pounds per gal-
lon for both air-stream engines, and equivalent densities of the
combined fuel and oxidizer for the rocket of from 8.4 to 11.2 pounds
per gallon depending upon the fuels chosen.

11. Engine air requirements (fig. 9).—In designing air-intake ducts
the relative problems are indicated by the engine air requirements
shown in the figure for maximum thrust conditions, which would
represent take-off, climb, and high-speed operation.

Since the ram-jet curves approximate a straight line through the
origin, the scoop entrance velocity will be a relatively constant per-
centage of airplane speed. Volume of airflow is extremely large,
indicating difficult problems to be solved.

The turbojet evidences only a slight increase in air consumption
with air speed, indicating that the optimum entrance duct efficiency
for a fixed entry will depend upon the conditions selected in the design.
Again, large airflows must be handled. In the case of both air-stream
engines the ram drag due to taking this air aboard has been subtracted
from gross jet thrust to arrive at the maximum thrust available as
shown in figures 1, 2, and 3.
442 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

ine Soe
eae HO Lees

[100007
peep

ee

Fiaurr 9.—Engine air requirements.

Cooling air requirements for the propeller type represent about 80
percent of the total shown. Constant air volume requirements dictate
scoop design for particular conditions, generally for maximum speed.

In the case of the rocket no air is required.

PART B—AIRPLANE DESIGNS

Since the characteristics of the four power plants are extremely
diversified, it is difficult to determine which type is most suitable for
a given application until each is translated into an airplane-design
study and the respective performances are evaluated. As the majority
of the power plants potentially represent premium performance air-
craft at a sacrifice in pay load, it is reasonable to use a fighter or
interceptor-type airplane as a basis for comparison. This represents
the type of military application where performance is decidedly at a
premium and economy and practicability are sacrificed as a matter of
self-preservation. Arbitrarily, for expediency in the comparison,
these aircraft will be considered as single-place, single-engined air-
AIRPLANE PERFORMANCES—HAMLIN AND SPENCELEY 443

craft having conventional wing and tail arrangements, conventional
pilot accommodations, and internal fuel only.

Figures 10-18 show the general arrangements and physical char-
acteristics of the airplanes and table 1 lists the weight break-downs.
Less armament is carried by the two airplanes whose range and dura-
tion of combat are obviously restricted. Unit wing weight depends
greatly upon thickness, and structure in general is affected by the
operational speed ranges, which affect the design air loads. Landing-
gear weight is primarily influenced by the gross weight at landing
condition.

TaBLe 1.—Component weights

Propeller | Turbojet Ram-jet Rocket

DVT ee ee ee eRe ase 1, 230 1, 550 1, 100 1, 100
L112 a re ee a Rae ee ee 170 200 260 260
RC TISCLS Oo ee Se nS 660 1, 100 700 970
NAN ING 2 Cant eee sn) ee a en ene ose 600 680 400 450
Power plant:
INTO CORD 2-0 oo eee er ee. Se a a eee 1, 660 1, 850 550 400
EATCCOSSODIGS Sete att eter ae Na eo ae 1, 150 1303) so. sss 282-25 50
Controls taeeee. 3 es en Seen 40 20 10 10
INGEIUSYSLONIs seen eee eae enn whe a Ne Set oe cac ss 600 840 1, 050 550
Turbine ang pumps... cee hse secne ee sae bes 0 0 140 210
Fixed equipment:
ANIMA MON i aes seaman re ae eee ee meee 1, 100 1, 100 700 700
@Montrols ts 28 2 oon es a leas Be Ss So as Sos 140 230 200 200
PANIVO Her se) ce Soe Bo ee ne kek 460 700 290 200
Wieleht ellipLy, DOUNCS! 282. oe see eee seen 7, 800 8, 400 5, 400 5, 100
TEEN G peers SNe Se ee BR ote eae 2 200 200 200
Riel soi and coolantscz. ss222 ose aos ete eS se 1, 500 3, 400 4, 400 8, 206

Gross welent, Pounds 2 22-2e-- 2 so ascec ees asee snes 9, 600 12, 000 10, 000 13, 500

A practical limit to the internal fuel capacity appears to be about
200 gallons of high-octane gasoline in self-sealing fuel tanks for this
size of propeller-driven fighter. Laminar flow wings of 15 percent
thickness are employed. A nominal wing loading of the order of 35
to 40 pounds per square foot represents a present-day compromise
between performance on the one hand, and maneuverability and serv-
iceability with respect to tactical airfield considerations on the other.
Armament load is 1,100 pounds.

Because of the disadvantageous fuel-consumption characteristics
of the turbojet and also the considerably increased high-speed regime
of operation, this type of airplane is forced to higher wing loadings,
in this case of 50 pounds per square foot, resulting in a greater differ-
ence between take-off and landing wing loadings. Wing thickness
of 13 percent compromises internal fuel capacity with low drag char-
acteristics. In this case, also, leak-proof fuel tanks for kerosene are
anecessity. Fuel here represents about 31 percent of the take-off gross
weight compared to 16 percent in the case of the propeller, resulting
in landing wing loadings of 35 and 33 pounds per square foot,
respectively. The same 1,100-pound provision is allowed for
armament,
444 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

Fiaure 10.—Propeller airplane. Gross weight, 9,500; wing area, 250; take-off
W/S, 38; landing W/S, 33 ; wing section, 65-215; aspect ratio, 6; wing incidence,
1.5°; fuel load—gal., 200; fuel load—lbs., 1,200; wing span, 39’2’’; fuselage
length, 32’8’’ ; vertical height, 10’7’’.

Figure 11.—Turbojet airplane. Gross weight, 12,000; wing area, 240; take-off
W/S, 50; landing W/S, 35; wing section, 65-113 ; aspect ratio, 7; wing incidence,
1.5°; fuel load—gal., 500; fuel load—lbs., 3,850; wing span, 40’11’’; fuselage
length, 32’11’’ ; vertical height, 12’9’’.
AIRPLANE PERFORMANCES—HAMLIN AND SPENCELEY 445

Figure 12.—Ram-jet airplane. Gross weight, 10,000; wing area, 130; launching
W/S, 77; landing W/S, 42; wing section, 65-110; aspect ratio, 6; wing incidence,
1.0°; fuel load—gal., 655; fuel load—lbs., 4,400; wing span, 28’; fuselage
length, 28’; vertical height, 12'4’’.

Fiaure 13.—Rocket airplane. Gross weight, 13,500; wing area, 130; take-off W/S,
104; landing W/S, 40; wing section, 65-110; aspect ratio, 6; wing incidence,
2.0° ; fuel load—gal., 985 ; fuel load—lbs., 8,200; wing span, 28’; fuselage length,
82'8’’; vertical height, 10’10’’.

In the design of the ram-jet airplane, the combustion chamber cross-
sectional area dictates the fuselage size. Because of high fuel con-
sumption 44 percent of the launching gross weight represents fuel
carried in both the fuselage and wing. Kerosene is assumed as fuel
carried in self-sealing tanks. Since the flight duration and range are
limited, this airplane is adaptable only to defensive strategy, and, if
self-sealing tanks are eliminated, a consequent improvement will be
446 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

afforded by the addition of some 10 percent in fuel. Some compromise
wing loadings must be chosen. In this case 77 pounds per square foot
for take-off represents a relatively low wing loading for this type
of airplane but is assumed to allow for auxiliary means of take-off
and flight up to 350 miles per hour, at which point the ram-jet power
plant is started for the first time, take-off obviously not being possible
with the ram-jet alone. The resultant landing wing loading of 42
pounds per square foot is quite reasonable.

High performance dictates reduction in wing thickness to 10 per-
cent.

As is obvious from the phenomenal fuel consumption, the rocket-
motor-powered airplane must carry an abnormal amount of fuel, in
this case 8,200 pounds, or 61 percent of the take-off gross weight.
Wing loading is dictated primarily by the landing condition and has
been held at 40 pounds per square foot, resulting in 104 pounds per
square foot for take-off, which seems entirely feasible. Since super-
performance is obvious, aerodynamic considerations dictate the entire
arrangement. <A practicable wing thickness of 10 percent for the wing
and 8 percent for the tail are chosen. As in the case of the ram-jet,
700 pounds of armament are installed. Tanks are not self-sealing
owing to the nature of the fuels, the extremely short duration, and
the exceptional performance. Al] fuel is carried in the fuselage.

PART C—PERFORMANCE COMPARISONS

1. Calculation of airplane drag.—Drag estimates for all four air-
planes are based upon an identical analysis wherein the wetted areas
of the component parts are assigned drag coefficients depending upon
fineness ratios, Reynolds Numbers, and Mach Numbers. In this man-
ner, the drag coefficients of the component parts are obtained and
adjusted for lift coefficient or angle of attack. The cleanliness factors,
C,=the parasite drag coefficient based upon total wetted area at Ch=0
and RN=8 xX 10%, and the parasite drag coefficients, based upon wing
area, are given in the following table:

Cleanliness factor and drag coefficients

Wetted area Cy S Cp
Propellencic.-- cccscc Senn nbsc aces seas seas eee seect dons 931 0, 0038 250 0.014
uf RU ol ofa) (2) a eee ee ee ee eee 881 . 0034 240 013
RAM joy eehet sot ye See suse he eee ee Pet ook Scene ee 672 . 00385 130 019
Rockete scene oe ee ae ee ee eee oon aaa ae 645 . 0034 130 017

Both the turbojet and the rocket exhibit extremely good aerodynamic
cleanliness, being about an 11-percent improvement over the propeller
airplane. Drag coefficients based on wing area are shown in which
high wing loadings, because of the relatively large fuselages, result
AIRPLANE PERFORMANCES—HAMLIN AND SPENCELEY 447

in high parasite drag coeflicients. The airplane drag coefficient for the
propeller should be increased to 0.015 to allow for cooling drag at high
speeds,

Of the utmost importance is the effect of compressibility on drag
above the critical speed, which depends upon body shape and altitude.
Ballistic data have been useless to the airplane designer because of
the complete neglect of aerodynamic characteristics as such, the blunt
projectile trailing edge shapes, and generally the extremely high Mach
Number regimes of projectile flight.

ee
Eb a BP
oe a te ale

ana TPT

a il / gE

SEES
oeanee Bax

hates

aE Ste ee

veer

ee aa

Figure 14.—Compressibility drag multiplication factor.

Reference 2 provides the basis for the compressibility drag multi-
plication factor used for wings. This factor is multiplied directly
times the airplane drag calculated on the above basis neglecting shock
wave effects. These factors, assumed to vary directly as wing thick-
ness as shown in figure 14, are 15.6, 12.0, and 9.6 for 18, 10, and 8
percent thick laminar flow airfoils at 1/=1.0. In the case of a fuselage,
representing a more compact three-dimensional body, a corresponding
value of 6.0 has been assumed.

777488—48——-32
ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

448

‘J20J 0000S JV SBIP oUBIdITy—'9T AYNOLy]

EV /Zceeeebenes
ESV S=eastaaeake
BREE i= eee
EBEsE ares eeeksats
PARSER EEE ea see Eass
ale Bala et oe) ee sl
ce Ce ee Sse hres
SSeS E Mens sbeees see

*[QA9[ BAS 1V SvAp vuvdary— CT WANT

SAE eee Horas
Bees es ree
PEE Sees

AIRPLANE PERFORMANCES—HAMLIN AND SPENCELEY 449

Finally, the total airplane drag vs. true air speed is depicted in fig-
ures 15,16,and 17. These curves, together with those in part A of this
paper, provide the necessary data for the performance evaluations
given below.

The drag curves shown are for the highest airplane weights obtain-
ing after climbing to the respective altitudes. Gross weight variation
has been taken into account wherein performance is affected.

Peer oe eae ocea
as a
PREECE
malades Se eeeeee as
enn eae eee am
Pa bal Foe oe a ri
ES ela a eS
aes
Sa

FIGURE SoS drag at aS feet.

2. Maximum speeds and best climbing speeds (fig. 18). —Maximum
speed of the propeller airplane is 480 miles per hour at 25,000 feet,
indicating that the practical high speed limit for this type of pro-
pulsion will not greatly exceed 500 miles per hour. At all altitudes
up to 40,000 feet a speed greater than 400 miles per hour is attainable,
although 400 miles per hour at sea level seems slow for ground-strafing
work. Best climbing air speed is relatively low, being 50 to 55 per-
cent of maximum level flight speed between sea level and critical
altitude, respectively.
450 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

Next in high speed comes the turbojet, which excels the propeller
at all altitudes, being 37 percent faster at sea level and 8 percent at
25,000 feet, the top speed of 550 miles per hour representing a de-
cided advantage. Maximum speed for this airplane occurs at sea level
only because of the influence of Mach Number on drag. Otherwise,
a considerable increase in speed with altitude up to 20,000 to 30,000
feet would be found. Although at altitudes between 25,000 and 40,000
feet the speeds are not greatly in excess of those for the propeller, this
margin will improve with further development of turbojet engines.

A Mach Number = 1.0 line is shown in the figure, representing the
magic barrier to speed performance, being the condition of maximum
airplane drag coeflicient. In order to achieve sonic velocity, the thrust

Pe ect WINE ne
CHEERS
EL TN ea
PR HE HA fh}
CT
maaan OE A ae
a
Ps vel oa le ae oan diac eS

Ficure 18.—Maximum and best climbing speeds.

22

ee
oe ae
inom
CoE
Pia

required at sea level would be 1,000 percent of that for the speed
actually attained or 650 percent in the case of a 30,000-foot altitude.
Sonic velocities with this type of airplane, therefore, appear impos-
sible at the present time.

Regarding speed for best climb, which occurs at 65 percent of
maximum speed at sea level and 75 percent at 20,000 feet, a consider-
able tactical advantage over the propeller airplane is realized. A
greater distance covered during climb, since rates of climb for both
are comparable, also offers a considerable advantage in being able to
protect a given target from a base relatively far distant. An appre-
clable performance margin also obtains above 40,000 feet because of
the higher ceiling of the turbojet airplane.
AIRPLANE PERFORMANCES—-HAMLIN AND SPENCELEY 451

Turning to the ram-jet airplane, it is astonishing to note that its
speed for best climb considerably exceeds the turbojet’s maximum
speeds at all altitudes up to 33,000 feet, but that its ceiling is quite low.
Maximum speed, 650 miles per hour, occurs at sea level, and the Mach
Number limitation on speed is obvious in the figure. Climbing speeds
are about 90 percent of the maximum speeds.

Although the ram-jet engine is hypothetical, and is undoubtedly
optimistic, it is interesting to note that 270 percent of the actual
thrust at 650 miles per hour at sea level is required to reach a Mach
Number of 1.0. Because of the fact that thrust increases greatly
with speed, this represents an engine of 190 percent greater power.
Because of the impracticability of such high air speeds at high air
densities, sonic speeds may be regarded with considerable pessimism
in this case also. Nevertheless, from the standpoint of maximum
speed alone, the ram-jet excels the turbojet by as good a margin as
the latter excels the propeller.

The rocket airplane excels in speeds at all altitudes by a wide margin.
At sea level the ram-jet is capable of competing for high speed, and
at altitudes up to 30,000 feet it also is similar in speed for best climb.
Since the rocket thrust remains constant, the rocket airplane is capable
of increasing its Mach Number with increase in altitude until it reaches
sonic velocity at about 24,000 feet. Thereafter maximum air speed
increases rapidly with altitude, the maximum limitation being imposed
purely by the available fuel.

Speed for best climb is of interest, showing a best climbing speed
at approximately constant Mach Number up to the tropopause. Be-
yond this altitude the lower drag resulting from lower air densities
enables the best climbing speed to increase until at about 57,000 feet
Mach Number 1.0 is reached. Beyond this altitude, of course, per-
formance is dictated entirely by the available fuel consideration.

3. Rates of climb and ceilings (fig. 19) —Maximum rates of climb
for both the propeller and turbojet airplanes are similar. The latter,
however, climbs at a much higher air speed, giving it a considerable
advantage in combat in that it therefore can determine the conditions
of engagement in combat or terminate it at will. The absolute ceiling
of 47,000 feet, compared with 41,500 feet, also adds to this advantage.
Climb and speed calculations for the propeller airplane are practically
independent of the small fuel consumption, while in the case of the
other three airplanes gross weight has necessarily been reduced ac-
cording to the rate of fuel consumption. It should be noted that the
larger fuel load in percent of gross weight for the turbojet will result
in appreciable improvement in climb performance during tactical
operation.

Again, the excellence of low-altitude performance is noted for the
ram-jet airplane. Since its thrust falls off with air density, its ceiling
452 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

is found to be low. The extremely high climbing speeds should be
taken into consideration in tactical operations.

The rocket airplane shows amazing rates of climb at all altitudes,
varying from 28,500 feet per minute at sea level to 66,500 feet per
minute at 60,000 feet, where it runs out of fuel. This airplane will
coast to about 75,000 feet. Rate of climb reduces considerably at
35,000 feet, because of the reduced speed for best climb, resulting in
less thrust horsepower available at constant thrust. As climbing
speeds approach and exceed M = 1.0, these powers become extremely
large. For instance, 57,000 feet and 660 miles per hour in climb
represents 16,000 thrust horsepower. Climb performance has been

fh

Ea

RAEN
me

Figure 19.—Maximum rate of climb.

integrated and weight variation accounted for, including that required
for linear acceleration along the flight path.

Time to climb and absolute ceiling may be compared in the follow-
ing table, where the rocket ceiling is given as that altitude at which
fuel is exhausted.

Time to climb, and ceiling

Time (minutes) to climb to—
Absolute

ceiling
20,000 feet | 30,000 feet | 40,000 feet
POPOL Or yk ee eS a eens LE fe eae 4.9 9.0 19.0 43, 000
ETT DOJO bane ses ean) ee ef) ne Soe Ree eR aE 4.7 8.3 14.3 47, 000
Rami-jetox2 thas Ree ie BY La Le Bee ea 1.6 BH) o aie pe Bee 37, 000
RG COG ee ee TURTLE Ei 2s INA ee Uy ART Alaa Ne ea ee .6 .9 te 60, 000+-

AIRPLANE PERFORMANCES—HAMLIN AND SPENCELEY 453

4. Range (figs. 20 and 21).—In determining range and climb per-
formance the amount of fuel consumed in climb is important, except
in the case of the propeller. The following table compares the fuel
consumptions in climb.

Fuel consumed during climb

Propeller Turbojet Ram-jet Rocket

Sea level to— a
Pounds} Percent, Pounds] Percent

Pounds! Percent} Pounds! Percent

DU; O0QSee ees cea ek a ee doe 135 1.2 220 6.7 860 19.5 | 2,950 36. 0
20, 00052 == =e an Se 185 15.2 350 10.4 | 1,200 27.2 | 3, 700 45.3
BO LO00 Sea eee anaes ee sane te 240 19.7 480 14.4 | 1,600 36.0 | 4,360 53.1
AO M00 iNest FE ea ee ee 290 24.1 6200 AIBAT cc ccses|--seccen 5, 190 63. 2
U1 C00 Seer ene ee Se ee | ee Nee | ees me bee | eee 5, 950 72.5
OD) (00 ee ee aoe Seas ree | So ea | en Ee eae ae et esse , 650 92.1

h2co0

am
*

rat o
.
res }
= 2

Leper tt

7
«1
8
a
t
si ui
Oo 2
bes iy.
\ :
i)

sae

%s

Pa
x
ae
i
ao
=
a
te

Ficure 20.—Range vs. air speed.
454 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

As seen from the table, the gross weight change for the propeller is
small and for practical purposes may be neglected. Fuel expenditure
for the ram-jet is not comparable with the others in that take-off and
acceleration to 350 miles per hour is accomplished by auxiliary means,
for which no allowance has been made. Both the ram-jet and rocket
are extremely uneconomical. The rocket necessarily suffers in climb-
ing to higher altitudes where it becomes most efficient, while the ram-
jet is essentially a low-altitude airplane. Although the turbojet burns

URCLUGING QUMB}

Figure 21.—Range vs. altitude.

more fuel in climb than the propeller, a greater percentage of fuel
remains after the climb, owing merely to the fact that fuel is a much
larger percentage of the gross weight.

Referring to figure 20, the range versus air speed at sea level and
at 20,000 feet is shown, which does not include the distance traveled in
climb. Although the propeller has greatly superior maximum range,
it obtains at an extremely low air speed (200 miles per hour), and a
limited range of speeds. At 20,000 feet and the same air speed (350
miles per hour), the propeller and turbojet are equal in range.
AIRPLANE PERFORMANCES—-HAMLIN AND SPENCELEY 455

Maximum range for the turbojet, although considerably less than
for the propeller, occurs at 150 miles per hour faster air speed, or
a 45-percent reduction in time for equivalent range. Speed for best
range increases with altitude in both cases. An outstanding character-
istic of the turbojet is its relative insensitivity to air speed insofar
as range is concerned, the only power-plant variable being engine
revolutions per minute. In the case of the propeller, as previously
mentioned, a number of variables must be carefully controlled within
close limits to attain optimum range.

The ram-jet suffers still greater in range, but maximum range occurs
at extremely high air speeds, above 500 miles per hour. In this case
only, speed for economical operation decreases with altitude.

Range characteristics for the rocket indicate a wide speed range,
850 to 500 miles per hour, with an exceedingly limited range, about
100 miles.

Figure 21 shows the variation in maximum range with altitude,
including the distance traveled during climb. The relative maximum
ranges and the altitudes at which they occur, up to 40,000 feet, are
compared :

Maximum range

Range
Altitude
Actual Relative
Propellers esa ae see ee See noe waren an eee sane Sane Sone 1, 220 9.4 Sea lovel
TOS GEN IE GME: SO A Fe 1, 080 8.3 40, 000
DVRs Ole ee oe eo le re re a eee ee nee ae acs aeo ee 420 3.2 30, 000
COCK CG ee ae ee See ee een wee SET een tokoeaccae 130 10 30, 000

Whereas the propeller has the greatest range, it occurs at sea level.
At altitudes above 35,000 feet, range for the turbojet is superior. Both
air-stream engines and the rocket show maximum range increases with
altitude of from 18 percent to 250 percent, contrary to the propeller.

CONCLUSIONS

1. Propeller airplane—(a) A practical maximum speed limitation
not much in excess of 500 miles per hour is apparent. Maximum
speeds obtain in the 20,000- to 30,000-foot range.

(6) Because of superior range, the propeller type of propulsion
cannot be supplanted at the present time. Maximum range is rela-
tively insensitive to altitude up to engine critical altitude.

(c) Greater pay loads possible in addition to range make com-
mercial application and long-range bombers most attractive.

(d) Cruising and climbing speeds are slow.

(e) Operation above 40,000 feet appears impractical except possibly
in the case of power plants incorporating the gas turbine.
456 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947

(f) Maximum rate of climb occurs at sea level.

(g) Further improvements, adaptations, and variations will be
widely developed in terms of compound and gas-turbine engines and
various combinations of them.

2. Turbojet airplane—(a) High maximum speeds where relatively
short range is required make this airplane mandatory for military
application. Maximum speed occurs at sea level.

(6) Again, for short-range premium operation in commercial fields
this power plant is attractive. Range improves markedly with alti-
tude, and economical cruising speeds are relatively high.

(c) Relatively high operating altitudes, at least up to 50,000 feet,
are feasible. At high altitudes respectable range is obtained.

(d) Maximum speed of the order of 550 to 600 miles per hour and
above at sea level is ideally suited for air-to-ground military operation.

(€) Maximum rate of climb occurs at sea level.

(7) Speeds for maximum rate of climb are reasonably high.

3. Ram-jet airplane——(a) Maximum speed, of the order of 650 miles
per hour, occurs at sea level.

(6) Climbing speeds are exceptionally high, being within 5 to 10
percent of maximum level-flight speeds.

(c) Range is extremely limited, representing some 50 percent of
that for the turbojet, and also increases considerably with altitude.

(zd) Maximum rate of climb at sea level is exceptionally high, but
falls off rapidly with increase in altitude, resulting in a rather low
ceiling, below 40,000 feet.

(e) Auxihary take-off means are required.

(7) Performance characteristics indicate that the ideal application
would be in the field of low-altitude, flat trajectory missiles against
such targets as battleships and aircraft carriers in particular. Air
launching would probably be more practical than surface launching.

4. Rocket airplane——(a) This is the only man-carrying airplane
capable of flight at supersonic speeds, which distinguishes this type of
propulsion from the others considered.

(6) Range is extremely limited and increases slightly with altitude.

(c) As in the case of maximum speed, so also does rate of climb
increase phenomenally with altitude.

(d) Ceiling, speed, and climb performance are limited only by the
amount of fuel it is possible to carry.

(e) Performance characteristics indicate ideal application to mis-
siles following a trajectory. Peak altitudes greatly exceeding the
capability of any other man-made mechanisms are possible. Missile
ranges can be vastly extended.

(f) Highly specialized applications in terms of research airplanes
and interceptors are evident. A research airplane could be used to
conduct tests in level flight for application to high-speed and diving
AIRPLANE PERFORMANCES—HAMLIN AND SPENCELEY 457

problems encountered on other types of airplanes. Target-seeking
interceptor missiles powered by rocket motors should be most effective.

REFERENCES

1. Von KARMAN, TH.
1944. Comparative study of jet propulsion systems as applied to missiles and
transonie aircraft. Jet Propulsion Laboratory Memorandum JPL-2,
California Institute of Technology, Mar. 28.
2. GiInrrguTH, R. R., and WETMORE, J. W.
1945. Preliminary tests of several airfoil models in the transonic speed
range. N.A.C.A. A.C.R., May.
wish Perc ny | \unanca 1b ea
Ay stdin va si biiidiviclaeves tka

tas at Aye

ar ih ine’ NYE ApS ee Mahe, a ; a Were omar

ny) ie , i\ vi i i
My; ig Cael ek are tls is i yy eh i

nh ay

a aay ves aia as AAR RI? Sa UD ti the cet pisitindy
| ; Bod: Lona Nailin SNORT) IG ba erepent tale et isortante obwoR |

‘ wis Pn oat iy i seta ee aae |
nN i

a See Cogan
‘ Lh fy aly Pee Ayn) 4 } Ae adanric PE ; vi! PATE ti ai )
Bis iF Y if } 1M aay J he

A Page
Wiibots Oliatles 62 so et ee ee eee une viii, 119, 120
PA DO Gus aioe LCG Bate = ts Sea a i ee Se vi
(Mollusks and medicine in World War II)_--------- ee eres 325
PAC COSS IOS es ea etn eS 11, 29, 38, 39, 40, 45, 82, 98, 152
Bureau of American Ethnology_-.-------------------- pene eee een 82
UUs erer ya cc LTS) nag 0) Age UR une ane Rega a a yet Me ty ar 45
CF] 9 1c 8 | tetas ma iN eg eae ee Pape OS PL ee 152
National Collection of Ping Arts..2. 22. 24-2. 52s see cco ak es 38, 40
National Gallery OF Atbsg2 i554. honors eee, eee cemeemee ceca 29
INAONSTUVIIRGUNI G8 oe oe ee ne ceo eee eee ae 11
INBIIONAL ZOOlORICAD Ear Geos owe ae eee eee 93
SM PheOt a Ams tGULON =. 2 8 ne oe ee eee 39
Administrative accountant (Thomas F. Clark)_____--_-----_---___-_-- Vv
Administrative Assistant to the Secretary (Harry W. Dorsey)_---_--------- Vv
MITER UDA hy Cunth bea” - kee oe nce Coen ee eee a ee viii
Airplane performances, Comparison of propeller and reaction-propelled
(ESisHATIC SPENCECYy) M26 os ooee on cadena ae = oo eee eae een eeee 429
Aldrich, Loyal B., Director, Astrophysical Observatory..------------- viii, 123
PICCIOU WWI o> 2 ee eR ee os oe ee eee ee eee 5, 39
RNR SERIE oh ee ce he lat ee eto a oe 20
Anderson, Clinton P., Secretary of Agriculture (member of the Institution) _ Vv
PLUS OA eet tana ee gO Se ene ee ne ee ee vi
aX oo) qa) a) Eon 1c) 41 Nene er ae oe 5, 25, 62, 64, 90, 125, 150, 161, 168
@ansicZone Biolomesl Areiasc ons. boeken e Se e 150
Imstitute.of Social AnthropologyucuosesutooS=5 2-4 25bee ee kee 62
INGLONAL NIE SOUM se = ba eo ok eee ee ome ees 125
IN a IOnae Gallery On AY ceca se xe ee een eet eae caeeeee 25
INALIONAL ZOOIORIOCAl PAR e228 a sok Ses en aoe escusonasas 90
Prin aNd DINO Ree Pe oe eae eS eee 161
Raveremael SUBGENUS Asef Oe Be ee Mk SES ashe eee eee 64
ROUGE el pen y Kia eee ee a com Ae oe wae e een eee aes siae 119
tiie e0G 0m AV Oto. oe ee toe et Sen ee en ase eee eae omen 5, 39
Assistant Secretary of the Institution (John E. Graf).-_..-------------- v,3
Assistant Secretary of the Institution (J. L. Keddy)---.--------------- Vv
ABLLODIUYHICAN OUserVALOl ta. o-- eee oe casts Seek oat bok ose se eee viii, 118
Division of Astrophysical Research .....------------------------- 118
Work thie NOMS 2c 2c a tue ete omc nomce een eee eee 119
WOU) Hening LON ot) e 8 ka ot eae gesee ee aee 118
Pryisionof MACistion, and Organisms. 22.5 62.-2.ce=s2-0e-_-5—— = 120
Ceneral eee ee Be ee en So tek tg eee eee 120
FESS ei eter a ee hI ay nS ia oe a 120
PapiCnione tt eee ee Se ee ee Pree a ee eae 122
FETs ee et Se ee Se te 118
OU eye ig ee a sae wae eee eee oe viii
Aten, A. H. W., Jr. (The use of isotopes as tracers)_.-.---------------- 217
460 INDEX

Page
Atomic) energy (Johns) 22222-22222 2022 oe ee ee eee 177

Attorney General of the United States (Tom C. Clark, member of the
MDa GeR GU G1 1) ale cre ae NA la a UN ie ee Re Vv
Avery. Ti. Ascolese ves Me De Nie Oa ae ae th es vii
cw ome ME yc Si eile kas ia ee EZ ee a a vi
Ayres; (bouisc20 ojo eso alk eee De ee ee ete 5, 39

B
Bachands Madeleine Aco ee a a ca ec eae a 65
B85) 01s) Rw (PU GROIN mane ap RN UL cy LN 12-13
Barkley, Alben W. (regent of the Institution) -.__..---.--------------- v,2
1 BEST aoe. HAI (OY MRSA Spy A aR page pe SLL Se i vi
Bartsele Pau eee ee a nae eer vi
Bass, S. L. (Silicones—a new continent in the world of chemistry) -----_--- 229
1 BEETS YS) gg § ANG ae yay SE es A re OE ly a me ee hs vii
Bats, The senses of ((Vesey-ritzGerald)a oe eee 317
BAUIKAT Ce CO OSCD I een pay aes Se i a tee a meee 68, 69
Bayer, Mredericki Mo 22. sees tas sob ohe See aS noe eee oem eae ee vi, 19
TBS ¥6) a UREN [71h (oA it il Dt A me ll i ban pee esl elspa 8 ts vii
I BYEE NE Co (geo RMR ES rai cs tae ry Paap Re Ne Ry Se em Re 5, 39
Belin, Ferdinand Lamot, Vice President, National Gallery of Art__-_- viii, 24, 25
Beloter ris dee se ee ois ee een Dt eke ee ee ae ee ial ee ce en eet eee viii
1 BY ob «Di il Ub it a a GSP A) pS REX ded pe ope i ae eR oe Nee oe vii
Berit se Amr Glave Ose ne ae eri eee ere ere eee vi
Bikini Atoll, The biology of, with special reference to the fishes (Schultz)__ 301
Blackwelder, lt. due se. 22 22 oe: ne ee Se ce oe ee ae ce a eae re vi
1 BACT) B70 ot oy fea AC A el Sed se ee PAPER Be 39, 40, 68, 69, 71
Boardcol WRegentSon nasa soe eee ne ae ete Net meee ee ee ht v, 2
Hxecutive Committees. 2-226. ss cease eee are et eee v, 169
Bs [FS 001] 663 7 <j Aap LL A ST pn La Ss it SUPRA POMS oa Piel nee ot aa) v, 2
PrOceeGINGS Ao = Peres oes eee ee Seep neg ta pee 2
|S OSSTOP Beas oa: 52 lg CASO ge aI ot i Rc ap Ni palo fe te 2 Vii
1 Bein «aD 2 ail © SPN i pe eS Mg ee se ag ln Se ep Al Vii
SLOGSEDU VO Rtn Oe ee ae a We ie ee 80, 81
POA OOmT ING cee ae ES ens eae See cece ke en 39
| Bara cane Dg (RURRONU S R ST cra eIg I A ea aH UNA a any al ig as a Viii
) Foy ia 3 eat AN RNR BD Gp i ep IAL A IIPS A RN lia a yl A vi
1 Baars aN bet MRM Me eae —_ RUE else rN aaa esis SE 2 Meeeeerinihs Ut
| SHDCHOY: 01 50 PUM) Oh] Brn Pe me ABINRe Nr oT eae pe LN yesh Mo yay ea Ge vi
Buchsbaum, Ralph and Nildreds oe eee ee ae ae ee 139
Bush, Vannevar (regent of the Institution) __...__---------------- v, 2, 3, 169
C

Cairns, Huntington, Secretary-Treasurer and General Counsel, National
ralleny: Ob AT i its Sc at a ea eee ee eae Nr 2 viii, 24, 37
Caldwell Josephyht 20a 2 see eee ee vi, 18, 73
Canal’ Zone Biological. Areas. 2002 o2 wl ee Seems aie ee 2 viii, 4, 126
Reporte sols oe es i Sa ee ee 126
Comments Of SCienbistss2 = ee eee ee 136
seal cre ports ee ae rs ae ae ee a 150
Fsland ‘herbari tame 025 2h eee ie se ee ee 141
Tstand ‘literature... 22h. 220 Oa ee ee ee ee 127

List of termites of Panama and the Canal Zone____------------ 143
INDEX 461

Canal Zone Biological Area—Continued

Report—Continued Page
PDN oe ree er eel i 141
Organizations contributing to support of the laboratory__-_____- 151
Rainfall, temperatures, and relative humidity, 1946___________~ 145
TegaLoisic LUG Island 6.0 220) eee hl oe SS i Sait 126
Scientists and their studies____-_-_--------- ree ee es alee 128
DPGtlee Nek: Sk oe Ste ee oa eo ae Sah te are 140
Termite-free buildings in the Tropics_..______._.----_-_-___-- 142

Cannon, Clarence (regent of the Institution)_--_-.--.-_-_____- v, 2, 3, 169
WAnpennAt SrOpneni@. A24 one 2 22 ee ao SiS Se ae! 76
(Pare y yO Males ote a ee ame ons dom emma ee ee a viii
Sitio n Wty At ete es ee Gee koe See see ee 12, 19
Carwithen; Bertha: T., personnel officers... ...2.-<-- ose ence secems Vv
ansedy, Hcwils Or 2¢ 2 he a ee eee te aes viii, 80
ay WOOU ayy a9 Sear at ee ie One eas Cae eames Seas Ch
Wentenmial, Smithsonian. 2a. 6.222 fannie cdvetaosee eee sees a Sessete 6
Hee Mg ihey Be cee eee mere oe a BSAA es ct Ie Seton vi
Chancellor of the Institution (Fred M. Vinson, Chief Justice of the United

RICH R meee eae ee Kone ek ole tie ame oe teen Bale ee v, 2
G1 S02) 8) La pie OS fy 22 6 aS: NO ee py Smale Et oe vi, 13
CaO ran Ae Ween tsa te a Be ee eee nee 140
RAS lop TOR eames NS yee eh re eee rene ae eae Vii
Chief Justice of the United States (Fred M. Vinson, Chancellor of the In-

BD GU GNC 1) eee reece cits irr Shek tase per eS erase ere i Soh ee Vv, vili, 2, 24
Civilization, The primary centers of (Swanton)_____-_________-----____- 367
RIAD AUIS IGE ee ies erent eh pe ono On A Seat wee ee eee vi
Rerp ee leile ny WOCRTIANce Seth 7 ee a Re ee ee la eee v, 155
OPEN /eac0) f=) E00 I Ae i neg So en pe 7 Ser een viii, 119
IAT RAO Uer  StCKINO aa eee ae See a te epee ee hee Vii
Clark, Thomas F., administrative accountant_-__--_-------_-------_-- v, viii
Clark, Tom C., Attorney General (member of the Institution)_--________ Vv
istiey GrilinOne Me eee ee no le oe es Fae 5, 39, 40
OUI fl EO a sea tea ee ee = geo ee RT ee Ay nc EE es 20
Cocimnn, «ais Wie ee ee ea ne eh eo Ee 2 eee vi
RE ON ENS led pcg Core ee le oS Oe a a a Mane ee viii, 56, 57
Commerford, L. E., chief, publications division______._.._._-___--_-_-_-- Vv
Compton, Arthur H. (regent of the Institution) _-........---.--.....-- v, 2,3
(Ofeve 2a Fo) a WR Gl 0625 d (35s Sn ca ed RE Oe oe ED 58
OU rr CAT oe ee ee ee oe ee ih on ie oe vii, 20
(0130) eg 69) I yg a on ng ES UP ETH vi, vii
WOODED NGUSORY jhe =. eae ee eee oedes tance eee vii, 14, 20
COODGE ayia eae eee ee eee ee eet oe in Ss 66, 68, 69, 70
Cox, D. C. (The tsunami of April 1, 1946, in the Hawaiian Islands) -___--- 257
Ooms hee ae Same ain os cite Bas Hae 2
CORSE ee ee ee ee ee eee een Kees Cock ole a Sey oe vii
(Ohi aysaWhelegeal 72 1e ci geal be boa a ee ee ea ee Pea 70, 71
Hpi OC Die Ato. a total eee oe we te oe ee vi

D
BU AIG CER TEI ee ee ano een Sa ia eae ee viii, 24, 25
Wauchertyahicuard Woo seoe se ie he ert et eue Hoe ease 77

Davis, Harvey N. (regent of the Institution) __.____._______________-- V6

462 INDEX

Page
Dearborn, Ned. oe 2t se eee ees see ee eee ee a 12
Deardorff: Merle: Ho 822. 2. Se ee ee a eee 58
Deignan, Hi Gousueee teehee es oe ee cM ee Coe vi
Delano, Frederic A. (regent of the Institution)_.._._._.__.._--.------- Vel2pio
Director, National Museum (Alexander Wetmore) -__._-_-------------- vi, 23
Monohoe, John C. 2.2253 soe a oe ah eae a gk Ge 73
Dorsey, Harry W., Administrative Assistant to the Secretary__--__- v, viii, 89
Dorsey, Nicholas W., Treasurer of the Institution. .....___-.---------- Vv
Drowned ancient islands of the Pacific Basin (Hess)____._____________-_ 281
MPG Icerry, PEE U iy a ee ee hc a 1 a ea a viii, 59, 60, 76, 77
Duncan, Carl D. (Some remarks on the influence of insects on human wel-

BATS) he oli IN Ao Na AAP HO rR ee 339
Duankley dD) Gs 2 vow ees So he ee ek ae eae ce ee oe vii, 22
E
Hdgelk Georcev 42 olen ee ee ee eee eee 39
Editorial division, chief (Webster P. True)22.--.-2 25-5 3h ee ee v, 161
Eegler? Prank (200 3s aut ee Pe eee She ee ape Yee eee 139
1 SO SPS UMD GARRY COR UA ee cD PREY EGE tym pe We Cy Stim UMA Bh 2 vi
Fas op Wea Te a a at a ee ae or eae ee vi
merry, MUN 22.23 ete oe eee ee ee ye ee etme er Wane he eee ee 54
Eng, Ransom L. (The Ryukyu people: A cultural appraisal) ---.-------- 379
Braman, 0 592 tent ee SO se oe Ee ee ee aie eee vi
BriksonyyGy Majo oo ee ee a ee ee ee eee 132
Hasex, John b---o. 5 32 cock ee te Oa ei ie Sa eS ae 73
Hstablishment, PW6s a 2 i ee oe ae a a 2
Ethnology, Bureau of American. .-..00...2--- 222-52 ees a eee viii, 53

AT ChiVess ooo. = 2a Selle ee SS ee ee ee 80
Collections: 2222220. 5 (232358. [aca eee ee a eee 82
Editorial work and publicationsseiuhssce seeks eee eee 79, 160
[llustrations. Wevserisse s Sek Se eta eee ee yee ee ee 80
Tnstitute. of Social /Anthropology- 2.25. = 2 Ce ease 62

Tb rary oe cic hie ee eee oe ied aloe 79
INEISCe ATCO US See eee eee eye pcs cates mate Ses a ena a 82
1a) 016) 9 (Se areata ERLE ES tne S ph FOURNIER LNB TRUprYRR reyie meme G MIME URS Dea ys 2 53
River Basin ‘Surveys... -= 2250220: Sas ee ee eee 64
Special photographic restoration project_.....-------------------- 80
Stath e e  S s oe ene ee ae ae ee eee vili
Systematic researches 0 Dutt et eee 53

MEE GaED SS VA USOT ERC PURI a a a ae te roa et ae Viii
SEV OTS Sh Css io a oa el ken em eT vi
Executive Committee of the Board of Regents. ..---2-2-------2 2248 162, 169
Memberseheaieh. tact r ii sit eh criti 20 Mead fe ity Rae ey pet ase Ee ees 169
Ute) of) 5 Mi ck iment Be NE aes eRe iene een ih Se tc 162
Appropristiongs 222 42 2s 5 908 se eS aS eee 168

NOG] ee Poe REM ivee Romy tA AML Sse le Ba 168

Cash balances, receipts and disbursements during fiscal year 1947. 166
Classification of investments. 222 Hou Saeko eae 165

Freer Gallery of Art; fume iss st: ttn saad es ot a ee 164
Giftsand ‘bequeéste 2202 222256204498 Sees cee ab ee eee 167

Smithsonian endowment fund 252 -440es 2 a a eee 162
INDEX a 463
rE i Page
LV tare) vy 106 Bie Bal Geen pega gene ee reg a Pare Se eee atl een ae vii, 137, 139
tie Chin Ceaenrsvh ones Cle me ae ee ee ee de
Pederal Classi nGsiONwACt 2 2.0 42 se ee ee ee ee 5
PRES To Oy eae EU Tee Tac Te ey a ie El nears ee a ed 16, 00
emo tra CUIN Wl ois. ne ee ee oe ee See 138
HE TNbO rime VV ATE IN ee cee ge ee Ne Pe ee viii, 57, 58
Field, Hugh W. (New products of the petroleum industry) ---.-------_-- 235
Roeser Nese say = © nN OE AA DS ee 79
(RTT ATL COS eee > Sots once ee ee a See et eet A ee 6, 162
Finley, David E., Director, National Gallery of Art...__-_-__- viii, 24, 25, 39, 40
BOG oe ee gee eo a ae Seda Se vii
nS] 02) GA GR eee ee pg ee se a vii
NRE Ge eee Leseare |e ee resend eee Lt SA a eh ee i oh vii
Forrestal, James, Secretary of the Navy (member of the Institution)_____ Vv
Terese eu erm Wye i esr A As ok art hee Ng eet ON vii, 22
Foster, G. M., Jr., Director, Institute of Social Anthropology ---__-__ viii, 62, 63
Hiprer AOR) Hes. oes 8 oP ys oe oo Eee Se ae 39
LDrerey eM CEM | Vesey ga 0) Sie’ og aS Se a pi ee nas NN MRI Or viii, 45
BENGE SJ G50 1) Ce ee ee ee 50
WhanvesHmrexnibitlOns= se 2 fa ee ae ae ae ects oe ee 48
ROG GIONS ae ic en 8k ae Nk Se ale ah a Pi ee 45
Docent service, lectures, meetings._._______________________-__-- 50
Repairs toxtue cOlectloneees 2-2. ee a ame ss eee eee ee 48
LRA 6 1g | gaan a ney ne es a eee oO PO RET Ee eS ey wat 45
SS belie Ween | eee Pn Re et ee viii
BIDGhy COMGCEIONS orton eee et oe ee ane eee ee 50
Mricdinanne Merberteees sae ee ee ee ee ee 2 be ee ee vi
G
AECERT SG Lae ae I ee” cee ci BE 7 Ji al a Ota Sh Pe ee vii
CSA I OES Bo 2 1 ae ee ef Se vii, 14, 21
RUD SUNS Ge ee at hg a Nata Oe tt eaten oes Meee viii
Gellatly, JOUN estates ou ose wee sae Re ee ee ee 39
George, Walter F. (regent of the Institution) ..._..._.__________________ v, 23
SOretC iy MNO V Ges ee eee seen ee Ges oe oa e dk tebe see ee 5, 39
Graf, John E., Assistant Secretary of the Institution___________________ v,3
(iin 10s 1 2¢1ae BES (6 A 6) paced ge ae se a weve ea eee vii
RR iat ares a ee als oes Lee yn on ee 120
MERRIE VEC eo eee eee ee sets Ba ee ere ha te a coes a he 119
Greene weharies! Wyss ae ee ee ated 5 Ie 0 a vi
Gertie MeO 0. Woes eee ee en ea cbencasue ee 74
(Guest, Grace Dunham: ....5.0..--.. 2-22.25. ee ee ke Vili
H
es eo Ub yn INV eta a Ne ee ee ee as 138
TSG) a4 a) ay 2) 7d Dele <p eagl e  ie  eA Ln  ee 73
An tOMbne AMCs iy s ee ee ee ee eee 129, 136
Hamlin, Benson (Comparison of propeller and reaction-propelled airplane
PEREOTUNSIICON) sees cat i A ee, eee eases 429
Hannegan, Robert E., Postmaster General (member of the Institution) ___ Vv

URE ROUL! MipAbOr (Viele tema ss oe Se Oe oe ee casamued 57
464 INDEX

Harriman, William Averell, Secretary of Commerce (member of the In- Page
stitution)es2s- ovessee pak seree setae eee oe sees ee ee eee eee Vv
Harrington, John, P=2=2sc2sssesiees3 22e22 25 se eee asst viii, 54, 55
Hartmann: Mrs: Mlizabeth Gass s2222ss5=2 52 saeeee et eS eee eee 132
Hegeman, Miss Annie-May, gift__-_._.._.----------- Seen MLTR ee 3
Henderson,-Hy Bis ws sSeche a Sb eee ee ee Eee eee eee te = eee vii, 22
Herald HarliSint=.222cesesus4e¥szssstsssrsscas esses pew A Le 12, 19
tess rank Wh. Vos ae Ua eee a 2k ae ee eee SS oe ar, vii
Hess, H. H. (Drowned ancient islands of the Pacific Basin)__________-_-- 281
Heyn;:I'.. A.(The use: of isotopes asttracers)- 2-4 22222-2554 seeeeee 2 217
mightowenr Gielwocesccneates SU Cees See i eee ae set viii
ildt John -MeLeans 2243.5 22288 Soh ee ean s Se eee ee eee 119
Hillis, George C. (Telegraphy—pony express to beam radio) .-__-_------ 191
Hobbs:;-Horton-H-<-=«=-ssecsesccenessooessntactskessstesees eee 13
EPOf marin, - Wits Mic Sits Sshh ie SA) 2 EEO Zk Oe ee ee eee vi, 20
Hoimbere,-Allan.. 222S22+22e2seoccesc5ss4sso2en5se=2seehs ese 63
Hoover aWelliams Fisch O00 It ee PS a eo See viii, 118, 119
Hopkins. Aw Djasna2s65 282 seelee =U aS) ett se eee ss ese an eae vi
Howards Ons 22222 22022. oe et ss kee esses eae eee eee vi
lO We lliW-AG DIA wiOn < 2c er. om a ee eee ee eee vi
ubri¢ht sIheslie..2 5 s2s22ie2es5o2h2055 422552 555" a ose eee eee 13
Puches, Jacks 2-2-8. t2>e-2o0e8scs-ssenssecse. za scseseeee eee 71, 72

I
Wl Peels ys i hn wl es sees 2 es See eee ee eee vi
Insects, Some remarks on the influence of, on human welfare (Duncan)---_ 339
Institute of Social. Anthropology. ......-.-------<<.ssss4s se viii, 62
International Exchange Service. __..-.:-2--=.-2--<-=-----522--225- viii, 83
Foreign depositories of governmental documents----.--------------- 84
Poreien exchange agencies. == .- .- 5 esc e awe eee ees ee 88
Interparliamentary exchange of the official journal_-_--------------- 86
Packages sent and received 122. ..-.2.5-54--<5-.2+===12 Jase 83
Reportes 22 al2s.-4 202-3 eee ees woes eee aan ee ee 83
Staffs. o ole eno wee none Lee Be oe eS ee viii
Isotopes as tracers, The use of (Aten and Heyn)-.-.------------------- 217

J
James, Macgill, Assistant Director, National Gallery of Art. ----------- viii, 24
Jellison,. We Js 2.3 eb ets sea eee ee vi
Johns, A.B. (Atomic energy) ....--_-----=+.---5-2-+s-s-20- 3--35-= 177
Johnson, David H.....-----22-25-22225 25-20-4055 e54see ee eee vi, 20
Johnston. Warl $2222.42. 22322 sees se see See ee viii, 120
dudd,- Neil MS. eens oes ot th 3 oes eee eee vi

K
Kainen, Jacobvetecsco- 28 sk ssrscu ss ehset saee een eos oo See vii
Keddy, J. L., Assistant Secretary of the Institution_------------------- Vv
Kellogg, Remington..=::222222s22s225c25oh2-55°---- 25a vi, 20
Kelly, <isalbe er en eo ee ene tener ne = ene ee ee 63
Kenned yor dict se ee scceat doesent ese eee 2 Stee ee 120
Ketchum, Miriam Bu. .~-24.e2 2225.22. 2522- 6-3-3555 3-=—- == viii, 79
Kallip Bs Pee deo cea ee BA eee ees oe vii

Kivett; MarvineP. 2222 i222s-2. ie eee Cath | Re a es TA 2h o
INDEX 465

Page

Serials OEQURCH ames mare ona ea ae ee see See ti a ee Vii
U2) IB Ret eRe ae ec ee ons ae a 130, 136
BRO FE PIS MN Vey lene chet ers as ee Rg ee DA ee ee ene gees ee 13
Kress, Samuel H., President, National Gallery of Art... ______- viii, 24, 25
Pena vOl MEECEDCLUMNY = no 2a te Oe ee ee eee ee vi, 16
Krug, Julius A., Secretary of the Interior (member of the Institution) _--- Vv

L

LOR a AYER Ao WL 00S) 2 Open ee sis ec Sane page eae ay ee aa ee eae Ue vii, 20
Seat 3 eee Oe a Rh ee vii
iiiraian (hells ho Olaris) «2.20 22.42 0a 8 oo cn Ste oe ie ae oe Vv, to5
| LV 10) ei ay ak arg ele Se Ae gms Ra ede Ree a 152
Te Cet SCT Le a) Wes aoe ae ee en ee ee AOA a a 152

By OC ae a cea Ta a ca Sipe ieee ao cate se he eae 152
PUrMmMiarrcd,SualtistiCss. ae hte Ho eh ee en oe 154
Be Nepal Te as os te ce I Oe acca vii, 13, 14, 21
RCrct UT RRO) VEE ree eee tien, 6 ae Fk Kio a ne ee Se Viii, 3, 124
Los hs asa ce, em ee a re a ee eT Viii
1 US PN TOUT NEY os 98 0 pee ere ree ee ee ee eg a ee 135

M

Met UTE RrCOFCG. WTANY on oe eo ee ee oa tee vi
Macdonald, G. A. (The tsunami of April 1, 1946, in the Hawaiian Islands)_ 257
Mann, William M., Director, National Zoological Park__-_________ vi, viii, 117
PER EMUIDY Orcs Dee oe SOG ha te ee Oe SO nda ates te ee viii
eae a yete (ile = eee eee oP Se ee ae ee ees 5, 39, 40
Marshall, George C., Secretary of State (member of the Institution) _____ V, Viii
Mrs VAT De ian ee aioe ok ee eens ekg ee Vii
REUSE gi) tees ese ee F eh ee ene ae ae ig toe ee ae ee Viii
Etat: MMC OUOLE ene ee ee Se sg ee eee 132
POR OP VERE Peer ee he Sue re ee nS a ee 5, 39
SVEN VV a eee ne re ee ar, Wee ae Rae heed a eee vii
McBride, Harry A., Administrator, National Gallery of Art..._________ viii, 24
WeGiBEViIO. Ue) VV Cbstete= moe an ere oe en Seas ee eee 63
ies eR oil Ne ce eae ce eal eee Oe, tate ae eee vii, 13
McConnell, Samuel K., Jr. (regent of the Institution)__________________ v; 2
REG enziCwMGOLGOn as 20 eke ee a ee eee nenl a bos toca 73
CN, (eo ee ee Sees Oe eee 2 a viii, 24, 25
Members of the Institution. ..........._.----.----_-----.-...-..._2- Vv
SU 0 Percy iz SFA gl Ve a eg ACen ie GY spe PRS ie or 135, 137
nanos SR EM cae aay a ee oy Vee es Lo SRS eee eee 20
BUI s eee aN i tee, A ee eee a i er oe Ne eee 65, 73
UUM MONORUUUL Syst bc te ee es eee en es A vi
MMe r ee ODL UMt tat cia as aoa ce wlan Gaeta eee oe ee vi, 12, 18, 19
MRGEIAL COARIOV noo. eh hae aon aneeneee sad alesse ee vii, 125
EGE NT Cee ere 22 Ss eee dae ee eee nee aan 12
Mollusks and medicine in World War II (Abbott)__-_-________________- 325
RPaore ie Mercy sees eo ce ee Se ne ee ot eo i ee vi
DiaOrpas PONY sol Ee see tk dere ee each aw ou ee ee 24
Normson, Josepu PE. == 32 kn eee = ae ee ee a vi, 13, 19
IVETE Oe) al eee epee ere i. eet ats we Ny a re 126
Lag raga) 1 PERG, 1) 0010 ih ene eh MO PE pCO ape pec vii, 13, 19
Mosquito control tests from the Arctic to the Tropics (Stage)__________- 349
iN Guba: 8 Gap: Ch Ce ene ee a ae ae ee eae ke vii

Myers, George H_._________________-_-_-__-_---_- eee 39
466 INDEX

N Page

NetionaleAirMiseum ster ert ss a eee nae eee Pees viii, 3, 124
Advisory <Doard= -2 5 see hae ar ees oe ee ee oe er eee viii, 3, 124
AP PLOPLIa GONGs a os se ee oe etn eee eee = heen ee 125
ES 06) teagan te aad acid he En AN cap sre Me 124
National" Collectionvor Pine Arts: **-- > ssa Pes ee heen cet ae vill, 38
Catherine Walden*Viyer tum Gere eee cee en ee ae en 40
Elenrys Ward “Riat ger Summed ecg a es 42
IGiorary® Se ec We ee ne ee ee re ee ee ea 42
ThoOANSecepbed {awh en uate See aos Ses ere ieee eee mae 40
MOSS TEUUIMe Aaah eek ee SE OE eS. Jee eae 42
Loans to other museums and organizations____._._______________-_ 41
PVGDOr bets eee tee ee Se ee ee ee ae ne ee 388
Smithsonian Ant Commissions 24st ee oe ee eee 38
Specislkexbibitioms ee es ee ee 8 Se eS ee eee 43
Wathdrawalsib yO whers=<-.2 2 ee 0 ee eee 41
NaODRN Gallen yiOl ATi tase w= 2 wt STS et. SOS Rl So ots Roe viii, 24
PNG CITRATE INS = en oO) IE oe 8 Se at ee tea ee 29
Acquisitionsicommittees eee eee Se ee ee 25
AD PLOPLIA LONG = Sauem sien ak A he ee A ee ee ee Ee eee 25
UGE COTNGEEL ING Co megs Vee Fo I 8 ar Rt ye ee ene ee 26
Audit:o£ private funds’ of the-Gallery.....2.2--o2 2225 ee 37
Care and maintenance of the building. -_____.22-__.-.22-2-2-2 2-4 26
Curatorialidepartmenta ves 384 fe ois, Beet Ree SAU a ee 35
Custody of \Germancsilvers 22 22 ssc oes oa eos Sees eeoe ea see 29
BIMUCAtIONAL PrOopramts — 5 -ooo So soit eta Sr tae ae 36
Bxchange Gf ivOnksuol arte Ce Usagi) Sigie Io Pe ee 30
Hxecutive,committees.0+ 2. Solel lea ee eee 24
Shi DIGlONS ae eee Sees See Se AS eee ee Beene eee eee 32
Hinance committee... 43.252. —2 ooo owe Se ee ae ae ee 25
Ciftstofidecorativevants. =. 2226 .2 oe 3t ae ee a on oe a 30
Gifts-of paintings;and sculpture=2=_--- 3223222 ee eee 29
Giftsiof prints(andidrawings 2 aes Sete ee ee ee 30
Gifts:to the Index of. American. Design. =. ...-..._. 22229 45.2 30
index \of-American:Désion® 220 Jo. a ee ee 35
Installation of additional air-conditioning equipment___.__.-_____-- 26
ImtersAmerican: Offices... <2. 2555 22 2 2 oases 85
MG aay ace et eal Re ne ee ad a a ie RS Re 2 ee 36
Loansof, works.of art. by the Gallery...-.2-.2- =. Noite eee 32
Loan of works of art.to:the Gallery .22.....-.2<.-225. 223. sR 31
Hoanedavorksiol art TeuUrMe Caste ae ee ee 31
Of Giga ie eon aad Rata kt SP ee viii, 24
Organization and stall... - cool oc ese e cee ea ee ee 24
(Ojdlater ia i (: Aino Ne Renee Aetna Nepean ay ce © UE wee Se fa 2 aye
Photographic. department <5. nose oh kk eke oe ee 36
Pub lecasti@ nis se ee 0 Beh ed hn Sr cr oe 26
Reportecv2s. 2 cee nu bbe Ah EE Bie er es eee epee 24
Restoration and repair.of .works.ofarts2i22 ss 225. ee Sewer 36
‘Traveling. exhibitions2-13 si 28 eee ease aoe eee 33
"ETUSt@ OS ee LT a Seth ne el egal i 2 Ae viii, 24
Various Gallery: activities. .-2.<: + 2-32 Nese ast. 2 2 See ee eee eee 34
INDEX 467

Page

UNG GLOs1 20 lel VRC SG Ue eee ie = ere eee yee ee ee ee viii, 11
PA CLOOIINIS Ur Sy GV gS UAL ose ee = ee er ee ee viii
Buildings and equipment... -..c bee ese see 3 oe oe cee 9
CRATIQON IT OLP sem ZA GION = Ae 2 eee esd ete ee ed ls Fae hee 23
COlECtIO MS Eee = eee ees are er ck ed Ae epee esa 2 eee 11

MS pPlOragen HUG Nel WOrk sos... oe eee ee 8 eee ee 16
Mestings and. special Oxiibits—2-- < Vole ye a ee 22

Bu blice tons se gee cee ee See ee ee | Ae ee! ee 22, 159
USDOL Ue en ees et On A ies Ma a SE Fas ee, ala
SclentinGss tatte ss a6 eee ee ee ee eee vi
National Zooloricalibark oes oor be ee ee viii, 90
ACGUISitiOn Of SPeClMensSs- s2.-. 22 24 So eee eee eee 93
Animals in the Park June 30, 1947_________________-___-----____ 99

MENGES [TSC TS UST EN UL ©) Feet em ene ee oan oe ee 90
Jeyhedeksy (aco lilaee rol avnays{:\- tum => con ope meme Mee mya cee ele Reyes AEE 98
Depositors and donors and their gifts...__.________________-_-___- 94
BOLLE ECA ee, RS ENS Be ORES ER At My, BSc ale 92
INGEGS dE Ie M00 Somes ao Soe oes oe Sh ae eee ee 90
MBSE) O10) 2 ae co a Sct aR al Sr Ra 91
SUSU LD ee ee a a Al te Oe Re Re oy Ne viii
miata: Or bud COUCCHONE 0 ooo oe See ee ee ee ee 117

SATA 173. eae ay peso ee ele a Ee Ee eee ee eA 91
DWAR IV Momo ret Ba oe Nees oe el we ete ee vi
(The Ryukyu people: A cultural appraisal) ____._...___.--___-__-- 379

ING WINANS OURINOV SG oe, Se end xe os owed ao ake ate. et 63
Nicholson, Seth B. (Large sunspots)_-._____________._--__----___-_ ee 173
Nimitz, Admiral Chester W..-......-_____-_-___--_-__----_---_-_----- 3, 124
INGEST BEL pty pee Sete ata Pc ete hs ee el eet i ee, 21

O
0) 72) Lind £24 (25 2 Re ee ne ee Ags ee nA ee Pec 62
OPETITo?e) 0 1a @ [Sear ana oe cae Ae Oe eo veg Pe viii, 159
Omics srohsihesin stitiitlome see oa ne ee eee ee ae v
OTe Tela rea: teeta 2 Se em Reh yO ee eg Sloe ee viii
Rr i Ses ae Soo le ote eae awin a oe wee Bo ol a ees vii
iP

| Bd | Vas ASL GR I) (=) 6 en ee en ee So PRN te viii, 79, 160
ete COUOrGur nm meem ae) a ee ae eee eae eee ee vii
Ranamas Puzzle im (Bowman) 2252 =f nek 2s) test eae eee 407
Patterson, Robert P., Secretary of War (member of the Institution) __ ___ Vv
LEy2 Wb, oc) Cee 0 apnea pee ee CS 2 OEE SS, OP vii, 21, 22
REST IGY, pt Nee Ye cas, Sr ee ee ee vet sacl eases eee vii
1 2US5 a oh depot ase a ee OO Se Oe Ce eer Sie eo vii
CIE CNN, LA oe eae ate wl ed gene ee 12, 20
Personnel officer (Bertha T. Carwithen)_____________________________-_ v
Petroleum industry, New products of the (Field)_.-_________.._-._____- 235
Phillips, Duncan 22 S25 oo scene cm ence cee e ene ete ae viii, 24, 25
Photegrapmic laboratory... <li e c ik tecese eee 8
BICHEUCO, PLOPNEN O2-8seseosnc dace dleseceen ne bo nc eee ce sens See 36

Fete UC yy Rell ep yer ee to MS Fe Set ts oa ote ee 73
468 INDEX

Page
Pierson, Donald 242... oan ob sosd fee cubs ks sao a ee ee 62
Pittier, Menriss. 3.25 SoS Se ee eee pee vii
Pitts, Grover. Cs. oss Jossscsssee so3 552252 5S Ee Boe ee 134, 137
Plutonium and other transuranium elements (Seaborg)________________- 207
Pope, John A 2.2.52 Sq eit (Sata ser ssa S sae ac viii, 52
Postmaster General of the United States (Robert E. Hannegan, member of
the sin stitution) = vce se rere ro ore er Ley ST Vv
Powers, Maj... Gen. -E. Meo viii, 3, 124
Prescott, George: W..322 es ee eeea tg SSS Se ee 139, 140
President of the United States (Harry 8S. Truman, Presiding Officer ex
oficio of.the Institution) =e ae Soe sare oe ee ee Vv
Price, Leonard oss sss eS see ass Se Bae viii
Price,,. Waterhouse. & CO s2esee soe n 2 tth ayo A ee oe ee 37
Pride, Rear.Adm, (Ac. Macnee een ee a viii, 3, 124
Primary centers of civilization, The (Swanton) _._..____._______-_-__--- 367
Propeller and reaction-propelled airplane performances, Comparison of
(Hamilinvand Spenceley) 22. -2222-~Ssscc cers sass ase sasssee 429
Publica tiougas= 42 sas ee wee secuscsseasesecesesse 22, 27, 79, 122, 127, 156
American-Historical. Association... = 2222-222 -522-sss24se5oe==5 2 161
Appropriation -for printing and. bindings..2222252-s2s222ss22525225 161
Astrophysical Obsemratorysssoete no-one 2 DES ee 122
Bureaucof American Ethnology: s. 22s as a 79, 160
Annual Report. s--s.522>52esssssssssseassnesss A oe 160
Institute.of Social Anthropologys G2. U1* {= -SuE set PPh ee 64, 160
Canal- Zone Biologi¢al-Area< 2-252 2s gcse ee VO 127
Daughters of the American Revolution-/.2--—~-1.2-22._22-_ "2228 161
Freer Galleryof tAtts2222scss2sees2ce5e 25255. SS Aes 160
NationalGallery- of Arts. 22202 Soe csr assess lS se 27
NationaledMusetine 222 2225225252 ee Sees St ee 22, 159
Anniial hReponts¢.2 <2. 8 caecceea ole So aes cee ee 159
Bulletins. =sa0uen eves we See ee ae ee ae Se 160
Contributions from the United States National Herbarium__-_---- 160
Proceedingse.-4 assests eed Se oe ee 159
FRC DOnUR S42 ost re 2 Se GS 2 Se ee oe Se ee eee ee 156
Suiuthsoniansnstitu tone oneal Sass ae ee ee 156
AnmusleRepors. 2355.55. (eso oo ee eee 158
Miscellaneous Collections .2.. 4-3. eo 156
Special publicationsis: 8s. 22 233s - see 2 See 159
Publications division, chief (L. E. Commerford) --_-------------------- Vv
Purchasing officer: (Anthony W:4Wilding)U: o_o -{Uuseo ss 28 Sees ae Vv
Purzletin Panama, (Bowman) ac 4.22 24525-2525. =-o-o eee eee 407
Q
Quaintance,-Charles Woo. 22 se ocec ease eee a 133
R
Reberholt: Be Osss:2ar2cns2 2 SN a oe ee oa eee vii
Reece’ Be Carroll pels p eR SN Ai ear ee RY 2 eee 2
Reed ICs WF MTs PED nn Som we 5h Sth CAE Eee PATE See vii
Reesides Vis (Stn 50.4 29 oe By a hy Bg ag Bh a oS eer Vii
Recents or the: Institutions 24 sane Ss ss ee v, 2
Reenior A.V) 00iec eto. eo ne see as eee Ss 5 See 134
Rehder: HaraldvAt 2022222 2 eee Oe ee ee eee vi
Report of the Secretary of the Institution --------------- 1 hee Arar eee 1

T77488—48 33

INDEX 469

Page
BOTY ne GTC) AUT Rte) 00 epg alee eel ei are <n A fi
ECC eeel VL le ea ere ae ae ee ee ee ee Mo vi
Rigel HCANChs Ae se re a eo tenm eines tewea a sHbs cate ehe testa kh. 10,08
arene OPEC ent Vee oa hee aS eee ee an ees 76
PEP gg a LS Ne ees rR aa ene as eran 20
Ru erm Ae Weg UE VOY Se 2 Dees ee ae ae he Oe es ee Se a viii, 64
overs, Prank H. HH. Jr 2-22 - ee eae viii, 53, 54, 60, 65
is ote) Oyu ake (a) 000 Ye Weal 21 Gre = ge er Ope ees tro 3, 120
LEG (25 eS aR, Wa eae pe apc Aa = ep DOR gem Ar ery em PE aS a aA vi
ReGen Veni ol 121002) game meine dey gage Ati ps eat aes eget pe eve ee ape ee 18
LEE APE sock ke) 21 0s (RL, em gp nn eer ONE po 63
Pisscll. 0 a VOWNSeNOGNe loan ae Poe ee eetene eee oS eae eee ee vi
Ryukyu people, The: A cultural appraisal (Newman and Eng) -_ _----- ~~~ 379

s

Dalltaa. Hear Aan tid. 1s. 92222 26h ees sO A ta eh OT a 3, 124
She] 1 CY ah oN ee sa ne eR nee eee vii
Preeti BO tirs see end eee ecb hen oe Oh ee oe vi
roy CLO sz bd Fe og LEM ele Umi ns elie palsy tat ne eC 128, 136
Beso Gage Eee ON be ee rege BN Sia ste ee vi, 12,19

(The biology of Bikini Atoll, with special reference to the fishes) ___-__. 301
DCN WHEE. WCMIANUN — secn soo eck ooo Me Roan eee coe eee eee eae vi
Schwellenbach, Lewis B., Secretary of Labor (member of the Institution) __ Vv
RCIGMUNIG CUM tt ee Re Se a ee ae Sie vi
Seaborg, Glenn T. (Plutonium and other transuranium elements) ______-_- 207
Seanlew Virsa claret RiCbAnTGsON 135.2 1e. deer pay eee Ne ee vi
Secretary of Agriculture (Clinton P. Anderson, member of the Institution) - Vv
Secretary of Commerce (William Averell Harriman, member of the Institu-

L110) 61) je St et Pe OO cS A a aE nD ee Dae ey ES Vv
Secretary of the Interior (Julius A. Krug, member of the Institution) ______ Vv
Secretary of Labor (Lewis B. Schwellenbach, member of the Institution) __ Vv
Secretary of the Navy (James Forrestal, member of the Institution) ______ Vv

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution (Alexander Wetmore) __ v, viii, 3, 24, 25
Secretary of State (George C. Marshall, member of the Institution)__ v, viii, 24
Secretary of the Treasury (John W. Snyder, member of the Institu-

MER yea acta EN a ie a Sel See ee ee De ee v, viii, 24
Secretary of War (Robert P. Patterson, member of the Institution) ______ Vv
oon a remo! Wi. = 28h ein Pah aot Hoke ee ele vi
PIG ae SION: Ec Be ee Sa ee Ce ee ee 24
Shepard, F. P. (The tsunami of April 1, 1946, in the Hawaiian Islands)____ 257
Siicoler savanna hee oe ee Ee en ee 3 eee eee eee 21
S100; EPL Loc) a aR & A en a mf Pee SO vii
HOG RM EDICiy neers ns oe te A a ee ee 60
Silicones—a new continent in the world of chemistry (Bass).__._________- 229
DAG tine ON aries) @ see wh Se ee ee viii
URNS TEV eee cin Sut re de Si el ew eee ee be Se ee viii
Dien, wlexander Meo 2. 3. 22 Sok en nee nn dn cn ocwennsSeete dese 139
Bridie GlareuCedWee. = noe eee eh ee cele cd cc Sees use 76, 77
SOLES CCl) neon eee FS EM 8 ee ee 2 Se 20
UC UL eee eee 2 Se ee Peel eee ee 60
Smithsoniam Art. Commissions —_ 22-2022. 22 ee ee 5, 38

Snyder, John W., Secretary of the Treasury (member of the Institution) _ v, viii, 25
Dever, WUGhInd ty temo sree ee 2 8 ee Ue eee eee 133, 142
470 | INDEX

Page
DO PORNO CS yn a Sete eee eee ee ee ae 132
Spaatz, Gen) Carls 2). oon. Genes ee ae Se ote ts Sata ee 3, 124
Spence ie 2a See ae ee ree eh pe 57
Spenceley, F. (Comparison of propeller and reaction-propelled airplane
MerhOrMAances is: See aes Os ee ee ee 429
Stage, H. H. (Mosquito control tests from the Arctic to the Tropics) __._- 349
SLELE OE Op opm Read" ile a oe ee ee es a an NO eR Mg Ae RRs apse) ch 5.” WP TF NOL Ge Tae vii
stepwenson; Robert du-8. <9. 552 2c Sitene ote ee 75
Dcermbers Gl: Bhs och) ee eS ee 22
StevensonyJohm Ac Sac 7 5SGie sete Oe ou tone oie se eng lee vii
Steward noua seh oe ee oak oe oe eines ee 62
DBiewart wees moat k ees ee ee es Se ee eee 73
Stewarts) ie Dales cic ye po, ee eh Os fea bepte rape! dyad bas oA op APPR Gn Ca Visa?
Stirling, M. W. (Chief, Bureau of American Ethnology) -...-------- viii, 53, 82
SiroubrWillintnalse stots hentare phe. Web Sete SOA ae face ped viii, 3, 124
Sunspots, suarge (Nicholson) ii.oi4 2233 Se: oho OE Ele ee Ooh 73
Swallenieldson: Remain ee ee vii, 13
Swanton Jon Nasi. oo. ite oe emer eel ee ee viii
(The: primary ‘centers of civilization) .....--.----.-....----.- 2) Siete 367
Dwanploy Wik sass Sp Se bce Mo enh ess Se oe ee eee Vii
T
ol E771) 0125 sk (Bgl te mei cancer cre nO te oR mS are Saiyan WER Vili
UE y OTe EMCI Ne Na a ay ah a EI eg le Ne vii
PRLS LGIR Weee VWins, OB i Bia a 2 an a ri me Sic ae are go Re ee vi
Telegraphy—pony express to beam radio (Hillis) ____-.---------------- 191
Tolman, Ruel P., Director, National Collection of Fine Arts___.-_-.---- 39, 44
Treasurer of the Institution (Nicholas W. Dorsey)_._.----------------- Vv
Qrue; Webster P., chief, editorial division..._'...-o.---— 2-26 sseeees v, 161
Truman, Harry S., President of the United States (Presiding Officer ex
OLTTCTOs Of a tee TAS GL G ULC OTN) oe a ea Vv
Trust Funds’ Employees included under Federal retirement system -. - -- 7
Dyer ey 0G OV GN s 1: ur A pmo a RN perm Ping E hfe PASE RO Sy 2 TA 63
Tsunami, The, of April 1, 1946, in the Hawaiian Islands (Macdonald,

Se Ars cour GK) 2 a a a at chs A ed ee oe 257
‘bucker: Mao: Wise. cas 2 ek we oe ee woe eae nee Ses ee ee 80
V
Varela: (Ps Wi Spe, fee a eictrthth aioe ae ath ria Saat a Ne Vii
Vesey-FitzGerald, Brian (The senses of bats)_-_---------------------- 317
Vice President of the United States (member of the Institution) __--.-.- Vv

Vinson, Fred M., Chief Justice of the United States (Chancellor of the
Institution) =... o=e+eec isc Besse ee eset taneetcod Mame teens v, viii, 2, 24
WisitOrs 2: ee ee os eee cess taser ses sas sess 22 ie 8
Freer: Gallery of Arti 2202 3222 30 SAO? 200 Se eae SO _ eee 50
National: Gallery. of Arte sccose2stessssesessess2e22 33 eeee 26
National’ Zoolopical. Park <<:2->8 ences sees ss Fo eee 91
Vorys, John: M. (regent: of the: Institution)o2.43.2s2.222= 4s 222Eheee v, 2
Voth tPaaliD ete bess st ee eee see aos oS eee 140

W

Walcott, Frederic C. (regent of the Institution) _---..----------------- v, 2

Walker, Debert A. 29432 ectbeo2c) wees ee se ee vii
INDEX 471

Page

Weer eH Test) b sapere ee oo oe ae he I Soe mate ene viii
Walker, John, Chief Curator, National Gallery of Art.__-.----------- viii, 24
WUE ea EAR RB UMS ae Sp RR RO eo Re cP eon Ss Bre eee ee vii
AGS 1 PAT Oh eT aon gage sr Se eRe ie EE Re OE eS ne 75
\WS#CEYG UG VES) 6) boas LY s WOME Peer ie en meee ee ene gee A ee ye apes vii
NVOeemWalGeae ee te 8s ee eee a eee nee ae vi, 18, 66, 67, 69
Barter ents REC) SE he ea es ae et eal a ls ine eee ee viii
Wenley, Archibald B., Director, Freer Gallery of Art_--.---------- viii, 39, 52
St mC RET ee oe en age ee en es 0 Oe 63
Wetmore, Alexander, Secretary of the Institution___._._-_.------- v, vi, viii,
3, 5, 12, 20, 23, 25, 39, 40, 119, 124, 125, 127, 132

eRe Oe ee ts ce ee ae eee ee eas nee 75
Ce COO OCG 1h) arg Solem a a eet et or en eae 68, 72, 73
White, Wallace H., Jr. (regent of the Institution) _--__....-.------------ Wey
AUT aa rel ouelet {0 Bak 01-9) (1 aetna eer a See nee MOONEE ee eS ne vii
RVECInes Anthony. W., purchasine OUICCl 2... 2 i ei2..5- 4 etoe 2 eee Vv, Vili
MVMley (COTdOtr hy. as A oe Bo Pe Sa 9 eee ee viii, 60, 61
Irie), Mer ns weer. ee te Bk OE GE oe ee viii
MWe Mts AV 2. 2 es oS teen bee easeseneae vi
VG ele OTs ys IVE Soe gn Oe SON SD ok Se aoe Sane oe vii
WU tabi aVetL Cele ee eee Ae ea Bee ee ee eee 73
PTO TEN ILO CEEG Vie ein he Oe het Sl, i ee 140

xX
Peri VV Thun teresa wala ote cet RAS he rl te ee 169
em imnuehir ate Wie 2 tert et. See Rt NE iS a Se ane eee 12
Z
Zetek, James, Resident Manager, Canal Zone Biological Area--__- -- viii, 127, 151

O
Sa
= ss
3 hz
q
iat
i
ad
= id

4 ne ¢ ars

csr OR dust, A038 hc} dene scion Gault aeays
aes bie 3 : an ——
Ss ot See a pS Shee a7 3 os oe

¥
Bs ee a7 “har * a Eee

7 rat . Z

davtaut Sar aies ie kee ION O LOE
+ ae’ '

; [end Peta: 4 Oe ath, Glee Ea

ama: - ee PROS
E Fh ns Joka ntingwtiGe eee bers

OA A SE SS Fe

pt ala

Pa i“ : eee ete 3S) Te
; is : Seg pe
SS
~ ’ > ae pa
FS 2 <
sede 1G ia Bin tee

“
‘ nt iy~
7,
“F 7
ie 2
Sia ira = ¢
f TH i ~S Sorreat ‘
ty
»* we : £ ESSA
’
~

- — = 5 _
’ 7 -
_
7 a
~
-
.
.
- 7
ta
|
!
:
+>
me
| .
©
,
7
'
'
’
{
Ue)

7
,

were ey

il

|

3 9088 01421 7533

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES

———=—# 2 -
———————
phyla senna @ nt tpoe > ty heme ~ - at : : -

“thin beonuntatatpananre nests ke - 3 . - = - - ~
enay8 omy inca ee . apne tnsesnrs ty eee rom tat ha : : 3 . hae c

scrgda pte ert sig inte stoned tamnde ay inva cmey an hy : aN oom

Featese-anerasiaiebomarensedeio eenenttonein

—

‘=

—

e Fg
*

a ee

.———

i qf
‘
_ ab a
? a ce
Se a Fe
a), 7-448f
cha ,
5 eh
fe =
ps Aue
a g ‘
artes
* cet i
rela).
7 > 4
hd as
abe Ae
q ae
et}
af hy
r i. .
AA
i ee
2 ’
} S
d ie -
} ‘ j is
te
7 wodlh
ry +
ee i i
ARs
c ; ‘
i jae od
Be |
7% | oe 3
mA) At
ya J |
J wi #)
et 34
Bi 2
mie ee
il ers
| & bat
s
A
i “' f,
eK i,
i ia 2
: &
my ae -
on ¢ mn
4 free
e ee)
i, | .
ao’ z :
2; kay
; >
a x’. 4F
+ ees
, iy
ae
ee
gig: f
= } ae
- ys
Ne kKed q y
f i)
Hf ee
{ ™ a
° | oA
| ;
i) ry
f 1
a P 4 re
an ia
; :
Pd) 6 ee
| wae
pi é ,
~.
q >
A) S
a ae:
e 4 vu
ri i oy
4 :
aS :
, la
t f
% q “a
+ |
a je
i.
. ‘et
i4 2 ,
Se
es a
4 W
et
a le.
i
“ ; )
Py =.
San {4
q wt
; +
bo >

~~ .

ge ae
( mq A

a

,
o oy abt

7 | iy i

h a ¢ Pos. i¢

| ‘AB

a ee

Vis Sel

a a

oy

4

= = - = os . - - < ed “s
. : r nai « on 3 >
os oan -
* " . < ’ . = . S
aera ae = . a >
= pee a es - ‘ .
: 5 b — : ? la
— “2 . ‘ asia :
rl “ L
‘ . > oe ¥ cot
. a os
i‘ a. ~ “ se 4
. be " : =e See _ me
x - — , - ’ ’ eet ’ 7 _—
thea ; = - 4 , y
, ’ a $ °
’ i Tm <
ee e - rate
. i, _ Ea 2 oe. =, iy : “4
a Pe ‘
~ *. oa 2
%, ss 7 7 asin) . *
; ° ~
, . a Sx ite
= -
Ee 4 + “ty ~t ¢
- S 4 ~ ~ te, » &
: re, \ ~
cS > a —, * 3
* eo ‘ h > ;
4 t hs ot,
$ - - - : ‘oe -
- ‘ ‘ “a % t mt
: ee ~ 2 ps e ‘ -
: % z ; '
3 = ‘ t:
‘ " Be " : ra + q ~ - 4
* no! € 3 : roe - 2
va EE, 4 :
. ‘ . . z ss . - ~ z 3 .
Nene 5 "
- . rate ‘ ‘ .
ae ~ . , 4 4
r ~ z . “
5 - y . = .
oe a, ‘ S 7 .
€ A wg . ? 4 ~ “
@ « i . bs ag ah d a a a
< fe Ms E ‘
: 2
; ’ P - oe
= 4 is 5 :

> « - £
» * © -
x = x 3 Ste
: pings : : gen Re
’
- >
2
% : + « g
% 4 >
-. q e
- : 4 .
1 : . ’
’ - a
‘ on
? 2. <= os
od a 4 t ws -
j F ;
Z % . P

