ee
ne ota ot - ahha st B

Anes
th

tte
&

‘gh
& be

Soe srt
i

#8858,

wf
as we

=

5 i

2 Ces os ae ee
Sey ob es » y° ee m0) fJ

nn > t . ao ik -

af eee oe
| a 7 Pr a is ‘t eee s° egy ~ * or
fe ip ie “ts 3 _ 4 at gk - ee : _ ; i, -.* a Pm it ie Y
oe x fe fe fe ate f ae - ie nee * a ie ® |
of & & f f& i s * ®@ Bee 8 eee
ae Bs 7 “eis is * Te . toe ve * ee BP we
Leek PbS ‘e i ‘. iy «se & eee ee
‘t fe & b Db ca ok hes eho ee @ eed o &
2 i wee enn os eb c a he we ys to oe os
q tt P re - 2 = ox. a oe is 2 am i 7 d a }
or fe ® ra oe 8 ® 8 ee ee 8
fh w & a “et s |e is A. ot * & @ ewe ®t
ee EP. af ess *# 8 8 & ee ee ee
Te atts sh "a vie i o ¢ ff @ o ee @ &@ ® 4
fe eb i Ny ‘ye «ey } ¢ @ & ®t 8 we wD
& a & BJ Aa a .'  @ ao @ & WY & © kw &
Cee "ff fh & "? ws «* ? ® ®& ¥ we & eee
ee b&b ff Pair ie a a ee ee es
aad eee ee oF ee He ee eS
ee {fe ef sy ¥ 8 | 1 .

Ce
eB

“i fh & & fe fe ik _ im » oe POD © & BY
2 ee poles
2 , , ‘ M 5 R

nn

i

if
nie ‘ os
a

(f Pee DP 2 oe oe ee ee
Be tate he
: of Se PS Fy < a? “si
fe »* * ¢ & Be & & & De
re ae ee 2 oe

*," .. ee aeh eee eet ae ®
we | so ee ee ee
Pi dj . Y IER Wt, ey 4 _ - ig ‘ £

LTA AAD AA,

te. te. cx os ee ee
ip ae. ae we ee 2 ee
ih ot ee ae ee eee
aes Aue eh Tyne oat

a ‘ “swat, i P , '
ji ai aaa i cl wi oh Wi
PT i A in Tee oy or) a Oe ‘ “ae F
hylan oem
} . ' Ne | uf q ka" nYY, re t My
Uh dea: alien
a 7 ; ' » [ ‘ \
{ hal A iW
oh) q ( j
a! i j

a
RD. «
i

i
ee

mH e

ve
c lo ni

i. : ,

any
‘

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF REGENTS OF

THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION

SHOWING THE

OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND
CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION
FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30

1930

(Publication 3077 )

UNITED STATES
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
WASHINGTON : 1931

For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D. C. e P - ‘ 4 " ” Price $2.00 (cloth)
q oer

pa! (VSO mts ese)

atrate darn
Rann Mery Taio”
‘het: MOTOMTHZAW

hn ee ee ee re et on ae —mearepe mete wa

a.) ee syria be 2 a i ae ho

OO EE a ya ale aan le re 409

LETTER

FROM THE

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

SUBMITTING

THE ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE
INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1930

SMITHSONIAN INsTITUTION,
Washington, December 9, 1930.
Lo the Congress of the United States:

In accordance with section 5593 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, I have the honor, in behalf of the Board of Regents,
to submit to Congress the annual report of the operations, expendi-
tures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year
ended June 30, 1930. I have the honor to be,

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
C. G. Aspor, Secretary.

III
| :

‘ Shi : i :
ah ;

; why ‘
prestl 2 A -
.
rhidy ri
ee Pee i

ene paneriee aa 10 van

ohh ter pike i>. lau Tits ‘geld Rey pay o at ;
dal: nebtoediime edite pasa baa

ryioe Josihedo. 1HOY “lean eel P

We arts: ty Heth gona tiv il eae “t Odo 8 a
| t : . ar ee. se
] ) aT Bt Dod Wik oil) ‘osu fi wien

i Te

ef od aero eld. ovad T hos ais
CONTENTS

cae cae peg ty hla pape pet ns Art adorable ie
The ranrnee Srenira int - Siren Okra 0 em norsk ene hr pe toe on
. omc events Or Ue Your ~~ ee eee ene
gE Ry al Th Lia adnan aiepensiytin da cain paleseoatne si ipaipinabetes sb fl
nr SURI = a ess na et ip at
i get ENTAIL ge aga Lise pag gale pene pene shay 5 cpenpcecymaicicnneanm tp Sit
ees oe eter en ROAM ant en te, a ees
Award of Langley Medal to Charles Matthews Manly and

to Commander Richard Evelyn Byrd, United States Navy----

P Additions to the Natural History Building of the National
; ei iis tape lL. Tie Dh nell SpA pla a fy Misi leat fel eed ghar. are
mesearcnes in’ Wuropean archives. 2/92 S— 2S Seo Se ee

Rocket experiments of Dr. R. H. Goddard--_-_-_-_-_-----------

ow sexnperacure rossarcnes. 2). /25" 2 ae

Division of Radiation and Organiame* "* ~~ 2 se
Peeeroreuons Siu. weld workin poet 2 ese rahe aaa
Cooperative ethnological and archeological investigations _-_-._-_--
NTO 5S Soe Tee Ay ees eee Ot LN eens
Gnettheonian Selentifie Series {lh te ee
. eS Str PAL Ce eee ae Se Se oS ear ere
Governmentally supported branches-------....-.-.------------------
NIN TAMMANY SoS I A EOS
PTORIGtD ey OE APurcte es. oe een) Son aan anna eee
ner rur.AYt nado c corse aas GeG eae eee eee bens 8
Deine OMiEr TRMMONOEy fo OO See ee eee one
eo Ee et i ele at Rie one ea SO ee epee a hated Se ose
DNNIRL TOCIIRIORE RARIL (Cette. nt nn nn enn
a asmoprycien! Observatory «i223. 2ut see ste et ete skate
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature___-_-.-.----------
Wibrclony ete R Re tm 5s fre rer ne Arras 65/2 FSO to as oe ee
Appendix 1. Report on the United States National Museum_-_--__------
2. Report on the National Gallery of Art_.__-_---.----------
8>*Heport on the ‘Freer Gallery of "Art.') 1. 20S. 22 SoS lc

4. Report on the Bureau of American Ethnology-.....-------

5. Report on the International Exchange Service__-----------

6. Report on the National Zoological Park__._._-.----------

3 7. Report on the Astrophyiscal Observatory --...------------
8. Report on the Division of Radiation and Organisms - - ----

9. Report on the International Catalogue of Scientific Litera-

Tbe 2 alae Sete AS nee pees = okt Cd SER wre a, CORSE eee ere eee ee eee

es NG OU SEM RUE eee ee eee

ny eNOS O01, SIDER os oS es tee ee

12. List of subscribers to The James Smithson Memorial Edition,

. Smithsonian Scientific Series, since Nov. 15, 1929_.-__---
Report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents__-.-_------
Seroceedings of the Board of Regents............--..----------------

lin part governmentally supported.

vi CONTENTS

GENERAL APPENDIX

Beyond the red in the spectrum, by H. D. Babcock___----------------
Growth in our knowledge of the sun, by Charles E. St. John___________-
Phe modern sin eult, by-J. Wostuirmer{ = 2) 2a ee eee Se eee
The moon, and radioactivity, by: Vr SeWorsess —- 22 2-2 ko oe
Modern concepts in physics and their relation to chemistry, by Irving
Teammate 3 222 te a see Ce De ne ma a pe ae
Waves and corpuscles in modern physics, by Louis de Broglie___-----~--
New researches on the effect of light waves on the growth of plants, by
.S.' Brackett and. Barl §. Johnstone: = 5 22 = 5252545 ge ae
The Autogiro: Its characteristics and accomplishments, by Harold F.
IPitcainns? 27s. Sees se ee eae Spe tee a Oe Ie ee
Ten years’ gliding and soaring in Germany, by Prof. Dr. Walter Georgii- -
The first rains and their geological significance, by Assar Hadding------
Weather and glaciation, by Chester A. Reeds____---_----------=---=--
Wild life protection: An urgent problem, by Ernest P. Walker____------
The nesting habits of Wagler’s Oropendola on Barro Colorado Island, by
rankeM: (Chapman 20 2 = 5 Re eee ee
The rise of applied entomology in the United States, by L. O. Howard-_-
Manvandtinsectss by. li. O! ow sand eg ee eee
The use of fish poisons in South America, by Ellsworth P. Killip and
Mibert: Co Siniti eke eel ee tee) eg ee
A rare parasitic food plant of the Southwest, by Frank A. Thackery and
Mi remeln Gilman the ae as ee mee a le ma
The mechanism of organic evolution, by Charles B. Davenport---------
Extra chromosomes, a source of variations in the Jimson weed, by Albert
MB pIgkeslee ss oe ee SS
The age of the human race in the light of geology, by Stephen Richarz_-
Elements of the culture of the cireumpolar zone, by W. G. Bogoras_-_---
The Tell en-Nasbeh Excavations of 1929—a preliminary report, by
Walliam:FrederiesBadé 22022 ew el Js 2 a eee
Recent progress in the field of Old World prehistory, by George Grant
EOC ys | ns ae ae es eek So ee See
Ancient seating furniture in the collections of the United States National
Museum, by Walter Houghs 242522525 3 oe ee ee er
Aspects of aboriginal decorative art in America based on specimens in the
United States National Museum, by Herbert W. Krieger_-_----------
The acclimatization of the white race in the Tropics, by Robert De C.

Jesse Walter Fewkes, by John R. Swanton and F. H. H. Roberts, jr ----
George Perkins Merrill, by Charles Schuchert_....-_------------------
LIST OF PLATES

Beyond the red in the spectrum (Babcock) :

rE ST Ty OU CSE ee Sees 2 2 a) kD SS eon ee
Knowledge of the sun (St. John):

aL eR Se a etc es einer aah eeepc en mere eee
Waves and corpuscles (De Broglie) :

Oo STi Si DE Se ee Se ys Nn ee ee ee eer
Light and plant growth (Brackett and Johnston) :

Gliding in Germany (Georgii) :

0 ESTING SSE TRS SS PS SPP ae net ee een eR ener eer ce
Wild life protection (Walker) :

0 ips Te SS 2 ee eS ee eee ee ee
Nesting habits of Oropendola (Chapman) :

O70 pet iat Dee ei RS EI ae ne EE ee ree ees
Fish poisons (Killip and Smith):

jg RR et EI ER Se
A parasitic plant (Thackery and Gilman):

CE Le: ile ee ee eee Se eee ee ee ee
Organic evolution (Davenport):

a a ranineta eah a ees ecaipetand_ Se apes TENS at, aE a CES oe se
Extra chromosomes (Blakeslee) :

Ct es OSs MBE ER Fy a ee
Age of the human race (Richarz):

Tell en-Nasbeh excavations (Badé) :

NE a 2 on a ae a
Old World prehistory (MacCurdy) :

go Lge Es Ae CE a ae ee
Ancient seating furniture (Hough):

CS 2 ae gE Le eel eee ee oe a Se
Aboriginal decorative art (Krieger) :

CLT Ys ES va es Se ee RRs ene ee he ae ee ne
The Holland Tunnel (Gray and Hagen):

Uc te Sa ES Den ae hk gh 2 Cease Sie toes » Sues ae ene te
Fewkes (Swanton and Roberts):

Un ST Goal Modig SEs 8 pate SRS ie ee ee ak a Se eS ee ise eee
Merrill (Schuchert) :

Ve SE ge COM Sia SS Ee Se RI I ee PE ee NER re a eer ee

190

421

518

608

609
eo
tu Peis
ese

- 4
S959 ese’ rir
AHS CB lane z :”

a

re t
. Sh nd Ei lel
ets pets t

.

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1930

SUBJECTS

1. Annual report of the secretary, giving an account of the opera-
tions and condition of the Institution for the year ending June 30,
1930, with statistics of exchanges, etc.

2. Report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents,
exhibiting the financial affairs of the Institution, including a state-
ment of the Smithsonian fund, and receipts and expenditures for
the year ending June 30, 1930.

3. Proceedings of the Board of Regents for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1980.

4. General appendix, comprising a selection of miscellaneous
memoirs of interest to collaborators and correspondents of the Insti-
tution, teachers, and others engaged in the promotion of knowledge.
These memoirs relate chiefly to the calendar year 1930.
CO ee aT 0 tao 19 |
TANT Mar ot piritc pan

aToatEaR:
there. i
ESS od 2 drogen kava wit!
1h ae? ED itoiSibetbo: b

santa
Thee Py
yi

tio isp old ‘te. soqod ee.

yy be
: ininiraail dt wath
pair naidomd tiore i oid 3

‘RET 08 onurk, gi this Yar

astarebial bo ad ave ni Atoe avi
. pee "ya eel 10 Bien’ entpelagad
yitst fda ¢ ata efer | Zz iomort

i
=

Ni

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

June 30, 1930

Presiding officer ex oficio—Hrnrsert Hoover, President of the United States.
Chancellor.—CHARLES Evans Hueues, Chief Justice of the United States.
Members of the Institution:
Hersert Hoover, President of the United States.
CHARLES CurRTIS, Vice President of the United States.
CHARLES Evans Huaues, Chief Justice of the United States.
Henry L. Stimson, Secretary of State.
ANDREW W. MELLon, Secretary of the Treasury.
Patrick J. Hurtey, Secretary of War.
WILLIAM D. MircHeLLt, Attorney General.
WALTER IF’. Brown, Postmaster General.
CHARLES FRANCIS ADAMS, Secretary of the Navy.
Ray LyMan Wripor, Secretary of the Interior.
ArtTHuur M. Hypkg, Secretary of Agriculture.
Rosert P, LAmont, Secretary of Commerce.
JAMES JOHN Davis, Secretary of Labor.
Regents of the Institution:
CHARLES Evans Hucues, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor.
CHARLES CuRTIS, Vice President of the United States.
Reep Smoot, Member of the Senate.
JoserH T. Roprnson, Member of the Senate.
CLAupE A. SwAnson, Member of the Senate.
ALBERT JOHNSON, Member of the House of Representatives.
R. WALtTon Moore, Member of the House of Representatives.
Rosert Lucr, Member of the House of Representatives.
Rosert S. Brooxines, citizen of Missouri.
Irwin B. LAUGHLIN, citizen of Pennsylvania.
Freperic A. DreLaAno, citizen of Washington, D. C.
DwicHTt W. Morrow, citizen of New Jersey.
JoHN C. Merriam, citizen of Washington, D. C.
Executive committee—Fnrepveric A. DeLaAno, R. Watton Moore, JOHN C.
MERRIAM.
Secretary.—CHARLES G. ABBOT.
Assistant Secretary.—ALEXANDER WETMORE.
Chief Clerk and administrative assistant to the Secretary—Harry W. Dorsey.
Treasurer and disbursing agent—NicHOoLAs W. Dorsey.
Editor.—WeEsstTer P. TRUE.
Librarian.— WILLIAM L. Corsin.
Appointment clerk.—JAMES G. TRAYLOR.
Property clerk.—J ames H. Hit,

NATIONAL MUSEUM

Assistant Secretary (in charge).—ALEXANDER WETMORE.
Administrative assistant to the Secretary.—WILLIAM bE C. RAVENEL.
Head curators.—WattTrer Hoven, LeEoNHARD STEJNEGER, RAy S. BASSLER.

xI
XII ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

Curators.—PAvUL BartscH, Ray S. BAsster, THEODORE T. BELoTe, AUSTIN H.
CLARK, FRANK W. CLARKE, FREDERICK V. Covitte, W. F. FosHAG, HERBERT
FRIEDMANN, CHARLES W. GILMORE, WALTER HovucH, LELAND O. Howarp, ALES
HrpuicKa, New M. Jupp, Hersert W. Kreiecer, Freperick L. Lewton, GERRIT
S. Mitter, Jr., Cart W. MITMAN, CHARLES HE. ResserR, WALDO L. SCHMITT,
LEONHARD STEJNEGER.

Associate curators—Joun M. ALpRICH, CHESTER G. GILBERT, ELLSworTH P.
KILLIP, WILLIAM R. Maxon, CHARLES W. RICHMOND, Davip WHITE.

Chief of correspondence and docwments.—HERBERT S. BRYANT.

Disbursing agent.—NicHoLas W. DorRsEY.

Superintendent of buiidings and labor.—Jamers 8S. GOLDSMITH.

#ditor—Marcus BENJAMIN.

Assistant Librarian.—LeILa G. Fors.

Photographer—ArtuHur J. OLMSTED.

Property clerk.—WILLIAM A. KNOWLES.

Engineer.—CiLayton R. DENMARK.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART
Director.—WILLIAM H. HoLMsEs.

FREER GALLERY OF ART
Curator.—JoHN EXLLERTON Loner.
Associate curator.—CarL WuHitine BIsHopr.
Assistant curator—Grace DUNHAM GUEST.
Associate-—IKATHARINE NASH RHOADES,
Superintendent. JoHN BuNDY.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY
Chief —MATTHEW W. STIRLING.
Ethnologists— JOHN P. HARRINGTON, JOHN N. B. Hewitt, TRUMAN MICHELSON,
JOHN R. SWANTON.
Archeologist.—FRANK H. H. Rosrrts, Jr.
Editor.—STANLEY SEARLES.
Librarian.—Hiia LEARY.
Tllustrator.—Dr LANcry GILL.
INTHRNATIONAL EXCHANGES
Secretary (in charge).—CHARLES G. ABBOT.
Chief clerk.—Coatres W. SHOEMAKER.
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK
Director.—WiLtiAM M. MAnn.
Assistant direcior.—EHRNEST P. WALKER.
ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY
Director.—CuHartrs G. ABBOT.
Assistant director.—LoyaL B, ALDRICH.
Research assistant.—F REDERICK E. Fowte, Jr.
Associate research dssistant.—WILLIAM H. Hoover.
DIVISION OF RADIATION AND ORGANISMS
Research associate in charge—FRevERICK 8. BRACKETT.
Consulting plant physiologist—Harzt S. JOHNSTON.
Research assistant.—LeELANp B, CLark.
REGIONAL BUREAU FOR THE UNITED STATES, INTERNATIONAL
CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE

Assistant in charge.—LEONARD C. GUNNELL.
REPORT
OF THE

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION

C. G. ABBor
FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1930

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

GENTLEMEN: I have the honor to submit herewith my report show-
ing the activities and condition of the Smithsonian Institution and
the Government bureaus under its administrative charge during the
fiscal year ended June 30, 1930. The first 24 pages contain a summary
account of the affairs of the Institution. Appendixes 1 to 11 give
more detailed reports of the operations of the United States National
Museum, the National Gallery of Art, the Freer Gallery of Art, the
Bureau of American Ethnology, the International Exchanges, the
National Zoological Park, the Astrophysical Observatory, the Divi-
sion of Radiation and Organisms, the United States Regional Bureau
of the International Catalogue of Scientific Literature, the Smith-
sonian library, and of the publications issued under the direction of
the Institution; and Appendix 12 contains a list of subscribers since
November 15, 1929, to the James Smithson Memorial Edition of the
Smithsonian Scientific Series.

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
OUTSTANDING EVENTS OF THE YEAR

Several events of unusual importance to the Institution have oc-
curred during the year just passed, and its scientific work has pro-
gressed in a satisfactory manner. To mention some of the high-lights
of the year’s advance, Congress authorized an appropriation for the
construction of the much-needed wings on the Natural History
Building of the National Museum at a cost not to exceed $6,500,000.
The work of the Astrophysical Observatory has shown an apparently
large and important influence of small short-period solar variations
on the temperature in the United States. The new Division of Radia-

I
Z ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

tion and Organisms has made rapid progress in the construction and
equipment of laboratories for physical, chemical, and biological
investigations, and has already obtained preliminary results in two
highly interesting researches. Dr. R. H. Goddard, whose experi-
ments in designing and building a rocket to explore the unknown
upper layers of the atmosphere the Institution has aided for 12
years, brought the work to the point of practical demonstration.
The late Simon Guggenheim, at Colonel Lindbergh’s suggestion, has
made a large grant to complete this development under most favor-
able auspices. Dr. C. U. Clark, under a grant from Ambassador
Charles G. Dawes, has made important discoveries of unpublished
early Spanish-American records in European archives. Four more
volumes of the Smithsonian Scientific Series were practically ready
to be issued at the close of the year, making eight volumes completed,
and the last four are well advanced in preparation. Substantial
sums have already been received by the institution as royalties on
the sale of this series. The fifth and sixth awards of the Langley
Gold Medal for Aerodromics were made to Charles Matthews Manly
and Commander (now Admiral) Richard Evelyn Byrd. Under the
auspices of the Institution and its branches many expeditions went
into the field to obtain necessary data and collections. Reference
to these will be found in the following reports. Many monographs
and smaller papers embodying the results of original researches have
been published and widely distributed throughout the world.

THE ESTABLISHMENT

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in
1846, according to the terms of the will of James Smithson, of Eng-
land, who, in 1826, bequeathed his property to the United States of
America “to found at Washington, under the name of the Smith-
sonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of
knowledge among men.” In receiving the property and accepting
the trust, Congress determined that the Federal Government was
without authority to administer the trust directly, and therefore
constituted an “establishment ” whose statutory members are “the
President, the Vice President, the Chief Justice, and the heads of
the executive departments.”

THE BOARD OF REGENTS

The affairs of the Institution are administered by a Board of
Regents whose membership consists of “the Vice President, the
Chief Justice, three members of the Senate, and three Members of
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 3

the House of Representatives, together with six other persons other
than Members of Congress, two of whom shall be resident in the
city of Washington and the other four shall be inhabitants of some
State, but no two of them the same State.” One of the Regents is
elected chancellor by the board; in the past the selection has fallen
upon the Vice President or the Chief Justice; and a suitable person
is chosen by the Regents as Secretary of the Institution, who is also
secretary of the Board of Regents, and the executive officer directly
in charge of the Institution’s activities.

The only change occurring in the personnel of the board during
the year was the resignation of Chief Justice Taft and his succession
by Charles Evans Hughes, both as Chief Justice and as Chancellor
of the Board of Regents.

The roll of the Regents at the close of the fiscal year was as fol-
lows: Charles Evans Hughes, Chief Justice of the United States,
chancellor; Charles Curtis, Vice President of the United States; mem-
bers from the Senate, Reed Smoot, Joseph T. Robinson, Claude A.
Swanson; members from the House of Representatives, Albert John-
son, R. Walton Moore, Robert Luce; citizen members, Robert S.
Brookings, Missouri; Irwin B. Laughlin, Pennsylvania; Frederic
A. Delano, Washington, D. C.; Dwight W. Morrow, New Jersey;
and John C. Merriam, Washington, D. C.

FINANCES

The permanent investments of the Institution consist of the fol-
lowing:
Total endowment for general or specific purposes (exclusive

I SEER NNREN MS Po ese nS ek NR gh $1, 670, 582. 40

Itemized as follows:
Deposited in the Treasury of the United States, as provided

Deposited in the consolidated fund:
Miscellaneous securities, etc., either purchased or acquired

by gift; cost or value at date acquired__________________ 578, 292. 40
Springer, Frank, fund for researches, etc. (bonds) ~------_ 30, 000. 00
Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux, fund for researches,

ety SeCOCES.: DI DONOM ) -— 2-08 ee eo a Se 12, 477. 50
Younger, Helen Walcott, fund (real estate notes and stock,

ET byt ts Tyg Ng 3) feel a ig tr td i iinet Ca en 49, 812. 50

i Rm ee rn ae ee eT 1, 670, 582. 40
ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

The above mentioned funds of the Institution are described as

follows:
United States) Consoli- Separate
Fund Treasury |datedfund| funds Total
Bacon, Mireiniawhurdy, fund 242. 2 ost chs Fe ee $65, 812. 09
Baird, oneyor stun oe on ono en ee ee ne ee 2, 076. 68
@Wanfield:Collectionsfund: <==... .6o 22 ts. ee eee en 50, 242. 50
Casey, -bhomas ii, funds -— one nene ck enn eee LS Sti ge 6, 416. 97
Chamberlain fund)... 4222 eos eos - once - ee a 36, 990. 04
Hodgkins (specie) tunds.-sac2.-4s-23—= eee ee $100, 000. 00 100, 000. 00
Hughes, Broce, fund -2.. 2 S22. - 22. a ee ee eee 17, 942. 72
Meyer. Cathorine W;.flimd:. +- = 222.6525) --4+5 ee ol" Pee eee 21, 700. 97
Pell ‘Cornehabivingston> fand - £2 26 <22 a | ee Se eee 3, 171. 41
Poore, Lucy T. and Geo. W., fund---_- 26, 670. 00 58, 148. 61
Reid; Addison TE. funds =- +. 23-2. 2 4 11, 000. 00 23, 476. 50
Roebling fund. eee ane te See ee | eee eee 158, 524. 06
Smithsonian unrestricted fund:
PAVCL Vapi LET ee are ee ae eee re eo ee ee 48, 914. 74 62, 914. 74
Endowment fund 72, 353. 49 72, 353. 49
Mabel ifand 295-2. Pes 2s a a ee) a WEFOOVOO) Ae eee 500. 00
HMachenberg fungus: 235s 5 et Se ee 5, 285. 01 5, 285. 01
FEL SO MUN eee ee en ee tee ee eens 529. 41 3, 029. 41
Panny fins s oF Pe Pe 1, 588. 62 1, 588. 62
rod ekcins weneral kidd 22 see enon ae a 116,000.00 | 39,394.24 |__.-.__.___- 155, 394. 24
Parent.iunds te 6. at 3 ee 727, 640. 00 J605;40F 5 ees 729, 243. 49
J Bo} t(2¥ 5p 1 0 (0 lt oP pl aan = leer a Aye Sebi Be Nake 590. 00 6215335" | tee ee ee 1, 211.33
Sanfordifand !- eae ee EN se a 1, 100. 00 DGS 52, |Pes Sree 2, 269. 52
SPTINPer rank, MONO ee oe So ed, See ee a Bea | ee ne aie see | ee ere $30, 000. 00 30, 000. 00
Walcott, Charlesd). and Mary Vaux, fundet 2. 2. 3). 8 ee | ee 12, 477. 50 12, 477. 50
MOUNEER elon Wialeouu, fun se eee ee eer | me etme ea Ree ace 49, 812. 50 49, 812. 50
Rotala css Whee a ane ee, Sennen hae. eran 1, 000, 000. 00 | 578,292.40 | 92,290.00 | 1, 670, 582. 40

The Institution gratefully acknowledges gifts from the following
donors:

Dr. W. L. Abbott, for archeological expedition to Hispaniola and other places.

Mrs. Laura Welsh Casey, for further contributions to the Thomas Lincoln
Casey fund for researches in Coleoptera.

Mr. Childs Frick, for researches in vertebrate paleontology.

Harvard University, for contribution toward purchase of meteorite.

Missouri Historical Society, for further study of the language of the Osage
Indians.

National Academy of Sciences (through Dr. Hrdlitka), for archeological
explorations in Alaska.

Research Corporation, for further contributions for research in radiation.

Mr. John A. Roebling, for further contributions for researches in radiation
and studies in world weather records.

Dr. William Schaus, for purchase of specimens of Lepidoptera.

Mrs. Mary R. Swales, for expenses of publications in connection with Swales
fund.

Mr. Hans Wilkens, of Reading, Pa., for general endowment fund of the
Institution.

Freer Gallery of Art.—The invested funds of the Freer bequest
are classified as follows:

Court and -erounds fund... 2.25.4 ae ee ee ee a $592, 046. 60
Court and: grounds maintenance fund. 2 3 2 149, 608. 46
MOEALO? TON. oP a a eae 602, 395. 38

3, 956, 879. 06

5, 300, 929. 50
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 5

The practice of depositing on time in local trust companies and
banks such revenues as may be spared temporarily has been con-
tinued during the past year, and interest on these deposits has
amounted to $8,103.31.

Cash balances, receipts and disbursements during the fiscal year’

Peele On nen’ June S0,°19292-_--— 2 ee "S216; 904. 28
Receipts:
Cash from invested endowments and from mis-
cellaneous”™ sources for general use of the
ination. =. 20 eae Ri Ie ee $74, 850. 62
Cash for increase of endowments for specific use. —_1, 029. 57
Cash gifts for increase of endowments for gen-

“oo EA) eg LS A eee RUE 2 EY 189. 10
Cash gifts, ete. for specific use (not to be in-

CRS Fe LET A) SS eee 105, 710. 88
Cash received as royalties from sales of Smith-

sonian Scientific Series 7_._____________._____ 21, 833. 92
Cash gain from sale, etc., of securities (to be

TEWeREOTE A eR A ee ee 2, 110. 18

Cash income from endowments for specific use
other than Freer endowment, and from miscel-

PBPOUR: SOUTCES..__<-000 .Uiis SUES EES Sen 72, O78. 30
Cash capital from sale, call of securities, etc. (to
BOL PeMVORLOU } i ee eane eee Oe er ae ee TO; GOT. GO
Total receipts other than Freer endowment_____-_~_ 453, 220. 37
Cash receipts from Freer endowment—income
Pern nmeshMents. Sak, Pee $303, T80. 87
Net gain from sale, ete., of securities (to be in-
no) ee ee ee ee eee 38, 480. 34
Cash capital from sale, call of securities, ete.
is Iie SPEIOREOC ) 2 ee ye 1, 482, 644. 95
—_—_—_—_———- 1, 774, 906. 16
CM a aE NS ea ag 2, 445, 120. 81
Disbursements :
From funds for general work of the Institu-
tion—
Buildings, care, repairs and alteration____ 1, 937. 05
Furniture and fixtures________- . ae 529. 17
General administration *_...._____.-_____ 24, 154. 26
Pepiaryes te 2 al. frees A Bree A et 8, 170. 37
Publications (comprising preparation,
printing and distribution) ~___________ 13, 224. 93

1This statement does not include Government appropriations under the administrative
charge of the Institution.

? Under resolution of the Board of Regents three-fourths of this income is credited to
the permanent endowment fund of the Institution and one-fourth is made expendable for
general purposes.

* This includes salaries of the secretary and certain others.

28095—31 2

6 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

Disbursements—Continued.
From funds for general work of the Institu-
tion—Continued.

Researches and explorations______________ $19, 294. 39
international exchanges: <->) =e 4, 830. 35
$67, 140. 52
From funds for specific use other than Freer
endowment:
Investments made from gifts, from gain,
from sales, ete, of securities and from
Saving won In Comes =. aes eee 20, 659. 95
Other expenditures, consisting largely of
research work, travel, increase and care
of special collections, ete., from income
of endowment funds and cash gifts for |
STDC CULT CaS Cie as aes eT 147, 068. 31
Cash capital from sale, call of securities,
ete; reinvested 22+ 2. = oo er es 174, 900. 30
———————__ 342, 623. 56
From Freer endowment:
Operating expenses of gallery, salaries,
purchases of art objects, field expenses,
OU Ca ahr a ar ae ee per we Ree PT 337, 207. 138
Investments made from gain from sale, ete.,
of securities and from income__________ 50, 045. 48
Cash capital from sale, call of securities,
CG ATEIMV Ste Ce sa oie Se Ee Pe ae 1, 483, 233. 95
1, 820, 486. 56
Balance) Juneys0; 193 Oe eerie ee ee 214, 870.17
Ao) of) CR gas pees Urata PN ae Bee eS ee 2, 445, 120. §1

Recapitulation of receipts, exclusive of Freer funds, during the year ending
June 30, 1930
General uses:

Hore ad ditions tOmend owen tee eee $16, 564. 55
RESET VEC VAS AM COM C2 20 x ee a ee 80, 309. 09
$96, 873. 64
Specific uses:

Gifts accretions to endowment____________________ 1, 000. 00
Gifts for specific use not to be invested____________ 105, 710. 88
Cash income from endowments for addition to en-

Goswami OM Eom ta ss taney a eg a reer 6, 961. 38

Cash income from endowments and from other
sources for conducting researches, explorations,

Cl: Sesto UE cries D2 SDN ee Ree 8 67, 316. 62
Cash capital from sale, call of securities, etc. (to
bes reinvested) seis ois at edie ae ae Mer rk 175, 357. 85
—_—__—_——_ 356, 346. 73

Total receipts exclusive of Freer funds_____.-____-______ 453, 220. 37
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 7

Statement of endowment funds

|
Specific pur-

General pur- | poses other | Freer endow-
poses than Freer ment
endowment

eireman’, JUND 30,1090 ahs dee pos ee cena inde seme tow | $1,022, 385.75 | $626,003.70 | $5, 236, 054. 02
Serenee SNORT Moose, @ilte, GlC-. 22-228 1, 418. 00 8, 825. 19 | 11, 602. 60
Increase from gain from sales, etc...........----------------| 9, 531.19 885. 57 38, 442. 88
Bnosease from stock dividends... ..-. 2.22. ee / 454. 91 1, 078. 09 14, 830. 00

Endowment June 30, 1930__........-......----------- 1,038,780. 85 | 630, 702.55 | 5, 300, 920. 50

The following appropriations were made by Congress for the Goy-
ernment bureaus under the administrative charge of the Smithsonian
Institution for the fiscal year 1930:

a PUTERTS TET CLETVCSTN ARES reer es eee $36, 004. 00
DECORATE SOP i ROI eA ee as peel ee aey 21, 000. 00
SEETRSTTLOUNED” PECTS TOG ene ea 51, 297. 00
ye ges eas jet Seah, Rana Pe ts la lay i ae I ei AN ame 68, 800. 00
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature_-_______________ 7, 885. 00
mama yaical . ODserVaAtoly oot a Se te BN A 36, 720. 00
National Museum:
a ueratures Bnd: .Tixtures.g 322 pl bE Bonen $33, 240. 00
Paes NT PA eg de ne 90, 160. 00
Preservation of collections..¢0 2. enmetete hs ots 570, 084. 00
VS La cya 1: SS ee SN, FP 21, 080. 00
CN I a A ans GS Wee ae 2, 000. 00
PG ee ees SS OS i ngs 450. 00
—_————__ 717, 014. 00
PeenaGnlioryoor “Arts sis) write) ick Teme hes SPAR fa PS 34, 853. 00
nen wenlopacal, Parkel!) 490 Soe: 2 fhe Aes pele lors nd ee i 203, 000. 00
National Zoological Park, building for reptiles_____._._...________ 220, 000. 00
National Zoological Park, gates for south boundary_____________ 2, 000. 00
Sntinee TICs RCT Ce eee OE A eS 95, 000. 00
5 CO RE, SR TLS PAE Ok ae eee ae eee + Fy om 1, 493, 573. 00

MATTERS OF GENERAL INTEREST

AWARD OF LANGLEY MEDAL TO CHARLES MATTHEWS MANLY AND TO
COMMANDER RICHARD EVELYN BYRD, UNITED STATES NAVY

The fifth and sixth awards of the Langley Gold Medal for Aero-
dromics to Charles Matthews Manly (posthumously) and to Com-
mander (now Admiral) Richard Evelyn Byrd, United States Navy,
were made at the Annual Meeting of the Board of Regents of the
Institution on December 12, 1929. The medal had been hitherto
awarded four times, to Wilbur and Orville Wright, to Glenn H.
Curtiss, to Gustave Eiffel, and to Charles A. Lindbergh. The award
8 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

to Mr. Manly was made in recognition of his pioneer contributions
to the development of the airplane engine, and that to Commander
Byrd for his pioneer flights over the North and South Poles, his non-
stop flight over the Atlantic Ocean, and the scientific discoveries
associated with these flights.

The posthumous award to Mr. Manly will be presented through
the person of his son. Commander Byrd was notified of the award
to him by radiogram to Little America, Antarctica. The actual
presentation of the two gold medals had not been made at the close
of the year.

ADDITIONS TO THE NATURAL HISTORY BUILDING OF THE NATIONAL
MUSEUM

An event of capital importance to the future of the Smithsonian
and the National Museum occurred on June 19, 1930, when Congress
passed the following bill:

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
of America in Congress assembled, That the Smithsonian Institution is hereby
authorized to extend the Natural History Building of the United States National
Museum by additions on the east and west ends thereof, in accordance with
plans to be approved by the Commission of Fine Arts, and to engage, if neces-
sary, architectural and inspection services, without regard to the restrictions
of existing law governing such services. There is hereby authorized to be
appropriated a sum not exceeding $6,500,000 for this purpose.

The present Natural History Building has for years been over-
crowded, both as to exhibition halls and to laboratories and storage
rooms. The additions authorized by Congress, which will approxi-
mately double the present floor space, will not only permit of a more
satisfactory arrangement of exhibits for the benefit of the more than
one million visitors every year, but also will provide additional facili-
ties for the growing research work of the Museum staff.

The bill quoted above is only an authorization and does not carry
an actual appropriation. Plans have not yet been prepared, but in
general the additions will conform in style and general arrangement
with the present structure.

RESEARCHES IN EUROPEAN ARCHIVES

Karly in 1929 Ambassador Charles G. Dawes provided the Institu-
tion with a fund for the purpose of conducting researches among
Kuropean archives in search of documents relating to the early
history and ethnology of middle America. In April, 1929, Dr. C. U.
Clark was appointed by the Smithsonian to conduct this mission, and
early in October Doctor Clark began his work in Europe, Since that
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 9

time he has studied diligently at several of the principal archives
containing early American material and has discovered a consider-
able number of valuable early manuscripts hitherto unpublished.
In addition to the titles listed below Doctor Clark has excerpted
many hundreds of pages of interesting ethnological material relating
to the Americas from manuscripts which were not of special interest
in their complete form, such as reports, letters, ete. The manuscripts
copied and prepared for publication are as follows:

Vatican Library.—Reginus Lat. 1608. Contains four leaves containing a
Nahuatl vocabulary and Nahuatl sentences for priests learning the language.
Twelve typewritten pages.

Vatican Library—Codex Barberini. Latinus 241. Written in Latin 1552 by
Indian trained by Franciscans. Illustrated by 185 aquarelles in color repre-
senting plants and flowers. Sixty-three folios 6 by 8%.

Saville, Archivos Nacional——Guatemala No. 45. Maya-Aztec manuscript,
being the village record book of San Juan Amatitlan, Guatemala 1559-1562.
Written partially in the Pokoman dialect of Maya. Over 300 entries in Maya,
in addition to a quantity of Aztec material.

Archivos Nacional.—Saville, Guatemala 128. Account of the official assess-
ment of 1548-1550 for the Indian Pueblos of Guatemala, Nicaragua, Yucatan,
and Comayagua. This gives an accurate census of Yucatan. Four hundred
folios; 54 typewritten pages. Indian census of 1549. Made under direction
of Diaz de Castillo.

Biblioteca de Catalunya, Barcelona—Vocabulary of Tahitian language,
1774. Eight and one-half pages of two columns; 80 words to a page. Three
and one-half pages of information derived from the Tahitians. Three pages of
a list of 100 questions to be put to natives.

Vatican Library.—Barberini Lat. 3584. “‘Compendos y Descripcion de la
Indias Ocodentales.”’ Fray Antonio Vazquez de Espinosa, 1629. A voluminous
compendium of information concerning the natives of South America, Central
America, and the West Indies. Regarded by experts as of extraordinary value.

Madrid. Biblioteca Nacional 19267.—“Anlagoya’s letter from Cali,” 1540.
Forty-three typewritten pages. An official description of the native tribes of
Colombia,

ROCKET EXPERIMENTS OF DR. R. H. GODDARD

For the past 12 years the Institution has supported by annual
grants the researches of Dr. R. H. Goddard, of Clark University, on
the development of a rocket to explore the upper atmosphere. In
1916 Doctor Goddard presented to the Institution such a convincing
mathematical demonstration of the theory that a self-propelling
rocket could be sent to the limit of the earth’s atmosphere, and even
beyond, that Doctor Walcott, then Secretary of the Smithsonian,
after consultation with a committee of experts, agreed to support the
investigation. The work progressed so favorably that the Institu-
tion has continued its support until the present time,
10 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

The highest level of the air which can now be studied is about
20 miles up, reached by sounding balloons, but these balloons often
drift as much as 150 miles from their starting point, and their
recovery is slow and uncertain. A rocket, on the other hand, would
go straight up to any desired height and provided with a parachute
would return in a short time at or very near its starting point. With
suitable automatic apparatus, such a rocket could bring back samples
of the upper air for chemical analysis, measure the temperature and
pressure of the higher atmosphere, expose spectographs above the
ozone layer where the ultra-violet spectrum of the sun could be
observed, and record the condition of the atmosphere from 5,000 feet
upward in the interests of aviation. In short, a whole new field of
investigation would be opened up—the unknown upper Nia of the

earth’s atmosphere.

This investigation was pioneering in character; little was avail-
able as a eats After much experimenting with a rocket equipped
with a ees for feeding small charges of high explosive, Doctor
Goddard turned finally to the scheme of a steady combustion of
hydrocarbon in liquid oxygen. After further modifying the design
of the rocket itself to adapt it to the use of this new means of
propulsion, Doctor Goddard was ready at the close of the fiscal
year for an actual field trial of the device.

It may be said that on July 17, 1929, a trial of the liquid-pro-
pelled rocket was made at Worcester, Mass., the device functioning
satisfactorily as regards the flow of liquid, the ascent of the rocket,
and its rapid motion in air. The trial rocket was guided only
by vanes on its rear end, and these proved inefficient, the rocket
describing a high arch and returning to the ground instead of
making a vertical flight. Doctor Goddard has already designed
automatic stabilizers, however, and these together with the neces-
sary automatic recording devices are seemingly all that is needed
to insure a successful, practical flight of the rocket to the higher
layers of the atmosphere and its return with the first records of an
unknown region.

The apparently assured success of Doctor Goddard’s experiments
has drawn support from a source better equipped financially to
provide it than the Smithsonian. The late Simon Guggenheim at
Colonel Lindbergh’s suggestion made a large grant of funds and
set up an advisory committee of which the secretary, Doctor Abbot,
isamember. Doctor Goddard’s experiments are now going on under
these auspices in New Mexico. It is a pleasure to record here that
the Smithsonian has again been able to support during its more or
less uncertain pioneering stages an investigation of great promise
for the increase of knowledge.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY ll
LOW TEMPERATURE RESEARCHES

The Smithsonian has made two small grants during the year
to Prof. Dr. W. H. Keesom, director of the Cyrogenic Laboratory
at Leiden, in aid of his important researches on the properties
of matter at very low temperatures. Two investigations were in
progress by Doctor Keesom, with the aid of his collaborators, namely,
the measurement of the specific heat of gases at very low tempera-
tures, and the measurement of the thermomolecular pressure differ-
ences at very low temperatures.

In connection with the first, it seemed desirable to obtain measure-
ments on the specific heat of helium gas at the temperatures obtain-
able with liquid helium. Such a measurement had already been
made by Meissner in Berlin, who found the specific heat of helium
gas at a temperature of 5.5° K. (approximately —450° F.) and a
pressure of 0.75 atmosphere to be about 65 per cent of the normal
value, and ascribed this result to quantum effects. There is reason
to doubt, however, whether quantum effects can be demonstrated in
such a way because of the influence of intermolecular forces on
specific heat. To investigate this matter, Doctor Keesom and his
assistants elaborated a method of measuring the velocity of propaga-
tion of sound at these very low temperatures and at pressures smaller
than 1 atmosphere. From this velocity, the specific heat may be
derived.

Measurements of this velocity have already been made with great
accuracy at the temperatures of liquid oxygen and of liquid hydro-
gen, and preliminary measurements have been made of the velocity
of sound in helium gas at the temperature of liquid helium, but
further developments in the method must be made for this last
investigation.

Doctor Keesom’s second research relates to the investigation of
the thermomolecular pressure differences between the bulb of the
helium thermometer and the manometer used in the measurement of
the lowest temperatures obtainable. In his latest measurements the
temperature recorded was 0.89° K. (approximately, =458° F.). Ex-
act measurements of these pressure differences have now been made
at the temperatures of boiling oxygen and of boiling hydrogen;
measurements at the temperatures obtainable with liquid helium will
follow.

DIVISION OF RADIATION AND ORGANISMS

The report of the director on the first year’s work of this new
and important branch of the Smithsonian’s investigations in physical
science shows remarkably rapid progress. The construction of labo-
ratories and their equipment has been particularly difficult because
12 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

of the borderline character of the researches; it was necessary to
provide for physical, chemical, and biological fields of investigation.
In spite of the constant construction and equipment problems, actual
research work was started, and two experiments, the one on photo-
tropism, the other on infra-red absorption of pure chemicals, were
carried to interesting preliminary results.

Offices for the division were provided by remodelling the hitherto
unused flag tower of the Smithsonian Building, and space in the
basement previously used for storage was reconstructed into a mod-
ern physical, chemical, and biological laboratory. A small group of
highly trained specialists has been assembled to carry on the inves-
tigations, and these men work in close cooperation with the Smith-
sonian Astrophysical Observatory, the Fixed Nitrogen Laboratory of
the Agricultural Department, the University of Maryland, and the
Research Corporation of New York.

The chief aim of the division is to build up a strong spectro-
photometric laboratory, whose staff of physicists and technicians
will work in cooperation with men of biological training. The re-
searches to be undertaken fall into two classes: (1) Direct investiga-
tion upon living organisms, and (2) fundamental molecular struc-
ture and photochemical investigations related to the biological
problems. In connection with the first, an experiment was made
to determine the amount of bending of plants towards light of var-
ious wave lengths. Briefly, the experiment showed that red or infra-
red light produced no effect; that yellow light produced a small but
measurable bending; that green hght was 1,000 times more effective
than yellow; and that blue hight was 30 times more effective than
green, or 30,000 times more effective than yellow. These results are
so interesting that preparations are under way for a more elaborate
experiment.

Under the second heading above, no work could be undertaken °
at the Smithsonian because of lack of funds and shop equipment.
Some progress was made, however, in the preparation of equipment,
and through the cooperation of the Fixed Nitrogen Laboratory, Mr.
Liddell of its staff continued an investigation begun there by Doctor
Brackett before his appointment by the Smithsonian. This project,
which was completed as far as the equipment permitted, involved
the study of the near infra-red absorption spectra of the halogen
deviations of benzene.

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD WORK

Expeditions in the field are essential to the Smithsonian’s work
in anthropology, biology, geology, and astrophysics. Twenty-eight
major expeditions went out during the year to widely scattered
regions, bringing back necessary information and valuable speci-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 13

mens. The Institution bore the entire expense of a few of these
expeditions. For the cost of the others, in part at least, it is indebted
to friends of the Smithsonian or to other institutions equally
interested in the proposed work.

The regions visited by the year’s field expeditions included China,
Alaska, Canada, the West Indies, South America, Africa, Europe,
the Philippines, and Siam, as well as 13 localities in the United
States. I may mention especially Assistant Secretary Dr. A,
Wetmore’s bird collecting expedition in Spain, Dr. Paul Bartsch’s
explorations for mollusks in the West Indies under the Walter
Rathbone Bacon Travelling Scholarship; anthropological studies in
Alaska by Dr. AleS Hrdlitka and Mr. Henry B. Collins, jr.; an
extended botanical exploring trip in Amazonian Peru and Brazil,
by Mr. Ellsworth P. Killip; and three separate expeditions to the
island of Santo Domingo, namely, Mr. E. C. Leonard’s botanical
exploration of northwestern Haiti, Mr. Herbert W. Krieger’s archeo-
logical work in the Dominican Republic, and Mr. Arthur J. Poole’s
explorations in Haitian caves.

Brief accounts of all of these expeditions, fully illustrated,
appeared in “Explorations and Field-Work of the Smithsonian
Institution in 1929,” Smithsonian Publication No. 3060, and notices
of some of them will be found in the reports of certain of the bureaus
under the Institution’s direction, appended hereto.

COOPERATIVE ETHNOLOGICAL AND ARCHEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATIONS

In 1928 Congress authorized the appropriation of $20,000 for
cooperative ethnological and archeological investigations in the
several States. The Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution was
designated to approve the investigations proposed, and if found
desirable, to allot from the money appropriated a sum equal to that
raised for the purpose by any State educational institution, or
scientific organization in the United States. He was named also
to direct the work and to divide the results thereof. Fifteen allot-
ments for approved investigations have been made during the year,
as follows:

Allotments from the fund for cooperative ethnological and archeological investi-
gations during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1930
1929
Nov. 6. University of Nebraska, for an archeological survey of the Missouri,
Platte, and Republican River Valleys in Nebraska, $1,000.
1930
Jan. 17. University of Chicago, for continuation of an archeological survey
of Illinois, $1,000.
Mar. 17. Logan Museum, for archeological researches in Mandan villages, $1,000.
Mar. 17. University of Kentucky, for archeological researches in eastern and
and western Kentucky, $500,
14 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

Mar. 21. University of California, for work among the Paviotso and Modoc
in northeastern California, $250.

Mar. 21. University of California, for further work on Yokuts shamanism, $150.

Mar. 21. University of California, for a study of Yuki groups, $150.

Mar. 21. University of California, to continue and if possible complete work on
northwestern California basketry, $150.

Mar. 21. University of California, for work on the Tolowa, a little known
group of Athabascans in the extreme northwestern corner of Cali-
fornia, $125.

Mar. 21. University of California, to continue work on the Northern Wintun,
$100.

Mar. 21. San Diego Museum, for an archeological investigation of Los Angeles
and Orange counties, $800.

Mar. 25. University of Illinois, for archeological investigation in the vicinity
of Utica, Ill., $1,000.

April 4. University of Denver and Museum of Natural History of Denver,
for an archeological survey of eastern Colorado, $1,500.

May 27. Phillips Academy, for an archeological survey of Merrimack Valley,
$1,000.

June 13. Indiana Historical Bureau, to continue archeological survey of
Indiana, $1,000.

The above list, with that given in my last annual report, will serve
to indicate the widespread interest aroused through this coopera-
tive project for the study and preservation of the Indian material

and data in the various States.
PUBLICATIONS

The publications of the Institution are issued in 11 distinct series,
which total approximately 10,000 pages a year. ‘The Institution
proper publishes three of the series, namely, Smithsonian Annual Re-
ports, Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, and Smithsonian
Miscellaneous Collections; the other series are issued by the bureaus
under Smithsonian direction. The Contributions to Knowledge, in
quarto, which for many years was the best known of all of the series,
has in recent years been suspended because the higher costs of print-
ing made it impracticable to issue monographs in the more expen-
sive quarto form. The Institution expects however to resume the
Contributions when more resources become available.

A total of 95 volumes and pamphlets appeared during the year,
and 168,163 copies of Smithsonian publications were distributed,
including 19,575 volumes and separates of the Smithsonian Miscel-
laneous Collections, 29,886 volumes and separates of the Smithso-
nian Annual Reports, 4,598 Smithsonian special publications, 87,323
publications of the National Museum and 24,868 publications of the
Bureau of American Ethnology. ‘Titles and authors and other in-
formation regarding the year’s publications are given in the report
of the editor, appendix 11,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 15

The Annual Report of the Board of Regents to Congress con-
tained the usual General Appendix made up of articles in semipopular
style to present the progress in nearly all branches of science during
the year. These reports continue in wide demand, and many letters
are received expressing appreciation of the Institution’s efforts to
give the nontechnical reader an authentic survey of the yearly
advance along the scientific front.

SMITHSONIAN SCIENTIFIC SERIES

As stated in my last report, the Institution decided in 1928 to
issue a popular, profusely illustrated series of 12 volumes relating
to the several branches of science coming within the scope of its
activities, with the expectation that through the sale of this series,
increased resources might become available for the furtherance of
its scientific work. The sale of the books, known as the Smith-
sonian Scientific Series, is entirely in the hands of the New York
publishers, the Smithsonian’s part being only that of author.

Volumes one to four appeared in 1929, as follows:

1. The Smithsonian Institution, by Webster Prentiss True.

2. The Sun and the Welfare of Man, by Charles Greeley Abbot.

3. Minerals from Earth and Sky. Part I, The Story of Meteorites, by George
P. Merrill; Part Il, Gems and Gem Minerals, by William F. Foshag.

4. The North American Indians. An account of the American Indians north of
Mexico, compiled from the original sources, by Rose A. Palmer.

Volumes five to eight were still in press at the close of the fiscal
year, but were expected to be received from the printer very soon
thereafter. They are as follows:

5. Insects: Their Ways and Means of Living, by R. E. Snodgrass.

6. Wild Animals in and out of the Zoo, by William M. Mann.

7. Man from the Farthest Past, by C. W. Bishop, C. G. Abbot, and A. Hrdlitka.

8. Cold-Blooded Vertebrates, by C. W. Gilmore, D. M. Cochran, and S. F.
Hildebrand.

The remaining four volumes are in press or in an advanced state
of preparation, and will be issued during the coming year.

LIBRARY

The Smithsonian library is composed of 10 divisional and 36 sec-
tional libraries. The divisional libraries include the Smithsonian
deposit in the Library of Congress, which is the Institution’s main
library, the office library, the Langley Aeronautical Library, and the
seven libraries of the bureaus under administrative direction of the
Institution, the largest of which is the National Museum library.
This last includes the 36 sectional libraries, which are the working
units kept in the various divisions of the Museum. The whole library
numbers over 800,000 volumes, pamphlets, and charts. The year’s
accessions totaled 14,277 items, of which 7,979 were volumes and 6,298
were pamphlets and charts.
16 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

An important change during the year was the removal of the
Langley Aeronautical Library from the Smithsonian Building to the
Library of Congress, where although still remaining a unit of the
Smithsonian library, it will be more centrally available to the stu-
dent. Many gifts were received during the year, among which may
be mentioned a collection of 1,400 volumes on various subjects from
Mr. James Townsend Russell, jr.; 150 volumes and 1,000 periodicals
chiefly on aeronautics from the National Aeronautic Association;
and 58 volumes on Japanese history and literature from the Histori-
ographical Institute, Tokyo.

Further progress was made on the union catalogue, but this large
task will require many years for completion unless additional assist-
ants are provided. The congested condition of the Museum library
was relieved for the time being by the installation of 400 feet of new
shelving.

The librarian notes that although two additional assistants are
provided for in the coming year, six more are needed to enable the
library to render the desired service to the work of the Institution.

GOVERNMENTALLY SUPPORTED BRANCHES

NATIONAL MUSHUM

The event of the year for the Museum was the passage of the
Smoot-Elliott bill authorizing an appropriation for the extension
of the Natural History Building by the construction of wings at
the east and west ends at a cost of $6,500,000. These additions,
which will follow the style and general arrangement of the present
building, will relieve the greatly overcrowded condition of the offices
and exhibition halls, and also will permit of normal expansion of
the national collections which are the foundation for researches in
pure science and consequently for their application to the welfare of
mankind.

The appropriations for the maintenance of the Museum for the
year totaled $762,514, an increase of $14,490, of which $9,500 pro-
vided for salaries of five additional positions, namely an assistant
curator of mollusks, an additional clerk in the administrative office,
and three sergeants of the watch. These additions to the personnel
were of great benefit to the Museum’s work, but several offices are
still undermanned, both as to scientific and clerical workers.

Additions to the collections during the year totaled 410,815 speci-
mens, the majority coming to the department of biology. Material
sent in for expert examination and report numbered 1,306 lots, and
gifts of duplicate material to schools totaled 11,474 specimens. Ex-
changes to the number of 12,649 specimens were sent out, and 33,208
were loaned to scientific workers outside of Washington.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 17

Large collections of material representing the Indian and Eskimo
tribes of Alaska came to the department of anthropology through
the field work there by Dr. AleS Hrdlitka and Mr. Henry B. Col-
lins, jr. ‘There may also be mentioned an ethnological collection
from Nigeria and the gold and ivory coasts of Africa, from Mr.
C. C. Roberts; prayer stones and other objects of a religious nature
from Tibet, presented by Mr. Charles 8. Isham; and ethnological
material from the Dominican Republic collected by Mr. H. W.
Krieger.

Among the great amount of material received by the department
of biology there stand out extensive collections given by the Na-
tional Geographic Society, including birds and plants brought from
western China by Dr. Joseph F. Rock and insects and plants from
northern Brazil collected by Mr. E. G. Holt; further general natural
history collections made in China by the Rev. D. C. Graham; bi-
ological material from Siam from Dr. Hugh M. Smith; and a very
complete series of birds’ eggs from Mr. A. C. Bent.

The most important single object received by the department of
geology was the great flawless crystal ball 127 inches in diameter
presented by Mrs. Worcester Reed Warner as a memorial to her
husband. Through the income of the Roebling fund and of the
Frances Lea Chamberlain fund, a considerable number of fine min-
eral specimens and gem stones were added to the collections.
Through the field work of Resser, Gilmore, Gidley, and others of
the Museum staff, large and valuable collections of fossils have been
added.

Many interesting accessions came to the arts and industries de-
partment, prominent among them being the gift by Mr. Rudolph
Kickemeyer of a large series of examples of his own work in pic-
torial photography, together with a library of works on photography.
Mr. EKickemeyer has provided in his will a fund for the care of the
collection. The division of history received among other historical
material five pieces of china used in the White House by President
James Madison, presented by Miss Mary M. McGuire, and a gown
worn by Mrs. Calvin Coolidge presented for the costume collection
by Mrs. Coolidge.

A large number of field expeditions went out under the direction
of members of the Museum staff, financed chiefly by the private
income of the Smithsonian Institution or through the aid of inter-
ested friends and patrons. These expeditions are described briefly
in the report of the National Museum, Appendix 1.

The lecture rooms and auditorium of the Museum were used by
Government and other agencies for hearings, meetings, and lectures
to the number of 135. Visitors to the Museum totalled 1,894,989 for
the year. Sixteen volumes and 35 pamphlets were published, and
87,323 copies of Museum publications were distributed.
18 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

The leading event of the year was the exhibition in the gallery of
the 78 American paintings purchased during the last 10 years from
the Ranger fund, which are subject to consideration as additions to
the gallery’s permanent collections as provided in the Ranger be-
quest. The paintings were lent for the exhibition by the institu-
tions to which they were assigned by the National Academy of De-
sign. The exhibition was opened on December 10, 1929, with a
reception by the Secretary and Regents of the Institution, the Director
of the National Gallery, and the members of the National Gallery
of Art Commission; the National Academy of Design was repre-
sented by six of its officials.

Besides the exhibition of Ranger paintings, four special exhibits
were held during the year, namely, sculpture of Edgardo Simone,
portraits by Edwin B. Child, paintings, sculptures, ete., by contem-
porary Hungarian artists, and paintings by American Negro artists.

FREER GALLERY OF ART*

Additions to the collections by purchase during the year include
examples of early Egyptian bookbinding; Chinese bronzes; Chinese
jade objects; Persian and Egyptian manuscripts; Persian, Indian,
Chinese, and Egyptian paintings; Chinese porcelain bowls; Chinese
pottery; South Indian bronze sculpture; Chinese silver objects; and
Chinese silver-gilt objects.

Curatorial work included the documentary study of inscriptions
on new purchases as well as those on objects already in the collection.
Expert opinion was given to other institutions and individuals re-
garding 834 objects and 185 photographs of objects sent in for
examination. With the expert aid of Dr. A. K. Coomaraswamy,
a large group of paintings in the Near Eastern section, purchased in
1907 from Col. H. B. Hanna, has undergone complete revision and
reclassification.

The year’s total attendance was 120,651; of these 1,349 visited the
offices for general information or for study purposes. Sixteen
groups were given docent service in the exhibition galleries, and 10
classes were given instruction in the study room. ‘Two lectures were
given in the auditorium: “ The Caves of the Thousand Buddhas,” by
Sir Aurel Stein; and “ Indian Sculpture: Intention and Develop-
ment,” by Dr. A. K. Coomaraswamy.

The field expedition was able, in spite of disturbed conditions, to
make interesting investigations at the site of the Liang dynasty
(A. D. 502-556) tombs, near Nanking, China.

4The Government’s expense in connection with the Freer Gallery of Art consists
mainly in the eare of the building and certain other custodial matters. Other expenses
are paid from the Freer endowment funds.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 19

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

The work of the bureau covered the usual wide range of ethnologi-
cal and archeological investigations on many Indian tribes and sites
of the United States. The chief, Mr. M. W. Stirling, made an
archeological reconnaissance of the Ten Thousand Islands, Fla., and
excavated mounds at Lacooche and at Safety Harbor, Fla. He de-
livered lectures before numerous scientific and educational bodies.
Dr. John R. Swanton continued his field work on the Choctaw of
Mississippi and the Creeks of Oklahoma, and began the work of
translating the words of his Timucua dictionary. Dr. Truman
Michelson studied the Algonquian tribes of Oklahoma, and Mr. John
P. Harrington obtained much of the language and ethnology of the
San Juan Tribe of California through an aged informant.

Dr. F. H. H. Roberts, jr., conducted extensive archeological ex-
cavations at the Long H Ranch, in eastern Arizona, revealing 18
pit houses, 3 jacal, pole, and mud structures, and a pueblo ruin con-
taining 49 rooms and 4 kivas. Mr. J. N. B. Hewitt continued his
studies of the Iroquois Indians of Canada and New York State, and
Dr. Francis LaF lesche nearly completed his Osage dictionary before
his retirement on December 26, 1929. Miss Frances Densmore
studied the music of 10 tribes—the Acoma, Menominee, Winnebago,
Yuma, Cocopa, Mohave, Yagui, Makah, Clayoquot, and Quilente.

Five bulletins and a list of publications of the bureau were issued
during the year, and a total of 24,868 copies of bureau publications
were distributed.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE

The Exchange Service handled during the year a total of 694,665
packages of governmental, scientific, and literary publications, which
represented a total weight of 708,094 pounds. This constitutes an
increase of 12 per cent in number of packages, and 14 per cent in
weight over the previous year.

The material handled by the Exchange Service includes publica-
tions received from this country for transmission to foreign coun-
tries, and also those sent from abroad for distribution to addresses
in this country. They are classified as parliamentary documents,
departmental documents, and miscellaneous scientific and literary
publications. The parliamentary and departmental documents in-
clude all matter published by Congress and by the Government de-
partments, bureaus, and commissions. ‘These constitute the bulk
of the publications handled by the Exchange Service, 74 per cent
of the work of the office being conducted in behalf of the United
States governmental establishments. The miscellaneous scientific
and literary publications are received for distribution chiefly from
learned societies, educational institutions, scientific organizations,
and museums.
20 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Animals added to the collection during the year numbered 759,
while 974 were removed through death, exchange, and return of ani-
mals, the collection standing at 1,996 at the close of the year. Owing
to lack of further housing facilities, it has been necessary to choose
very carefully in making additions to the collection, with the result
that the park now contains a great many rarities, including a number
of species not shown in any other American zoo.

The total attendance at the park was estimated at 2,525,141, about
the same as in the preceding year. This total included 28,814 stu-
dents from 465 different schools. The value of the park as an educa-
tional institution, quite apart from its recreational value, is coming
to be more and more recognized. Here may be seen visitors of all
ages and all degrees of learning, from the young child to the veteran
research worker and the advanced medical man, each of whom can
learn something of value concerning animals and animal life.

Construction of the new reptile house authorized by Congress
was started in March, 1930. The best modern ideas as to the exhibi-
tion of reptiles will be incorporated in the building, which will per-
mit the National Zoo to show for the first time an adequate
representation of these interesting creatures. The next most ur-
gently needed building is one for small mammals, with which also
would be exhibited the great apes; these latter are at present shown
in inadequate cages where comparatively few people can see them
at a time.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

The central station at Washington and the three observing sta-
tions on Mount Montezuma, Chile; Table Mountain, Calif.; and
Mount Brukkaros, South West Africa, have continued the exact
measurement of the intensity of the radiation of the sun as it is at
mean solar distance outside the earth’s atmosphere. The values from
Mount Montezuma have continued to be satisfactory and are cabled
to Washington each day; the values from Table Mountain are found
to be influenced by the haziness or humidity of the atmosphere,
and a new method of reduction to allow for these effects was being
developed at the close of the year, preliminary trials of which give
promising results. Reduction of Mount Brukkaros observations is
being postponed until this method is further tested for Table
Mountain.

It has recently been discovered that a variation of large percentage
exists in the quantity of ozone at high levels above Table Mountain.
In order to make ozone corrections to solar constant values obtained
there from the year 1925 on, it became necessary to devise a method
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 21

of computing the correction from the daily solar constant observa-
tions themselves, and this was successfully accomplished during the
year.

The most important feature of the year’s work was the discovery of
an apparently considerable influence of short-period solar variation
on the temperature of the United States. The variations as recorded
through six consecutive years at Mount Montezuma were compared
with temperature changes in Washington, Williston, and Yuma,
selecting for the purpose sequences of ascending and descending solar
radiation values occupying about four days per sequence. Cor-
responding to the average change of 0.8 per cent in the sun, there
appear to be temperature changes of the order of 5° F. in Washing-
ton. The sign of the correlation changes in a very interesting way
during the year. Although this relation is complicated, it offers
promise for weather forecasting nearly a week in advance. These
are tentative results. It is proposed to study barometric pressures as
well as temperatures, and to extend the investigation to other parts
of the United States and of the world.

INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE

Since the suspension of publication of the International Catalogue
because of the inability of European countries to bear their share
of its financial support following the World War, the United States
bureau has made it a policy to spend only as much of the annual
congressional appropriation as is needed to keep the organization
alive pending the resumption of publication.

The report of the assistant in charge, Appendix 9, quotes from
an article in Science by Dr. E. C. Richardson, who presents a strong
case for the importance of revivifying the International Catalogue.
His conclusions, in brief, are that the catalogue is an indispensable
tool for research workers; that an organization which, if scrapped,
would require a $3,000,000 endowment to build up again, is ready
and waiting to resume the work of the catalogue when a very modest
fund is made available to it; and that in the catalogue the research
trust endowments wil] find an organization that can give the greatest
bibliographical service to research for the least outlay of funds.

NECROLOGY

WILLIAM HOWARD TAFT

William Howard Taft, Chief Justice of the United States and
Chancellor of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution,
died in Washington on March 8, 1930. Of a man so prominently
before the American public for so many years, it seems unnecessary
here to present more than a very brief outline of his career.

* 28095—31——3
ya ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

Born in Cincinnati in 1857, Taft graduated from Yale University
in 1878. He took the law course, and after a short period as law
reporter for a newspaper, his public career began. In turn assistant
prosecuting attorney, collector of internal revenue of the first dis-
trict of Ohio, and assistant county solicitor of Hamilton County,
he was next appointed judge of the Supreme Court of Cincinnati,
and in 1890, Solicitor General of the United States. For eight
years beginning 1892 he was United States circuit judge for the
sixth judicial district, and in 1901, President McKinley appointed
him civil governor of the Philippine Islands. In 1908 came his
election as President of the United States, and after the completion
of his term, there followed a few years of private life. In 1921 he
was appointed Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, from which
position he had been forced by ill health to resign only a short time
before his death.

Through his many high offices, Mr. Taft had been connected with
the Institution for many years, serving as a member of the Insti-
tution and its presiding officer, ex officio, and as Chancellor of its
Board of Regents.

GEORGE PERKINS MERRILL

George Perkins Merrill, head curator of geology, died suddenly
in Auburn, Me., on August 15, 1929. Doctor Merrill was born in
Auburn on May 31, 1854, and was graduated from the University of
Maine with the degree of B. S. in 1879. He pursued advanced
studies at Wesleyan and Johns Hopkins Universities which later
resulted in the degrees of M. S. and Ph. D. from his alma mater.
In 1893 he became professor of geology at Columbian, later George
Washington University, continuing his lectures until 1916, and was
given the honorary degree of Sc. D. in 1917.

Doctor Merrill’s connection with the National Museum began with
the organization of 1880. He served in various capacities in the
geological division until 1897, when, under a reorganization, he was
appointed head curator of the department of geology, which position
he held until his death. The growth of the department from a com-
paratively few specimens, resulting chiefly from the United States
Land Office and other early Government surveys, to its present
position among the notable geological collections of the world, is
largely due to Doctor Merrill’s ability as an executive and his devo-
tion and loyalty to the Institution. He was preeminently a museum
man and an artist in methods of display, as can be attested by the
harmonious arrangement of the exhibition halls under his charge.

Doctor Merrill early became interested in building stones and was
regarded as the leading expert on this subject, his opinion being
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 23

sought in connection with such important structures as the Lincoln
Memorial, the Washington Cathedral, and many other public build-
ings. His treatise on “Stones for Building and Decoration ” ran
to three editions.

Again, his researches on rock weathering and soil formation led
an eminent authority to say: “ The greatest work on the genesis of
soils we owe to Merrill.” A publication on “ Non-Metallic Min-
erals—Their Occurrence and Uses ” further illustrates his versatility
in geological research.

Later, the collection of meteorites in the Museum became the object
of special interest, his researches on these celestial bodies, resulting
in no less than 60 papers, receiving recognition by the presentation
of the J. Lawrence Smith medal! of the National Academy of Sciences.
“The Story of Meteorites,” written in popular style, appeared as
part 1 of volume 3 of the Smithsonian Scientific Series—* Minerals
from Earth and Sky.”

Among the most interesting and valuable of his many contribu-
tions is his historical work on geological subjects. His “ contribu-
tions to a History of American Geology,” published in 1904 as part
of the report of the Smithsonian Institution, was, in 1924, expanded
into “ The First One Hundred Years of American Geology.” He also
compiled a “ History of American State Geological and Natural
History Surveys,” issued as Bulletin 109 of the National Museum.

A paper for the Museum’s archives, practically completed just
before Doctor Merrill left on his vacation from which he never re-
turned, is “An Historical Account of the Department of Geology in
the U. S. National Museum ”—most timely in its preparation since
no other could have been so well qualified to prepare such a record.

ARTHUR BENONI BAKER

Arthur Benoni Baker, assistant director of the National Zoological
Park, died in Washington February 8, 1930. Mr. Baker was born
at Otisco, New York, in 1858, and as a young man worked in Ward’s
natural science establishment. At that time Ward’s, though a com-
mercial institution, served as a training school for numerous young
men who afterwards attained distinction in scientific work. With Mr.
Baker were such men as Carl Akeley and William Morton Wheeler.
Later Mr. Baker spent eight years fossil hunting in Kansas, and
then in November, 1890, accepted a position in the National Zoologi-
cal Park, where he served continuously until his death, except for a
period of six months when he was on furlough and in charge of the
Boston Zoological Garden.

In 1909 he made a trip to Nairobi, East Africa, and brought home
a collection of animals that had been presented to the Zoo by Sir
24 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

Donald MacMillan through Theodore Roosevelt. On the trip out
he made a hurried inspection of many zoological gardens in Europe
and much of the information he gained there was used in the develop-
ment of the National Zoological Park. Another expedition was to
Porto Rico, where in company with other Smithsonian scientists he
made valuable natural history collections.

It is largely due to the knowledge and devotion of Mr. Baker that
the Zoological Park has attained its present position. His knowl-
edge of zoos in general was profound; of the National Zoological
Park, complete. He retained in his remarkable memory an almost
unbelievable mass of detail.

Respectfully submitted.

C. G. Asgor, Secretary.
APPENDIX 1
REPORT ON THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the condi-
tion and operations of the United States National Museum for the
fiscal year ended June 30, 1930:

The total appropriations for the maintenance of the National Mu-
seum for this period amounted to $762,514, an increase of $14,490 over
the appropriations for the year 1929. Of this amount $9,500 pro-
vided salaries for five additional positions on the staff, namely, an
assistant curator of mollusks, an additional clerk in the administra-
tive office, and three sergeants of the watch. This assistance in per-
sonnel has very definite value in the administration of the various
units concerned and brings added efficiency to the organization as
a whole.

A small sum of the increase indicated provided efficiency promo-
tions for a number of trained mechanics who had not been cared
for properly when other classes of employees had been promoted
previously. There was a further increase to provide for the con-
struction of a gallery to give additional space for study collections
in the vertebrate paleontological laboratory, where crowding had
become serious. The construction for this is of the same general
type as that used for a similar gallery in the National Herbarium.

The second deficiency bill for 1930 contained an item of $3,500
under repairs and alterations of buildings, available in the fiscal
years 1930 and 1931, for the remodelling of a comfort room in the
Arts and Industries Building. As this bill became law on July
3, 1930, after the close of the fiscal year here under report, these
funds accordingly will be used in the fiscal year 1931, and a state-
ment on them will be made in the report for that year.

Growth in personnel in the National Museum has progressed
reasonably, but further additions are required in a number of the
administrative units before the staff can be considered properly de-
veloped to enable it to function as it should. There are several
major groups of animals where systematic workers of high type are
needed as curators to carry on necessary research that the Museum
may be able to assist the public who desire information concerning
the creatures in question. Additional assistance in the scientific
grades is also required in some of the major groups where the volume

26
26 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

of work is beyond the capacity of the present staff to handle en-
tirely adequately. Clerical assistance also is at a minimum, and
there remain a considerable number of offices in which stenographic
and clerical help is not at present available. Naturally this detracts
from the efficiency of these offices since scientific workers who should
be occupied otherwise are through necessity compelled to devote con-
siderable time to routine work of a clerical nature. It is impera-
tive that regular additions be made to our personnel to assist in these
necessary functions. J*urther assistance is required in the shops, on
the guard force, and in the labor force since it is at present neces-
sary annually to obtain temporary workers in the groups concerned.
The employment of temporary services, particularly where specialized
work is concerned, is of doubtful expediency since necessarily part
of the time is occupied in training, and there is more liability to
error than with workers on a permanent basis.

Exploration and field work under the National Museum are
financed largely by the Smithsonian Institution through its private
income, and by friends who supply funds for various projects of
particular interest. Existing appropriations for the National Mu-
seum are so largely taken up with routine expenditures that there
is little available that may be used for research in the field. Further
money should come from our appropriations for these ends.

Interest of the general public in scientific matters, particularly
of the type that comes within the scope of the National Museum, is
plainly evident through the demand that comes for popular exposi-
tion in scientific subjects. So far as the National Museum is con-
cerned this interest is shown by the nearly 2,000,000 visitors who come
annually to its halls. These persons, together with the many others
who have an interest in such things, are among those who contribute
to national income in the form of taxes. With their interest in these
matters In mind it seems entirely logical that a part of their con-
tributions should be devoted to furthering the development of the
Museum which serves them in such various ways.

ADDITIONS TO THE NATURAL HISTORY BUILDING

The Congress gave definite consideration during the year to the
question of additional housing for the collections of the National
Museum, with the result that the Smoot-Elliott bill authorizing the
extension of the Natural History Building through wings at the
east and west ends at a cost of $6,500,000 was passed without a dis-
senting vote. The bill was approved by the President on June 19,
1930.

Under this authorization it is planned to add to the present build-
ing so that it will extend from Ninth to Twelfth Streets on the same
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY FF

width of base. In general it is contemplated that the style of the
present structure will be duplicated, with the ground and third floor
occupied by offices and laboratories, and the two intermediate floors
devoted to exhibits. Present plans contemplate a request for funds
for the preparation of definite architect’s designs in the urgent defi-
ciency bill for 1931. The friendly consideration given to the import-
ant matter of the authorization for this work by the congressional
committees involved has been deeply appreciated by the Institution.

The construction planned will provide adequately for housing
needs for the natural history collections. Following this, careful
consideration should be given to proper space for the arts and indus-
tries series. The present building occupied by these collections, the
old National Museum built in 1881, is now antiquated in design and
unfitted for modern needs in museum exhibition. It should be re-
placed by a new structure that will provide ample halls for the show-
ing of the important and valuable exhibits of the type mentioned.

The historical collections of the Nation, of interest and attraction
to every patriotic American, at present are also in the old building.
These collections, which are steadily growing with the accession of
irreplaceable specimens, should be housed in a separate structure
where such objects as the Star-Spangled Banner and the memorabilia
of many famous men may be fittingly and attractively displayed.

COLLECTIONS

Additions to the collections of the National Museum during the
fiscal year have reached the total of 410,815 separate specimens,
the greater part of these coming as in previous years to the depart-
ment of biology. The additions, while not quite equal to those of last
year, are of comparable value and importance to those of the last
few years. Large donations have come from a number of sources,
the museum as a governmental institution being recognized as a
permanent organization in which valuable material will receive the
care and attention that insure long preservation. The growing
recognition of the National Museum as a repository of this kind is
highly gratifying. Materials of various kinds sent in for examina-
tion and report during the year amounted to 1,306 lots, including
many thousands of separate specimens. Gifts of duplicate materials
made to schools and other educational institutions included 11,474
specimens, while in exchange with other scientific organizations and
individuals there were sent out 12,649 specimens, these being dupli-
cates for which return was made to the Museum collections. Loans
to scientific workers outside of Washington included 33,208 speci-
mens, many of which were of considerable value.

Following is a digest of the more important accessions for the
year in the various departments and divisions of the Museum:
28 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

Anthropology.—Collections from Alaska again are of major im-
portance among the accessions in this department. Among these
there are two principal lots of material that have come in part
through the assistance of the Smithsonian Institution. Doctor
Hrdlicka in travel down the Yukon River obtained rich collections
representing Indian and Eskimoan tribes, and in addition obtained
valuable sets of ivory implements from the Bering Sea area. Henry
B. Collins, jr., in further field work on St. Lawrence Island and sites
on the coast of Bering Sea and Kotzebue Sound secured a collection
containing many ivory and other implements that are of great
value in supplementing his collections of last year. Further there
was obtained by purchase a series of specimens from Point Hope
representing various phases of Eiskimoan culture. The entire lot
represents a selection of western Eskimoan artifacts from the earliest
times, still further increasing the value of our excellent series of this
kind.

A further collection from Nigeria and the Gold and Ivory coasts
of Africa presented by C. C. Roberts has supplemented previous gifts
of a similar nature from the same source, until now we have for the
first time adequate representation of the Haussa, Fulah, and Yoruba
tribes.

The Department of Agriculture, through Dr. E. W. Brandes of
the Bureau of Plant Industry, transferred excellent collections of
stone axes, decorated human heads, and other objects from New
Guinea.

Collections from Tibet were presented by Charles §. Isham, of
New York, including prayer stones and other objects of a religious
nature, as well as materials of personal adornment. Further collec-
tions have come from China through the efforts of the Rev. D. C.
Graham, of Szechwan.

In American archeology there came three decorated limestone
blocks from the Maya Temple of Chac Mool, deposited by the
Republic of Mexico through its Secretaria de Educacion. Valuable
specimens were obtained from the excavations in Colorado of Dr.
Frank H. H. Roberts, jr., of the Bureau of American Ethnology,
and from field work by H. W. Krieger, of the National Museum,
in the Dominican Republic, funds for this project having been fur-
nished by Dr. W. L. Abbott.

Through the Bruce Hughes fund there were acquired artifacts
of Sumerian and Babylonian origin for exhibition with other
materials from the Old World.

Liology.—In the department of biology there were secured exten-
sive collections as a gift of the National Geographic Society, includ-
ing particularly birds and plants collected by Dr. Joseph F. Rock
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 29

in western China, and birds, insects, and plants obtained by E. G.
Holt in northern Brazil. Other excellent collections came from the
Hon. Gifford Pinchot as the result of a cruise to the Caribbean and
Pacific Islands on the yacht Mary Pinchot. A notable collection
obtained through the cooperation of the Navy Department was
secured by Dr. H. C. Kellers, United States Navy, on the Island of
Panay, in the Philippines, during service as medical officer to the
Naval Solar Eclipse Expedition.

Doctor Bartsch, traveling under the Walter Rathbone Bacon
Travelling Scholarship, obtained large series of mollusks in the West
Indies, which add remarkably to our collections from that region.
Dr. G. A. MacCallum, of Baltimore, presented his entire collection of
helminthological material, including many type specimens.

Collections forwarded by the Rev. D. C. Graham from western
China include many things of great value, particularly among mam-
mals, birds, fishes, reptiles, and insects. There may be mentioned
especially three skins of the giant Panda.

Further excellent collections from Siam were received from Dr.
Hugh M. Smith, long an honorary associate of the Institution.

A. C. Bent, a collaborator of the Smithsonian Institution, depos-
ited in the division of birds his collection of North American birds’
eggs, a most excellent and complete series. From the Minneapolis
Public Library there were obtained more than 1,500 bird skins from
the Philippines comprising the Menage collection. The Smith-
sonian-Parish expedition to Haiti obtained excellent series of birds,
reptiles, and other materials. Under the Swales fund, through
money left by the late Bradshaw H. Swales, there were secured 34
skins of birds new to the Museum.

The Victorias Milling Co. of Manila presented a considerable
number of insects collected by Dr. W. Dwight Pierce. For the
division of mollusks there were purchased series of land shells from
Jamaica and Haiti through the Chamberlain fund. Through a
botanical expedition to Peru and Upper Brazil under E. P. Killip
there were acquired more than 27,000 specimens of plants.

Geology.—In the department of geology the single accession of
greatest importance during the year was the crystal ball presented
to the National Museum by Mrs. Worcester Reed Warner as a
memorial to her husband, long a friend to the Smithsonian Institu-
tion. This ball of flawless crystal 127 inches in diameter, weighing
10634 pounds, is believed to be the largest perfect sphere of its kind
in existence. It is one of the most striking objects found in the
Museum halls.

Through the income of the Roebling fund there have been secured
23 species of minerals not previously represented in our collections,
30 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

together with a considerable number of exceptionally fine specimens
of other kinds. Among them there may be mentioned a topaz crystal
weighing over 7 pounds, sets of tourmaline crystals, and a cut yellow
sapphire of 25.8 carats.

Through the Frances Lea Chamberlain fund there were secured
blue and yellow diamonds, a Brazilian emerald, and carvings of
jade, tourmaline, coral, amber, carnelian and lapis-lazuli.

Valuable specimens of ores and stones have come from several
sources. Numerous type specimens have been accessioned in the
division of stratigraphic paleontology, particularly fossil plants
described by Prof. E. W. Berry. Further fossil plants from the
Grand Canyon of the Colorado in Arizona, collected and described
by Dr. David White, have been presented by the Carnegie Institution
of Washington.

A collection of several hundred fossils from English localities
secured by Mr. B. B. Bancroft has come as a deposit from the Smith-
sonian Institution. Other valuable specimens secured in field work by
Dr. Resser have included more than 1,200 Cambrian forms.

Eight articulated skeletons of the fossil horse Mesohippus bairdi
from the Oligocene of Nebraska were purchased. Large series of
excellent fossil horse skulls have come also from the field work
of Dr. Gidley in Idaho. Valuable material collected by Mr. C. W.
Gilmore in the San Juan Basin, N. Mex., has come to the fossil
reptile collection through work financed by the Smithsonian
Institution. |

Dr. Remington Kellogg and N. H. Boss collecting in Alabama
and Mississippi under the auspices of the Carnegie Institution
of Washington secured a valuable specimen of zeuglodont, together
with other material. ‘There may be mentioned also a complete skull
and other bones of a large whalebone whale collected by Dr. Kellogg
at Governors Run, Md.

Arts and industries—The gift of the Rudolph Eickemeyer col-
lection of photographs and books to the section of photography con-
stituted one of the most important accessions to this department,
as it includes not only an excellent series of pictorial photographs
but also a library of books dealing with this subject, and a series
of medals and awards made to Mr. Eickemeyer for the excellence
of his work. The gift is further accompanied by an item in the
will of Mr. Eickemeyer through which $15,000 is designated as a
fund to be used in connection with this collection.

The collection of Edward Goodrich Acheson memorabilia, record-
ing the researches of this worker, presented by the Acheson Oildag
Co., has given important historical material, as has also a collection
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 31

of drawings and documents and other things relating to the indus-
trial development of the steam boiler presented by the Babcock and
Wilcox Co., of New York City, through its President, A. G. Pratt.

A series of 21 airplane propellers was presented by the American
Propeller Co. The United States Coast and Geodetic Survey trans-
ferred 26 specimens of early surveying and navigation instruments,
including examples 50 to 75 years old.

The family of Leander James McCormick through Robert Hall
McCormick presented eight models of labor-saving farm machinery
invented and constructed between 1829 and 1835 by Robert Mc-
Cormick, of Walnut Grove, Va. These include early types of the
McCormick reaper.

Many specimens of scientific value added to the study collections
of woods include a series of 598 woods from various parts of the
world.

To the division of graphic arts there came 1,210 prints as a gift
from J. Townsend Russell, jr., including the work of many im-
portant engravers. The Eastman Kodak Co. presented a number of
items to the section of photographic apparatus.

History.—Silverware formerly owned by Thomas McKean, one
of the signers of the Declaration of Independence, presented by
Mrs. Frances T. Redwood, and five pieces of chinaware used in the
White House by President James Madison, presented by Miss Mary
M. McGuire, are among the important accessions in this division.

To the costumes collection there came a rose chiffon velvet gown
worn by Mrs. Coolidge, on the occasion of the last formal reception
in the White House during the administration of her husband, Presi-
dent Calvin Coolidge. The gown was presented to the Museum
by Mrs. Coolidge.

An item of importance added to the military collections was a
set of uniforms and accessories of the type worn during the World
War and subsequently by officers and enlisted men of the Turkish
Army. This material was presented by the Government of Turkey
through Ahmet Mouhtar Bey, Turkish Ambassador to the United
States.

A considerable series of specimens came as a deposit to the numis-
matic collections from the American Numismatic Association, in-
cluding recent coinages of many countries. The Bureau of the Mint
of the Treasury Department transferred a number of ancient and
modern coins of importance.

The philatelic collection received a large number of specimen
stamps from the Post Office Department, as well as a special collec-
tion of Chinese stamps presented by the Hon. Liu Shu-fan, Director
General of Posts of China.
32 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930
EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD WORK

Researches in the field have been carried on as usual by various
members of the scientific staff of the Museum, principally by means
of funds provided by the Smithsonian Institution through its pri-
vate income, with assistance in some instances in the form of con-
tributions from friends of the organization who have been interested
in different projects. Certain investigations have been financed
also under some of the specific funds of the Smithsonian. For some
expeditions small allotments have been made from the annual ap-
propriations, but these constituted only a small part of the total
expenditure for field work, by far the greater portion having come
from other sources. An additional appropriation that could be
used for field researches is a definite need of the National Museum,
and would be of great assistance in promoting its work. A brief
account of field work for the present year follows:

During the months of December and January, Henry B. Collins,
jr., assistant curator in the division of ethnology, conducted field
work in Mississippi, the investigations being carried on in cooper-
ation with the Mississippi Department of Archives and History,
that organization being represented by Messrs. Moreau B. Cham-
bers and James A. Ford. The most important result was the finding
in Yazoo County of an ancient Indian village site in which the
complete floor plan of a large house site was traced by means of
the postholes. The structure was round, 60 feet in diameter, and
was probably a council house somewhat similar to those described
by early explorers in the Creek and Cherokee regions. The open-
ing of the fiscal year in July found Mr. Collins in the field excavat-
ing at old Eskimo sites on St. Lawrence Island in Bering Sea, and
along the coast of Kotzebue Sound in western Alaska. His work
included a reconnaissance of the western Alaskan coast from Norton
Sound to Point Hope. Actual excavations were carried on at Cape
Kialegak on St. Lawrence, Cape Denbigh, Imaruk Basin, and Point
Hope, resulting in a large archeological collection. Work on St.
Lawrence Island was begun again in June, 1930, with most impor-
tant results as indicated by preliminary reports from the field.
The National Museum is deeply indebted to the Revenue Cutter
Service for its active cooperation in these investigations through trans-
portation provided on its vessels to points otherwise inaccessible.

Field work in the Dominican Republic was continued by Herbert
W. Krieger, curator in the division of ethnology, who began
archeological and historical studies in that area in 1928. Mr. Krie-
ger’s investigations were made possible by the assistance of Dr. W. L.
Abbott, whose interest in the island is of long standing and whose
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 33

first visit to Santo Domingo was in 1883. Investigations during
the current year included a reconnaissance of the mountainous inte-
rior of the provinces of La Vega, and of Azua, and actual excava-
tions at former Indian village sites in the valley of Constanza and
on the Caribbean coast at Andres, on the Bay of Andres, 25 miles
east of the capital city of Santo Domingo. There was no noteworthy
distinction between the artifacts recovered from middens at Con-
stanza and at Andres except for the lack of marine products such as
bones of fish and turtles, and shells of mollusks in the middens of the
central mountains. Shell deposits on the Caribbean coast resemble
those found in caves in the province of Samana, and also those in-
cluded in the kitchen middens of Monte Cristi Province. Middens
throughout the Dominican Republic yield typically Arawakan objects
of great variety, ranging from the petaloid polished stone celt, dec-
orated pottery with incised and punctate designs, and molded figurine
heads of post-archaic type, to the beveled celt of Strombus gigas,
shallow undecorated earthenware bowls, crude beads of shell with
hour-glass-shape perforation, and other artifacts that in Cuba have
been designated as products of the “Ciboney.” Frontal-occipital
deformation of skulls from cemeteries, fragments of stone collars,
and well-known types of Arawak zemis supply additional evidence
of the thorough penetration of the island by the Arawak and con-
versely tend to stress the lack of cultural stratigraphy or evidence
of the previous occupancy of the island by pre-Arawak tribes.
From May 15 to September 23, 1929, N. M. Judd, curator of Amer-
ican archeology, was in Arizona supervising the Third Beam Expedi-
tion of the National Geographic Society. As a result of these inves-
tigations, Dr. A. E. Douglass, of the University of Arizona, was
able to complete his tree-ring chronology by establishing a single
series of annual growth rings in pine trees, extending from the year
1929 back to 700 A. D. Thus, with over 1,200 years represented,
some 40 pre-Spanish Pueblo villages of the Southwest have been
correlated with our own calendar—certainly the most outstanding
contribution to American archeology in the past quarter century.
Following his researches for the National Geographic Society, the
curator, at the suggestion of Senator Carl Hayden, visited the Gila
and Salt River valleys, Ariz., to examine remaining vestiges of a
former network of prehistoric canals and to determine the most feas-
ible means of preserving a permanent record of them. On behalf
of the Bureau of American Ethnology, Mr. Judd returned to Ari-
zona in mid-January to cooperate with Lieut. Edwin B. Bobzien and
Sergt. R. A. Stockwell, of the Army photographic personnel, in an
aerial survey of the major prehistoric canal systems bordering both
the Gila and Salt Rivers. The mosaic photographic maps made from
84 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

the air resulting from this survey, though not yet completely studied,
indicate results of importance.

Doctor Hrdlicka, curator of physical anthropology, during the
summer of 1929 made his second expedition to Alaska. The work of
the present season covered the Yukon from White Horse to Fort
Yukon as a reconnoissance, and from Fort Yukon downward con-
tinued as an intensive exploration in abandoned and partly washed-
away village sites, resulting in valuable collections of skeletal remains
and archeological implements. Physical measurements were made
on several hundred living natives, some of them the last represent-
atives of their tribes, and facial casts and hundreds of photographs
were taken.

Dr. Paul Bartsch, through the Walter Rathbone Bacon Travelling
Scholarship of the Smithsonian Institution, continued this season
the exploration of West Indian Islands for the study of their terres-
trial molluscan fauna, a work begun last year. He left Norfolk, Va.,
in June, 1929, for Porto Rico, where at San Juan a schooner, the
Guillermito, was chartered. Doctor Bartsch was accompanied by
Dr. William W. Hoffman and his assistant, J. Oliver, who were en-
gaged in other biological studies, The work began in Porto Rico
and then continued to Culebra and St. Thomas. On July 14 the
party visited the island of St. John and on the 15th St. Croix. Stops
were next made at Tortola, San Martin, Anguilla, San Bartholo-
mew, St. Eustatius, St. Cristopher, Nevis, Montserrat, and Grande
Terre. On July 31 they had reached Guadeloupe, and August 1 and
2 were on the Saints. They next visited Maria Galante and Domin-
ica, and August 7 and 8 were at Martinique. This was followed by
exploration of Santa Lucia, St. Vincent, and on August 17 of the
Grenadine islets. The expedition arrived at Grenada on August 25
and remained there until the 28th. September 1 to 4 were spent on
Trinidad. Margarita Island, off the Venezuelan coast was visited
September 7 and 8, followed by stops at Orchilla, E1 Roque, Bonaire,
Curacao, and Aruba. On September 24 the party arrived once more
at San Juan, Porto Rico. In addition to a rich harvest of mollisks,
this expedition as a by-product secured numerous specimens of ani-
mals of many groups as detailed elsewhere in this report.

Rev. David C. Graham, long a cooperator in the field work of
the Smithsonian, in the summer of 1929 made a collecting expedi-
tion to the Mupin district in Szechwan, the type locality of many of
the species discovered by the Abbé Armand David. Doctor Graham
started from his headquarters at Suifu on June 15 and reached
Mupin 11 days later. He made collections at several localities in
the district with good results, obtaining numerous specimens of
mammals, among them three flat skins of the “ giant panda,” birds,
reptiles, amphibians, fishes, and insects. He returned in August to
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 35

Suifu, characterizing the trip as a successful reconnoissance, A
number of forms in the different groups enumerated are new to the
Museum, and the entire collection is of great importance.

Through the cooperation of Mr. Lee Parish, of ‘Tulsa, Okla., there
was organized in the late winter the Parish-Smithsonian expedition
to Haiti, on which Mr. Parish, and Mr. and Mrs. 8. W. Parish were
accompanied by Mr. W. M. Perrygo of the taxidermy staff. The
party sailed from Miami, Fla., on February 15, on the yacht L’sper-
anza, passing along the north coast of Cuba, where stops for col-
lecting were made at Gebara, Moa Key, the mainland opposite Moa,
and Port Tanamo. In Haiti visits were made to Gonave and Petit
Gonave Islands, both north and south sides of the southern penin-
sula, Lle-’-Vache off the south coast, and Navassa Island. Mr. Per-
rygo returned by steamer from Port-au-Prince, Haiti, on May 28,
arriving in New York June 2. The specimens brought back include
35 mammals, about 600 birds, 206 reptiles, 281 fish, marine inverte-
brates, and echinoderms, as well as some live animals for the National
Zoological Park. The material is of importance and will give much
information of value concerning the area covered.

The Museum has also had the valued cooperation of the Hon.
Gifford Pinchot in the Pinchot South Sea Expedition which sailed
from Brooklyn, N. Y., on March 30, 1929, in the auxiliary yacht.
Mary Pinchot. The party consisted of the Hon. Gifford Pinchot,
Mrs. Pinchot, Dr. H. A. Pilsbry of the Philadelphia Academy of
Natural Sciences, and Dr. A. K. Fisher of the Biological Survey, De-
partment of Agriculture, who through cooperation of the survey
was detailed to make collections for the National Museum. No stops
were made until Key West was reached on April 7, when four days
were spent at this interesting place. A short stop was made at
Habana, whence the expedition proceeded to Grand Cayman Island,
On April 16 and 17 a collection of birds and other zoological speci-
mens was made there, and the party then continued to Swan, Old
Providence, and St. Andrews Islands. A hummingbird new to
science was taken on the island of St. Andrews. Cristobal, in the
Canal Zone, was reached on April 29 and on account of engine
trouble the expedition was detained for the following month in the
Canal Zone. On June 1 the Mary Pinchot left Balboa for Cocos
Island, where several days were spent collecting specimens. They
continued to the Galapagos Islands on June 11. The first stop was
made at Tower Island, followed by visits to Indefatigable, Seymour,
Charles, Hood, Chatham, Barrington, Albemarle, Narborough, and
a number of smaller islands. Considerable collections of birds and
other zoological material were obtained by August 26, when the
party continued westward. At Tagus Cove, Albemarle Island, the
flightless cormorant and penguin were found. From the Galapagos
36 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

Islands the expedition proceeded 3,100 miles to the Marquesas Is-
lands, where they visited Hiva-oa, Fatu-Hiva, Uahuka, Nukahiva,
and later Eiao, one of the islands of the northern group. From
this point the voyage continued to the Tuamotu Islands. Fruit
pigeons, robber crabs and other crustaceans, corals, and shells were
collected. The cruise was ended at Papeete, Tahiti; because of the
lateness of the season the party returned by steamer to San Francisco,
arriving there on October 25, 1929. The Mary Pinchot was taken
back to Savannah, Ga., by the officers and crew.

Through the untiring energy of Mr. Pinchot and of Doctor Fisher,
who represented the Museum on the expedition, large and valuable
collections including porpoises, bats, birds, reptiles, fishes, insects,
and other animals have come to the Museum as noted elsewhere in
this report, numerous forms being new to our collections.

The explorations of Dr. Hugh M. Smith in Siam were continued
throughout the year. Among other journeys he made a trip to the
mountains of northern and northeastern Siam, where little zoological
collecting has been done before. As in previous years a number
of species new to science have been obtained.

In May, 1930, Doctor Wetmore made a short collecting trip princi-
pally for birds in the mountains of northern Spain, where he ob-
tained a number of forms new to the Museum collections. His work
was carried out principally from Puente de los Fierros, Busdongo,
and Riafo.

Dr. Joseph F. Rock continued work, under the auspices of the
National Geographic Society, in the semi-independent kingdom of
Muli, in southwestern Szechwan, China, and also visited the Minya-
konka Mountains. He made important collections of birds and
plants, the specimens coming to the National Museum as a gift from
the National Geographic Society.

Mr. Ernest G. Holt, traveling under the auspices of the National
Geographic Society, accompanied a boundary survey party along the
Venezuelan-Brazilian frontier, returning to this country with a
valuable collection of birds, reptiles, plants, and other material
which was presented to the National Museum by the National Geo-
graphic Society.

Dr. H. C. Kellers, United States Navy, who through cooperation
of the Navy Department was attached as surgeon to the Solar Eclipse
Expedition to the island of Panay, P. I., returned with large zoologi-
eal collections, principally of reptiles, fishes, and marine inverte-
brates, which are of great scientific value.

Dr. J. M. Aldrich was in Europe at the beginning of the fiscal year
examining types of species of flies in the British Museum. In July
he proceeded to Bergen, Norway, and after a brief collecting excur-
sion there continued to Sweden, where he spent a successful season
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 37

collecting at Are. During this work he ascended the Areskutan,
a mountain 5,000 feet high, where Zetterstedt, 100 years before, had
made important entomological collections.

Doctor Aldrich left Washington on May 15, 1930, for a collecting
trip to the high altitudes of Idaho, Washington, Oregon, and north-
ern California, a journey on which he was absent at the end of the
fiscal year.

Mr. H. H. Shamel, of the division of mammals, was detailed for
about three weeks in May, 1930, to collect natural history specimens
in southwestern Missouri and eastern Kansas. ‘Twenty days were
spent in Barry and McDonald Counties, Mo., and a few days in
Montgomery and Harvey Counties, Kans. The collection obtained
included 65 mammals, 399 fishes, 34 birds, and between 100 and 125
reptiles, invertebrates, and insects, as well as three living mammals
for the National Zoological Park. The black-tailed jack rabbit
obtained in Barry County, Mo., was of interest as it is said to have
been in this region for only about 20 years, though previously re-
corded for Missouri from Vernon County.

E. D. Reid, of the division of fishes, was detailed from March 20
to April 12, 1930, to make collections of fresh-water animals in the
highlands of North Carolina, Tennessee, and Georgia. He secured
a fine lot of amphibians.

E. P. Killip, associate curator of plants, accompanied by Mr.
Albert C. Smith and Mr. W. J. Dennis, made an extended journey
to eastern Peru and Amazonian Brazil, remaining in the field from
April 9, 1929, to November 15, 1929. The expedition, under the
Smithsonian Institution, made general botanical collections and in-
vestigated especially the various plants used as fish poisons. The
New York Botanical Garden cooperated in the project by allowing
Mr. Smith, a member of the Garden staff, leave of absence for the
work. Nearly 27,000 specimens were collected, and such studies as
have been made to date show that a large number of novelties were
obtained. Many species have never before been brought back to
American herbaria.

Dr. A. S. Hitchcock, custodian of the grass herbarium, spent the
months from July to October, 1929, in South and East Africa, col-
lecting and studying grasses. He visited Cape Colony, Transvaal,
Portuguese East Africa, Tanganyika, Zanzibar, Kenya, and Uganda,
obtaining a large number of specimens. He was an officially invited
guest of the British Association for the Advancement of Science
meeting in South Africa.

Mrs. Agnes Chase, of the grass herbarium, made an expedition to
Brazil during the months October to May, visiting the States of Rio
de Janeiro, Espirito Santo, Minas Geraes, Goyaz, Sao Paulo, and

28095—31——4
38 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

Mattogrosso. More than 2,500 collection numbers were obtained,
with an average of five specimens to each number.

For four months of the last fiscal year and extending into the
early part of this, Dr. W. F. Foshag was engaged in field work
in the borax regions of California, Nevada, and Oregon, collecting
under the Roebling fund of the Smithsonian Institution with the
collaboration of the Harvard Mineralogical Museum. The purposes
of the expedition were to study the mineralogy and geology of the
borax deposits, with particular regard to their origin, and to obtain
for the Museum a comprehensive collection of typical minerals and
ores. It was thought desirable to undertake the work at this time
since changes in the borax industry have rendered obsolete many of
the most interesting of the deposits. Some very fine exhibition speci-
mens, a comprehensive series illustrating the geology and mineralogy
of the deposits, and much duplicate material resulted.

In the latter part of April Doctor Foshag was detailed to examine
some mineral localities in North Carolina. Through the courtesy of
Messrs. Burnham S. Colburn and Will Colburn of Biltmore Forest,
he was enabled to visit Spruce Pine, Balsam Gap, Mason’s Mountain,
Webster, and Statesville, and to collect rare uranium and other
minerals.

In order to carry out an expressed wish of the late Dr. Frank
Springer, Dr. R. S. Bassler visited Europe for the purpose of making
casts of various type specimens of crinoids preserved in foreign
museums. His chief object was to obtain facsimiles of the specimens
described by Barrande, which, with many other mementoes of that
famous paleontologist, are preserved in the National Museum at
Prague, Bohemia, this having been the scene of his greatest work.
Under most pleasant conditions and with the hearty cooperation of
the authorities at the museum, this work was carried to a successful
conclusion. Doctor Bassler was also enabled to visit other European
museums and various collecting fields. At the museums the paleon-
tological collections were studied and personal contact established
with the authorities; the time at the collecting fields was devoted
mainly to a study of the stratigraphy, in order to secure data for
the furtherance of work on our collections.

Late in the year, Doctor Bassler, accompanied by Dr. Ferdinand
Canu, made brief field trips in New England and along the Atlantic
coast in furtherance of their studies on Bryozoa.

Dr. C. E. Resser continued researches on the Cambrian of the
Rocky Mountain region under the Smithsonian Institution. For
a portion of the time he was accompanied by Dr. L. J. Moraes of
the Brazilian Geological Survey, who was interested in similar
problems. Doctor Resser’s chosen field was in Montana, with a
stop in the Yellowstone National Park to examine certain peculiar
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 39

structures caused by algal deposits. Camp was next established on
the Bridger Range in Montana, where a restudy of the stratigraphy
proved it to be much more complicated than was previously supposed.
Thence a move westward and northwestward led into the, Blackfoot
country where the pre-Cambrian and Cambrian rocks were examined.
Following this various ranges in southwestern Montana were visited,
and the last part of the season was spent in the Teton Mountains in
extending the studies of the previous season. Small collections were
made, the expedition being devoted mainly to field observations.

The field expedition under the Smithsonian in charge of Mr. C. W.
Gilmore covered certain badland areas extending from Kimbetoh
northward to Farmington in the San Juan Basin, N. Mex. Although
the surface indications gave every promise of yielding rich returns,
it was found that the majority of the leads consisted of single bones.
Individual skeletons had evidently been widely scattered before in-
terment, and only occasionally were portions of skeletons found to-
gether, which fact, however, did not prevent the collecting of ma-
terial of much scientific interest, as several news species appear to be
represented and some known forms are new to the fauna. The col-
lection, as a whole, is a decided contribution to the meagerly known
faunas of the area.

The expedition under the Smithsonian by Dr. J. W. Gidley to the
Snake River Valley, Idaho, inaugurated toward the end of the last
fiscal year, was attended with unusual success—so much so, in fact,
that a second expedition to the same region is now in progress. Well
preserved remains of a rare extinct species of horse comprise the most
important part of the collection, while gravel deposits in the vicinity
yielded a large species of bison, a giant muskox, camel, horse, and
other extinct animals of the Pleistocene period.

Later in the year Doctor Gidley continued his researches dealing
with the problem of the association of early man with the extinct
mammalian fauna in Florida, the work being financed by contribu-
tions from Mr. Childs Frick and by the Smithsonian. Worth-while
data and material were obtained, though the expedition was greatly
hindered by excessive rains which rendered it impossible to work out
some of the most promising localities.

Under the auspices of the Carnegie Institution of Washington, Dr.
Remington Kellogg, assisted by Mr. Norman Boss, was occupied for
a month in exploration of the Eocene (Jackson) deposits in Alabama
and Mississippi for zeuglodont remains. The resulting small collec-
tion of these comparatively rare fossils was presented to the Museum.
Messrs. Kellogg and Boss also made one trip of three days to the
near-by Miocene localities along Chesapeake Bay to collect cetacean
remains,
40 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

In August members of the Maryland Geological Survey brought
to the Museum’s attention the discovery of a large whalebone whale
skull located in Miocene deposits in the vicinity of Governors Run,
Md. Dr. Remington Kellogg, with the assistance of Mr. A. J. Poole
and members of the Maryland Survey staff, were successful in collect-
ing it, the specimen being one of the first of this type discovered.

Late in the fiscal year Mr. C. W. Gilmore was detailed to head an
expedition into the Eocene of the Bridger Basin in southwestern
Wyoming, and Dr. J. W. Gidley returned to the scene of his 1929
collections in Idaho. As both expeditions will continue well into
next year, detailed accounts will go over until the next annual report.

BUILDINGS AND EQUIPMENT

The usual routine repairs have kept the buildings of the National
Museum in proper condition. At.the beginning of the year the
work of safeguarding the dome of the Natural History Building
had just been finished. Before opening the rotunda to the public
the walls were steam-cleaned, the plastered surfaces repainted, and
the floor repolished. The rotunda was opened finally on October
23, 1929, after having been closed to visitors for nearly two years.
Walls and ceilings in the north entrance to the Natural History
Building, as well as various exhibition, office, and laboratory rooms,
were repainted. The roadways on the east and west sides of the
buildings were closed by gates to prevent their use as thoroughfares
by unauthorized vehicles; this step was taken because of several acci-
dents that had taken place there. With the assistance of the office
of Public Buildings and Public Parks, a steel gallery was erected
in the storage rooms of the division of vertebrate paleontology to
provide additional space for the storing of fossils.

In the Arts and Industries Building the fountain in the center
rotunda was removed because in recent months several visitors
intent on other matters had stumbled over the coping and fallen
into the water. Roofs and exterior woodwork were repainted, and
various rooms and offices were redecorated. Work in enlarging the
women’s rest room was begun, a special item of $3,500 toward this
project being included in the second deficiency act approved after
the close of the year.

The power plant was in operation from September 27, 1929, to
May 28, 1930. The consumption of coal was 38,502 tons, an amount
in excess of that burned during the previous fiscal year. The aver-
age cost was $5.65 per ton. The Steamboat Inspection Service
examined the boilers during the year and made certain suggestions
as to their condition. The elevators have been regularly inspected
by the District of Columbia inspector. The total electric current
produced amounted to 655,253 kilowatt-hours, manufactured at a
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 4]

cost of 1.78 cents per kilowatt-hour, including interest on the plant,
depreciation, repairs, and material. The amount of electric current
produced represents an increase of approximately 6,500 kilowatt-
hours over that of last year, and the plant is now operating at its
maximum capacity. As demands for electric current increase stead-
ily it will be necessary during the coming fiscal year to purchase a
limited amount from the local company during the winter season, in
addition to the regular purchase made during the summer season
when the Museum plant is not in operation.

The ice plant manufactured 435.5 tons of ice at the average cost
of $1.71 per ton; this cost represents a definite reduction over that
for the previous year.

During the year 7 exhibition cases and bases, 308 pieces of storage,
laboratory, and other furniture, and 2,224 drawers of various kinds
were added, the greater part of these being manufactured in our
shops.

MEETINGS AND RECEPTIONS

The lecture rooms and auditorium of the National Museum were
used during the present year for 135 meetings covering the usual
wide range of activities. Government agencies that utilized these
facilities for hearings, meetings, lectures, and other special occa-
sions included the Bureau of Chemistry and Soils, the Forest Service,
the Graduate School, Food, Drug and Insecticide Administration,
the Extension Service of the United States Department of Agri-
culture, and the United States Public Health Service. The Graduate
School and the Forest Service of the Department of Agriculture
arranged a series of addresses during the year on various matters
concerned with their work. Scientific societies that met regularly in
the auditorium or small lecture room included the Vivarium So-
ciety, the Entomological Society of Washington, the Society for
Philosophical Inquiry, the Anthropological Society of Washington,
and the Helminthological Society of Washington. Meetings were
held also by the Washington Academy of Sciences, the Wild Flower
Preservation Society, the Potomac Garden Club, the Twentieth
Century Club and Federation of Women’s Clubs, the Washington
Society of Engineers, and the Washington Glider Club. The Na-
tional Association of Retired Federal Employees held regular meet-
ings through the year, as did groups of high schools for special
addresses.

On December 26 Dr. Heinrich Reis of Cornell University, retiring
president of the Geological Society of America, delivered an address
in the auditorium. A series of special meetings was held by the
Anthropological Society for lectures by Dr. Fay-Cooper Cole on
42 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

January 7, on January 21 by Dr. AleS’ Hrdlitka, on February 4
by Dr. Clark Wissler, on February 18 by Dr. Herbert J. Spinden,
and on March 4 by Mr. Neil M. Judd. On January 14 Dr. Hrdlitka
delivered an address on Organic Evolution before the Washington
Academy of Sciences, and on February 20, Prof. E. W. Berry of
Johns Hopkins University spoke before the same organization on
the Origin and Evolution of Plants. On April 16 Dr. Charles B.
Davenport of the Carnegie Institution of Washington lectured on
the Mechanism of Organic Evolution.

The Food Standards Committee of the Food, Drug, and Insecti-
cide Administration, United States Department of Agriculture, held
a public hearing on April 30 in room 48. On January 15 the Mary-
land-Virginia Farmers’ Marketing Association held a business meet-
ing in the auditorium. The seventh National and fifth Interna-
tional Oratorical Contest for the Evening Star area was held in
the auditorium on May 8, with J. Loren Freund of Gonzaga Col-
lege, Miss Virginia Carr, of Oakton High School, Va., and Miss
Frances Gertrude McKim, St. Mary’s Seminary, St. Mary’s City,
Md., as speakers. On May 27 the sixth annual National Spelling
Bee was held in the auditorium. From June 18 to 20 the United
States Public Health Service held a conference with State and
Territorial health officers in room 43. Addresses were made by Dr.
Ray Lyman Wilbur, Secretary of the Interior, Surg. Gen. H. S.
Cumming, and others.

From June 18 to 24 the meeting rooms were used by the Extension
Service of the United States Department of Agriculture for confer-
ences in connection with the 4-H Club camp.

A memorial meeting was held August 16 to commemorate the
service to science of the late Dr. George P. Merrill, head curator of
geology of the United States National Museum.

On the evening of December 10 the formal opening of the exhibi-
tion of paintings purchased under the Henry Ward Ranger bequest
was held in the National Gallery of Art from 9 to 11. The District
of Columbia section of the Woman’s Auxiliary to the American
Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers arranged a recep-
tion in the National Gallery rooms on December 26 for ladies in
attendance at the meetings of the Geological Society of America.

MISCELLANEOUS

The exhibition halls of the National Museum were open during
the year on week days from 9 a. m. to 4.30 p. m. and with the excep-
tion of the aircraft building were open Sunday afternoons from 1.30
to 4.30; all museum buildings remained closed on December 24 and
25, in accordance with presidential order, and were closed also on
New Year’s Day.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 43

The flags on the Smithsonian and Museum buildings were placed
at half mast on November 19, 1929, out of respect to the late James
Wilson Good, Secretary of War. They were flown at half mast
from March 9 to April 7, 1930, out of respect to ex-President William
Howard Taft, associated for many years with the Smithsonian
Institution as a member of the Institution, presiding officer ex
officio, Regent, and Chancellor. On November 13 the flag pole on
the Smithsonian building was found to be in a dangerous condition
and was removed so that no flag was flown on that building until
April 10, 1930, when a new pole was put in place on the north tower.

Visitors to the Museum during the year totaled 1,894,989, a de-
crease of approximately 35,000 from the record of the preceding
year. This decrease apparently reflected changed economic con-
ditions in the country. Attendance in the several buildings of the
National Museum was recorded as follows: Smithsonian Institution,
282,482; Arts and Industries, 863,479; Natural History, 625,326;
Aircraft, 123,700. The average daily attendance for week days was
5,125, and for Sundays 10,317. The increase in the Sunday average
of nearly 4,000 persons per day is a certain indication of the need
for opening the exhibits to the public on Sunday afternoons.

During the year the Museum published 16 separate volumes and
35 miscellaneous papers, while the distribution of literature
amounted to 87,323 copies of its various books and pamphlets. Ad-
ditions to the Museum library included 2,317 volumes and 668
pamphlets, obtained partly by exchange, partly by donation, and
partly by purchase. The library of the National Museum as separate
from that of the Smithsonian Institution proper now contains 76,879
volumes and 108,297 pamphlets. Much work was done in arranging
the catalogues of these collections. The Museum has 36 sectional
libraries in connection with its various divisions, each containing
the particular books relating to the work involved. These are in
addition to the main libraries that house the works of general
reference.

On October 1, 1929, Dr. R. S. Bassler was made head curator of
the department of geology. Dr. Charles E. Resser was designated
on December 1 curator of stratigraphic paleontology. Dr. W. F.
Foshag was made curator of the division of mineralogy and pet-
rology on September 1, and in addition was given charge of the work
of the division of physical and chemical geology. Mr. Edward P.
Henderson was appointed on November 16 assistant curator in the
division last mentioned.

Dr. Charles W. Richmond, long associate curator in the division
of birds, was given the title of curator on July 1. On September 16
at Dr. Richmond’s own request he again became associate curator
44 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

and Dr. Herbert Friedmann was appointed curator. The division
of ethnology was reorganized during the year, with resulting change
in status for H. W. Krieger, curator, and H. B. Collins, jr., assistant
curator. Julian S. Warmbath was appointed taxidermist on Octo-
ber 1. Wm. H. Egberts was given the title of chief preparator of
the department of anthropology, and Norman H. Boss that of chief
preparator in vertebrate paleontology. Miss Leila G. Forbes was
appointed assistant librarian to succeed Miss Isabel L. Towner, who
resigned on September 7. Miss Gertrude L. Woodin succeeded Miss
Ethel A. L. Lacy, chief of the accessions department, who severed
her connection with the Museum on September 15. On July 1 Mrs.
Florence L. Grock was appointed principal accounting and auditing
assistant. Michael Cahillane, Clarence R. Kyte, and William H.
Smith were appointed sergeants July 1. On August 16 Mr. Cahil-
lane was advanced to heutenant, and Wm. H. Vanneman was made
sergeant on September 1.

Three employees left the service through the operation of the
retirement act—Edgar W. Hanvey, cabinet-maker, after a service of
nearly 32 years; A. C. Dufresne, lieutenant of the watch, after 18
years on the guard force; and Carl A. Ohlson after nearly 18 years’
service as watchman. The Museum lost through death during the
year seven of its active workers and one member of its honorary
scientific staff. Dr. George P. Merrill, head curator of geology, died
August 15, 1929. Dr. Jesse Walter Fewkes, collaborator in ethnol-
ogy, died on May 31, 1930. Other losses by death included Miss Ava
L. Bennett, clerk stenographer, on November 11, 1929; Robert M.
Campbell, bricklayer and plasterer, July 14, 1929; Ira W. Johnson,
oiler, October 26, 1929; William L. Brawner, watchman, August
25, 1929; Walter J. Ferguson, watchman, October 8, 1929; and Mrs.
Alberta Buchanan, charwoman, May 138, 19380.

Respectfully submitted.

ALEXANDER WETMORE,
Assistant Secretary.
APPENDIX 2
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

Str: I have the honor to submit herewith my report on the opera-
tions of the National Gallery of Art for the fiscal year ending June
30, 1930.

THE GALLERY COMMISSION

The ninth annual meeting of the gallery commission was held in
the Regents’ room of the Institution at 10.15 a. m., December 10,
1929, the members present being as follows: Mr. Gari Melchers,
chairman; and Messrs. Herbert Adams, Charles L. Borie, jr., James
KE. Fraser, J. H. Gest, Frank J. Mather, jr., Charles Moore, James
Parmelee, E. W. Redfield, E. C. Tarbell, and Dr. Charles G. Abbot,
ex-officio.

Due to the absence of Dr. W. H. Holmes, secretary of the com-
mission, Mr. James G. Taylor was requested to act as temporary
secretary.

The minutes of the previous annual meeting were read and ap-
proved, followed by the reading and approval of the secretary’s
report on the activities of the gallery for the year.

A number of the matters mentioned in this report were discussed
very fully and with reference to the Langhorne collection, the fol-
lowing resolution was adopted:

Resolved, That Mr. and Mrs. Marshall Langhorne be invited to loan to the
National Gallery of Art their collection of paintings as a temporary exhibition,
preferably at a time convenient to them as well as to the commission.

Doctor Abbot explained the steps taken in regard to the offer of
Mr. John Gellatly and its acceptance, stating that through an act
of Congress funds would be provided for the maintenance of the
collection during the next four years. He added that special cards
of admission to the collection in New York had been prepared and
that he would be glad to supply the members of the commission with
them. After discussion, the following resolution was adopted:

Resolved, That a committee consisting of Doctor Abbot and Mr. Melchers

be appointed to prepare a formal acknowledgment of appreciation and thanks
to Mr. Gellatly for his generous gift.

45
46 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

The acknowledgment duly prepared and forwarded is as follows:

JANUARY 6, 1930.

DEAR Mr. GELLATLY: At the annual meeting of the National Gallery of Art
Commission, held at the Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C., on the
10th day of December, 1929, the following resolutions were unanimously
adopted :

Resolved, That the deep and appreciative thanks of this commission be, and
they hereby are, extended to Mr. John Gellatly, of New York City, for his
generous action in donating to the National Gallery of Art the fine and valu-
able art collection which, during a long term of years, he has assembled with
so much pains and care, and with such rare discrimination and artistic taste.

Resolved, That this collection constitutes an important addition to the Na-
tional Gallery of Art; that it will for all time to come be an outstanding
feature of this Institution; and that it represents a great national asset in the
development of the art of our country.

Resolved, That these resolutions be spread in full upon the minutes of this
meeting, as a lasting tribute to the generosity of the donor, and that a copy
thereof be transmitted to Mr. Gellatly with assurance of the warm regard and
sincere appreciation of the members of the National Gallery of Art Commis-
sion, and with their cordial good wishes for his future health and happiness.

Sincerely yours.

(Signed) CHARLES G. ABBOT,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
(Signed) GARI MrLcHERS,

Chairman, National Gallery of Art Comnvission,

Mr. JOHN GELLATLY,

New York City.

The Ranger exhibit was very fully discussed. It was the sense
of the meeting that members of the commission should make
their inspection of the exhibit entirely as individuals and that
each member should give his personal expression of opinion in
regard to the selections proper to be added to the National Gal-
lery. It was also decided that these votes should be regarded as
strictly confidential. The following resolution was adopted:

Resolved, That the commission extend to the Council of the National Acad-
emy of Design an invitation as a body to view the Ranger exhibit.

Mr. Moore brought up the matter, which had been referred to pre-
viously, of providing a fund for the encouragement and support of
young artists until they had “ arrived.” He had not been successful
in getting one of the large philanthropical organizations to arrange
for this as yet, but he was glad to say that such provision had been
incorporated in the will of a public-spirited citizen to become oper-
ative upon his death.

EVENTS OF THE YEAR
Among the more noteworthy events of the year was the assemblage

in Washington and exhibition in the gallery of the group of paintings
purchased by the Council of the National Academy of Design in
——————

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 47

accordance with provisions of the Henry Ward Ranger bequest.
This bequest provides for the purchase from year to year of paint-
ings by American artists which shall be assigned to art institutions
throughout the country, the National Gallery being given the privi-
lege of selecting from these purchases such examples as may be re-
garded as desirable additions to the national collections. There is
thus established in perpetuity a procedure which should prove of
prime importance in preserving a representative series of American
paintings continuing from year to year and period to period, an
historical measure not heretofore undertaken by any nation.

Purchases under the Ranger bequest began in 1920, and in 1930,
78 examples had been secured and distributed. The assemblage of
these in Washington, December 10, 1929, was arranged to enable
the gallery commission to inspect the works and make tentative
selections for the national collection. Final steps on acceptance can
not be taken, however, until within the 5-year period beginning 10
years after the artist’s death in each case.

It has been suggested that acceptance of paintings by living
painters be regarded as tentative acceptances only so that any work
chosen may be returned to the recipient institution whence it came
when a superior work by the same artist becomes available.

The addition of a single Ranger bequest work per year to the
gallery would certainly not seem excessive, and at this rate in 100
years the gallery would be enriched by the ownership of 100 of the
most masterly American works of the century.

Two distinct points of view may be held regarding acceptances
of paintings by the gallery. First, that there should be included
only recognized Old World masterpieces with possibly occasional and
rare outstanding examples of American work of corresponding art
value, and second that the National Gallery should first of all take
this opportunity to build up an unbroken series of American works
of the first order.

In the opinion of the director the authorities of the American
National Gallery looking to the far future should not be content
with accumulations of the art of the past, representing closed
chapters of the history of art. As a great people we should have an
assured art future, a future worthy of systematic record and repre-
sentation.

A million Old World masterpieces installed in great American
buildings will not make an American National Gallery, and in his
view a commission or other official body concerned in the estab-
lishment of a national art collection should recognize the distinction
48 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

between the history of the world art of the past and the story of
art in America to be revealed as the centuries and millenniums pass.

The essential concept of an American National Gallery is the
assemblage of an adequate number of the best available products of
the American brush (or chisel) from period to period and this is
exactly what the Ranger bequest aims to do.

SPECIAL EXHIBITIONS HELD IN THE GALLERY

The special exhibitions held in the gallery during the fiscal year
formed no small part of its activities and are as follows:

THH HENRY WARD RANGER EXHIBITION

The exhibition of paintings purchased to date by the Council of the
National Academy of Design from the Henry Ward Ranger fund,
was opened on the evening of December 10, 1929, with a reception
by the Secretary and Regents of the Institution, the director of
the gallery, and the members of the National Gallery of Art Com-
mission. ‘The National Academy of Design was represented by Mr.
Charles P. Curran, corresponding secretary; Mr. Albert P. Lucas,
assistant corresponding secretary; Mr. Henry Prellwitz, treasurer;
and Messrs. Charles S. Chapman, Ernest L. Ipsen, and Carl Run-
gius, of the council of the academy. The exhibit closed on January
31, 1980.

All of the paintings, 78 in number, are by outstanding contempo-
rary American artists and, as stated above, under the terms of Mr.
Ranger’s will the National Gallery has the privilege of claiming any
of them which it deems desirable for the national collections within
the 5-year period beginning 10 years after the artist’s death, and
ending 15 years after his death. In the meantime the pictures are
assigned by the Council of the National Academy of Design to
institutions which maintain a free art gallery. These institutions
lent the pictures for the present exhibition, in which for the first time
the Ranger fund pictures have been assembled in one place. Pay-
ment of expenses of transportation and insurance was made pos-
sible through a grant of $1,000 voted by the Carnegie Corporation
of New York. This grant was procured through the endeavors of
Mr. Gari Melchers, chairman of the National Gallery of Art Com-
mission.

Members of the National Gallery Commission submitted, confiden-
tially, their votes as to the paintings exhibited which were suitable
for permanent exhibition by the gallery. This vote is preserved for
the information of those who in future will be charged with selecting
pictures from the Ranger collections.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 49
SCULPTURE BY EDGARDO SIMONE

An exhibition of 54 works of sculpture in plaster, bronze, and
marble, by Signor Edgardo Simone, of Italy, was shown from Feb-
ruary 8 to March 9, 1930, and included busts of S. E. Duce Benito
Mussolini, the Rt. Hon. Sir Esme Howard, Justice Oliver Wendell
Holmes, Gen. John J. Pershing, the Hon. George W. Wickersham,
and others. Cards announcing the opening of the exhibit were
issued by the gallery.

PORTRAITS BY EDWIN B. CHILD

An exhibition of 36 portraits in oil, by Edwin B. Child, of Dorset,
Vt., of celebrities in the American educational and scientific worlds,
was shown from February 15 to April 7, 1930. Cards announcing
the exhibit were issued by the gallery.

PAINTINGS, SCULPTURES, ETC., BY CONTEMPORARY HUNGARIAN ARTISTS

An exhibition of paintings in oil, water-color, and pastel; sculpture
in wood, bronze, and marble; etchings; and works of applied arts
including metal work, etc., goldsmith’s work, church plate, and tex-
tiles, by contemporary Hungarian artists, assembled by the Hun-
garian National Council of Fine Art, was shown under the patronage
of Count Liszlé Széchenyi, minister from Hungary, and under the
auspices of the American Federation of Arts and the American-Hun-
garian Foundation from April 23 to May 31, 1930. The exhibition
was opened with a private view on April 23, invitations being issued
by the regents and secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. An
illustrated catalogue of 25 pages was furnished by the federation.

PAINTINGS BY AMEKICAN NEGRO ARTISTS

An exhibition of paintings by American Negro artists, assembled
under the auspices of the Harmon Foundation of New York and
shown under the patronage of the committee on race relations of the
Washington Federation of Churches, was held in the foyer of the
Museum from May 30 to June 8, 1930. Cards announcing the open-
ing of the exhibit were issued by the National Museum, the gallery
being charged with the task of addressing and mailing the cards,
installing the exhibit, and with the unpacking, packing, and shipping.

ART WORKS RECEIVED DURING THE YEAR

Accessions of art works by the Smithsonian Institution, subject
to transfer to the National Gallery on approval of the advisory com-
mittee of the National Gallery of Art Commission, are as follows:
50 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

An oil painting, In the Studio, by A. Tamburini, Florence,
received from Mme. Annita Gaburri, to be labeled “ Presented
in memory of Mrs. Ada Byron Gaburri by her granddaughter, Soldi
Matier Wilcox.” (Deposit.)

A beautiful example of enamel work in the form of a watch by
Moulinié & Legandory, Geneva, Switzerland; bequeathed to the
Institution by Miss Charlotte Arnold H. Bryson, late of Wilming-
ton, Delaware. (Deposit.)

Original plaster models of busts of prominent American person-
ages made by Moses Wainer Dykaar during the last decade as
follows; presented by the sculptor with the understanding that
they be available to him when needed. It is also understood that the
Institution shall not make copies of these without Mr. Dykaar’s
permission :

Dr. Charles D. Walcott. Alexander Graham Bell.
Hon. Robert L. Owen. Hudson Maxim.

Hon. Thomas R. Marshall. Justice Wendell P. Stafford.
Hon. Champ Clark. Adm. George Collier Remey.
Samuel Gompers. William Henry Holmes.
Hon. Nicholas Longworth. Hon. Charles Curtis.

Mrs. Nicholas Longworth. Calvin Coolidge.

Gen. George Owen Squier. Mrs. Calvin Coolidge.
Edwin Markham. Hon. Carter Glass.

LOANS ACCEPTED BY THE GALLERY

A painting by an old master, attributed to Bartolommeo Schidone
(1560-1616) representing the Madonna and Child; lent by Mme.
Bronislava De Brissac Hulitar, of New York City, through Hon.
Carroll L. Beedy, M. C.

A Madonna, by Giovanni Battista Salvi (1605), the property of
Mrs. Charles J. Fox of Tientsin, China; lent through Miss Genevieve
B. Wimsatt, of Washington, D. C.

The Italian masterpiece, the Immaculate Conception with the
Mirror, by Murillo; withdrawn by the owner on June 24, 1929; was
again lent by Mr. DeWitt V. Hutchings of Riverside, Calif., March
22, 1930.

Minerva, an original oil painting of the sixteenth century—relic
of the Spanish Conquest of Central American as described by the
owner; lent by Miss May Warner, Washington, D. C.

Four portraits: Admiral Holdup Stevens, 2d, by Robert Hinckley,
Mrs. Thomas Holdup Stevens, 2d, by an artist unknown, Mrs. John
Bliss (sister of Mrs. Stevens) by an artist unknown, and Hon. Eben
Sage of Middletown, Conn., by Chester Harding; lent by Mrs.
Frederick C. Hicks, Washington, D. C.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 51

Bust in bronze by Joseph Anthony Atchison, of Dr. John Wesley
Hill, chancellor of Lincoln Memorial University, Cumberland
Gap, Tenn.; lent by Joseph Anthony Atchison, Washington, D. C.

Five paintings : Head of Christ attributed to Giorgione, Holy Fam-
ily and St. John by M. Albertinelli, Baptism of Christ by G. B.
Tiepolo, the Doctor’s Visit by Jan Steen, and Italian Landscape by
Richard Wilson; lent by Mrs. Marshall Langhorne, Washington,
D. C., June 16, 1930.

Portrait bust in marble by Moses Wainer Dykaar of Hon. Nich-
olas Longworth, Speaker of the House of Representatives; lent by
the sculptor.

A water-color painting of dogwood blossoms by Elizabeth Muhl-
hofer, of Washington, D. C.; lent by the artist.

DISTRIBUTIONS

Three paintings: Madonna and Child by Alonzo Cano, Madonna
by Carlo Dulci, and Saint with Book by Giuseppe Ribera (Spag-
noletto) ; withdrawn by the owners, Mr. and Mrs. Maxim Karolik,
of Washington, D. C.

The Old Mill, a painting attributed to Hobbema, lent by Mrs.
Mary F. C. Goldsborough; withdrawn by the executor of Mrs.
Goldsborough’s estate, Edmund K. Goldsborough, Washington, D. C.

Bust in bronze of Hon. Wade H. Cooper by Joseph Anthony Atch-
ison, lent by the sculptor; withdrawn by Mr. Atchison.

The portrait by Gambardella of Mrs. Charles Eames, lent yearly
by Mrs. Alistair Gordon Cumming was withdrawn for the winter by
Mrs. Cumming.

Four paintings: Baptism of Christ by G. B. Tiepolo, Christ in
the Temple by G. B. Tiepolo, Head of Christ attributed to Giorgi-
oni, and Portrait of Henry, Prince of Wales (or Prince Charlie) by
C. Janssens van Ceulen; withdrawn by Mrs. Marshall Langhorne in
the autumn of 1929.

LOANS RETURNED TO THE GALLERY

The painting by Alexander Wyant entitled The Flume, Opales-
cent River, Adirondacks, one of two from the William T. Evans col-
lection lent to the White House on request of Mrs. Herbert Hoover
in May, 1929, has been returned to its former place in the gallery.

THE HENRY WARD RANGER FUND PURCHASES

The paintings purchased during the year by the Council of the
National Academy of Design from the fund provided by the Henry
Ward Ranger bequest, which are under certain conditions prospec-
52 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

tive additions to the National Gallery collections, are as follows,
including the names of the Institutions to which they have been
assigned :

Title Artist Date of purchase Assignment

77. Near Monterey-_---- Arthur Hill Gilbert, | December, 1929_| Springville High School Art As-

A. N. A. (elect). sociation, Springville, Utah.

78. Margery and Little | Edmund C. Tarbell, |_---- (6 (a ease nee | The Grand Rapids Public Library,
Edmund. N. A. Grand Rapids, Mich.

79. Gold Mining, Crip- | Ernest Lawson, N. A---| April, 1930__-__- Charleston Public Library Board

ple Creek. (Charleston, West Virginia, Art

Association).

80. Big Starbuck ----_-_-| Roy Mason, A. N. A. |----- dots th Reading Public Museum and Art

(elect). Gallery, Reading, Pa.

The paintings purchased during former years and unassigned at
the close of the last fiscal year (1929) have been subsequently
assigned as follows:

68. Mile. Maria Safanoff, by Irving R. Wiles, N. A.; to Mount Holyoke
College, South Hadley, Mass.

71. The Harvest Moon. by Charles Melville Dewey, N. A.; to the Fine Arts
Society of San Diego, San Diego, Calif.

76. Fishing Fleet, by Malcolm Humphreys; to Davenport Municipal Art
Gallery, Davenport, Iowa.

COPYING PAINTINGS

While the gallery has no facilities for the accommodation for
artists desiring to copy works of art in its collections, permission is
given in special cases. During the present fiscal year two artists,
both of Washington, D. C., were permitted to copy portraits in the
Harriet Lane Johnston collection: Mrs. Charles H. L. Johnston
(Birdie Abbott Johnston) copied the portrait of Lady Hammond
by Sir Joshua Reynolds, and Miss Angelica Frances Small copied
the portrait of Miss Kirkpatrick by George Romney.

LIBRARY

The gallery library continued to increase by gift, purchase, and
subscription in volumes, pamphlets, periodicals, etc., Mr. J. Town-
send Russell, jr., being the principal benefactor of the year.

PUBLICATIONS

Hoimes, W. H. Report on the National Gallery of Art for the year ending
June 380, 1929. Appendix 2, report of the secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution for the year ending June 30, 1929, pp. 1-9.

Lopecr, J. . Report on the Freer Gallery of Art for the year ending June
30, 1929. Appendix 3, report of the secretary of the Smithsonian Institution
for the year ending June 30, 1929, pp. 10-16,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 53

Catalogue of an exhibition of paintings by contemporary American artists
purchased by the Council of the National Academy of Design from the Henry
Ward Ranger fund in accordance with the provision of the Ranger bequest
dated January 21, 1914. On view in the National Gallery, Natural History
Building, United States National Museum, December 10, 1929, to January
31, 1980. United States Government Printing Oflice, Washington: 1929.

Exhibit of Sculptures by Edgardo Simone, National Gallery of Art, United

. States National Museum, February 8 to 28, 1930, inclusive. Leaflet of 3 pp.
privately printed.

Catalogue of a group of portraits in oil by Edwin B. Child on view in the
National Gallery of Art in the United States National Museum, February
15 to March 30, 1930. Leaflet of 4 pp., privately printed.

Catalogue of an Exhibition of Paintings, Sculpture, and Works of Applied
Arts by Contemporary Hungarian Artists shown under the auspices of the
American Federation of Arts and the American-Hungarian Foundation. Ex-
hibited at The National Gallery of Art, Smithsonian Institution, April 23-
May 31, 1930. Washington, D. C. (Pp. 1-25; 16 plates, privately printed.)

Catalogue of an Exhibition of Paintings by American Negro Artists at the
United States National Museum, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C.
May 30—June 8, 1930. Price 25 cents. (Pp. 1-15; 9 illustrations on 6 plates.
Washington, privately printed.)

Respectfully submitted.

W. H. Hotmes,
Director.
Dr. C. G. Axspor,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
28095—31——_5
APPENDIX 3
REPORT ON THE FREER GALLERY OF ART

Sir: I have the honor to submit the tenth annual report on the
Freer Gallery of Art for the year ending June 30, 1930:

THE COLLECTIONS
Additions to the collections by purchase are as follows:

BOOKBINDING

30.46. Egyptian, fourteenth century. Dark brown leather on pasteboard, lined
with chestnut brown leather. Decoration in blind and gold tooling.

30.47. Egyptian, fourteenth century. Dark brown leather on pasteboard, lined
with lighter brown leather. Decoration in blind and gold tooling.

BRONZE

30.26. Chinese, fifth century B. C. A ceremonial wine jar of the type yu, with
a bail handle.

30.37. Chinese, period of the Sui dynasty (A. D. 589-618). A mirror, with the
back decorated with six panels containing galloping animals in relief.
The addition of red and green color to the central medallion is unusual.

30.38. Chinese, eighth to ninth century. T‘ang period. A mirror with a seal-
loped edge. The back is decorated with floral designs in relief.

20.45. Chinese, seventh to tenth century. T‘ang period. A mirror with a fes-
tooned rim. The back is covered by a sheet of gold, decorated with
an embossed seroll design containing flowers and birds.

80.54. Chinese, eleventh century, B. C. Harly Chou period. A ceremonial ves-
sel, of the type fang i. White bronze patinated with azurite, malachite,
and cuprite. Inscriptions inside of the cover and the body of the
vessel.

JADE

Chinese, Han period (206 B. C.-A. D. 220). A group of objects from a single

burial, as follows:

80.27. A necklace made of four strands of gold wire, braided, to which are
attached four carved pendants and six cylindrical beads of white jade.

80.28-30.29. Two combs of white jade, with a formal carved ornament at the
top.

30.30. A hair ornament (?) of carved white jade, somewhat altered by burial.

30.31. A peach-shaped cup on a low foot, of greenish-white jade, with cream-
colored areas of alteration. A delicate engraved pattern is on the
outside of the cup.

30.43. A figure of a dancer, a detached ornament, carved in white jade.

54
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 55

MANUSCRIPTS

$0.1. Persian, thirteenth to fourteenth century. A ms. copy of the Shih
Namah, with leaves detached from the binding, containing 42 minia-
tures, 29.25-47, 30.2-20. (See under Painting.)

30.23— Egyptian, eighth to ninth century. Two parchment leaves from a

30.24 Koran, written in Kijic script on both sides in black and red with ad-
ditions of gold.

30.55. Egyptian, fourteenth century. Mamlik period. <A double title page from
a Koran, richly illuminated in colors and gold. Vellum.

30.56-— Egyptian, fourteenth century. Mumlik period. Four leaves from a

30.59. Koran with illuminated chapter headings and other ornaments.
Vellum.

30.60— Egyptian, eighth to ninth century. Eleven leaves from a Korfin written

30.70. in kific script in dark brown ink with dots of red and gold. One
illuminated title. Vellum.

PAINTING

30.2— Persian, thirteenth to fourteenth century. Mongol period. Nineteen

30.20. miniatures in colors and gold, illustrating episodes in the Shah Namah
(see 30.1 above).

30.21. Persian, thirteenth to fourteenth century. Mongol period. A miniature
in colors and gold on paper; an illustration in a Persian translation
of the Universal History by Muhammad Ibn Djarir al Tabari.

30.22. Indian, early seventeenth century. Mughal, School of Jahfingir. Por-
trait of a young prince. In colors and gold on paper.

30.25. Indian, seventeenth century. Rajput, Basohli School. Sri-Krishna
rises to welcome Sudaima. In full color and gold on paper.

30.36. Chinese, dated in correspondence with A. D. 968. Sung dynasty. A
painting on silk from “The caves of a thousand Buddhas” at Tun-

. huang. The deity AvalokiteSvara with two attendant divinities. In

the register below, the family of the donor is portrayed, and an

inscription records the offering.

 80.48- Persian, Fifteenth century. Timurid period. Two miniature paintings

30.49. in colors and gold on paper, illustrating episodes in the Shah Namah.
The first shows a group of warriors; the second, a prince receiving two
personages.

30.71— Egyptian, early fourteenth century. Mesopotamian school. Seven

30.77. miniatures in full color and gold, originally illustrations in a ms. book

| on Automatics.

30.78. Persian, fourteenth century. Mongol period. A miniature painting in
colors and gold on paper. An illustration of an episode in the Shah
Namah, showing a king reclining within an arched doorway, his horse
tethered outside.

PORCELAIN

29.83. Chinese, early eighteenth century. Yung Chéng period. A bowl made
; at the Ku Yiieh Hsiian studio for imperial use. The exterior is
. decorated with four landscape vignettes executed in red enamel over
glaze, with inscriptions in black. The space between the vignettes
is filled with a mille-fleur design in colored enamels, over glaze. Reign
mark, in blue enamel.
56 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

20.35. Chinese, early eighteenth century. Yung Chéng period. A small bowl
of the Ku Yiieh Hstian type, decorated with a design of black birds
and autumnal branches in over-glaze enamels. Reign mark, in blue
enamel.

POTTERY

29.82. Chinese, twelfth to thirteenth century. Sung dynasty. A bowl of Ting
ware, with extremely thin walls, decorated with a phoenix and cloud
design, stamped in the paste, under a transparent colorless glaze.

80.32. Chinese, T‘ang dynasty. (A. D. 618-907.) <A large ovoid jar, decorated
with medallions in relief. It was originally glazed in green; now
largely altered to a silvery iridescence.

30.33— Chinese, T‘ang dynasty. A long-necked bottle, with trefoil mouth, orna-

30.34. mented with medallions in relief, and accompanied by a high stand,
with cut-out openings in its sides. Both bottle and stand were glazed
in green, which has altered to a silvery iridescence.

SCULPTURE, BRONZE

29.84. South Indian, late eleventh or early twelfth century. Cola period. A
processional image of Parvati or of a deified queen. Black patina.

SILVER

30.40. Chinese, T‘ang dynasty. A ladle, with a long curved handle and lobed
bowl. A delicate floral ornament is engraved on the outside of the
bowl and on the handle.

30.42. Chinese, T‘ang dynasty. A small covered cup, the outside ornamented
with a delicate engraved floral design, against a stippled ground.

80.50. Chinese, T‘ang dynasty. A box in the form of a clamshell, hinged.
The outside is engraved with a bird and flower scroll design, against
a stippled ground. The larger areas of the design show traces of
gilt.

30.51. Chinese, T‘ang dynasty. A cup with a curved, foliated handle. The
outside is covered with a delicate engraved design of birds and animals
in a grape-vine scroll. The larger areas are gilded. The ground is
filled with stippling.

30.52— Chinese, T‘ang dynasty. Two small round boxes with fitted covers. The

30.53. outsides of both are decorated with delicate engraved designs of bird
and flower scrolls, of different patterns, on a stippled ground. The
larger areas are gilded.

SILVER-GILT

30.39. Chinese, eighth-ninth century. T‘ang dynasty. A melon-shaped box with
eight lobes, covered with a grape-vine design, carved in slight relief and
gilded. The finial is a toad-like figure, in high relief.

30.41. Chinese, ninth century. T‘ang dynasty. An oblong lobed cup on a high
lotus-leaf base. Both inner and outer surfaces are covered with deli-
eate engraved designs, and in the center of the bowl is a rosette, in
repoussé relief.

30.44. Chinese, ninth century. T‘ang dynasty. A circlet for a head of a Bud-
dhist divinity, decorated with figures of apsarases with musical instru-
ments, among foliated scrolls, in repoussé relief. The ground is filled
with fine stippling.
 ——_—_——— a

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 57

Curatorial work within the collection has as usual included the
documentary study of inscriptions on the new purchases from the
Far East, as well as those upon objects already in the collection.
Many objects and reproductions of objects have been submitted by
other institutions and by private owners for expert opinion or for
translation of inscriptions in Chinese, Japanese, or Tibetan. The
total number of such reports made by the curator embraces 834
objects and 185 photographs of objects.

During the winter a large group of paintings in the Near Eastern
section, which was purchased en bloc in 1907 from its then owner,
Col. H. B. Hanna, and which comprised a miscellany of Mughal,
Rajput, and Persian paintings, has undergone complete revision and
reclassification. In this work the curator has had the expert assist-
ance of Dr. A. K. Coomaraswamy, of the Museum of Fine Arts,
Boston. The entire collection of Near Eastern painting and manu-
script leaves is now in process of being remounted and stored in
boxes of an improved type made in the Freer Gallery shop for this
purpose. The collection of Chinese bronzes, also, has been given
a new and improved type of storage so arranged as to be most easily
accessible to the student.

The care and preservation of objects in the collection has this
year included work that can be itemized as follows:

(1) Remounted:
2 Chinese panel paintings.
1 Chinese scroll painting.
3 Japanese panel paintings.
2 Japanese screen paintings.
(2) Restored and rebacked.
2 Chinese velvet wall hangings.
(3) Repaired:
11 pages of Egyptian calligraphy on parchment.
7 Persian paintings.
Changes in exhibition have involved a total of 243 objects as
follows:
49 Whistler etchings.
45 Whistler lithographs and lithotints.
46 Whistler water-color paintings.
13 Whistler pastel drawings.
Chinese bronze vesssels.
Chinese bronze mirrors.
Chinese bronze and gold mirror.
Chinese bronze sword.
Chinese jades.
pieces of Chinese silver.
2 pieces of Chinese silver-gilt.

ware bd bd &
58 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

3 Chinese paintings.
Chinese porcelains.

pieces of Chinese pottery.
velvet wall hangings.
Egyptian bookbindings.
Indian paintings.
Japanese screens,
Japanese panels.

Persian paintings.

South Indian bronze.
piece of Syrian enameled glass.
18 pages of calligraphy.

BPrRFoMmMoarRranwiuc

On March 25, 1930, a special exhibition of “ New Accessions ”
was opened to the public, in Galleries I and II.

THE LIBRARY

During the year, there have been added to the main library 93
volumes, 87 unbound periodicals, and 229 pamphlets. Twenty-nine
volumes were sent to the bindery. A list of the new accessions to
the library accompanies this report as Appendix A (not printed).

The library is in process of being catalogued under the direction
of the librarian of the Smithsonian Institution, Mr. W. L. Corbin.
This work was begun in November, 1929, and is not yet completed.

REPRODUCTIONS AND PAMPHLETS

Four hundred and five new negatives of objects have been made.
Of these, 182 were made for registration photographs and 223 for
special orders. The total number of reproductions available either
as carbon photographs or as negatives from which prints can be
made upon request is now 38,094.

Kighty-two lantern slides have also been added to the collection,
making a total of 911 available for study and for sale.

The total number of sales of reproductions, at cost price, is as fol-
lows: Photographs, 1,600; post cards, 16,683; lantern slides, 79;
hegatives, 2. Eighty-three lantern slides have been loaned for
lecture purposes.

Of booklets issued by the gallery, the following number were sold
at cost price:

BEG: Ace pamphlets ates teeth era a pe Sle Re eas Rs ee 150
SyHopsis ‘of History pamphlets ue sivessic Az oieaeaeee Series ies ee oe] 116
List of American paintings. 20% pe ouch As ae Bi eae ee 53
Annotated Outlines ‘of ‘Studys_ 220) 22) 308 SYiNer UA ee ee oe a ae 22
Gallery s3DOOKS 2s eal ae a ae ea ae 259

Moor plans=.— 2. ee Sg Ree Ee Dey eee eee 11
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 59
BUILDING

The work of repairing the building has included this year the
repainting of the corridors on the lower floor, and of Galleries LII
and IV. The shop has been constantly occupied with the building of
equipment of various sorts, including new cases for bronze storage,
other exhibition cases and easels, and, interesting for its novelty, a
motor-driven machine for the unrolling of Chinese scrolls before a
moving-picture camera. The report of the superintendent, which
gives a detailed account of shop work, accompanies this report as
Appendix C (not printed).

ATTENDANCE

The gallery has been open every day, from 9 until 4.30 o’clock,
with the exception of Mondays, Christmas Day, and New Year’s
Day.

The total attendance for the year was 120,651; the total attendance
for week days, 80,624; the total Sunday attendance, 40,027. The
average Sunday attendance is more than twice as great as that of
week days; 769 being the average Sunday attendance, and 310 the
average for week days. The two peaks of the year were reached in
August and April, with totals of 17,800 and 17,541, respectively;
the lowest attendance was that of January, with a total of 5,561.

The total number of visitors to the offices was 1,849. Of these,
156 came for general information; 172 to call upon upon members
of the staff; 308 to see objects in storage; 116 to submit objects for
examination; 16 to study the building and installation methods; 128
to study in the library; 95 to see the reproductions of the Washington
Manuscripts; 15 to make photographs and sketches, and 3 to make
tracings; while 212 came to purchase photographs.

Sixteen groups, ranging from 1 to 30 persons, were given docent
service in the exhibition galleries, and 10 classes in groups ranging
from 3 to 8 persons were given instruction in the study room.

Two lectures by eminent authorities in their respective fields were
given during the winter in the auditorium at the Freer Gallery.
These were as follows:

January 6, 1930: Sir Aurel Stein on “ The Caves of the Thousand
Buddhas ”; illustrated.

February 20, 1930: Dr. A. K. Coomaraswamy on “ Indian Sculp-
ture: Intention and Development ”; illustrated.

On May 7, at 5 o’clock, in compliment to the Library of Congress,
the auditorium was opened to the society of “The Friends of Music
in the Library of Congress,” for a concert of music written for
harpischord, piano, viola d’amore, and viola.
60 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930
FIELD WORK

In spite of greatly disturbed conditions now and long since pre-
vailing in China, Mr. Bishop was able, last spring, to make investi-
gations of considerable interest at the site of the Liang dynasty
(A. D. 502-556) tombs, not far from Nanking. The detailed report
on these excavations has not yet been received; but, meanwhile,
copies of Mr. Bishop’s letters from the field are submitted herewith
as Appendix B (not printed).

In June, after a profitable winter at the Imperial University,
Kyoto, Mr. Wenley joined Mr. Bishop in China. He has been re-
called for work at the gallery where he is due to arrive next
December.

Mr. Acker has been making excellent progress in his Chinese
studies at the University of Leiden, and has also found opportunity
to see some of the important Chinese collections in Paris, Berlin,
and Stockholm. He will pass one more school year under Professor
Duyvendak at Leiden.

PERSONNEL

Miss Christabel E. Hill, stenographer to the field staff, resigned
from her position August 23, 1929.

Mr. Carl W. Bishop, associate curator, left for field work in China
on November 16. He was married to Miss Daisy Furscott in Berke-
ley, Calif., on November 30.

Miss Eleanor Thompson took up her position as office assistant
on November 15, 1929.

Dr. Ananda K. Coomaraswamy spent July 12, February 19 and
20, in reclassifying Persian and Indian paintings and drawings.

Mr. Y. Kinoshita worked at the gallery from February 1 to June
26, on the preservation of oriental paintings.

Mrs. R. W. Edwards, who has been associated with the Freer
Gallery since February, 1924, resigned from her position on May 22,
1930, because of removal from the city.

Mrs. R. W. Helsley, who was at the Freer Gallery between No-
vember, 1920, and March, 1922, returned to it on May 5, 1930, by
transference from the administration office, National Museum.

Dr. Chi Li, ethnologist, who has been associated with the field
staff in China for several years, resigned his position on June 30,
1930, to take up other scientific work in Peiping.

Respectfully submitted.

J. E. Loner,
Curator, Freer Gallery of Art.
Dr. C. G. Azszgor,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 4
REPORT ON THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the field
researches, office work, and other operations of the Bureau of Ameri-
ean Ethnology during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1930, conducted
in accordance with the act of Congress approved February 20, 1929.
The act referred to contains the following item:

American ethnology: For continuing ethnological researches among the
American Indians and the natives of Hawaii, the excavation and preservation
of archeologic remains under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution,
including necessary employees, the preparation of manuscripts, drawings, and
illustrations, the purchase of books and periodicals, and traveling expenses,
$68,800.

Mr. M. W. Stirling, chief, in the month of August, 1929, visited
Gallup, N. Mex., from whence he went to the Long H Ranch, Ariz.,
in order to view the archeological excavations being conducted there
by Dr. F. H. H. Roberts, jr., of the bureau staff. From the Long
H Ranch he proceeded to Pecos, N. Mex., for the purpose of attend-
ing the Conference of Southwest Archeologists, which was held at
the site of the excavations being conducted by Dr. A. V. Kidder.

From Pecos Mr. Stirling went to Hanover, N. H., to deliver an
address before the annual meeting of the Social Science Research
Council.

On February 1 Mr. Stirling went to Key West, Fla., where,
through the courtesy of Mr. Lee Parish, he was enabled to conduct
an archeological reconnaissance of the Ten Thousand Islands in
Mr. Parish’s yacht, the Hsperanza. Upon the completion of this
reconnaissance a visit was made to Lacooche, Fla., where a small
mound was excavated. Mr. Stirling next proceeded to Tampa Bay,
where a large sand mound near Safety Harbor was excavated.

Work was continued on the preparation of manuscript descriptive
of the field work, and a number of short articles were prepared and
published in various periodicals. Frequent lectures on anthropo-
logical topics were given during the year before various scientific
and educational bodies.

Dr. John R. Swanton, ethnologist, conducted field work during
July and August, 1929, in Mississippi and Oklahoma. He collected

further ethnological material from the Mississippi Choctaw, and
61
62 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

corrected notes that were obtained the year before. In Oklahoma
Doctor Swanton visited most of the existing Square Grounds of
the Creeks, witnessed parts of several ceremonies, and obtained de-
scriptions of their ceremonial arrangement. The Choctaw material
has been incorporated in his manuscript, “Source Book for the
Social and Ceremonial Customs of the Choctaw,” which is ready for
publication. The data Doctor Swanton collected on Creek Square
Grounds will form a short paper and is ready for publication.

Doctor Swanton corrected throughout the words of his Timucua
dictionary, completing work begun last year; and in addition he be-
gan the work of translating them, with the help of the original
Timucua-Spanish religious works in which the material is preserved.
Further work was done on the map of Indian tribes, the scope of
which has been extended so as to cover Mexico, Central America,
and the West Indies; the accompanying text has also been amplified.
On June 20 Doctor Swanton left Washington to resume field work
in the State of Louisiana.

On July 1, 1929, Dr. Truman Michelson, ethnologist, went to
Shawnee, Okla., to continue his study of the Algonquin Tribes of
that State, where he obtained a fairly representative collection of
Kickapoo mythology. From these studies Doctor Michelson found
that his statement made 14 years ago that Kickapoo mythology, on
the whole, is closest to Fox mythology, still holds valid. It should
be mentioned that Kickapoo shares with certain northern Indian
tribes a number of tales which are either absent from the Fox or
their knowledge is confined to but few of them. Despite some sec-
ondary changes, Kickapoo is an archaic Algonquian language. It
may be added that their religious ideas and practices hold their own
with great vigor. Obviously, the type of social organization is quite
similar to those of the Sauk and Fox. Work among the Sauk and
Shawnee was chiefly linguistic. The new data clearly show that
Shawnee is further removed from Sauk, Fox, and Kickapoo than
supposed; yet it is abundantly clear that it is closer to them than
to any other Algonquian languages. Only a short time was given to
Cheyenne, practically nothing but linguistics being considered. The
opinion given by Doctor Michelson in the twenty-eighth annual re-
port of the bureau that Cheyenne must be considered aberrant Al-
gonquian is fully sustained. Some social customs were noted, among
them male descent. Work among the Arapaho was mainly linguistic.

A large part of the time in the office was spent in preparing for
publication a large memoir on the Fox Wapanowiweni. This is now
in an advanced stage of preparation. He also corrected the proofs
of Bulletin 95 of the bureau which was issued during the year.

On June 3, 1930, Doctor Michelson left Washington to renew his
work among the Algonquin Tribes of Oklahoma. He spent at first a -
|
i
F
|

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 63

short time on the Cheyenne. It is now possible to formulate some
of the phonetic shifts that have transformed Cheyenne from normal
Algonquian. It is also clear that some of the commonest words in
normal Algonquian are lacking. He then took up work again among
the Kickapoo and obtained an even larger body of myths and tales.
Some new facts on their social organization were likewise obtained.

Mr. John P. Harrington, ethnologist, worked during the year se-
curing the language and much of the ethnology of the San Juan
tribe of California through an aged and ill informant, Mrs. Ascen-
sién Solérsano, at Monterey, Calif. Having learned the language
which has scarcely been spoken since 1850, through the circumstance
that both her mother and father, who were fullblooded Indians,
talked it together all their lives, the mother dying at 84 years of age
and the father at 82, she retained a knowledge of an extinct language
and a dead culture, and lived long enough to enable Mr. Harrington
to record practically all that she knew, thus filling in a great blank in
California ethnology. So sick that she was scarcely able to sit up
even at the beginning of the work, Mr. Harrington continued this
work at her bedside until well into January, 1930, and no Indian
ever showed greater fortitude than this poor soul who served the
bureau up to almost her last day. The material recorded consisted
of every branch of linguistic and ethnological information and con-
tains many new and important features.

Mrs. Solorsano during all the latter part of her life was recog-
nized as a doctora. Her little home at Gilroy, Calif., was a free
hospital for down-and-outs of every nationality and creed, and here
the sick and ailing were treated with Indian and Spanish herb medi-
cines and were seen through to the last with motherly care and no
thought of recompense. Mr. Harrington obtained full accounts of
how she treated all the various diseases, and of the herbs and other
methods employed. Specimens of the herbs were obtained and
identified by the division of plants of the National Museum.

Songs were obtained on the phonograph, and accounts of cere-
monies, and description of all the foods of the Indians and how
they were cooked were obtained. Accounts of the witcheries of the
medicine men take us back to earliest times, and are mingled with the
early history of the tribe at the San Juan Mission. Many stories
and anecdotes about early Indians were recorded and throw much
light on the thought and the language of the times. Names of
plants and animals and places were studied and identified, Dr. C.
Hart Merriam generously helping in this and other sections of the
work. In spite of her age and infirmities Dona Ascensi6n’s mind
remained remarkably clear and her memory was exceptional. No
greater piece of good fortune has ever attended ethnological re-
search of a tribe that was culturally of the greatest importance,
64 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

forming an all but lost link between the cultures of northern and
southern California.

After the death of Dona Ascensién at the end of January, 1930,
Mr. Harrington spent some weeks in checking up on the information
in every way possible, copying from the archives at San Juan Mission,
working at the Bancroft Library at Berkeley, Calif., and interview-
ing many individuals, and returned to Washington in April, since
which time he has been engaged in preparing a report on the work
for publication.

Dr. F. H. H. Roberts, jr., archeologist, devoted the fiscal year to a
number of activities. July, August, and the first part of September,
1929, were spent conducting excavations at the Long H Ranch,
between St. John’s and Houck, in eastern Arizona. The work was
begun in May and continued through June of the preceding fiscal
year so that the investigations extending from July to the middle of
September were a continuation of work already under way. At the
completion of the summer’s work the remains of three different types
of houses had been uncovered. These included 18 pit houses, the
vestiges of three jacal, pole and mud structures, and a pueblo ruin
with 49 rooms, and 4 kivas or circular ceremonial rooms.

The pit houses were found to correspond in many respects with
those dug up by Doctor Roberts in the Chaco Canyon, in north-
western New Mexico, during the summer of 1927 and described in
Bulletin 92 of the Bureau of American Ethnology. The jacal houses
were found to have been quite comparable to a similar type found
in southern Colorado during the field season of 1928. The latter
were extensively described in Bulletin 96 of the bureau. The pueblo
revealed an unusually clear cut story of the growth and changes
in a communal dwelling. The building had not been erected ac-
cording to a preconceived plan but had grown by degrees through the
addition of new units. It was quite evident that such additions
had taken place at four different periods in the occupation of the
building.

Doctor Roberts returned to Washington in October. The autumn
months were devoted to reading and correcting galley and page
proofs for the report on the investigations of the 1928 field season.
This paper is called “ Early Pueblo Ruins in the Piedra District,
Southwestern Colorado,” and is Bulletin 96 of the bureau.

The winter months were devoted to working over the specimens
obtained from the summer’s excavations and preparing a report on
the investigations. This included the drawing of 31 text figures,
consisting of 70 drawings, 1 map showing the region in general
and the location of the sites, and the writing of a 600-page manu-
EEE —

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 65

script. The latter is called “The Ruins at Kiatuthlanna,” the Zuni
Indian name for the locality.

Doctor Roberts assisted Mr. Neil M. Judd of the United States
National Museum in cataloguing the collections made along the
Piedra River in southwestern Colorado in the summer of 1928.
Illustrated lectures on the archeology of the Southwest were deliv-
ered before a number of Washington organizations, and information
on the archeology of the New World was supplied in response to
many letters of inquiry.

On May 12, 1930, Doctor Roberts left Washington for Denver,
Colo., where one week was spent in studying new accessions in the
Colorado State Museum and the City Museum of Denver.

Leaving Denver, Doctor Roberts proceeded to Gallup, N. Mex.,
and from there to the Zuni Indian Reservation. One week was
devoted to an archeological reconnaissance of the Zuni area. As a
result of this a small pueblo ruin was chosen as the scene for inten-
sive investigations, and under a permit from the Department of
the Interior excavations were started. By July 1 a burial mound
containing 40 interments had been investigated and 16 rooms and
2 kivas or ceremonial chambers in the pueblo had been cleared of
their accumulated débris. In addition to much valuable information,
150 specimens, including pottery and other art facts, had been
secured.

Mr. J. N. B. Hewitt, ethnologist, was engaged in routine office
work from July 1, 1929, to May 7, 1930, and from the latter date
until the close of the fiscal year he was engaged in field service in
Canada and very briefly in New York State.

Mr. Hewitt devoted much careful research among various docu-
ments to ascertain, if possible, the symbolic significance of white
and purple wampum beads, respectively, and also when these are
mixed in definite proportions and arrangement on strings or belts;
but much reading of documents which might bear on the question
was comparatively barren of any satisfactory results. He was led
to this study because, in modern time at least, strings of wampum
function and have functioned quite prominently in the public trans-
actions of the Council of the League of the Iroquois. Wampum
strings are an essential accompaniment in the use of the ritual of
the Requickening Address of the Council of Condolence and Instal-
lation of the League.

Mr. Hewitt also transliterated an Ottawa mythic text from the
common missionary alphabet into that of the Powell phonetic system
designed for the use of collaborators of the bureau.

He also typed in native Mohawk text the chanted ritual, the

Eulogy of the Founders of the League, as intoned by the Father
66 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

Tribal Sisterhood, incorporating therein such revisional additions,
textual and grammatic, as had been found necessary by extensive
field studies. Mr. Hewitt also typed in native Onondaga text this
ritual in the form in which it is intoned by the Mother Tribal Sister-
hood; these two versions of the eulogy differ chiefly in the introduc-
tory paragraphs and also in the terms or forms of address. Mr.
Hewitt continued to represent the Bureau of American Ethnology,
Smithsonian Institution, on the United States Geographic Board,
and as a member also of its executive committee.

On the afternoon of May 7, 1930, Mr. Hewitt left Washington
on field duty, returning to the bureau July 1. During this trip
he visited the Grand River Reservation of the Six Nations of In-
dians near Brantford, Canada, the Tuscarora Reservation near Ni-
agara Falls, N. Y., and the Onondaga Reservation near Syracuse,
N. Y. Largely through his own knowledge of the several Iroquois
languages, he was able to recover the hitherto lost meanings of sev-
eral passages in the texts relating to the league. These recoveries
now make the entire structure of the League of the Iroquois clear
and consistent.

During the fiscal year Dr. Francis LaF lesche, ethnologist, read
the proof of his paper “The Osage Tribe: Rite of the Wa-xo-be,”
which will be published in the forty-fifth annual report of the
bureau. At the time of Doctor LaF lesche’s retirement, December
26, 1929, he had nearly completed an Osage dictionary upon which
he had been working for several years.

SPECIAL RESEARCHES

The music of 10 tribes of Indians has been studied during the
past year by Miss Frances Densmore, a collaborator of the bureau,
in continuance of her research on this subject. These tribes are the
Acoma, Menominee, Winnebago, Yuma, Cocopa, Mohave, Yaqui,
Makah, Clayoquot, and Quileute. The first tribe given considera-
tion was the Acoma, the work consisting in a completion of the
study of records made in Washington by Philip Sanche. These |
records were made for the chief of the Bureau of American Eth-
nology. Thirteen were transcribed as representative of the series.
An outstanding peculiarity of these songs is a gradual raising or
lowering of the pitch during a performance. In some instances
the pitch was changed a semitone, in others a tone and a half, and
one example contained a rise of a whole tone during one minute of
singing. This was regarded as a mannerism and. the song was
transcribed on the pitch maintained for the longest time.

The work on Yuman and Yaqui music consisted in the retyping of
almost all the text on these tribes, made necessary by the combining
—S=-

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 67

of individual manuscripts into a book. ‘The analysis of each song
was ‘scrutinized and several songs previously classed as “irregular
in tonality” were otherwise classified. The preparation for publi-
cation of a book on Menominee music has been practically com-
pleted. The manuscript contains 460 pages, with transcriptions of
140 songs, and a large number of illustrations. The material col-
lected at Neah Bay, Wash., and submitted in the form of 13 manu-
scripts during previous years, has been unified under chapter
headings and retyped for publication. Interesting features of these
songs are the prominence of the tetrachord and the large number of
songs with a compass of three or four tones.

In July and August, 1929, a field trip was made to the Menominee
and Winnebago in Wisconsin, the former tribe receiving the more
consideration. This was the third visit to the Menominee and work
was done at Keshena, Neopit, and Zoar. In June, 1930, another trip
was made to the Winnebago in Wisconsin, this being the fourth visit
to that tribe. Songs were recorded in the vicinity of Tomah and
also near Wisconsin Rapids. One of the singers at the former
locality was Paul Decora, whose home is in Nebraska. Fourteen
songs were recorded by this singer and found to contain the same
changes of pitch which marked the performance of the Acoma
singer. In some songs the pitch was steadily maintained, while in
others it was gradually raised or lowered a semitone during the first
rendition, the remainder of the performance being on the new pitch.

John Smoke is an industrious Winnebago farmer, who retains a
“water-spirit bundle” inherited from his ancestors and uses it in
a ceremonial manner. He allowed Miss Densmore to see this bundle,
explained its use and benefits, and recorded two of its songs which
are sung when its contents are exposed to view. A Winnebago flute
player known as Frisk Cloud recorded three melodies on a flute
made of metal pipe, and said “the love songs are words put to flute
melodies.” He is also a maker of flutes and described the measure-
ments of an instrument in terms of hand and finger widths and
hand spreads. Miss Densmore purchased the instrument on which
the melodies had been played.

Winnebago songs and another flute performance were recorded
by George Monegar, a blind man living near Wisconsin Rapids, who
is considered one of the best’ authorities on old customs. He also
related the legend of the origin of the flute.

Songs of 10 classes were recorded on this trip, with old and mod-
ern examples of one class. The recorded songs comprise those of
the water-spirit bundle, hand game, and moccasin game, love songs,
war songs, and a lullaby, and songs of the Green Corn, Friendship,
Fortynine, and Squaw dances.
68 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

At the suggestion of Senator Carl Hayden, Mr. Neil M. Judd,
curator of archeology in the United States National Museum, made
a brief reconnaissance in September, 1929, for the purpose of ascer-
taining the most practicable method of surveying, at this late date,
the prehistoric canal systems of the Gila and Salt River Valleys,
Ariz. Most of the ancient canals had been obliterated through agri-
cultural practices; others were threatened with early destruction
under the program of the Coolidge Dam project. Following his
preliminary investigation, he recommended an aerial survey as the
only feasible means whereby the former aboriginal canal systems
could be located and mapped for permanent record.

Since haste was a prime factor, in view of the extensive grading
operations within the Pima Indian Reservation, the War Depart-
ment generously came to the aid of the Smithsonian Institution by
providing an observation plane and personnel. Mr. Judd left Wash-
ington January 12, 1930, and proceeded to Phoenix, Ariz., by way
of Tucson and Sacaton. Unfavorable flying conditions served to
delay inauguration of the survey. Ground haze in the early morn-
ing and smoke in the afternoon obscured the ground except for a
2-hour period at mid-day. Lieut. Edwin Bobzien, pilot, and Sergt.
R. A. Stockwell, photographer, both from Crissy Field, the Presidio,
San Francisco, pursued their assigned tasks as rapidly as possible.
They made approximately 700 exposures, of which half were vertical
photographs taken from an altitude of 10,000 feet. These have
since been assembled into mosaic maps. As was anticipated, the
aerial survey disclosed numerous prehistoric canals not visible from
the ground. With the mosaic maps in hand these ancient canals
must now be examined individually and their locations identified
with reference to nearby section lines. This task properly should
be done during the late autumn or winter months and within the next
few years.

Without the personal interest of Senator Hayden and the cooper-
ation of the War Department, the Smithsonian Institution would
have found it impossible to undertake the aerial survey above
mentioned.

In late November, 1929, and again in early May, 1930, Mr. Judd
made brief visits to Charlottesville, Va., there to advise with Mr.
J). I. Bushnell, jr., in those investigations of nearby Indian village
sites he is pursuing in behalf of the bureau.

EDITORIAL WORK AND PUBLICATIONS

The editing of the publications of the bureau was continued
through the year by Mr. Stanley Searles, editor, assisted by Mrs.
Trances S. Nichols, editorial assistant. The status of the publica-
tions is presented in the following summary.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 69

PUBLICATIONS ISSUED

Bulletin 88. Myths and Tales of the Southeastern Indians. (Swanton). x+275
pp.

Bulletin 90. Papago Music (Densmore). xx+229 pp. 19 pls. 4 figs.

Bulletin 91. Additional Studies of the Arts, Crafts, and Customs of the Guiana
Indians (Roth). xvii+110 pp. 34 pls. 90 figs.

Bulletin 93. Pawnee Music (Densmore). xviii+129 pp. 8 pls.

Bulletin 95. Contributions to Fox Ethnology—II (Michelson). vii+183 pp.
1 fig.

List of Publications of the Bureau of American Ethnology. 50 pp.

PUBLICATIONS IN PRESS

Forty-fifth Annual Report. Accompanying papers: The Salishan Tribes of the
Western Plateaus (Teit, edited by Boas); Tattooing and Face and Body
Painting of the Thompson Indians, British Columbia (Teit, edited by Boas) ;
The Ethnobotany of the Thompson Indians of British Columbia (Steedman) ;
The Osage Tribe: Rite of the Wa-x6-be (La Flesche).

Forty-sixth Annual Report. Accompanying papers: Anthropological Survey
in Alaska (Hrdlicka); Report to the Hon. Isaac §S. Stevens, Governor of
Washington Territory, on the Indian Tribes of the Upper Missouri (Denig,
edited by Hewitt).

Bulletin 94. Tobacco among the Karuk Indians of California (Harrington).

Bulletin 96. Early Pueblo Ruins in the Piedra District, Southwestern Colo-
rado (Roberts).

DISTRIBUTION OF PUBLICATIONS
The distribution of the publications of the bureau has been con-

tinued under the charge of Miss Helen Munroe, assisted by Miss
Emma B. Powers. Publications distributed were as follows:

Pie MOMMIES Sond senminten fort oo eter oe gS et oS 3, 938
TS oa Dy, ee a a ee ne See ere ae NeY coe geee ae Ure 20, 242
Contributions to North American Ethnology________-__________________ 40
SOUTH SHUOMCHLIONS 9+ erer ae etre eee ke eee ee eee ee™ 648

fp A of See PE PORES Le ate er See ence oe Meee Pd ee Me ee Sees Late 24, 868

As compared with the fiscal year ended June 80, 1929, there was
an increase of 4,756 publications distributed, due in part to the
large number of separates from the Handbook of American Indians
sent to Camp Fire Girls. After revision, the mailing list now
stands at 1,627.

ILLUSTRATIONS

Following is a summary of work accomplished in the illustration
branch of the bureau under the supervision of Mr. DeLancey Gill,
Ulustrator :

Photographs’ retouched, lettered, and otherwise made ready for

Ln a eacecte Aes as MARS eS ll aN ie I ka ee ee aS, SOE 1, 688
Drawings prepared, including maps, charts, ete-__._.._____. 32
NE SS EEE UE ee eS 742

28095—31——-6
70 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

Printed editions of colored plates examined at Government Printing

Ci) (le oie ae coe Pee See ee Set oP. eee eee 31, 500
Correspondence, attended: to. letters) 22542 ee es ee ee 210
Photographs selected and catalogued for private publishers____________ 314

Photo-laboratory work by Dr. A. J. Olmsted, National Museum, in
cooperation with the Bureau of American Ethnology:

Ne@gativess +2222 2 2 ay ee ee A See hee Se Pe eae 84

IBrinte e234 22 2 = ee ecoee le, eee i ei ell viel ey 253

ManternciSHOes—— 224 Less 2 as Bee ee oe aes eee ee ee 23
LIBRARY

The reference library has continued under the care of Miss Ella
Leary, librarian, assisted by Mr. Thomas Blackwell.

The library consists of 29,071 volumes, about 16,527 pamphlets,
and several thousand unbound periodicals. During the year 559
books were accessioned, of which 109 were acquired by purchase
and 450 by gift and exchange; also 150 pamphlets, and 4,106 serials,
chiefly the publications of learned societies, were received and re-
corded, of which 110 were obtained by purchase, the remainder being
received through exchange. The catalogue was increased by the
addition of 3,420 cards. Volumes to the number of 210 were collated
and prepared for binding. Numerous loans were made to libraries in
Washington, and a considerable amount of reference work was done
in the usual course of the library’s service to investigators and stu-
dents, both those in the Smithsonian Institution and others. The
purchase of books and periodicals for the library has been restricted
to such as relate to the bureau’s researches,

Many volumes received by the library not pertaining to anthro-
pology were transferred to the library of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion. During the year the cataloguing has been carried on as new
accessions were acquired and good progress was made in cataloguing
ethnologic and related articles in the earlier serials. The number
of books borrowed from the Library of Congress for the use of the
staff of the bureau in prosecuting their researches was about 150.

COLLECTIONS

Accession No.

107862. Archaic black and white bowl collected by Doctor Fewkes from Far
View House, Mesa Verde, in 1921, and fragment of ancient Zufi
pottery from Canyon del Muerto, Ariz., collected by Dr. W. H.
Spinks. (2 specimens.)

107866. Blackberrying basket made by Mrs. Ascensién Solérsano, a San Juan
Indian, and collected by J. P. Harrington in 1929. (1 specimen.)

109074 Flint hammerstone presented to the bureau by J. D. Howard; cast
of an engraved bone gorget sent by HE. M. Graves; and a Chinese
basket. (8 specimens.)
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 71

Accession No.

109788. Smoking pipe or cigarette made of anis by the San Juan Indians, San
Benito County, Calif., and collected by J. P. Harrington. (1 specimen.)

110111. Cast of a “ cogged” stone from the ranch of Mrs. Newland of Hunting-
ton Beach, Los Angeles, Calif., and presented to the bureau by 8S. C.
Evans. (1 specimen.)

110118. Decorated elk-skin pouch made by Fritz Hanson, a Karuk Indian of
Somesbar, Siskiyou Co., Calif., and purchased from him by the bureau.
(1 specimen.)

110319. Archeological material collected in 1928 by Dr. F. H. H. Roberts, jr.,
from early Pueblo ruins in the Piedra District, Archuleta Co., south-
west Colorado, (477 specimens.)

PROPERTY
Office equipment was purchased to the amount of $64.78.
MISCELLANEOUS

The correspondence and other clerical work of the office has been
conducted by Miss May S. Clark, clerk to the chief, assisted by
Mr. Anthony W. Wilding, clerk. Miss Mae W. Tucker, stenog-
rapher, was engaged in completing the catalogue of phonograph
records of Indian music, copying manuscripts for Doctor Swanton
and in assisting Mr. Hewitt in his work as custodian of manuscripts
and phonograph records. Mrs. Frances 8. Nichols assisted the
editor.

During the course of the year information was furnished by mem-
bers of the staff in reply to numerous inquiries concerning the North
American Indian peoples, both past and present, and the Mexican
peoples of the prehistoric and early historic periods to the south.
Various specimens sent to the bureau were identified and data on
them furnished for their owners.

Personnel—Dr. Francis LaF lesche retired as ethnologist of the
bureau December 26, 1929.

Respectfully submitted.

M. W. Sriruine, Chief.

'Dr. C. G. Asszor,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 5
REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE

Str: I have the honor to submit the following report on the
operations of the International Exchange Service during the fiscal
year ending June 30, 1930:

For the support of the system of International Exchanges Con-
gress appropriated $51,297, an increase of $942 over the amount
granted for the preceding year. This extra amount was requested
to cover the added cost for freight due to the increase in the weight
of shipments sent abroad. The repayments from governmental and
other establishments aggregated $5,050.30, making the total resources
available for carrying on the Exchange Service during 1930,
$56,347.30.

The total number of packages received both from domestic and
foreign sources for distribution through the service was 694,665,
an increase over the previous year of 74,180, or about 12 per cent.
The weight of these packages was 708,094 pounds, a gain of 86,721
pounds, or nearly 14 per cent. ‘These increases are quite out of
the ordinary, especially when it is considered that the gain in
packages during the preceding year was one of the largest in the
history of the service.

The publications sent and received by the Exchange Service are
classified as parliamentary documents, departmental documents, and
miscellaneous scientific and literary publications. The term “ Par-
lhamentary documents,” as here used, refers to publications set aside
by law for exchange with foreign governments, and includes not
only documents printed by order of either House of Congress, but
those issued by any department, bureau, or commission of the
Government not of a confidential nature. The returns for these
publications are deposited in the Library of Congress. The term
“Departmental documents” embraces all of the publications de-
livered at the Institution from the various Government departments,
bureaus, or commissions, for distribution to correspondents abroad
from whom they desire to obtain similar publications in exchange.
The “ Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications” are re-
ceived chiefly from learned societies, universities, colleges, scientific
organizations, and museums. The number and weight of packages
coming under these different headings are as follows:

72
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 73

Packages Weight
| Sent |Received} Sent | Received
S Miueeil ie pi tO
| Pounds | Pounds
United States parliamentary documents sent abroad __...._-._- pemdejass fect 194, GMa
Publications received in return for parliamentary documents... |........-- OT eee 35, 597
United States departmental documents sent abroad--.__...-..- 106) O07 CCL 232" 185, 304 |...-..-..-
Publications received in return for departmental documents__..|-..--..--- (0) ae 25, 065
M us scientific and literary publications sent abroad...) 127,166 |.......--- yi ares oe
Miscellaneous scientific and literary pasate received from
abroad for distribution in the United States_._..........._...|---.----.- BLU v5.50 Le 109, 319
ett tive eur t byalesiveclas artists ie c2 622,916 | 71,749 | 538,113 | 169, 981
Wired botels. £12 i86 ber eet. cack cei ss 694, 665 708, 004

It will be seen from the foregoing table that 74 per cent of the
work of the office has been conducted in behalf of the United States
governmental establishments.

There were shipped abroad during the year 3,235 boxes, being an
increase of 412 (14.6 per cent) over the number for the preceding
12 months. This is the largest number of boxes forwarded abroad
through the service in one year. These boxes measured a total of
17,034 cubic feet. Seven hundred and eighty-five of the boxes con-
tained full sets of United States official documents for authorized
depositories and the remainder (2,450) were filled with departmental
and other publications for depositories of partial sets and for miscel-
laneous correspondents. ‘The number of boxes sent to each country
is given below:

Consignments of exchanges forwarded to foreign countries

Number Number
Country of boxes Country of boxes

os

71
63
72
3
53
29
9
52
33
76
28
32
13
68
2
48
8
25
27
18
197
376
390
4
3
2
1
43
7
118

74 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

In addition to the packages forwarded abroad in boxes, 67,945—
an increase over last year of 7,089—-were sent to their destinations
direct by mail. About one-third of these packages contained copies
of the daily issue of the Congressional Record, which, under treaty
stipulations and by authority of Congress, are mailed directly to
the depositories immediately upon publication. The remainder of
the packages were partly for remote places which could not be
reached through existing agencies and partly for countries for which
the accumulations were so small at the scheduled forwarding dates
that it was more economical to send them by mail than by freight.

Almost since the establishment of the Smithsonian system of ex-
changes in 1850, consignments received from abroad have, at the
request of the Institution, been addressed in care of the collector of
customs at the port of New York, consignments so addressed being
admitted duty free and without examination. Up to July 1, 1923,
an official of the United States customhouse attended to the entry
and transmission to Washington of shipments arriving at the port
of New York for the Smithsonian Institution. On that date the
coordinator of the second area assumed charge of the handling of all
shipments for the Institution, both incoming and outgoing. How-
ever, as the foreign agencies had for so many years been accustomed
to addressing boxes to the Institution in care of the Collector of
Customs, no change in that regard was made until shortly before the
close of the current fiscal year, when the various foreign exchange
bureaus were requested to address all future shipments to the Insti-
tution as follows:

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, D. C.
Care Coordinator, Second Area,
Customhouse, New York City, U. S. A.

During the year nine boxes of exchanges from Germany were de-
stroyed when the steamship Mtinchen sunk while unloading at her
pier in New York, the sinking of the vessel having been caused by an
explosion which resulted in a fire. These boxes contained publica-
tions for distribution to various addresses in the United States and
German patent specifications for the United States Patent Office,
Boston Public Library, Chicago Public Library, and St. Louis Pub-
lic Library. An effort is being made to obtain duplicate copies of
the lost publications.

As an example of the use made of the facilities of the International
Exchange Service other than in transporting packages, reference is
made to a request from Adelbert College Library, Cleveland, Ohio,
for information concerning the Bulletin of Works published by the
Station of Aquiculture and Fisheries of Castiglione, a communica-
tion regarding the matter addressed to the station itself by the
~

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 75

library not having received attention. Full information was obtained
by this office through the French Exchange Bureau, and in the
library’s letter of acknowledgment to the Institution it is stated that
“the information, which had been impossible for us to obtain, is
just what we need.”

FOREIGN DEPOSITORIES OF GOVERNMENTAL DOCUMENTS

A convention for the international exchange of official documents
and scientific and literary publications was concluded at Brussels
March 15, 1886, between the United States and certain other coun-
tries. In accordance with the terms of that convention and under
authority of resolutions of Congress setting apart a certain number
of documents for exchange with foreign governments, there now
are sent regularly to depositories abroad 62 full sets of United States
official publications and 47 partial sets, an increase of four sets dur-
ing the year. China, Assam, Bihar and Orissa, Central Provinces,
and the Punjab were added to the list of those countries receiving
partial sets, and the set sent to Lourengo Marquez was discontinued.

The depository in Austria has been changed from the Bundesamt
fiir Statistik to the Bundeskanzleramt, Herrengasse 23, Vienna I;
the one in Bolivia from the Ministerio de Colonizacién y Agricultura
to the Biblioteca del H. Congreso Nacional, La Paz; the one in
Hesse, Germany, from the Landesbibliothek, Darmstadt, to the
Universitiits-Bibliothek, Giessen; and the one in Honduras from the
Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores to the Biblioteca y Archivo
Nacionales, Tegucigalpa.

A complete list of the foreign depositories of governmental doc-
uments is given below:

DEPOSITORIES OF FULL SETS

ARGENTINA: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Buenos Aires.
Buenos Arres: Biblioteca de la Universidad Nacional de La Plata, La
Plata. (Depository of the Province of Buenos Aires.)
AUSTRALIA: Library of the Commonwealth Parliament, Canberra.
New SoutH WALES: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Parliamentary Library, Brisbane.
SoutH AustTrAriaA: Parliamentary Library, Adelaide,
TASMANIA: Parliamentary Library, Hobart.
Victorta: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.
AusTrRIA: Bundeskanzleramt, Herrengasse 23, Vienna I.
BetciuM: Bibliothéque Royale, Brussels.
Brazit: Bibliotheca Nacional, Rio de Janeiro.
CanaDA: Library of Parliament, Ottawa.
MANITOBA: Provincial Library, Winnipeg.
Ontario: Legislative Library, Toronto.
Quebec: Library of the Legislature of the Province of Quebec, Quebec.
76 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

CHILE: Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Santiago.
CHINA: Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Nanking,
CoLoMBIA: Biblioteca Nacional, Bogota.
Costa Rica: Oficina de Depdésito y Canje International de Publicaciones, San
José.
CusA: Secretaria de Hstado (Asuntos Generales y Canje Internacional),
Habana.
CZECHOSLAVAKIA: Bibliothéque de l’Assemblée Nationale, Prague.
DENMARK: Kongelige Bibliotheket, Copenhagen.
Eeyret: Bureau des Publications, Ministére des Finances, Cairo.
Hstonia: Riigiraamatukogu (State Library), Tallinn (Reval).
FRANCE: Bibliothéque Nationale, Paris.
Paris: Préfecture de la Seine.
GERMANY: Reichstauschstelle im Reichsministerium des Innern, Berlin C 2.
BADEN: Universitits-Bibliothek, Freiburg. (Depository of the State of
Baden. )
Bavaria: Bayerische Staatsbibliothek, Munich.
Prussia: Preussische Staatsbibliothek, Berlin, N. W. 7.
Saxony: Sichsische Landesbibliothek, Dresden—N. 6.
WoURTEMBERG: Landesbibliothek, Stuttgart.
GREAT BRITAIN:
ENGLAND: British Museum, London.
GuLascow: City Librarian, Mitchell Library, Glasgow.
Lonpon: London School of Economics and Political Science. (Depository
of the London County Council.)
GREECE: Shipments temporarily suspended.
Huncary: Hungarian House of Delegates, Budapest.
InpIA: Imperial Library, Calcutta.
IrtsH FREE STATE: National Library of Ireland, Dublin.
Iraty: Ministero della Pubblica Istruzione, Rome.
JAPAN: Imperial Library of Japan, Tokyo.
Latvia: Bibliothéque d’Etat, Riga.
Mexico: Biblioteca Nacional, Mexico, D. F.
NETHERLANDS: Royal Library, The Hague.
New ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.
NorkTHERN IRELAND: Ministry of Finance, Belfast.
Norway: Universitets-Bibliotek, Oslo. (Depository of the Government of
Norway.)
Preru: Biblioteca Nacional, Lima.
PoLAND: Bibliothéque du Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Warsaw.
PortuGAL: Biblioteca Nacional, Lisbon.
RuMANIA: Academia Romana, Bucharest.
Russta: Shipments temporarily suspended.
Spain: Servicio del Cambio Internacional de Publicaciones, Cuerpo Faculta-
tivo de Archiveros, Bibliotecarios y Arquedélogos, Madrid.
SWEDEN: Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm.
SWITZERLAND: Bibliothéque Centrale Fédérale, Berne.
SwWITzeERLAND: Library of the League of Nations, Geneva.
TURKEY: Ministére de l’Instruction Publique, Angora.
UNIon or SoutH Arrica: State Library, Pretoria, Transvaal.
Urvueuay: Oficina de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Montevideo.
VENEZUELA: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.
YucGostaviA: Ministére de l’Education, Belgrade.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 77

DEPOSITORIES OF PARTIAL SETS
AUSTRIA:

VIENNA: Wiener Magistrat.

Bourv1a: Biblioteca del H. Congreso Nacional, La Paz.
BRAZIL:

Minas Geraes: Directoria Geral de Estatistica em Minas, Bello Hori-

zonte, Minas Geraes.

Rio pe JANErRO: Bibliotheca da Assemblea Legislativa do Estado, Nictheroy.
British GuIANA: Government Secretary’s Office, Georgetown, Demerara.
BULGARIA: Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Sofia.

CANADA:

ALBERTA! Provincial Library, Edmonton.

British CotumsiA: Legislative Library, Victoria.

New Brunswick: Legislative Library, Fredericton.

Nova Scorta: Provincial Secretary of Nova Scotia, Halifax.

PrIncE EpwarpD Istanp: Legislative Library, Charlottetown.

SASKATCHEWAN: Government Library, Regina.

Cryton: Colonial Secretary’s Office (Record Department of the Library),
Colombo.
CHINA: National Library, Peiping.
Danzia: Stadtbibliothek, Free City of Danzig.
DoMINIcAN Repustric: Biblioteca del Senado, Santo Domingo.
Ecvapor: Biblioteca Nacional, Quito.
FINLAND: Parliamentary Library, Helsingfors.
FRANCE:
ALSACE-LORAINE: Biblioth@éque Universitaire et Régionale de Strasbourg,
Strasbourg.
GERMANY:

BREMEN: Senatskommission fiir Reichs- und Auswiirtige Angelegenheiten.

HameBure: Senatskommission fiir Reichs- und Auswiirtige Angelegenheiten.

Hesse: Universitiits-Bibliothek, Giessen.

Ltpeck: President of the Senate.

THURINGIA: Rothenberg-Bibliothek, Landesuniversitiit, Jena.

GUATAMALA: Secretaria de Relaciones Exteriores de la Republica de Guate-
mala.

Harrr: Secrétaire d’Etat des Relations Extérieures, Port au Prince.

Honpuras: Biblioteca y Archivo Nacionales, Tegucigalpa.

IcELAND: National Library, Reykjavik.

INDIA:

Assam: General and Judicial Department, Shillong.

Braar and Orissa: Revenue Department, Patna.

BompBay: Undersecretary to the Government of Bombay, General Depart-

ment, Bombay.

BurMA: Secretary to the Government of Burma, Education Department,

Rangoon.
CENTRAL Provinces: General Administration Department, Nagpur.
Mapras: Chief Secretary to the Government of Madras, Public Department,
Madras.

Pun sas: Chief Secretary to the Government of the Punjab, Lahore.

UNITED PROVINCES OF AGRA AND OupH: University of Allahabad, Allahabad.
JAMAICA: Colonial Secretary, Kingston.

LipertA: Department of State, Monrovia.
78 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

LITHUANIA: Ministére des Affaires Ntrangéres, Kaunas (Kovno).

Matta: Minister for the Treasury, Valetta.

NEWFOUNDLAND: Colonial Secretary, St. Johns.

NICARAGUA: Superintendente de Archivos Nacionales, Managua.

PANAMA: Secretaria de Relaciones Exteriores, Panama.

PARAGUAY: Seecién Canje Internacional de Publicaciones del Ministerio de
Relaciones Exteriores, Hstrella, 563, Asunci6én.

SALVADOR: Ministerio de Relaciones Hxteriores, San Salvador.

Siam: Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok.

Srraits SerrLeMENTS: Colonial Secretary, Singapore.

INTERPARLIAMENTARY EXCHANGE OF THE OFFICIAL JOURNAL

In 1909 Congress, in order to more fully carry into effect the
provisions of the exchange convention concluded at Brussels in 1886,
passed a resolution setting aside a certain number of copies of the
daily issue of the Congressional Record for exchange, through the
Smithsonian Institution, with such foreign governments as may
agree to send to the United States current copies of their parliamen-
tary record or like publication, the returns to be deposited in the
Library of Congress. Since the passage of that resolution many
countries have entered into this exchange, 102 copies of the Record
now being sent abroad, one new depository—Colonial Secretary,
Belize, British Honduras—having been added during the year.

The depositories of the Record in San José, Costa Rica; Port-au-
Prince, Haiti; and Belgrade, Yugoslavia, have been discontinued
and the following have been added: “A Federagao,” Porto Alegre,
Brazil; Ufficio degli Studi Legislativi, Rome, Italy; Library of the
Persian Parliament, Teheran, Persia. [The depository in Madrid,
Spain has been changed to Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional.

A complete list of the States taking part in this immediate ex-
change, together with the names of the establishments to whom the
Record is mailed, is given below:

DEPOSITORIES OF CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
ARGENTINA :
Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Buenos Aires.
Camara de Diputados, Oficina de Informaci6n Parlamentaria, Buenos Aires,
Buenos Aires: Biblioteca del Senado de la Provincia de Buenos Aires,
La Plata.
AUSTRALIA :
Library of the Commonwealth Parliament, Canberra.
New South Wales: Library of Parliament of New South Wales, Sydney.
Queensland: Chief Secretary’s Office, Brisbane.
Western Australia: Library of Parliament of Western Australia, Perth.
AustTRIA: Bibliothek des Nationalrates, Vienna I.
BELGIUM: Bibliothéque de la Chambre des Représentants, Brussels.
Bo.utv1A: Biblioteca del H. Congreso Nacional, La Paz.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 79

BRAZIL:
Bibliotheca do Congresso Nacional, Rio de Janeiro.
Amazonas: Archivo, Bibliotheca e Imprensa Publica, Manfos.
Bahia: Governador do Estado de Bahia, Sio0 Salvador.
Espirito Santo: Presidencia do Hstado do Espirito Santo, Victoria.
Rio Grande do Sul: “A Federacio,” Porto Alegre.
Sergipe: Director da Imprensa Official, Aracaju.
Sio Paulo: Diario Official do Hstado de Sic Paulo, Sic Paulo,
British Honpuras: Colonial Secretary, Belize.
CANADA!
Library of Parliament, Ottawa.
Clerk of the Senate, Houses of Parliament, Ottawa.
Cuina: National Library, Pei Hai, Peking.
CuRA:
Biblioteca de la Camara de Representantes, Habana.
Biblioteca del Senado, Habana.
CZECHOSLOVAKIA: Bibliothéque de l’Assemblée Nationale, Prague.
Danze: Stadtbibliothek, Danzig.
DENMARK: Rigsdagens Bureau, Copenhagen.
DoMINICAN Repusuic: Biblioteca del Senado, Santo Domingo.
Dutcu East Inpres: Volksraad yon Nederlandsch-Indié, Batavia, Java.
Eeyrt: Bureau des Publications, Ministére des Finances, Cairo.
Estonia: Riigiraamatukogu (State Library), Tallinn (Reval).
FRANCE:
Chambre des Députés, Service de l'Information Parlementaire Etrangére,
Paris.
Bibliothéque du Sénat, au Palais du Luxembourg, Paris.
GERMANY:
Deutsche Reichstags-Bibliothek, Berlin, N. W. 7.
Anhalt: Anhaltische Landesbiicherei, Dessau.
Baden: Universitits-Bibliothek, Heidelberg.
Braunschweig: Bibliothek des Braunschweigischen Staatsministeriums.
Braunschweig.
Mecklenburg-Schwerin: Staatsministerium, Schwerin.
Mecklenburg-Strelitz: Finanzdepartement des Staatsministeriums, Neu-
strelitz.
Oldenburg: Oldenburgisches Staatsministerium, Oldenburg i. O.
Prussia: Bibliothek des Abgeordnetenhauses, Prinz-Albrechtstrasse 5,
Berlin, S. W. 11.
Schaumburg-Lippe: Schaumburg-Lippische Landesregierung, Biicheburg.
GrpRALTAR: Gibraltar Garrison Library Committee, Gibraltar.
GreaT Brirarn: Library of the Foreign Office, London.
Greece: Library of Parliament, Athens.
GUATEMALA: Archivo General del Gobierno, Guatemala,
Honpvuras: Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Tegucigalpa.
Hunoary: Bibliothek des Abgeordnetenhauses, Budapest.
Inpra: Legislative Department, Simla.
ITALY:
Biblioteca della Camera dei Deputati, Rome.
Biblioteca del Senato del Regno, Rome.
Ufficio degli Studi Legislativi, Santo del Regno, Rome.
80 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

Iraq: Chamber of Deputies, Baghdad, Iraq (Mesopotamia).

Irish Free Srate: Dail Hireann, Dublin.

Latvia: Library of the Saeima, Riga.

LisertA: Department of State, Monrovia.

Mexico: Secretaria de la Camara de Diputados, Mexico, D. F.
Aguascalientes: Gobernador del Estado de Aguascalientes, Aguascalientes.
Campeche: Gobernador del Estado de Campeche, Campeche.

Chihuahua: Gobernador del Estado de Chihuahua, Chihuahua.

Chiapas: Gobernador del Estado de Chiapas, Tuxtla Gutierrez.

Coahuila: Periédico Oficial del Estado de Coahuila, Palacio de Gobierno,
Saltillo.

Colima: Gobernador del Estado de Colima, Colima.

Durango: Gobernador Constitucional del Estado de Durango, Durango.

Guanajuato: Secretaria General de Gobierno del Estado, Guanajuato.

Guerrero: Gobernador del Estado de Guerrero, Chilpancingo.

Jalisco: Biblioteca del Estado, Guadalajara.

Lower California: Gobernador del Distrito Norte, Mexicali, B. C., Mexico.

Mexico: Gaceta del Gobierno, Toluca, Mexico.

Michoacin: Secretaria General de Gobierno del Estado de Michoacan,
Morelia.

Morelos: Palacio de Gobierno, Cuernavaca.

Nayarit: Gobernador de Nayarit, Tepic.

Nuevo Leon: Biblioteca del Estado, Monterey.

Oaxaca: Periddico Oficial, Palacio de Gobierno, Oaxaca.

Puebla: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Zaragoza.

Queretaro: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Seecién de Archivo, Queretaro.

San Luis Potosi: Congreso del Estado, San Luis Potosi,

Sinaloa: Gobernador del Estado de Sinaloa, Culiacan.

Sonora: Gobernador del Estado de Sonora, Hermosillo.

Tabasco: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Seccién 8a, Ramo de Prensa,
Villahermosa.

Tamaulipas: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Victoria.

Tlaxcala: Secretaria de Gobierno del Estado, Tlaxcala.

VERA Cruz: Gobernador del Hstado de Vera Cruz, Departamento de
Gobernacion y Justicia, Jalapa. :

Yucatan: Gobernador del Estado de Yucatéin, Mérida, Yucatan.

New ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.

Norway: Storthingets Bibliothek, Oslo.

Persia: Library of the Persian Parliament, Téhéran.

Peru: Camara de Diputados, Congreso Nacional, Lima.

PoLAND: Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Warsaw.

PoRTUGAL: Biblioteca do Congresso da Republica, Lisbon.

RUMANIA:

Bibliothéque de la Chambre des Députés, Bucharest.
Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Bucharest.
SPAIN:
Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Madrid.
Barcelona: Biblioteca de la Comisi6n Permanente Provincial de Barcelona,
Barcelona.
SWITZERLAND:
Bibliothéque de l’Assemblée Fédérale Suisse, Berne.
Library of the League of Nations, Geneva.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY S81

Syria:
Minist@ére des Finances de Ja République Libanaise, Service du Matériel,

Beirut.
Governor of the State of Alaouites, Lattaquié.
TourRKEY: Turkish Grand National Assembly, Angora.
UNIon or Sour AFRICA:
Library of Parliament, Cape Town, Cape of Good Hope.
State Library, Pretoria, Transvaal.
Urucuay: Biblioteca de la Camara de Representantes, Montevideo.
VENEZUELA: Cimara de Diputados, Congreso Nacional, Carfécas.

FOREIGN EXCHANGE AGENCIES

Following is a list of bureaus or agencies abroad through which the
distribution of exchanges is effected. Most of those agencies forward
consignments to the Smithsonian Institution for distribution in the

United States.

LIST OF EXCHANGE AGENCIES

ALGERIA, via France.

ANGOLA, via Portugal.

ARGENTINA: ComisiOn Protectora de Bibliotecas Populares, Calle Cérdoba 931,
Buenos Aires.

AustTriA: Internationale Austauschstelle, Bundeskanzleramt, Herrengasse 23,
Vienna I.

AZORES, via Portugal.

Betorum: Service Belge de Echanges Internationaux, Rue des Longs-Chariots,
46, Brussels.

BorrviA: Oficina Nacional de Estadistica, La Paz.

Brazi_: Servicio de Permutacdes Internacionaes, Bibliotheca Nacional, Rio de
Janeiro.

British CoLronres: Crown Agents for the Colonies, London.

British GuIANA: Royal Agricultural and Commercial Society, Georgetown.

British Honpuras: Colonial Secretary, Belize.

ButeariA: Institutions Scientifiques de S. M. le Roi de Bulgarie, Sofia.

CANARY ISLANDS, via Spain.

Cute: Servicio de Canjes Internacionales, Biblioteca Nacional, Santiago.

CHINA: Bureau of International Exchange, Academia Sinica, 205 Avenue du
Roi Albert, Shanghai.

CotomsBiA; Oficina de Canjes Internacionales y Reparto, Biblioteca Nacional,
Bogota.

Costa Rica: Oficina de Depésito y Canje International de Publicaciones, San
José.

CzecHosLovakiA: Service Tchécoslovaque des Echanges Internationaux, Biblio-
théque de l'Assemblée Nationale, Prague 1-79.

Danzic: Amt fiir den Internationalen Schriftenaustausch der Freien Stadt
Danzig, Stadtbibliothek, Danzig.

DenMArK: Service Danois des Echanges Internationaux, Kongelige Danske
Videnskabernes Selskab, Copenhagen.

Dvutcu GutAnaA: Surinaamsche Koloniale Bibliotheek, Paramaribo.

Ecvapor: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Quito.
82 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

EKeypt: Bureau des Publications, Ministére des Finances, Cairo.

Estonia: Riigiraamatukogu (State Library), Tallinn (Reval).

FINLAND: Delegation of the Scientific Societies of Finland, Helsingfors.

France: Service Frangais des Echanges Internationaux, 110 Rue de Grenelle,
Paris.

GuRMANY: Amerika-Institut, Universitiitstrasse 8, Berlin, N. W. 7.

GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND: Messrs. Wheldon & Wesley, 2, 3, and 4 Arthur
St., New Oxford St., London W. C. 2.

GREECE: Bibliothéque Nationale, Athens.

GREENLAND, via Denmark.

GUATEMALA: Instituto Nacional de Varones, Guatemala.

Hartt: Secrétaire d’Etat des Relations EXxtérieures, Port-au-Prince.

Honpuras: Biblioteca Nacional, Tegucigalpa.

Houneary: Hungarian Libraries Board, Budapest, IV.

ICELAND, via Denmark.

Tnpra: Superintendent of Stationery, Bombay.

Iraty: R. Ufficio degli Scambi Internazionali, Ministero della Pubblica Istru-
zione, Rome.

JAMAICA: Institute of Jamaica, Kingston.

JAPAN: Imperial Library of Japan, Tokyo.

JAVA, via Netherlands.

Korea: Government General, Seoul.

Latvia: Service des Echanges Internationaux, Biblioth@que d’Eitat de Lettonie,
Riga.

LiserIA: Bureau of Exchanges, Department of State, Monrovia.

LITHUANIA: Sent by mail.

LouREN¢cO MarQueEz, via Portugal.

LUXEMBURG, via Belgium.

MADAGASCAR, via France.

MAbDETIRA, via Portugal.

MOZAMBIQUE, via Portugal.

NETHERLANDS: International Exchange Bureau of the Netherlands, Royal
Library, The Hague.

New SourH WatEs: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.

NEW ZEALAND: Dominion Museum, Wellington.

NICARAGUA: Ministrio de Relaciones Exteriores, Managua.

Norway: Service Norvégien des lichanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque de
lUniversité Royale, Oslo.

PALESTINE: Hebrew University Library, Jerusalem.

PANAMA: Sent by mail.

PARAGUAY: Seccién Canje Internacional de Publicaciones del Ministerio de
Relaciones Exteriores, Estrella 563, Asuncion.

Peru: Oficina de Reparto, Depdésito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones,
Ministerio de Fomento, Lima.

Potanp: Service Polonais des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque du Minis-
tere des Affaires Htrangéres, Warsaw.

PoRTUGAL: Seccgao de Trocas Internaciones, Biblioteca Nacional, Lisbon.

QUEENSLAND: Bureau of Exchanges of International Publications, Chief Secre-
tary’s Department, Brisbane.

RuMANIA: Bureau des Hchanges Internationaux, Institut Météorologique Cen-
tral, Bucharest.

Russta: Academy of Sciences, Leningrad.

SALvapor: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 83

S1am: Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok.

SoutH AusTRALIA: South Australian Government Exchanges Bureau, Govern-
ment Printing and Stationery Office, Adelaide.

Sparn: Servicio del Cambio Internacional de Publicaciones, Cuerpo Faculta-
tivo de Archiveros, Bibliotecarios y Arqueélogos, Madrid.

SuMATRA, via Netherlands.

SWEDEN: Kongliga Svenska Vetenskaps Akademien, Stockholm.

SwITzERLAND: Service Suisse des Echanges Internationaux, Biblioth@que Cen-
trale Fédérale, Berne.

Syria: American University of Beirut.

TASMANIA: Secretary to the Premier, Hobart. :

TrinipaAD: Royal Victoria Institute of Trinidad and Tobago, Port-of-Spain.

Tunis, via France.

TurRKEY: Robert College, Constantinople.

Union or Soura Arrica: Government Printing Works, Pretoria, Transvaal.

Urueuay: Oficina de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Montevideo.

VENEZUELA: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.

VicrorrA: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.

Yueostavia: Minist@re des Affaires Ftrangéres, Belgrade.

Mrs. Lucy C. Boehmer, who was retired in March last after hay-
ing served for 34 years in the International Exchange Service, died
July 2, 1930. She was the widow of George H. Boehmer, formerly
chief clerk of the Exchange Service.

Respectfully submitted.

C. W. SHormMakKeEr,
Chief Clerk, International Exchange Service.

Dr. Cuartes G. Apsor,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 6
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the oper-
ations of the National Zoological Park for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1930:

The regular appropriation made by Congress for the maintenance
of the park was $203,000, an increase of $7,450 over 1929. In addi-
tion an appropriation of $220,000 was provided for the construction
of a reptile house. The completion of this building has been made
possible by the addition of $28,000 to the regular 1931 appropria-
tion. The first deficiency act provided $2,000 for the construction of
a gate to close at night a new road leading into the south portion of
the park by Rock Creek.

On February 8, 1930, the Zoo suffered a severe loss in the death of
Mr. A. B. Baker, who for more than 39 years had been assistant di-
rector. To Mr. Baker’s great loyalty as well as his profound knowl-
edge of zoological park management is due to a large extent the de-
velopment of the National Zoological Park. His death takes away
not only a good friend but a most valued official. He was succeeded
by Mr. Ernest P. Walker, formerly senior biologist of the Biological
Survey, who had recently been engaged in the game and bird
reservation work conducted by that bureau.

ACCESSIONS

Gifts ——The collection this year has been greatly benefited by
gifts, some of them of rare and unusual specimens obtained on ex-
peditions.

Dr. Paul Bartsch brought home with him from South America
and the West Indies 6 iguanas, 10 South American tortoises, and
50 hermit crabs.

Mr. Fred Carnochan, of New York, returned from East Africa
with a rare white-thighed colobus, a Schwineforth chimpanzee, and
a Killimbira guenon. This last was obtained from M. de Frey-
gang of Urundi, and is the first of its kind to be exhibited in the
United States.

Mr. Stephen Haweis brought from Dominica four giant toads and
half a dozen large edible frogs of this island, locally called ‘“ moun-
tain chickens.”

84
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 85

Dr. H. C. Kellers, United States Navy, who accompanied the
astronomical expedition to the Philippines, returned with a large
shipment of snakes, lizards, birds, and small mammals.

Mr. W. M. Perrygo of the United States National Museum, on an
expedition to Haiti, secured a large collection, of which six rhinoceros
iguanas and two Haitian boas were the most interesting to the Zoo,
though some of the small snakes that he collected may prove to be
new species.

Hon. Gifford Pinchot, who cruised the Pacific on a notable expedi-
tion, brought home with him for the National Zoological Park a
specimen of the almost extinct Duncan Island tortoise, a Hood
Island tortoise, four Albemarle tortoises, and three land iguanas, all
from the Galapagos. These are very important additions and make
the collection of giant tortoises one of the finest.

Through Theodore Roosevelt, jr., Harold S. Coolidge, jr., and
Ralph Wheeler, of the Kelly-Roosevelt expedition, were presented
a trio of white-faced gibbons, father, mother, and child, all magnifi-
cent specimens; a rare Bay Bamboo rat; a sun bear; a Himalayan
bear; as well as several smaller specimens.

Mr. Foster H. Benjamin of the United States Department of Agri-
culture, who has been engaged in field work in connection with
the extermination of the fruit fly in Florida, has kept a constant
lookout for reptiles, and through him there has been obtained a
notable collection of Florida species, including many desirable
specimens.

Mr. O. Hallson, Bethel, Alaska, through the Alaska Game Com-
mission and the United States Biological Survey, sent three pairs of
the rare Emperor goose, and Mr. E. R. Kalmbach of the United States
Biological Survey secured on a western trip a aw asus of 31 assorted
birds, including 5 Caspian terns.

The United Fruit Co., through Mr. Samuel Kress of Costa Rica,
has continued its interest and presented a fine pair of Costa Rican
deer, a collared peccary, and an Imperial boa.

Through the Walter P. Chrysler fund was purchased a specimen
of the very rare saddle-bill stork of West Africa, one of the most
striking of living birds. This bird was captured by the Viennese
explorer Weidholz, and was acclimatized in Vienna and afterwards
in Nice.

DONORS

Mr. Eugene L. Abbott, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Mr. H. W. Armentrout, Washington, D. C., 6 opossums,

Dr. Paul Bartsch, National Museum, Washington, D. C., 6 iguanas, 10
tortoises, 50 hermit crabs.

Mr. Frank Bastiani, Washington, D. C., Cuban parrot.

Mr. D. F. Beale, Washington, D. C., ring-necked pheasant.

28095—31——-7
86 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

Mr. Foster H. Benjamin, Orlando, Fla., through United States Department of
Agriculture, American ‘ chameleon,” 4 gopher tortoises, 2 chicken turtles, 4
Florida box turtles, 5 soft-shell turtles, Osceola snapping turtle, 2 pine snakes,
worm lizard, indigo snake, 9 tree frogs, oak toad, 4 toads.

Mr. John L, Billman, Washington, D. C., horned lizard.

Mr. J. 8. C. Boswell, Alexandria, Va., 2 copperheads, king snake, water snake.

Mrs. Anne I. Boyd, Washington, D. C., yellow-shouldered parrot.

Messrs. L. A. Branchaud, Havre de Grace, Md., and H. ©. Oberholser, through
United States Biological Survey, whistling swan.

Mr. John 8. Burrows, Washington, D. C., white-throated capuchin.

Mrs. C. J. Caithness, Washington, D. C., grass paroquet.

Mr. F. G. Carnochan, New York City, white-thighed colobus, chimpanzee.

Mr. W. Chavous, Washington, D. C., black snake.

Mr. Charles M. Clark, Washington, D. C., canary.

Mr. Walter P. Chrysler, Detroit, Mich., saddle-bill stork, 2 viscachas, bell bird.

Mr. and Mrs. Campbell Church, jr., Seattle, Wash., 2 Sitka bears.

Mrs. D. M. Cole, Beloit, Wis., 3 flying squirrels.

Miss Jean Craighead, Chevy Chase, Md., turkey vulture.

Miss Mary Daly, Washington, D. C., gray fox.

Mr. A. H. Davis, Palmyra, Va., Cuban parrot.

Mr. Talbot Denmead, Washington, D. C., call duck.

Mrs. EH. N. Dingley, Washington, D. C., red fox.

Mr. J. H. Dobbins, Washington, D. C., 2 woodchucks.

Mrs. Mary Dowling, Washington, D. C., sparrow hawk.

Major Albert F. Drake, Ashton, Md., goat.

Mrs. Herbert Elmore, Washington, D. C., coyote.

Mr. EH. T. Hvans, through United States Department of Agriculture, soft-
shell turtle.

Miss Harriet A. Fellows, Washington, D. C., 2 painted turtles.

Franklin Park Zoo, Boston, Mass., water snake, boa.

M. de Freygang, Usambura, Urundi, Africa (through F. G. Carnochan) Kil-
limbira guenon.

Mr. A. L. Goolsbe, Washington, D. C., white-throated capuchin.

Mr. W. A. Graves, Richmond, Va., raccoon.

Mr. Walter Greene, Washington, D. C., titi monkey.

Gude Bros., Washington, D. C., 3 alligators.

Mr. O. Hallson, through Alaska Game Commission and United States Bio-
logical Survey, Bethel, Alaska, 6 Emperor geese.

Mr. Rodney Hart, Washington, D. C., flying squirrel.

Mr. R. Hartshorn, Washington, D. C., copperhead.

Mr. Stephen Haweis, Dominica, British West Indies, 4 giant toads, 7 Domini-
can frogs.

Mr. C. L. Head, Washington, D. C., 2 canaries.

Mr. Rush L. Holland, Washington, D. C., yellow-fronted parrot.

Mrs. Mary Hosick, Washington, D. C., double yellow-headed parrot.

Mr. Philip R. Hough, Hast Falls Church, Va., 4 box turtles, wood tortoise,
common snapping turtle.

Mr. A. B. Howell, Baltimore, Md., Emperor boa.

Mr. J. A. Hyslop, jr., Silver Spring, Md., 2 copperheads, fence lizard, blue
racer, black snake, 2 hog-nosed snakes.

Dr. H. H. T. Jackson, United States Biological Survey, 3 musk turtles, 10
ornate turtles.

Capt. John N. Johnson, Fort George G. Meade, Md., hog-nosed snake.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 87

Mr. BE. R. Kalmbach, United States Biological Survey, 3 California gulls, 7
riug-billed gulls, 5 caspian terns, 5 shovellers, T coots, 7 green-winged teals.

Dr. H. C. Kellers, United States Navy, 7 regal pythons, 2 Philippine water
dragons, 4 Philippine monitors, 3 Philippine macaques, common jungle fowl,
Malay Brahminy kite, 13 tangalunga and Philippine palm-civets, 12 bleeding-
heart doves, 16 green-winged doves.

Mr. M. A. Kendall, Holtville, Calif., 2 tricolor ground snakes.

Mr. Jack Knauer, Washington, D. C., 11 opossums.

Mr. E. H. Kreh, Frederick, Md., copperhead.

Mr. Samuel Kress, through the United Fruit Co., Costa Rican deer, collared
peceury, imperial boa.

Mr. C. D. Langdon, Washington, D. C., raccoon.

Mrs. F. S. Long, Washington, D. C., Cuban parrot.

Mr. John L. Magnus, Washington, D. C., ring-necked pheasant.

Mrs. McCormick-Goodbhart, Hyattsville, Md., 2 cockatiels.

Mr. E. B. McLean, Friendship, D. C., 2 black mallards, call duck.

Mr. R. F. McMahon, Washington, D. C., 2 barn owls.

Mr. Bob McPherson, Johnny Jones Carnival, murine opossum.

Mr. F. Miller, Washington, D. C., garter snake.

Mr. Walter L. Mitchell, East Falls Church, Va., black Carolina vulture.

Mr. O. J. Murie, Jackson, Wyo., through United States Biological Survey, 7
Rocky Mountain jays, long crested jay.

Mr. M. E. Musgrave, Phoenix, Ariz., through United States Biological Survey,
red racer.

Mr. Wilfred Nerlich, Washington, D. C., ferret.

Mr. E. 8. Newman, Washington, D. C., ring-necked pheasant.

Mr. Harry Norment, Washington, D. C., double yellow-headed parrot.

Dr. A. Obele, Washington, D. C., 2 alligators.

Miss Frances Owen, Chevy Chase, D. C., 2 sereech owls.

Mr. R. G. Paine, Washington, D. C., black snake.

Mrs. P. B. Parke, Chevy Chase, Md., 2 goldfinches.

Mr. W. M. Perrygo, National Museum, 6 green vine snakes, 3 Haitian boas, 2
garter snakes, 2 turtles, 6 rhinoceros iguanas, West Indian crocodile, West
Indian tree duck, bobwhite, white-winged dove, West Indian dove, ground
dove, red-shouldered hawk.

Mr. W. B. Pierce, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Hon. Gifford Pinchot, Washington, D. C., Duncan Island tortoise, Hood
Island tortoise, 3 Galapagos iguanas, 4 Albemarle tortoises.

Mr. Lincoln Potter, Washington, D. C., 2 turkey vultures.

Mr. and Mrs. 8S. H. Rathbun, Washington, D. C., yellow and blue macaw.

Mrs. Mary Roberts Rinehart, Washington, D. C., white-throated capuchin.

Mr. W. H. Rogers, Liverpool, England, 2 New Guinea brown pigeons.

Messrs. Theodore Roosevelt, jr., Harold 8. Coolidge, jr., and Ralph Wheeler
(Kelly-Roosevelt expedition), 3 white-cheeked gibbons, 2 pig-tailed monkeys, 3
rhesus monkeys, sun bear, Himalayan bear, Bay bamboo rat.

Mr. C. M. Rose, Wheeling, W. V., yellow-shouldered parrot.

Mr. Walter Deane Rose, Washington, D. C., 3 horned lizards.

Mr. H. H. Rudolph, Washington, D. C., 2 ring-necked pheasants.

San Diego Zoological Society, San Diego, Calif., 2 rat kangaroos.

Mr. Helmar C. Schmidt, Fastport, Md., American crow.

Mr. A. P. Scott, Isle of Wight Co., Va., bald eagle.

Mr, P. E. Siggers, Washington, D. C., 100 white mice.

Mr. H. H. Shamel, Washington, D. C., woodchuck, 2 muskrats.
88

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

Mr. Raymond C. Shannon, National Museum, Washington, D. C., douroucouli,

squirrel monkey, yaguarundi.

Mr. Robert Shosteck, Washington, D. C., pine skink.

Mr. P. W. Shufeldt, Belize, British Honduras, Baird’s tapir.

Mr. G. T. Smallwood, Chevy Chase, D. C., Marine turtle.

Mr. Donald Smith, Chevy Chase, Md., common snapping turtle.

Commander Kirby Smith, United States Navy, 2 green-rumped parrotlets,
Venezuelan parrot, 2 blue-winged paroquets.

Mrs. J. L. Stafford, Washington, D. C., Cuban parrot.

Mrs. M. Stallsmith, Kensington, Md., orange-fronted parrot.

Mr. F. W. Steele, Charleston, W. Va., 6 opossums.

Mr. Clifton Stone, Washington, D. C., 4 horned lizards.

Mr. W. R. Tayloe, Fredericksburg, Va., plains wolf.

Mr. Oliver Taylor, Washington, D. C., 2 alligators.

Dr. J. P. Thomas, Miami, Fla., Philippine macaque.

Misses Helen and Emily Thour, Washington, D. C., 2 alligators.

Mrs. Tolson, Washington, D. C., yellow-fronted parrot.

Mr. F. M. Uhler, through United States Biological Survey, weasel.

Mrs. Walsh, Washington, D. C., opossum.

Mrs. Martha I. Weaver, Washington, D. C., African gray parrot.

Mrs. Charles M. Weeks, Chevy Chase, Md., white-throated capuchin.

Mr. G. T. Wells, Gaithersburg, Md., barn owl.

Mrs. Wm. Werntz, Annapolis, Md., orange-crowned parrot.

Mrs. Whitehorne, Washington, D. C., cedar wax-wing.

Mr. C. EH. Whittington, United States Department of Agriculture, chicken

turtle.

Mr. Orme Wilson, Washington, D. C., capuchin.
Mrs. Works, Washington, D. C., grass parrakeet.
Mrs. George M. Wright, Washington, D. C., double yellow-headed parrot.

Births.—There were 56 mammals born and 5 birds hatched in the

Park during the year.

These include the following:

Mammals
|
Scientific name Common name Nam.
Ammotragus lervia----.--------_------- ANG OUG TYG Ia Se = SB
Axis'axis. cin se56 5 codon soo ee ee Axis deer

Dama dama

TEL) CP CYS ane pa Sl Ae capes. ad ee epenaaie eel L

Genetta dongalana neumanni-__-_-------_-_-_-----_---
Gilaucomysiv olanss o-oo Se eee
Hippopotamus am phibigs2 526s. 2e eee

Tyamaglam de. 22320 Bee et Bee ot te ee | AVA ho tee. Ee eee |

Wises catfuscata:s-+ -o- 222 2222 ose eee aoe een
Nastia narica2.- 2252532848
Odocoileus costaricensis _--
Ovis canadensis_---.-.----
Owvis europaeus...2: *=3. 2 20 ated eB
Phacochoeris sethiopleus=—--------- as eee eee ee
Posphagus grunniens. 252 Soe. 2) ees ee
ETOCVON lOtOneees: 22s cca no ss ease a ee
BIKE MIDPONG ss - 2 = a55 aaa See ee eee

INeumann’]s genet so. sts es ee
Rl ying Squirrel 22 see a ee )
Hippopotamus: 222-2 See. ee

Japanese monkey. - =. -2- one eee
Coatimund 2: 23 22-2:

Rocky Mountain sheep-
Mouflon

CON RK RE WH NE RNR WOR Robe eee
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY S9

Birds
Scientific name Common name a
Branta canadensis occidentalis...............--.--.-- White-cheeked goose............--------.- :

Pellecanus erythrorhynchos........--.--------------- | American white pelican.......--.---------

Purchases and exchanges—Among the most important purchases
during the year were a pair of maccaroni penguins, four pairs of
birds of paradise (Wilson’s, Magnificent, King, and 12-wired), a
golden headed mynah, a pair of spectacled owls, and a pair of
European eagle owls, the last two being from the estate of Spedan
Lewis, the noted English aviculturist; and an imperial parrot se-
cured in Dominica through Mr. Stephan Haweis.

A pigmy hippopotamus was bought as a mate to the one already
in the collection, and a male Molucca deer was also bought for the
same purpose. The zoo purchased a pair of sea lions to replace
those that died last year; a pair of jaguars, which have been lacking
in our collection; and a black jaguar. The last is the third of its
kind to come to the United States, and is an exceedingly rare and
beautiful specimen.

Important animals received in exchange during the year were a
pair of Molucca deer, and two pairs of axis deer, three keas, and a
rare wallaroo.

REMOVALS

The most serious loss to the collection was that of old Mom, the
female hippopotamus, who had been at the Park for 19 years, and
during that time had given birth to seven young, five of which were
raised.

Causes of death—When it has been thought that determination of
the cause of death of certain animals might be useful, the specimens
have been submitted to the Pathological Division of the Bureau of
Animal Industry for examination. The following list shows the
results of the autopsies:

MAMMALS

Carnivora: Hemorrhagic septicemia, 1; chronic pneumonia, 1.

Pinnipedia: Gastritis, 1.

Primates: Intestinal parasites, 1.

Ungulata: Gastroenteritis, 3; pneumonia, 1; internal hemorrhage, 1; bilateral
hemorrhagic impact of the adrenals, 1; no cause found, 1.

Rodentia: No cause found, 1.
90

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

BIRDS

Anseriformes: Enteritis, 2; no cause found, 1.

Gruiformes: No cause found, 1.
Psittaciformes: Tuberculosis, 1.

Passeriformes: Enteritis, 1; no cause found, 1.

REPTILES

Chelonia: Intestinal ulceration, 1.

ANIMALS IN THE COLLECTION JUNE 30, 1930

Mammals
Scientific name Common name ee
MARSUPIALIA
Caloprymnus campestris_...--.----------------- Rat Kangaroo... 202-3252 oo ee 2
Didelphisivirginianas— el a Aes se See Opossum S322 es | 21
Macropus robustus____---- -| Wallaroo or Euro_.__.------- 1
Macropus rufus_-_-_-_--.---- Great red kangaroo 1
Phascolomys mitchelli WiOnibabacoae neonate oe ee eee eee 1
CARNIVORA

Adinonyx fubstus: S220 FE ee Se

Arctictis binturong
Bassariscus astutus
Canis:dingowe 2-22 Wer ea a
WANISNAETANS! heey nee re eee eer een a
Wanisdatrans:- ee cesta tere eee eee

Crocuta crocuta germinans. _._..----------------
Melisicapensis|iind el= 225-2 tse ese ee er
Felis(caracalnubies -2eukoe Laie a es

els once #22 — 2 aint eee) See Oh Se ee
Felis pardalis brasiliensis____

Felis pardalis griffithii____-
GUS ASO als Vane coos ee ee ee ee mo
Nelisspardus e+. 4) 0) oe Ale ART pete Ea |
IN GMSISER WAN = Me te eens Were ee ee soe
BiGlisttigvish 272 ee Se ie eerie. eee
Mls tiers OngIpUIS ~- =. sane ee oe
Gennetta dongalana neumanni_____.__--_______-
GO MIS Crise ee Be a ot eS
Helaretos:malayanus (. £205 20 f4 Eee
IMerpestes acHneUmMON = 2 25 noon nee e ee ono e ee
Migdens ibrunnes 2! = an ee
MULrar Canadensis Vartan. oo eee eee
I pia oo GN ES 5 See ee i, ee Dee ot aie Conrad
[FPRXICATA CH == 54 sone eee RST eer eee
PV OIRNT US EON ep ARs ace Rot ne
VESINV OFA CAPERSIS s 1 25s COL ENE MEE el ee oe
NIG DMIbIS MIP Ras 4/5 ees a ee Seite
INATISPOLA TUNG Ss os ccs oa es A Syd ee and

Paradoxurus philippensis#}{) ue Soo eas
IRGtOS tHe Wills Sie be a De a
Proc yOnicancrivorus- =. o=s<oss-- seas ee
IProcyvonvlotor=#2am see a 2 ee
IPKOvelewicriste ps. 5 oe a
‘Taxideartaxuss: oe ears) Ieee eb i,
Tevrawbarpara. 2 32 so5. 25254

Thalarctos maritimus______-

Urocyon cinereoargenteus
UrsusiamenicCanusy sss ee oe

UTSHSiaDSChOMsS Sess es Se ce ce cdeccctebee:
WE SUSIEYCLOS Seo sane ee a eo bo e ee tee

RESUS Py Hee soa ee eee Sea ee
(rss Horribilis= ee oe one eee ee een

Coyote__.--£_..-... 2 ERR ere Pe
Allbinascoyotes 222 aes. Tee aa ee ae
Black-backed jackal
Ria wl eae ee eee ee
East African spotted hyena___.:-..-..-.----__-
Hasteaurican sonvaluc oe Uae sare hee
‘Abyssinian lynx: 22 25-2 oo ee ee eae
Mexican pumas <5 * oe ee

DARA eee ie ee ee ee
Black japan Sree! Ty Oe i ere
Brazilian ocelot

DOR W als ais cos Soe See oe Te eee
Bengalitiger anu on fe ereree Sols ee
Manchurian tiger=-02 a= ee ee
INSUIManN Ss POHOE Soe eee ee er
IWOLVeTING >. cafe ik ee eee

HWeyMilal MONE COSC. a) fase eee ee eee
Brow b-hyenaes $237. - Soy ha new | Sy eee
Florida otter
Bailey’s lynx
CATA Celene eee eee ne

Coatimundisilicy-brown: 22225 a ees
Costimundi® dani: Drowile olen eee nee
Coatimunditpray. ate eS eae ee en
Philippine palin-el vetqeus it 2 Oe Re | ee ENS
Kinkajow so 2 So: See ge se a eae
Crab-eating- TaccoOnl ese ee ween eee ee
Raccoon = hatliowt ee le piety th 4 meee

Mayra-2 ais acs
Polar bear____
Gray. fox.-2. 2 Rae? Sees eit» ehhh
Black Beane <2 see ee eee ee epee

‘Apache: prizzlys severe es ee
European" brown: bear2.22 2) = ae eee
Glacier bearl2: Seow kee ee eee

_

_
ee ie deel Re nd on Hern ef werd 8 el eld ol tel ie oe 8 lesen 8 Ch Ee ee en

——.-
=a |

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

Mammals—Continued
Scientific name Common name
CARNIVORA—continued
I ire ics te eemasrnneaniae tied Widder’ s) DOTS sick vennwcesceventliebWinmasans
oo ES ee FOG DORR Bil ane. cn cnenaticaneanan
ENA SS TE EE ee eee Sitkn Beer 22.3 ...5....Acsoh Ge adownn nnn
CEE EE ee pa Se eer eee
CEE es ee | i
a eee: TAREA NNT. s. -cnnscoveseserurenastlete-minee
Co OSS Se IOONON, ooo oe. eeeenperasesnner nn dna
MRIOOS DHIWR . . con oS deena Bilver-Diack- 0X... ...-<essconeeseses stent ae
IS ES eS eee BMK.> okie unmiiecawaneweldameabenkn renee
PINNIPEDIA
Callorhinus alascanus.....--..------------------ Moarsnern for seal__.....neneeees-nnsiubeeneeene
ES. eee ee Pacific harbor seal...» == nkseenasseatmar
Phoca richardii geronimensis.----....--.-------- San Geronimo harbor seal_....--..--------------
Zalophus californianus-......------------------- Galitiornia' sea Hons, een epee ee npr a eee
PRIMATES
OE a SS ie set Winnroncdall. & 2-2 oe 25 eee ost ce eee
a See Gray spider monkey -...--.----=--===2=----.----
EE SS typ ae Griszled capuchin: *-=+-=.-----=2-<=--=s- i
TS a gS White-throated capuchin._....-.-.--------------
excocepus faliginosus ; = <---..=----.--..--.----- Stety mangabey -: -=:---+<.--042ce0-ceesenonescaes
Cercopithecus albigularis_._......---.----------- Sykes” or “bias” monk@yosoo 8 ses eee
mercooithecns brassae.-=-.--=---==---- -.5-.<2_-. DeHrasza’s quenon--- .-2===2=-s2-02s-200555220
Cercopithecus callitrichus_.....-....------------ (Grenn euenon- == 2 ceesee sete ak ae ee ae
Cercopithecus diana..-..---..-.------......--... Diana monkey. .-= =.= 2.222212. ee
Cercopithecus he hae eS sere ais Grigee M00 key == eos eo ee ee
Cercopithecus I’hoesti_........------------------ Eilifribira guerion = === <2-2sheeec eee ee
ereomithecs Inbiata: <_------ ===... -_--_-- RRIANLO PHONON: steep eee
Seroomignecus mong. ------..--<=-.-2 2-22 = Wore monkey. +o2-2-.2 222. ee
Cercopithecus pygerythra_--.-..-------.-------- WAR Spb se eee eeee eect et ree ee eee
Cercopithica petaurista - -...----..---------..-.- Lesser white-nosed guenon
PCa WeRler Oss =~ +t tesco White-thighed colobus__-.--..-.------.-----
oe SN ee et fi. SS a
Ce a ee ee Ree eee ee eeeeea eee Ean
Hylobates leucogenys--..-...-------------------- White-cheeked gibbon-_-__-----
SS Sele hee ESSE Eee Ee Se Black lemurs. 2-2-+ cee
eerie PerOns = ot Red-fronted lemur_-..---------
Macaca andamanensis Burmese macaque---..--------
Macaca fuscata---_...-..---- Japanese monkey- -------------
eee Crab-eating macaque-.---------
Macaca mordar.---.....----- TAVEN MACAQUS = = cic eee SRS
Macaca nemestrina_--_------ iPpig-talled monkeys = 2-- swe wee
Macaca rhesus-_.-........---- Bengal or rhesus monkey. - ---------------------
Macaca speciosus__._..----- Red-1ae0d Monkey sss eee ewe I
Macaca syrichta_--- PHAippine monkey «==... CO eS
Magus maurus-_.-- REOGr MORKOY 2~ sso ee wee
aE a Olina panties easter ssu es
EEO NIIONISUNNS 855 98 8 rh ee Anubis or yellow baboon_....-------------------
MRE ONE 5 8 > ser os OSE ee Pamadr yas babootiew is sc ose SUR
IE eee eee MP eee a da tatate
Tt eal a ae ESS See Olive baboor.-—=.3. 433A See wos
SERRE eee eee eres COU 71: Ce oe eo in eee re rer ne ee
RONNIE DS, > fo 2 vs Hoe} 69s > no CUNT EDN TOCA PONY oposite. titan setters Hd TE OSS
Saimiri MONON an oe ee sc Titi monkey or squirrel monkey ----------------.
DIESE IMINO = = 2 <n eto 2S IS ED EDGY BPO! oi sce eee Se
RODENTIA
Mus > = yee teeea ees LORIN Ta (ce aaa ar A
Acanthion brachyurum - NT TOTCIIG on oon amienietadlietemarereings
Castor canadensis. -- IONICAN DOR VOR. — <5 oncom an peat nnles
Cavia porcellus_-_-......- IGRI. PUUNOR THE — oni cen onan onset aaa aed
Citellus tridecemlineatus__ TOMEIIDOU. ZODUGE. .. <2. soa a ee et eeeeees eee
Cuniculus paca virgatus-- 2) Gentral Acerican DAC. ccesensendmeenoesccenes
Cynomys ludovicianus.. OT 7 RR cy RE RS REEL SEE
Dasyprocta punctata___- SIAGEIOO ROOM 6 oo cisen oie mn pence
Dasyprocta rubrata---._- APO AGNI nnn na ee teneh ie bentends
PEnnenGts DOtAGONICS...... 2... oo wen enn nnn- Ea nat etl ee ch ai
I TT eee POET a ae Iie aaa eet
Hydrochoerus hydrochaeris_........---.-------- Pe AEG SN OD ae, SR NE vein peta aT Ae Pees
a SSS ay Sr” RIES TACIT on a cin. cies seems bahamas
Lagostomus trichodactylus._................---- fT: sabe a at) veces te aia soarcatie. set arta.)
ENR te ce es W odd olin Ol. 225 tse aoe e ccc ccc ee ests acecnccs
ates iin ae een mp (pe LT. ain eat ob eae aati ees oetes
TION eesti cinnneneeee PS Saal aR ae
ae oe ee ar a ea SSN i ae ea IER STIS RSes
Nae ecicawenann MOL! in eo a a see sederece sean

91

Num-
ber

ese porn

Nerwrn

WWWNWNWHK RK NNN WRT Re RRR ROR RR De WR Ree Oe Ie OP

Siows

ee

re NON Or ON SNH Am
92

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

1930

Mammals—Continued

Scientific name

Common name

LAGOMORPHA
Oryctolagus cuniculus-..<22--2<-+ 225-222-2202. Momesticrabbltscsseoss =i dascsase oso FARM

ARTIODACTYLA
ZEpyceros melampus suafra.-------------------- MastrAfricanimpallassc--2- 22251... eee es
Ammotragus:lervie»2<=<<<2=s=--==4: <-s<s- fe GUA a entasases oc datcdenenona cnn eS
Anoa Gepressicormis2= =< 3222222222: 222282222253 ATION sees a eee te. cola k ep bat scat ec ue eee
Antilopeicervicapra = ========2+<===-2=2-222-224 Black buck or Indian antelope---.-.------------
AIS @xi5=s22.252scccstccceesec+steceesceneeceses PAH SI EGR odes sca cs satan e sneer ee ae ces eee
IBISOTMDISO Ms seas a eae ce er eee ene ee American bison
SOG PUCICUS ae see le ee a ee eee ZAG) 0) a eat
Boselaphus tragocamelus___- INT gates
Camelus bactrianus---_-.-_-- Bactrian camel
Camelus:dromedarius: £¢.228_22. -.. toe a ee Avabign. camels 222 see ese eee ee oa es
Bubalus' bubalis.--:-==---=-=_-0 Toe ait aes Indian ‘buffalo.-=-.<s-<<.---2eet eae
Capra*hircus:<2-s422 2+ #e2 2 222-222 Se Gonthies Re eee ee ee ree ie
Oapranvexs = 552 2 es Ae 2a eS ee ee ee Alpine i bex. 20s G0 Seaton
Cenvus canadensis’: tao ens 2 eae American elk or wapiti_-. 2fsemes__- es
Cernvusiduvacelits 522s ee ea Bearasingha) deer. Si a ee
@GrViISiGlaunuss— son oe ee see ee ae ee eek TRACTO 0 21) eileen ul i it oye ca gary omer enip ere re a hse
WONVUIS DANG ee eee ee IGASTUIIT COOR scan = ee cen ne ee eee
Cenvis-xanthopyeus.-- =. ---sste a ee FR EMTONdiGeer: oocen nec een a ae
@onnochsetes| taurinus--- 2 epee ee IBrInGled en nn ee ee eee
Connochaetes taurinus albojubatus______-_-____- WVinite-bearded pnut 2.) ose anes ee eee
Feira ys (Fs 7a Ysa ca i ee yeaae ODI eyes toe Fallow deer (white)
MSM ee See re ee ac yn eee Mallow Ger 2. kee ee
FFemitvagusemlahienss. oon ne eee INE OR saieteng hal tamales mpi ba kadai ner Nom) chica wn
ERVOIADOTSHDOLCINUS cee a a ene! HE oY 0 (272) ieee a a eye Saga Pr Oe brant eae oiey FY
amIgelaM as ee oe enh cep pee Vachs i teil Ae ep ah Uy ld a aencomrire Need: Revise +:
J DENTEEYDS He ABET EES CT Fe a ne NE GAMA CO ee ty oe an nace eee
Odocoileus:costaricensis.-__.-.--- 2 sete WOStAERICAN COGr oer seo eens eters ae eee
@docoileus;shemionus..... = = eee IViTIp deer ee a eee eee ey
Odocoileus sitkensis___..-- - ose se hoses athens Sitka (black-tail/d@er. 20 = 3-- cs settee ee
Odocolleus virginianus._. 292202. ao. Saket ee Minginigd eens. oo. 6 een. Lee et ee ee
@Oreamnos americanus 422) oT Mouritainigoat eo eiet teen ant cee eee eae
Ovibosmoschatus wardi_ 2 Greenland mtsk-ox. oo ee ee a eee
Oyvis Cans GensiS= 352.2 ae ate Rocky Mountain sheep
Oyvis europaeus ses = ye ee ee ee Moufion
PeCaTiATPMIAtNS ee onan Sees eae Peccary---...
Phacochoerus aethiopicus Wart hog
Poephacus prunmiens eo eee NE Eg tA Ri ied eis petite chiee e I
Potamochoernis‘africanus..._- = S222 cee ke TS EASY O47] 0} (22 > Ss SRM a Spgs bend rere eerinsicmetw.
"Synyeegh Coy cur nevaes yao REL ae a a TDS TR Zita (oye) Gea etiam ate Balin ik ota» tus eo se Nes “nee
PERL COTAVAUES LCL eee ook oe de WS UUM OSC) GCOf eo ee Sar ates age ye ee
RVUSsMolwCcensis. =. 2a 2 eal a eS INO) CO (TET 6 Ly SE i i le at leap
SilcamerepOM 2 eee ta eee ree VAD ATIOSCLC CCl aioe ot ree iceman
Strepsiceros strepsiceros.-.......-...-.-.-.--_--. Greater ud. 528 n- oe oo me ee owe aaa eee
SIISISCHO Lamas eee a a een Huropean i wild boars. ao. -can sewn ee eee aoe ees
Avncenos.caiter esses See ain aes SouthvAtricanvburlalo- ~~ oe ee
Pravelaphus/Aneasl. 2 22 oo eee eo ee a Ee eee ore toe oe OS
sTragelaphus Scripts... 56 3 e-2 eee Harnessed antelopes..-=.-ae sen ee eso ee ee

PERISSODACTYLA

hoeropsisiiberiensis. <5... <2 =. ee Piomyhippopotamus-__ oos-—-eaoe =e eee
HM. GUUS EreyVi-ASINUS.a2ehes a asi = AGDIA-ASS NY DTG === a. sae soem See eee eee
HWauusierevyi-caballus-—.. 2-2 no es Aepra-Horse ny Did. anos e ne sece ee ee ee eee
SIGHTS OH RO OR Eee Ea eo es cee ee eee Kagan er OTaWwilGvASS|- = o.oo ee ose eee Tee eee
MGUUs PIzZewalskil- 2 ee a ee Mongolian:.wild: horsez-.242-s4eene cease eee ene
HMauus.quarga chapmani_.-.jc2cch pee eee te Chapman's: zebrace cota onw owe seca ee eee
EY CUUIUIS#Z EDT ae se ae ans nin An ey gt om Mountain ‘zebrassi2ss222cscoceecescoceeseeeeew
Hippopotamus amphibius: «22-222 ea, Hippopotamuss:22 So see SS ee
shapireliabairdiles:ssso2s2seecrsl ss OT Baird’s tapireee ese see FS
sapirus-terrestris-+ 232s ee ee Brazilian tapirs <.sssscceesssee cece DO

PROBOSCIDEA
Wilsplas stimatrantisests {<a a ss OR Stimatra:elephant222c 2-336 ee ee
Loxodonta africana oxyotis_......:-..----____-.- ‘African elephant -=cssscsessesseacs2 ee

EDENTATA
9-banded‘armadillo:s-cece-e25- 2 eee eee

Dasypusnovemcinetus:2-s22222c5-2 ee !

n

_

ray
NRK PHONE REDO RAOWNWNHNNWNHOWOEHNNPF ANNAN E NPN Dee Ree Pd

_ _

J

Lote heel

a)

_—

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

Birds
Scientific name Common name
RATITAE
a ee ee uetue Sclater’s CRISOWBFYc.scccceccisccss esl
Casuarius unipendiculatus.-.-.......-........-.-- Cassowary, single-wattled_...................-..
Dromiceius novae hollandiae_._.....--.--..-..-- OGMMION ONG. cece seccc sce
PIOUIOR Rc oss oe owe sec cdckdediesescs acces Common rhea or nandu-...-.-.-.-.----------.---
ON ES ee ee at ORTGn ATPLONTS OREN ION «oc ob cc unnedes
EES Ea Sa i ae eee Nubian ostrich... ago sees. ce
Struthio molybdophanes----.........-.----.---- BEER) ONION on ome ais amie mii ae ere
SPEHNISCIFORMES
Eudyptes chrysolophus- ._.......-..-..--.------- HPancaroni penguln.ccz<cass.cecsencseo Sees
PELECANIFORMES
COS OS ene irs eae Anhinga or snake bird-_.---...-.--..---.---.----
Pelecanus californicus-.-.....-....-.--..--.------ California brown pelican..-..........-.---...---
Pelecanus conspicillatus._...............-------- Mustralian pelican: .os.c<ccssccscaaascluLUleee
Pelecanus erythrorhynchos___..........--------- American white pelican......---..-..-----------
Pelecanus occidentalis_..........--.-----.------- Brown péelean .....c-sc2.05-542s ee aR
Pelecanus onocrotalus__.......--...--------.----- European white pelican_...............-..----.-
eneeents FONSUS s 25555055 555--5--5-55.555.--5582 mose-colored peligan..--25<<<. SUEUR LS
Phalacrocorax auritus floridanus-----..-....---- Piorida cormorant......2<2<2-===-25225=.8234. 322)
CICONIFORMES
able MME ei tee ses sie soak a cacn sees Leen RGsBELe SPOORDH I< =. 25=< 2505022520 e eee
Ardea go _ eS eee sats) eae Molinth herons c<2.-5-42222555 5b RL
SE ere eee a Great. blue heron....-.-.-.--5...2:-MUei See
IO DOMGONUONS 5 6555555 as nas se eel Rout ak Great white:heron...<< -s=.-0052..- SSeS
ES eee eer me See HhGe-bill storks sé ssccsanessesncsnna<- FA
Cochlearius cochlearius-_.......-........--------- Poat-billed. heron. --<s.-.002-~ 220008. 28 ES
Ephippiorhynchus senegalensis - ----...-.....--- AIR UO ROR een nin ee ete
Sn ma nen nae White ibis... ....-... ME SAOSM Ne ...- <5. exec
se ei mee See OSS 1 | a ee sean Seen omen.
Sapropeuus dubius......2....-.-025- 2221052922 Tridian adjutant.=--.-.cs-c2.1. bd
Leptoptiins javanicus...........-.-.-.20252-2.2_ Gésser adjutant .<.<--.<2.s2s5es0e.- JIL Se
Mycteria americana.._-....-.------------------- WO00 SDIS--2-ecacecneccnceccnapec secret eee
Nycticorax nycticorax naevius-----..,.--------- Black-crowned night heron._..---...-.----------
Threskiornis aethiopicus---.---.....-.-.-.------- Sacred (bis --022-2. 22 VEL LEE ee
Threskiornis melanocephalus__-.----.--.-------- Black-hoeaded ibis. ..--=--=--=.=2.--2
ANSERIFORMES

MMM MUONENS 25222 22 25cet22522265222252c22 22 2003.5 Wo0d-CUGR sno ciececcececceeen SI Ae
Alopochen aegyptiacus--.............--...------- igo Titian PO08C.nneceee see nnnece se nee nes oS
magpocmen {UUALUS..-=-.2225c025 5255522 25.5 82 Oyin0ed.€0086 = «= aeeset ants es2 25 ee
mee Diab yr iynen0s.-.=2o2<¢-22.25--<- 22522 OW dick +~--.--<t20-.-222255555-0-4 oe ee ee
Awe platyrhynehos...-----.--=:.--2.--..22225.2 Wreeras 2-2 o2 accent 82a ss Oe eS
ee ees pa ee Black or dusky mallard.-_....---.---------------
eee wermcingie 55 22 PS Pooks es Ee oe African yellow-billed duck....--.-------.-------
aber MANONS..* Sos2c-c20<--2--- 52552555520 2 White-fronted.goose...-=--=---.-2--+--=52-23 252
Anser seme ig Sache Wiese esta See Pink-footed Bo0se-~==~----=-=-2- IK
Anser cinereus domestica_......----------------- Powmlonse GO08C.-< _<2n-cine=~ou se Sse e eee
A ee yey Meet (O08 — = = 2-252 22-cencaece 2-2-1
Branta bernicla glaucogastra-----......--....--- Le py. tt ee oe ae See See eS eee cee Es
Branta canadensis canadensis--.-......-..--.--- Ganada goss: = =.= 2202-222 2 I
Branta canadensis hutchinsii_.-.-.........-...-- Fivitenine go0se.<.-~--- ==... SUS TE
Branta canadensis minima_-__.............------ BL a a Ee I Ae EE EIS IE SRS
Branta canadensis occidentalis. .-...-..-..---.-- White-cheeked goose.._..............-.........-
NI 2 ca ts a Far oa FRATTON as sti scepter aeei ei
MOM MOSONAR 632 acansao02-22222-2 2552 le oe Wiisoovy Gnek.--=:--.0.2..2~sct 2 Soe eee
Sen CARMOROR css Se 22 ee Peradine Giek— - 2. =.-22>s--tenie ce
Chaulelasmus streperus--_-.......--....-----_--- ict ES SS eS kl eS meen eI ce tS
a eee Sis GO000 2-252 2 ts See
SUED MINORS 2282222 oscccucssceel ese Hisek sen! : 222222 SIS ee ce ee
Syenopais cygncides:..---.-.-=-22-.-22 5-22. Chinese goose: 2 == -->22. 2222-221 See
La cop PiiniaeeeaY Se aaeces eee AR LS Write SWAN = 222220522282 2228i clk aE
ee eee Pee nee ae Wie 6s es ood ee Le
PE INOS 25 Soe oc2 ut nacssecoee eens mabema nintall..--22++22522222222 See
Dendrocygna arborea... -....--..-.....--.-----.- Wweat indinn tree duck: =22-222..2252+52-02202e:
Dendrocygna sutumnalis-..-..-.....-.-..--.--- Black-bellied tree duck.................-.-------
Dendrocygnsa eytoni-.-............-......-....- myton’s tree ugk. #2 222222 ceu Sea
NN IIMMION 22! poo. aecscctacuta neces AR HOAGO FOCUS = 22 see se eee) eee eesee
Reeanese-5s22-225-225225225 52 en ee ae te a ts hl Ege irk
Metopiana peposaca..-_..............----------- Fioay-bitled pocherd 622.2252 ey ee
Ni pena wieenals: =... <= sie foiht Sees ss Tiawatien 0000... -=+ 2 2-222 0 Se
Teese GOrOlniense.- + =-...---.=-.25-.->---2--_- Gresn-winged teal: 2 = > <2.22-+-2.-. 2
Reenneny S0rinoetn : 25222-52522. 25 28 so eS MR CORN oe = ee ct coef eS Os
sa USGI NCO 5 i se PD ee ee ee nee one eee ee earns
Myndes Walisineria;=<-=:=5222222.2 2255062 - Cativas beck = 2-522 sccnes 2 A

Num-
ber

th el

RROD

bot tot Oo RD

_

~
Bee mK OONWRK RK WON RK KOON NNHNON NON NNR ON Qe rr bt
94 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

Birds—Continued
Scientific name Common name oc
ANSERIFORMES—continued

Olor‘columbianus.......5..-.-5...-ssaseuhece es Wihistlinp swans. 22022. 25.2. ee 2
Philacte canapicd=— 2-225 ober ieee eee ee eee Jerperor go0se = 252 aa ere ES ee 3
Plectropterus gambensis- ---- Spur-winged goose cst 4
Querquedula querquedula Garganey -. - 22.2252 cssecas23 oo = eee 2

FALCONIFORMES
ANOS VIS INONACHUS ssa cae ne eee nee ee Cinerous Wlturel eh nae eae eee 2
IATA CHYrYSHOLOSsa250ac2- enon sc eee ot eae eee Gold'eagle. = 22 52222 -eeae ae ee eee 4
ARCO, Of: 8 Gane ens a ae ep Ee ees Reed ete iy Ta wiyiOaglercoete nce st nee Te ene neem 2
iButeo borealiss === 2282.52 Seuss ee eee eas Red-tailed hawk: = 2252.22 22-22 Shae eee Sake 3
IBuveoinedhus. = 2 aah S.A 2 bare e eee eee Hed-shoulderedthawikos-s202- ae oe e ene ee 1
Bales plat wulerUs= 2. soca eee ene ee ee Se Broad-winged hawk. =s42 S22 ets See ere 4
@uthartesatiras sss acct ees tone ee eee eS PORK YVilbUNGs: G2. a2 dee see eee ees 4
Coragyps atratus.- 223.522 52252 ieee bee eee Black. vultures. 22252 2252225 2 so eee 2
ANUS CAeruleus: 222.2225) - 5 eee eee ee Wihite kite. 282 2 oli = 2 5 eee ae te, 1
Falco peregrinus------------- Peregrine falcon_..-...-.----- 1
Falco sparverius----------- Sparrow hawk.....-...------ 3
Gymnogyps californianus California condor 3
Gypsrueppellii 2.2 22522222 2s a eee Rarppell’s vultures = 6225" 2 eg ee 2
Haliaeetus leucocephalus_____.......--..--_-..-- Bald paple. 2222220 Solo 2 ee aS eae 16
Hahsstirindus sso s acoso on. oe ee eee esa ae Malay brabminy kites so) 5-58). pete ae 1
MnlyaSiniprans’-c*. > sn. - 08 1s eens ene sees Melow-billed kites2 22 tes OSS eee 1
Otoryns aurictians= 2252.55 .es- 2 alee eee nes ‘African éared ‘yulttire 24 3 ee 3
POlVMOrIs ChernlWayas-222 2 ese eee ee ANITGUDONIS | CANACHTA =~ acs c ese coos eee eee eee 4
Pseudogyps africanus... 2-222) 2 eee Wibute-headed vulture----.---- 22.2. 2522272 ee 1
Sagittarius!serpontarius.-. 2252222222 S eee ee Seeretary: vulture.) 52262-2222 22 ans eee 1
Sarcoramphus papa..2-2-2.-222 5 522) eee eee RING WUltUre. 22 Pe oo S22 ee 2
Moreositracheliotuss 224222527 or see eae African black vulture: o=---22. 2) oe eee 1
WroaetusiauGan. 2252250520222 355. ee. eee Wiedge-tailed eagle! 2222.2 22222) ee Se 2
Wiltirerypnus.-2n2 0s 220 ole. eee ee South American’ condor=--_-~ 23s eb ae 1

GALLIFORMES
Atcryvilinmivulturinim 222.22 foo oe eee Ae ee Vulturine puinea-fow).2.°----2 =... sete ee 3
AG SUSIANUS ATRUS tol Sal Les OEE NAL ee Aros pheasant °--= 222-52. ee ey 2
Colmus virgimanusos.. so o0 0 sue eee Eres ae Beb-whiteu ao. 22 22 co ieee ee 1
Chrysolophus amherstiae_-_...._-_-.-.-----...-- Lady Amherst’s pheasant_-...---.-=-.--------.. 1
Chrysolophus pictus x amherstiae____-_.-__-.___- Hybrid pheasant! . 2 --- 2-3 oe oe ee 1
Coturmix cotlmix:s 5 22 oe Eee ae Migratory QUall- = °- = acre tae eee ee ee 4
MOTAXIPIODICEL At eee a eo eee eee eae IWiexicail CUYASSOW =. cscs ssccc eee ee eee 2
CrAxip lp bloat eee ate ea ee he eee Spix’s. wattled curassOwsesesseueeo ee --- oe eee 3
Craxgpanamansigeses ence oe ee eae ai ale SUR Panama CurassOW es 22e es aston nee seo ee 1
cxcalfactoria chinensis! 2-22 225 2s. te ees PISMUY TAI ee fe ee ee eee 3
Galltsivaritigao= <2 =o ae .--| Javan jungle fowl__.-.-_--- 1
Gennaeus edwardsi--_--__--- _.| Edwards’s pheasant 1
Gennseusimyctheamerus. 028) 8 en ee Silver pheasant. 2.02! 22--_ a eee 2
Lophortyx californica vallicola........-.----___- Malley, quail 20222 ee ee 1
MV GEM G Ue ee ee ee ea Razorbiulled CurassOw=.. oc sonsscs =. one eee 1
Numida mitrata reichenowi_..-.-...---.-.._---_ Reichenow’s helmeted guinea-fowl...._.-.-.-_-- 5
ONGOLT YAGER eo ooo soca ane Pee eee IMOntAU Gall 2 occ. ee eee eee a 1
Ortalisicinereicéps= 2.2) so ee eee Gray-headed chachalaca-_--.....-.-..------------ 2
Ortalistleucogasttas=-—-- on ea ee Chachalacas ioc 8252-2 2 ee ees 1
IPSVONCHISCBLUS = eet ae creek con eee 1 EYEE (0 (ea ae ae nese nt Ft oss 10
IRAVOICTIStG LLG sa tame a ae oe me eee ney W.Bite peafowl 2.- 5. <_ 5 2 asso enee be ere 2
Renelope DolVisarias sono toner e eee eee ge Crested 'gitan- 5-0 nooo. Sierra ieee, eee eee 2
HASIRIUS) LOLQUA DUS Ses ae ee ne ace ao eee ees Ring-necked pheasant... aos ae 4 eeee eas eee 17
GRUIFORMES

J Nv s¥e(t) 0f0) CG (Si 9 U(r Ce ae Demoiselleicrane:=-..----- + + - ee 3
alearica pavoning) =. 2-22 so -co seoe ate eee West African crowned crane----_--------------- 5
HD IESUTRI@DISCODUS-—- 2 nano ee nee enon c es eee Woolly-necked' stork. ~ > oe ea ets eee 1
RPUCATAINGrICATG (cont noe ae Dame eer erp ieee (BOY) plied i Ae toe ee A Aico ei er OPI Poort Say D1 8
Gallinula chloropus brachyptera_..------------- ATrICan MOOTNEN= cocce ne ce coe a tace ce an eee eee 2
Galliralltisaustralise. = 2222 coo a eee South Island weka rail: ===> eke eee 1
MiTUsiCATIRdenSIS (soon cane eee eee Wittle brown erane=-.s.nsssnceeeoeee oo ee 3
APTS ieUCAUCNeN.-—..-- sooo cee oe eae ee Wihite-naped crane=. 220-22) =" eee eee 1
rusilencorerantis= =o. -- 02.00 Se ae Siberian crane 1
Grtisyiitordleesen ee eee eon peewee Lilford’s crane 1
Grusimexicanan soso a ge ee Sandhill crane 2
Girusinigricoiligee n= -c- 2 econ ates ee Manchurian crane 2
Hypotaenidia philippensis Lesser rail____..__- 2
Mathewsena rubicunda-.-_--_- .| Australian crane--- 2
Microtribonyx ventralis__...- Black-tailed moorhe 1
POFPUYNOmMelInnOLUs-- -- o-oo eee New Zealand mudhen 1
IPSODHIA CrOpILanS# ane. soso ces ce Aone eae "STEIN POLOr == noe ooee ence a ene 2
‘Psophia wiriGises ease eee ones easton oh ene Green-winged trumpeter..-_..--.---.--..-------- 1
Wh ynochetos supatsecs ene n cso cee ees 1 eG ea ee wept ral he akaintebeins Jus neannees) Sree bn 2 1
PTEtrapLOryx DBLACISGH eon ene nee one eee Stanley or paradise crane. 2

a a ee | Vevey, bg

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

Birds—Continued
Scientific name Common name 5 98
CHARADRIUFORMES

ee an oe ae ee CO og ot en eee See Sere eee 2
EE SS | a ET LL ARS ELE AS Laughing gar ree ee a ae 1
REE CRDITORTNOUID soo cic ns nicwnsiniinig Seemed ewctedeyy SOU Sg ort Rae RR ee 2 aie ea sa ee eit 10
0 OS Qa RTS EE Great blac aaa Tk | Mae eRe, Se Me a eee 2
Larus novachollandiae- --.......-.-.......---.-. A e211 eae heah eA A ape le Santee cate 34
eee ert eee tent WL EE RR on ae ie i NS ae wey) Sel 6
Oedicnemus bistriatus vocifer_.............--.-. aoe American stone plover..-..-.-.-.--.-..-- 1
PINES TRUS nn ono csc naidedinic SeeE GUT So — 0 3 aoc cae nu cu ce cnn css aoempunebpeshiersrmmmae 5
Ma Se eer seenae Caspian Ly Naan a ee aie ete at 5

COLUMBIFORMES
1 A SRS SAP a Nicobar pee MONS AERC eS Ao reR Ee She a cet 5
RELL ALLE OTL SaeeT-WIDPAd UOVO.- on sccocse scape eee eens 3
SP REINR 2 sas = oon moc e cece ae eaniaeeiy PRenwlent Divot... 02.2002... 4
SMPIINNEATERIOY BIER OTILOR acs caters cated eee ib ete Bleeding-heart dove_...-._-.--.--.......-.-.._.. 4
MIRREN TRUE isnt nitnitimteantin S eels RCRD OINOON on nea ee ee ees 1
UE EN 5 cca cts ivnesnnrcrelren cleat clpiadeia int Vieroria crowned pireon 2 -- 4
PUMIGIDGDMN VIVIGINIS Soe a cn cperecinte dala eerie White-throated fruit pigeon__.-.....-.-...-.-_._ 4
BEROIOO VES GOLGYO. . .- 2 oon oo ee teen New Guinea brown pigeon_.-_..-...-.......-..- 1
RIIONTID SRTLRID o o  cm ere tate eet WEIve-WilkGd COVG_- 20 50222 So Soe ea 1
LL Sa ae et tel Se TURIETTU COV Os oot ne eee eee 1
DIIRINE PINOT UL: - — So acetates seen BETO DUE ULL O Ve sole oe cree eee 1
Streptopelia senegalensis. -.......-.------.------ East African ring-necked dove--..-...-.....-.-- 17
OO MS ll LE LESS ELE TS LRA: ROUTE TIC ns sn ene aoa 1
Matear cualcospilos. ......- 2-550 sc s-- ose Emerald-spotted ground dove....._..--.-------- 1
Zenaidura macroura carolinensis---_.......--_--- WG eth co) ACE pg AMOR AI rer tka A ey 1
Zenaidura macroura macroura--.---..---------- PM BBUCIS OVO aa 25 oo Sato ea ed 1

CUCULIFORMES

Seen MONTE no ee eee RrGEAST ROG ot Craters? Lx Ah near ee eee 1
Turacus leucotis donaldsoni._.-.......-.--.----- POMERIOBON  CUTHUUU = 22285 23282s5-255-55 1

PSITTACIFORMES
LS AT EE! Piagnnes love-birds23as2sssssce2 ness eee 2
iaeapoeis LT ea pe AL EARS he ted ne de wee) IN yared lOVe-birdss2252sscscssatssae eee oes 9
Agapornis madagascariensis_-...........-.------ Gray-headed love-bird..~...--............-..... 3
Agapornis personata-....-...-..--.--.---.------ Yellow-collared love-bird..-.----.-.-.-.---.----- 1
CS | a a a ae ee Ad GA TOVO-DIkO- = coecs a aek teeta eee eee 2
ETN GME ca safer am ees mini ai mp yeelival love-Dird. 223 so seo ce eee te eda 3
PUNT te eGo snes oa ctr coca macesensuds= ee ATT OG. 82 SSC BSS hte escenenonaee 1
SO ee ee eee eee UE NIRBATIE PATTON. oe reese os eee 1
CE OC Wiis monted parrot. =)" "Seti soos ss see ceases 9
Amazonas albifrons nana-.-...............--..--.-- Lesser white-fronted parrot-................-..- y
Amasgone Qmavonica.. .......-.-...-25-----a<--5 Oranes-winged parrot: =2=22225 522-5228 se 3
PNNNUITLIS CATENIN no oo oo See dice anion CP GE a gp eg oS as pa pratt pe i inn ple 1
Amazona auropaliiata.-_......-..----.---..------ WeUGW-RAVEC PATO. = 825552257 con wen ndoe 2
EL a A SLE EL IEE TE be 8 ON aa ut) aia RR A andrea anda tn arta ac) 1
a i ltt aon eA Loo Ly ce 1, een eee harap prema naar sear 2
PT Oe) (Se Th), a ee eee ae 6
Amazona ochrocephala-.---.-------------------- MeO -rONLOO DAITOL—~ ce ene enan eens 8
NE a Yellow-shouldered parrot------.----.-.--------- 2
Amazona oratrix___..-. -| Double-yellow-head parrot.........-...-.--..--- 9
Amazona ventralis. _........... --| Santo Domingo parrot.--_-.--.-----.. 1
Amazona Viridigenalis-_---_..-- -| Red-crowned parrot__- 5
Anodorhynchos hyacinthinus _- .-| Hyacinthine macaw-..-- 1
Aprosmictus erythropterus_.---.- .--| Crimson- fake paroque 1
EE LEE FTO ID Yellow and blue macaw... 5
I nessa es a Red, blue and yellow macaw 3
ELL ee | Illiger’s macaw....---. 1
NL SS RE haart te Mexican green macaw. 2
ea Pee eT Eee" LORE bce cede ce 1
RE SU UTIMIPOUIS . <6 necesdcancecwan~ eine Red-throated conure 1
TARRORIS JORUIOTIS.. . ...2.< <= 72 -sedoapwe tem biel Tovi paroquet_.....-.-- 2
RREE WENONOING ee eeisciaswins anata hiahehe White-win a paroquet_ 1
Conurus longicauda...--.-.---.- er SG Sr i Long-tailed paroquet__.- 2
EE OT ES © a AP Es Nepalese paroquet...... 1
a ae a eae r vasa parrot_......-.-- 1
SEO OODIEE WANG ome segdarancenes<sanepr anes Decent WANG DMII0b son cac enna: 1
SE NT Na ae nae eaten Bile 6 TUACAW 35 oc conc cunsasn os napees 2
Derop SS, a Ta a ees 5 oe WETEO Co side wie she coan aperciege 2
i  eelinatat 1 ATEeE LOE oiensn cn aoascnbecatoseushad ian amndeaigiion 2
TE SS eS EES ee ae Fe rh | 1p ee a ata hs IT rly alfred 9 if 1
SEE SI ows sncyeses sana taeaiet Gai en-crowned paroquet.........---.--.-...---- 2
Eupsittula canicularis............-- Ee We omen gece [1 2 pe a GS TE SE CS ER 2
MUDMGUIS JENOGVS...ccccenn nn nbeddwesa=nse Jenday re ental shales hatte ce tht Rie 8 = Fmser Sm 1
RINERLIE WOUMLONN a5 wie cnncidweenenccens Wh CUUSIES DETOCUOS. «noc one scccuencmananawewnsdes 3
RITE ASR See aR ae See CESS OS SS SARA aN 1
OSS Eee see aye Sulphur-crested cockatoo....---.----------------- 3
96 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

Birds—Continued
Scientific name Common name —
PSITTACIFORMES—continued

aka topes vimMnoniss=- = 5825-2 42222252 Sea Bare-ey ed: cockatoo:--2=-s2eccces20e--S Ae 1
Kakatoo lead beateri:=*2s2 525" s22< 25522 Leadbeater’s cockatoo...-.-----.-.-------------- 2
Kakatoomoluccensisses--2225232225 552 se Pee Great red-crested cockatoo i
‘Kaka toelrosel Capua o222-5--2-2--e 2-2 == --| Roseate cockatoo- ll
Leptolophus novae-hollandicus Pu NC ockatiel- 252 2asseererssssecro see ae i 2
Goris Gonricella sa: °A22 sesh ssodas ned a2 eS Ceram lory=s:sssetzoe+leesesossass-22 eee 1
Melopsittacus undulatus--_-_..-.----------------- Grassiparaquete:2+25-=-5 222 See er ee 8
Milcroplossisintermimus:-s--2--s2s2-2---c2n2=ss—— Great black cockatoo_-...-.---..-- Toa SU ee 1
Miylopsitbta monachtiss: 22" 222" 2222s 72224 ss ee Quakernparoquebissssssscss2es2s4.csse 3
INGNGAVIIS NaNGSY,..2-- =~ 222-2 e anne ee eee Nene DATOGUels so. oon eu ae ca ee ee 1
INSS LOT nota bilis: 2-2 et ee Se OQ Res ile Bs etic =». SN a Ee 6
Binnusmanimiliani.= 2 525.2. 2.cen ee neee ee Miaxiumnilian Sipartotes. o2s<2c- cos ken season ee 1
PIONUSTMONSULIUSIs cosa eee ee tet eeee ee Bitie-headediparroteetscasass 552s sees ee ees ee 2
Pionites xanthomeria --..-..-------------------- AIMS zonian Caiguelsss-2-sse=sessee eset eee 3
Pe latiyConcns OXUM Sassen ena n enn ae enn eee Rosellaparoquetesss2s:2sss25 223222 See 1
Poicephalus meyeri matschiei East African brown parrotes 22-2222 ee 2
Psephotus haematorrhous-.--- Red-vented blue-bonnet paroquet 1
Psittacus erithacus__--------- African gray parrotq22 2222-22282 1
Psittachlimseiianensistesss-.--- =e ee Green-rumped parrotlet 2
LEN a pa] bog? ¥) 0) (HRs eee aoe aay as ely le LE ara = Blue-winged'conure::+=sss2s2ss.2 2 eee 1
Tanygnathus megalorhynchus-.--_-----------_--- Great-billedsparoquegs 22222222 sse2aee ee ae 1
Trichoglossus cyanogrammus-------..---------- Green-naned dorikestisssis-sos22ss2235 == 1
shricho@lossusiOrsteNl ~<a se anon ee Horsten’s'paroquetss2>2sos2s2ss-===2--- eee 3
PrichePlossusOLustus =o. =n —- ace na se en oe Ornatedoryors avassevs se ee 1

STRIGIFORMES
Byribominicants: seen cas eal kot oe eae Spotted eagle-ow] 1
Bubolbuboseeees= | to ee eee ee A STC-OW eee ee ee eee 3
Bubo virginianus Great horned owl 5
Bubo virginianus .-| Great horned ow! (albino)... 1
INI CLARY Clee oo een ee cee eee ee DOW OWL" ctor cote ae eee ee eee 1
MO GTIS SSO ene oes Sema see Sereecht owls 12 22 seer yee eee soe ee eee 4
Pulsatrix perspicillatansss-92-22--se-2- a eee Spectacled Owl... --i2=3.- 5.23 - cane aoe ee 1
Str Aria py ai tee 8 Se ee IBATTECIO Woe Sosa ee eee Cee 4
Ev toOualbaiatiimismer jae sie eae oe African barmvOwli= =. o35olc cue se eee 1
wytoralbajpratincolas---2:--= 2-2 222. se American barn Owls 252 soto ence cee eee 4

CORACIIFORMES
Anthracoceros malayanus-......----.---------.- White-browed hornbill or Malayan pied hornbill-_ 1
Mephocerossacksonit=.- +> 22. 2o-ncnce oases eee Jackson’s hormbill’= =2sss2s2222s2s222e eee 1

PICIFORMES

Aulacorhamphus'suleatus2--- 22222 oe TOUCANELLO Re She Ss an rea eee ees Sa eee uf
Ramphastoswanieles sss aso cc cs ee ee ee Aric) Toucan ees sks Lessee ests ee Re 1
Rampbastos carinatuse ea see = eee Lemon-breasted:toucans22225-42-———— eee 3
Ramplastos culminatus=->- 2222-23-22 2 et ‘Wihite-breastedtotcan’ 2) 22222225 ese lee ees 1
Prachy pHOnuS Glliniss-osacee sos sas neo ee EminPasha’sibarbetusrsss sas eee 1

PASSERIFORMES
Aeridobheresriristis= 22° 50.2 sos ene ta onsen Commonimynabsssss22 22222222222 ae 1
NethigpsaMmoristateluluise. 92) nee ee nee @restedsmynahetsc2seesesstec sees ea 1
Agelaius icterocephalus Yellow-headed marsh bird 1
Aidemosyne cantans ---- Tawny waxbill__........- 3
Amandava amandava. Strawberry finch 18
Amuadina fasciata ts 52 hs seas eye ek See Cut-throat finch=25322<252220 a eee eee 13
Amblyrhamphus holosericeus.------------------ Red-headed marsh troupial_.-.--------..------- 1
iBomby cil acedroriwin= sso nn ee ee eee Cedar 'wax-witt=i2os<-sscescccesessoses oes 1
Caloctita formosa +=" = 222 s=<22 s22e0 dea VOR Ee Mexican magpie jay:-222222222ssccoe5e2o 3
Warduelisycarduelise's*=*2====t-~ Skee ee Huropean:goldfinch!=\=-2s<s=s+2-<==----22 2
Chasmorhynchus nudicollis--........---.------- Naked-throated bell bird_...-.-.---------------- 1
CHIOMS Chloris = sos ene cease els se Se Me Green finchsii ss ssescsecesess52 Ree 1
Cicinnurus|rogivis esse 22255 oe=- sehen ee a King bird'of paradisess2-2+---2-- eee 1
GCissilophavyucantanicas 22 <22 528 eek eee Yucatan jaye seen sneseeee CURA 1
Collusmracronrus®* = 22222 =2s222220 ee ee Mouse ‘bird! or coly.i&ss.ce2s-es2228 SSE 1
Corvultur albicollis White-necked-raven.22-<<s=s-2-2 Sess 1
CORVUS aIDUSHe a aot eaer seen seine te ie See White-breasted crow 2
Corvus brachyrhynchos- American crow-.-.-------- 4
Corvus corax sinuatus___ Ravens iss be s2skessee 5
Cornvils torpndldes tt saan ee es == 2 EE Australian crow s<2<sss<2sssesee 22 Oe 1
Cosmopsarus regius Splondid:starling!<<=-<s<cssss2225- see ee 3
Cyanocitta stelleri diademata_____...._________- Long-crested jay < <<-<22-sccscs-ceseesese Stee 1
Cyanocoraxpileatusweats su eer es Se oe Pilested jay=2--222lees ee scecsese a 2
Distrapiraprovnels: === "= 22.) > ae ens ee) | ‘Giant whydah-s-:s-.-22:222-s2.) Se ee 4

Eremopterix leucoparcig===222-==. act) 0 ose e—e| sischer’s finchWarkeoses senna aceeaneseeee mentee
c
J

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

Birds—-Continued
Scientific name Common name a
PASSERIFORMES—continued
OO ee Se ed Ceaige-chesked | a ED Bs SR SP 3
CRY SIS! Rt aR ere Serer Re cee 8
Foudisa madagascariensis.............-...-----.- DISOEGREDRT NORV nn. ncennamiaweiead 4
Galeo SS ee eae ere as RRONUAE ROOT ee ee oe 1
G et ee EE ee ee Black-gorgeted laughing thrush............-.... 2
eS ee ree ee PLUTO nn sees alee es oie ayant Bese 1
EE SETS TE, Se er ee eer eee Southern hill mynah.. 22. c. sc sco aebacehtoacsk 2
Gymnomystax melanicterus.-...........-..-.--- OPS IAWOO WORDIAL... ose cttc wasn cacmabumsweleaaes 1
Depress MPIC... ected en wesek ops GPOW-BITIEG. . .c. 6-05 J eea.4 aia 1
Heteropsar albicapillus............-.--.-...--..- White-capped starling........-...---..-..0-..--- 1
OE SERPS CEPR SS eee fs OBC OFIOI « c% nc ntnnciccamneaea-noenib Pete i
Re OCOIS G2 PORCB ae Wisner eon ae Southern glossy starling...:..-<...............-- 1
Lamprocorax metallicus.._................---... deupet ohh OG hf a aaa aap tet SEIS ES ae 2
OEE ere Perr, eee Bag-Biled hill-tit>. -_. .....<<n0aiessieebameateen Wed 1
Melanopteryx rubiginosus---.........-.----..-- Gmestunt Weaver... ._..........skseanebut aaeeean 28
Oe Seo ae Golden-headed MYyNAsN.. --—-.2ceccsnncunnnaoeace 1
Molpastes hasmorrhous- -....-......---...--..-- Black-headed bulbul.- ~~ sepsccussso ss ose a cckses 2
URIS GREPECIRISUID IN etree ernieencinmertinmene Bisse needed nine ee 1
AES 5 a Chestnut-breasted finch......../...2.-----.....- il
ee era Se rei PRUE MUOIEOW = oo se 0 ee ae oo metperereece 12
STS TS Sa eeape nae eee SOUCY 1%. hr nT ee ae 20
SPECIE SOON ete eee deereered DOIG)... a naushatebwedlaus atedroe 3
Persumes sanguinea... 8. cece eats MOG BING OC DATAGICR- —.. - ._ «cleo mens oie 2
waradisormis rudolphi.. =... .. 3. 3.--<.- -nceus is Prince Rudolph’s blue bird of paradise. -.....- 1
ASS a a Aa is PTE SOUGrOreGstGG CAYUING(” - oo n nee e eee 3
ES ee ne Lawes’ six-plumed bird of paradise_..........._- 1
Perisoreus canadensis capitalis_.........-...-.-- RORY NIGNNEAM IOC. 2c. oc) nconn acu eee 4
Pica pica hudsonia ATRBTICAN INBIVIC .- Won en eet aie omens 5
Ploceus intermedius - Masked weaver........... 7
Poephila personata. Masked grass-finch__.___._- 1
Pyromelana orix. Red-crowned bishop bird____._- 4
Pytilia kirki_-__ East African fire-throated finch_ 1
Quelea quelea_- Red-billed weaver. -__-__--- 45
Schlegelia wilsoni Wilson’s bird of paradise_- 2
Seleucides niger_-__- 12-wired bird of parade. 2
Semioptera wallacei_-_ .--| Wallace’s bird of paradise. 1
CO ES, rs See RIE ees ee 9
0 ee ee ee DS 0) a ee oes 2
Btegenopleura guttate.____..__.._.........--clus PARNIONC TCD =. ooce ocace aucun aaa eeaeets 1
EE ne ee pee Rarndine WRYGAD qo Koco pwccannaeekee oo abaee 1
SA ae S ee os Australian sray jumper... -assesieteccousecss 1
8 SS i ee Se eae Starling. onan ane ategnnt! we stinwetudkned 3
Taeniopygia castanotis._.......................- LEN ENT ES In EAE 1
Uraeginthus bengalus cyanocephalus_.._......_- Blue-headed blue waxbill_.............--.....-. 1
ET IS a RP @hestnot-winged whydah_._. be on 1
ESS (Pee oat eee Red-billed blue magpie...................-.-... 3
ES eee aS PSP PeamIGe LU WRVOOD oso once ewep el eeoa a Saeaeeereran 1
OT ee ee eee OT NO nc occ mea ep icenietcer nn aa cS Eases 2
Xanthoura luxuosa guatimalensis_.............- ntemiain preen jay. ooo nuance oe ce eee 2
Reptiles
Scientific name Common name 4
TESTUDINATA
NS aa cen a on ee a Bortenhallod turtle. oc. connate ness eapanonecaen 8
a Australian snake-necked turtle...-.--.--.----.-- 3
EES SE ES EES RCS ae ipeoie snap pino TUrtie. rr ee 1
SOT SUL DONtiNe = = 5< son5 oss ose ca. eee Common snapping turtle..-..........--.-.---.. 1
SNE Ee ert ei bed Porte  eecencemnrerenccarneetinaas 4
SES ll a a Sy FE W000 COrtUNG. = isso ccccknncntrence nce 2
Semomes OArmoratye 8 en tates Prebtern mnotted trill onc ccncesexcennndesuenee 1
RE ee eas © ROP AUREIRIREL, SANS Zon croc tareounniih meas peen pao peeoeandins ne 3
Co A SS er ee aropens pond turtle. «acre atases ascents ll
Geoclemmys spengleri............-....--.-..-.. EGHCNOO TATTEDIN ooo meena ccneneonithlewenaniee 1
Servos cierdimis._....--- we eee BaneiGness CAPTAD. scsee cass cetunineceewnoecnbee 1
Gopherus polyphemus..--_.............-...---- Rien CHR te nee ree eens eee 6
umoseernon Tavyescsns....._..-_...........-.=.-- py ry: ae See SEP ee ene DeLee Oe 3
Kinosternon scorpioides................-.------- South American mud turtle...........-.-.------ 5
Kinosternon subrubrum---_...........-..------. Loy eh a a, Saree e ate Loe) 15
TICLE NORE is teow einen | African water tortolse............--....-.---..-- 17
98 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

Reptiles—Continued

Scientific name Common name eee
TESTUDINATA—continued

Pelusios nigricans 22+ ==22-2=<222228% eee Black water, tortoise:sss25222=55-----. 209s 2a ah 3
Pseudemys palustris: 222225 2sss2ssecsece224056 West Indian fresh water turtle.._-_.------------ 2
Merrapene Carolinas" see sa ss sannee enna eee Eastern box turtle_.—__-___.-<-2-5-b oo aie 2
Terrapene Mal Or= .22 222324325 ss25ss2 see Horida, box turtle 22.4.225.5205-~ US ea ee Uf
‘Terrapene ornatass2s22 22252 a Ne eee ‘Western’ ornate turtle..2~..--2252-- 20s Se 6
"Testudo‘calcarata 2 -t2222222- 2225252222524 eS Abyssinian tortoises. 5.252552 ee 1
Testudo.ephippium!222222222222.5/ Bee Duncan-Island -tortoise:-:2----... 22 SsuS ee 4
Testudoporteri= 222 = 2-222 225e22 54222 eee ee Indefatigable Island tortoise__..-...----.-.------ 1
Testudo tabulata » South American-tortoise_.2--. ase See 9
‘Testudo' vicina >: S2s2e 222522222248 Ree Poe Albemarle Island tortoise----------------------- 2

LORICATA
Alligator mississipiensis ==>2=222222=22222 2-5 32222 Wimerican alligators 322. 22252-2325. Pee ae 25
Osteolaemus tetraspis ----:--=--------------_--.- West African broad-nosed crocodile ---_---_---__ 6

SQUAMATA

Suborder—sAURIA
Conolophus pallidus-- -------------------------- Barrington-lenanas 2 ji55655 1552 eee 1
Conolophus subcristatus Gulaparos-iguana...°fsecss52 22725. ee 1
Cyclura*cornute~— ==) = 252225222250 Rhinoceros-iguanaos:2.52.52225.- eS 6
Heloderma horridum__-_.-------------- Beaded lizard ...------- 2
Felodermasuspectumsss 4225255550 eee Gla monsterzs3s 22225 5225 6
Hydrosaurus pustulosus Philippine water-dragon 9
Teilana iguana: s~as<2 225225222. te Se Common.iguana...< 2-5-3 2oie Ree ee es 3
Phrynosoma comutum.- =>. 22255 =--- Je Hormeddizard.. 2.252523 5.525... 5- ese ag 4
Sceloperts undwlatus-oosssessss22e2-- 3220 Rencs.or pine lizard 22-222 52-7 S eae e 1
*PrAchysaurus TUZOSUS==s2e2s=-5--225 20s es Stump-tailed. lizards 32 222-S e Saeeeee 2
Suborder—SERPENTES
Agkistrodon:mokasen === 2222222220 20022 ise ee Woppertieade=25! 0s s2ssecs 2 eee
Don imi perstors: ses-<sec2s5 2 IR. bo Tei Mmperor.b0a. 2.222202 225 cee soe ee 7
Coluber\constrictor-..--2222. 20) eS ee placksnakes -uesfsc Joss lel Lee eee 2
Crotalus horridus - --- Banded rattlesnake__- -- 5
Epicrates striatus__ Hditiansboal-- 2 oe. ssi = 2
Munecteshmuringsees nese sass el cael ani Winacon@awen-adlonk sli co ol en ee aia 4
eam propeltis getultisses2 2225.22... Seaie es oat eilig snakes ssccc eas se tcc coe us ene 1
Leimadophis parvifrons---.-------.--.---------- Haitian ribbon.snake. 2.22.2. .-.-45. se eee as 1
Masticophis flagellum frenatus___...------------ Red racers? ssccs she sooo ete ae ons eee ee 2
aia nigricollis:-..+22:----2s2s-s-22-2222.232505. Black-necked spitting cobra________-_.___-_-____ 1
Pitiophisimelanoleucus=:==5 26.25 = Sh) Sas Bing snake vics. = Be eee eae Reese ser ae 1
Python regiuse= 2 iss 5 Se es PS Ball pythonasse. Mrs eee a. . eee 3
Python reticulatus------=.--4.2¢Cyest Regalipythonsaassssesade. 22-2) Se 1
VERE TS) oS Aifrican pythontetsooes cee ono l eons enone 5
Sonora occipitslisa..2--s2s2-22ssseLessscnees MSS Pricoloriground snake: 2h22. 225 )  s eeie ee 4
UULOMIACEr SP2 2522225055525 25e2es52/8 2950S Green: vine.snake._ 2 Sseraes sec eae ee 1
4
Amphibians

Scientific name Common name Nee

CAUDATA
Megalobatrachus maximus_.----.---.--.---.--- Giantisalamiander 22 = tts ace tars see eee be eee 2

SALIENTIA
Bufomarinis-: 222-2 2222222222 eos e oe ee Gisntjtoad.-. ste ee 2
RIGi@UOIClCGS == ahe-ne—nlcconc ec nee ane Oak f0ad nec ose ee os a 1
Bio Perrestris 22 << ko ee525 55 OSE ie i Mlorids toad =. i... 2225 ee ee 3
UV IR ISPs ocateee cae cecesckcsasaccencccom eee ee ree frog. =< eee eke a Se eS 10
Leptodactylus pentadactylus_--~.....--.----_--- Mominicanwf{rogs<. ee he 5
MGUOPUS MUON us co2s cose ks. kl See Ba East African smooth-clawed frog....------------ 4

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 99

Crustaceans

Scientific name Common name —
Cenobita clypeatus (Herbst)......-...------...- Randel hermis creo 8 nce nbecdecrarcnertyetee-3s 25
Statement of the collection
Reptiles
Mammals} Birds | and ba- | CPusta | otal
trachians
ce +0: ERS SES SES i aes t| i a | ____——
A ESS a oe 190 142 174 50 556
SSS oy en eee eee eee 56 | 6 | a cteccessachnwewweeene 61
Received in exchange. -......---------------- 16 | | EN BERETS 55 Fee 31
ade ee 38 | 56 LY- luwisrcarounst 105
oe eponithee 25 oo. 5 52d 3 52 25cets,. 1 | 1 Bo hetichraritinreraa 6
ash bea tS TEES SERN eee ae 301 | 219 189 | 50 759
Summary

oearmeens ON Hane OGY Foo o US ee kh ee eee SS 2 eld
Cen ICmeT Kiri OMe yPamt tts ft cent ete. jee Soll. edt ately 759
Total animals in collection during year__...-_._--_-_-.--__-.__L 2, 970

Removed from collection by death, exchange, and return of animals
“in (Cie st ORR BU Spies Pip ee bide BESPR CRE SE) SOOe EE Src 8) EGO Megas LEAR Mees ORR MEARE ER REEL SES 974
1, 996

Status of collection

Species (Individuals
ne serenity eartllnemettelned Rs toes tetas mi feiah 2 apet  peptant ibaa Sd 190 678
NE, SR TTT ee CR ay ETS A SE Ps, PY | 327 1, 046
a pe ene GN eats — seamen a tel cn Sst Ri EAR Sapte d pep aay Behn 61 247
SEE, SE ES SE FE eee eae eee | 1 25
og ae's A aera Ur aies Jt die ae Cer orn PRS 2 579 1, 996

VISITORS

The estimated attendance as recorded in the daily reports of the
park was about the same as for the preceding year, in spite of the
unusually inclement winter weather.

1929 1930
eta allele Bereta eae Bre, Oe | PABURET oa 58, 950
etal earliness” 4, 400 } Pebrugry... sn 64, 150
ol Se iP ih IS BBO er nro: el Se. 215, 700
ESE eS oa 206) S00 Aye sete ees, oe 359, 175
November_____._-.______ an Oi Rr aie 2 OE 208 i ee ee 237, 200
Resember. csciosorss oil. 90,200. | Poe s0te ti baliale » 301, 200

Total visitors for year_ 2,525, 141
100 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

The visitors are from every State in the Union and practically
all parts of the world.

The attendance of organizations, mainly classes of students, of
which we have definite record, was 28,814 from 465 different schools,
in 15 States and the District of Columbia, as follows:

Number | Number Number | Number
States persons | parties eae persons | parties

ty is |- ates a edo
Connetticutc. ~~ = 2 sees 70 ivi North Caroling = 2222) a 747 16
Delaware. ----- ==. Ses 62 Si LAC) ot (0) pape ey Ses a re 151 5
District of Columbia_-_----_-- 10, 207 TSS ee Olvis Vue ae ee eee 6, 664 92
(Gea 2 OR LT Sa eS 25 South Caroling. 9-2-2 293 3
Warland e.— -< 225) eee 4, 176 68 (|) dhennessee. = -52—2 = nts es 129 2
Miassachtusetts. 2 - == 438 CBT EASA #9 a A ma a On Ne 854 19
Michigan.....--..--- 123 4:1 Wiest Virginia ——_—- == =~ 550 6
New Jersey 2, 960 41 eS)
IN GW YOLK Soe ee eee 1, 365 | 19 ROUGE ete eee ee ae 28, 814 465

i]

Even casual observation of the cars parked in the zoo gives a fair
cross section of the visiting public, but many of the local cars visit-
ing the zoo from the District of Columbia, Maryland, and Virginia
carry visitors from distant States and from remote parts of the
world.

The National Zoological Park serves a higher and more important
function than that which is most commonly attributed to it. In ad-
dition to being a place for recreation and entertainment, it is an
important and unique educational institution. It is unique in that it
is a place of study for all ages and degrees of scholarship, from the
young child to the veteran naturalist and research man.

Its accumulated data on animals handled over a period of 40 years
are constantly referred to. Facts learned regarding animals in the
zoo often have a very practical application in other fields of activity.

The beginner in zoology gains at the zoo a grasp of the differences
and likenesses between animals, while he rubs shoulders with the
advanced medical man studying the primates to help him in solving
problems concerned with the health of mankind. The study of para-
sites and diseases of wild animals in the zoo assists students of para-
sites and diseases of man and domestic animals in their researches.
In short, the National Zoological Park as a laboratory is probably of
even greater value to the American people than it is as a recreational
area.

IMPROVEMENTS

A contract was let for the construction of the reptile house, and the
work was started in March, 1930. This building promises to be one
of the finest of its kind in the world. It will allow the zoo for the
first time in its history to maintain a collection of cold-blooded verte-
brates as well as certain invertebrates.

—L———
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 101

During the year many minor improvements have been made in
connection with usual maintenance operations. A new type of label
is being tried out, and the less legible of the older type are being
replaced as rapidly as possible by the new style.

The American waterfowl pond was cleaned by hydraulicking,
which restored it to a very satisfactory condition.

The destruction of the old bird house may be considered one of the
greatest improvements the park has made in years, but it greatly
reduced the housing facilities and no attempt at all has been made
to obtain quantities of specimens of the smaller birds and mammals
even to replace those lost during the year. There being no empty
cages to fill, the zoo has been able to pick and choose in making pur-
chases, so that at the present time the collection contains a great
number of interesting rarities, including a number of species unique
in American collections.

NEEDS OF THE ZOO

Quarters for animals remain the most urgent need of the park.
The greatest need is for a house in which can be displayed repre-
sentatives of the large and very interesting group of small mammals.
The need for such a house has previously been emphasized.

The National Zoological Park is second to none in natural beauty,
and its building program is planned to conserve this by means of
constructing a few large, capacious exhibition buildings instead of
more numerous small ones, each of the new buildings to house several
groups of animals.

Hence, in the small-mammal house it is proposed to provide quar-
ters also for the great apes. ‘The park has an excellent collection
of these, but they are now housed in such small cages that they do
not appear to the best advantage and can be seen by comparatively
few people at one time.

The fire department of Washington has investigated the fire-pre-
vention facilities in the park and finds that the fire hazards are very
great on account of inadequate water mains and equipment. Expan-
sion of the water system is therefore very urgently needed as a
protection against fire and at the same time to augment the park’s
inadequate regular supply.

It is now 40 years since the park was established. Much of the
woodwork and ironwork in buildings and enclosures constructed in
the earlier days, and even comparatively recently, has deteriorated
from natural causes and from the unusual conditions present in the
zoo, so that we are now confronted with an early and necessary
program of replacement. One pair of boilers now 51 years old in
the central heating plant have been passed by the boiler inspectors

28095—31——8
102. =aANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

for only 60 pounds of steam for the present winter, and must be
replaced at a very early date. The entire floor in the hon house has
been given added support from beneath from time to time, but decay
has progressed to such an extent that it is now almost beyond repair
and must be replaced in the near future.

Respectfully submitted.

W. M. Mann, Director.
Dr. Cuarues G. ABBOT,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

i a a ee ei
APPENDIX 7
REPORT ON THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi-
ties of the Astrophysical Observatory for the fiscal year ended June
30, 1930:

PLANT AND OBJECTS

This observatory operates regularly the central station at Wash-
ington and two field stations for observing solar radiation on Table
Mountain, Calif., and Mount Montezuma, Chile. The station at
Mount Brukkaros, South West Africa, which was established by
the National Geographic Society, is being continued for the present
in cooperation with the Astrophysical Observatory with funds donated
by a friend of the Institution. In addition, the observatory controls
a station on Mount Wilson, Calif., where occasional expeditions are
sent for special investigations.

The principal aim of the observatory is the exact measurement of
the intensity of the radiation of the sun as it is at mean solar distance
outside the earth’s atmosphere. This is ordinarily called the solar
constant of radiation, but the observations of past years by this ob-
servatory have proved it variable. As all life, as well as the weather,
depends on solar radiation, the observatory has undertaken the con-
tinued measurement of solar variation on all available days. These
measurements have now continued all the year round for 11 years.
As will appear in this report, recent studies indicate that the perma-
nent continuation of these daily solar-radiation measurements may
have great value for weather forecasting. In addition to this princi-
' pal object, the observatory undertakes spectroscopic researches on
radiation and absorption of atmospheric constituents, radiation of
special substances such as water vapor, ozone, carbonic-acid gas,
liquid water, and others, and the radiation of the other stars as well
as of the sun.

WORK AT WASHINGTON

Continuous series of solar observations having been made as
hitherto at several field stations on desert mountains in distant lands,
these observations have been critically studied and prepared for pub-
lication at Washington. Several new investigations based on these
observations have been made during the year.

103
104 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

(a) Reduction of observations—The observers in the field at
Montezuma, Chile, completely reduce their measurements according
to a definitive system adopted several years ago. Telegrams in code
arriving daily from Montezuma are decoded and furnished about 24
hours after observing to the United States Weather Bureau, which
publishes the solar constant values on the Washington daily weather
map. It is planned to include these results also in a broadcast of
miscellaneous geophysical data to begin in July, 1930, under the
auspices of Science Service.

The variations of solar radiation seldom range beyond 3 per cent,
yet, as will appear below, they seem to produce important weather
changes even when as small as 0.5 per cent. It is only at high-altitude
stations under very tranquil sky conditions that results of sufficient
accuracy to display these small solar variations are to be obtained.
Although visibly excellent, our station at Table Mountain, Calif.
(longitude 117° 41’ W., latitude 34° 22’ N., altitude 7,500 feet), as
yet fails to give results of equal consistency to those of the station
of Montezuma. A thorough rereduction of all the Table Mountain
observations, 1925 to 1930, has been completed, with great labor,
during the past fiscal year. But it is disappointing. Fluctuations
too evidently produced by the haziness or humidity of the atmosphere
still are found occasionally in magnitudes of the order of 2 per cent.
Accordingly, a new method of reduction designed to more effectively
allow for these atmospheric changes was being developed at the close
of the period covered by this report. Preliminary results by it seemed
more promising. Reduction of Mount Brukkaros observations 1s
being postponed until the success of this new method is tested for
Table Mountain.

(b) Atmospheric ozone—As stated in last year’s report, one
troublesome feature of the Table Mountain work has but lately
come to light through the studies of Fowle and of Dobson. It ap-
pears that a variation of large percentage occurs in the quantity of
atmospheric ozone prevailing at very high levels above Table Moun- -
tain. Fortunately only about one-fifth as much change of ozone
occurs above Montezuma. The change occurring above Table Moun-
tain is sufficient, if uncorrected for, to introduce nearly 1 per cent
change in the results on the solar constant of radiation, but the
corresponding effect at Montezuma is negligible.

We were not aware of this source of error when the Table Moun-
tain station was first occupied. It was not until several years after
the work began that we introduced there Dobson’s method of meas-
uring ozone. Hence, if ozone corrections to solar constant values
were to be made from 1925 on, daily, and not merely by averages,
as suggested in last year’s report, it became necessary to discover a
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 105

method whereby the correction could be computed from our daily
colar constant observation themselves. This has been done.

Figure 1 shows a portion of the solar energy curve observed at
airmass 2.0. The ozone absorption occurs between places 20 and 26
of this curve, but is barely, if at all, visually discernible thereon,
even when ozone is most prevalent. However, its effects can be
made both discernible and measurable by the following simple pro-
cedure. If we take half a dozen of the best days observed in autumn,
when the ozone is near its minimum amount, and compute the mean
values of the heights of the energy curve in the blue, green, yellow,
and red we obtain thereby standard values proportional to the dis-

Ficuke 1.—Solar energy curve in the region of absorption by atmospheric ozone

tribution of energy in this region. These standard values, as thus
extended from the violet of the spectrum to the red, overlap at
each end the ozone region. Next consider the observations of the
heights of the energy curve at these selected places on any given day
of observation. We divide them by the standard values just referred
to and the result is a series of ratios, near unity, but tending some-
times to be lower in the violet than in the red, or vice versa. If
plotted against the spectrum place-numbers, these ratios may lie
nearly in straight lines. But if the ozone content of the atmosphere
on the day examined is different, being larger or smaller, than that
of the average of the standard days, then the ratio plot just described
presents a loop below or above that straight line which is fixed by
106 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

the unaffected spectrum regions in the violet and the red. These
facts are illustrated in Figure 2.

The deviation from the straight-line plots of these energy spectrum
ratios becomes, then, a measure of the ozone contents of the higher

FigurB 2.—Graph for measuring absorption by atmospheric ozone

atmosphere. The results have been so reduced by us as to give the
percentage corrections for ozone absorption to be appled to our
solar-constant values on all days of observation at Table Mountain.
These corrections apply only to the so-called “short method” of
observation. The long method takes cognizance of the ozone absorp-
tion in another way.

By the generosity of a friend of the Institution we are preparing
to send an expedition to Table Mountain in September, 1930, to

bec
so 2) 2

we EEE Eee Be eee es pep ee eee ope ero
za ; cn MEAENON (SU CEA ORI AT iS Oe
nlf it LCL TREMT RC ite mt fy HEM pt
TET Pry f

S

LI

| ou

WIT TTT TA TTT
ce Fee
Pe Gaeeenosl

FiGuRE 3.—Variations of solar radiation since 1924

make solar observations there through definite known amounts of
ozone, so as independently to standardize this new ozone method.
The method is applicable on all days when solar radiation work has
ever been done.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 107

(c) Solar variation and temperature changes.—Obviously the
weather depends on the sun. If the sun’s emission of radiation
varies, then the weather must change in some measure on that ac-
count. Having six consecutive years of daily observations of solar
variation, made and reduced in the most exact way at Montezuma,
the variations have been compared with temperature changes in
Washington, Williston, and Yuma.

Figure 8 shows the solar radiation measurements at Montezuma
since 1924. Satisfactory, nearly satisfactory, and unsatisfactory ob-
servations are indicated thereon by circles, crosses, and points, re-
spectively. In passing, I draw attention to the facts that the results

DAYS BEFORE AND AFTER CLIMAXES

* mE Ba lbieil Added
a " COCO CECA
» S00 eS Se aN
& ACCC eS Ce CN
3 POPC WEA Pere SSRc<55788
S PORES
Bc jeeuuengaceensa Tee eeausaiee ee Srenoctccis
1A TTL rec eed
:
LT
§ 2S Bw a
CEE CoA
: PES EE SaeCRe a
Ce essed ET
g BNeea20 SOA
S He Sa
4a
e SSC Rc0ESs eee

v7 13 Po aaCSeee
Pl iat Pek be det

—-

bays

Figure 4.—Solar changes and associated temperature changes at Washington

average higher in 1924 and 1925 than in 1929, but return to higher
values during the summer of 1930. Also the years 1924, 1926, and
1928, are more affected by long range variations than 1925, 1927, and
1929. This fact tends to verify the 2-year period of solar variation
to which I drew attention in last year’s report.

What I now particularly note are the numerous cases of sequences
of ascending and descending solar radiation values, occupying about
4 days per sequence. ‘These are indicated by curved full and dotted
lines respectively in Figure 3. There are 98 cases of ascending and
91 cases of descending sequences thus indicated. If it had been pos-
sible to observe on all days, there would probably have been nearly
twice as many such sequences. I have omitted cases where the
108 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

change was less than 0.4 per cent in the solar constant value, and also
have omitted cases depending on isolated or unsatisfactory values.

Corresponding to each of these 189 cases I have tabulated the mean
temperature of Washington, Williston, and Yuma, for a 9-day period,
of which the day of culmination of the solar change is the fifth or
central day. ‘Taking each month of the year by itself, I have com-
puted the average march of temperature over such 9-day intervals.
In illustration, I gave Tables 1 and 2, showing the Washington tem-
perature results of March, and Figure 4, which shows, at A, B, C,
and D, the mean values for March, May, July, and October. There
is given at E the average changes of solar radiation values corre-
sponding thereto.

There are several reversals of sign of the average temperature
effects during the year. In Figure 5, I give a study of these changes

a

KR
VTL.

a
=
LLAZ2
72in
72
ase

LATA ZL ga
77 Zzz2
ra
ae L
9)
<x SSS
ZZ
=
— |

ZZ
ZZ

D> _|
Woo
een ae)
Zor!
=

E272
SS

2
(ZZZZ,

bf |

QJ

VZEELZLZL
ZS
VZZZZFZ.

(eee ee

=o

AARANN
Sates.

| FAHRENHEIT

SN
Feet

IE aw te

WN aN L77777.

a ea
Faia SSS

+ DEGREES

N
°

|
gi° N NA ‘
= NA A N WN A Ra h N
ML H RE aah BL VA tf NS ig ALN Ni MON, A A N,
H y 4 % ye “8 D A gi KY] " V Gg 9
OI Ie RE
APA ANA NAN f ih ; Z|
4

SETS
rig
SS
fle
SSN
l
z
SAAN SAAN

l'icurE 5.—Inversions of tepyperature dependence on solar variations

of sign at Washington. All the cases have been arranged in con-
secutive order of days throughout the year, irrespective of what
year they occurred. The 98 cases corresponding to ascending se-
quences are given in Diagram F, and those corresponding to descend-
ing sequences in Diagram G. The quantity which is plotted is the
difference of temperature between that of the day of culmination of
solar change and that of four days previous. To guide the eye as
to the prevailing trend of the results, a zigzag line connects the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 109

separate points. The area it includes over the line of zero depar-
tures is crosshatched. Obviously the Diagram F has a preponder-
ance of crosshatched area below the zero line, and the Diagram G
above. Yet in April, and from June to mid-November, these aspects
tend to reverse themselves in each diagram. To bring out this char-
acteristic more plainly, I give in each diagram curves made by
taking 5-case consecutive means. ‘That is, the mean is taken of cases
1 to 5,2 to 7,3 to 8,andsoon. As it seemed clear that such a curve
in Diagram G is nearly the reverse of that in Diagram F, I have
inverted the 5-day mean curve of G as the dotted curve in F. The
correlation coefficient between the full and dotted curves in F is
50+5 per cent.

Results are found for Yuma and Williston similar to those pre-
sented for Washington. Though the types of effect do not occur in
identical months at the three stations, the magnitudes and tendencies
are much the same.
—)
oF
>)
co
7 0 i= Ci= 9I-— Dh | On eee 0¢ ‘Z— 0S ‘S— Ler 00 ‘%—- 0 90 ‘I— 19 °¢— 8% '9— Op | ae ae suvely
= " s=8 Su —-s 1g —§ 9¢ —8 ré Sash lke ‘O'S oly 0 FF 0 GF G68 999 o '6P ¢ '8é cle o'er L
5 0 L= co— Fo— Lo ‘ad On | Suse Nat Ges OS 0 (Ye 0°8I— $ F— Osl= “Eh Ss
H —S§ &P —§ 0F —§-4E —8 SE —S OF ‘O'S cer oOF ¢ ‘0g GSO 0°69 0 ‘8h 0 '6E 0 ‘SF 0 "eS L
Pa 0 &= 9- 8- c= al ¢‘cI— A Gee g"e+ 0 Ost 0 ‘03— 0'FI— wt 1G 07 Gee al lee O€6T
%, S IP § 2 8 && § 08 S && ‘O'S 06S ces 0°S9 0 ‘8g ¢°89 0°89 ¢ 69 0 ‘9S 0°99 L
=) 0 i s— 1S 8S 1c AS Ost oe= G0 0 SHO 01+ ¢‘@I— cci= KCRG Veli ges eee 6261
val S$ ¢¢ —S tF ESE eat. es Sacha ‘O75 | $68 ¢'OF ¢ Sh oR ie 0°S9 ¢°19 ¢'6¢ 0 ‘9S iL
< 0 te Olt ie ee to Lathe AMO Og 0'e— 0'9— 0 SEI mAOkO Rete 08+ ¢ t+ ‘al
|

a =8 99 —$§ 9¢ —S iF —$8 G3 Nl LE ‘0°S | ¢ 6S 0 ‘99 00g ¢ 0F ¢"8e g°¢s ¢ ‘9E 0°LE S6E “L
i} 0 0 éI— re- 6I— iGe |) | Oates g°L1-++ ¢‘ti+ 0%@+ 0 Ore 0'%— i= O1T+ “a 02
as] § 19 —S 6F SF 0D SF —$ 0F ‘O'S | &6P 0 ‘OF 0°88 ¢'88 ¢'8é Go eh o'er 0 GE oes “L
x 0 (4 oe ye: 9I— We “GE 0'TI+ GL+ o20= 0 0 o¢+ 0+ g"9—- On “a6
a —§ 99 DO 8h TTS RY Celene Gee —$ 8@ fOlots) ¢ ep o'eP 0 GE cuss gle 0 ‘9E 0°18 01 Go oF \L
Rn 0 th Ge aa 83— ‘a 09+ 0'9+ oc OS 0 t= cc 0 Giga 0°8+ Gey = Sis stper er 8Z6T
Bs —$ 0g —S oF —$ 88 S 8F S cP Ons ¢ ‘OF 0 ‘9€ 0 Ze G Zé 0 ‘6E ¢ OF GE 0 ‘98 o°8é ‘L
fo) 0 = ai C= c= ‘d Cilsts oe= = CO 0 We a aes Oe I70= ‘ad &I
=
§ 8¢ Slt S 9F S OF —S ve ‘O'S CLs 0 ‘GF i § 7 0 ‘0g oly OTF GLE 0 GF VE \L
ia 0 [ow (4 SE vo— “(GE 0‘0I— pte ORD == GG+ 0 sh 0 ‘0I— OGE= 0°€I— 4G fe AP ee ie FC61
4 SAV UVGA

| —
E 0 t= (Gm &—- i= ¥ € z T 0 16> o— e— Pes Neate Sak sae ae sieved
- a .
< (Son[va Ie[Nge}+6'T) seinjredep puv sen[va JUBIsSMOD Iv[Og qisyuoiqe, seeisep ‘soinjisdep puv soinqeiedure, woysuTyse AA

ssouenbes 3uipueds y

110

saouanbas yILDJyY—"] AAV J,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 111

a wom wd Cheeslicdicabhabinddd
g o 228 OR £8 oS om °8 °s og os °8 o
>
; I i | | |
7 3 " mn n mn nm a) p n =) 75) n
So Sa. See Seba Te Te se. TL
= ' + !
* n n Pp Pp n 79) n n na mn
me S29 8S RV RS RV SS FS TB TS A
ee ty toe Se ee ee
o | - oe » iam 4
ae wl Gut ives OY abt riderddips doe
8 | aa 83..°R8 $3 a ee = Rat oS Pf
PA + + of i Dien ils nile aint od bien
53 =|—_— ——
a RUS m0
| Be Daca sik: hd BR ce albus UehicdPhacd aces
at iy SS 5S 1: 82 PF 1: RS PF FR RBA
% + + Lio tit + +
Ran Sitilines mid -at: waatia tna ;
& . ; . ; . ; . ) . ; . ) ‘
= a Ay A. Geraacds, A> A> AS fod
a m2 ie) 2 n mn mn mn nm n mn }H
noo ow co coo oo mw won oo; o~ noo 3
4 {8 7S ab fs 3 Fs fs As Fs $*
o
Ss o | 78 $8 8 F¥ SS fe ¢8 SS 74 Fe
Ss 3
*” o 2t8i)) Eee
$ 8 a, eee eS ee hid ee eos lee s
& « | 78 78 38 fo os fs ss fs Fa Ts
= .)
I $ E ow Ho oo co oo mo oR s) ow ow oo. a
nN 4 S$ SS Fu SS SS SS coG cig cid iG
2 gi: ers BP AS SEP es TP ae TS 1 HE
-
a =
inl r=) ° o S S o —} =} > 12
= = oz og Cf C8 CB SE os og of CO CO
2
3 Pela ey
3 62O On BMH CO HH WKH COS OM heh “So 8
if a hirigs »4 peat fe pia pet tS :
Sj) 7| +8 1% $8 ¥ F8 feife Fs fe 7s 3
7s
g
2 on of CO HH HLH CO HH CL Ce HO Sf
Pa f# 2 GS Ge Ga Gs as Fe Ss 7S 2
2 as
g ow ow coo oko] ons] wd os] ow oo ow S
; Bicietre Gs =8 4 ys fs 8 = G4 3 {8 3
&
g iia
1 fo Fs s2 5 ra aS AS a2 7% Fe s
1 | gAe Ae BE AE Ae AB AE AR AE AE }
eee ee SS. ge me
Bi[tg pana bang livral §
gi FL Kies y
la] 8 & s § &

ED ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

From all this I conclude:

1. An apparent influence of short-period solar variation appears
in the temperature of the United States.

2. Corresponding to 0.8 per cent change in the sun, there appear
to be temperature changes of the order of 5° F. at Washington.

3. The sign of the correlation changes during the year.

4. A high negative correlation is found between the temperature
effects corresponding respectively to rising and to falling solar
sequences.

5. The temperature effects coincide in date with the solar changes
which appear to induce them.

6. If the connection between solar change and temperature change
is a genuine one, it must operate by some indirect atmospheric mech-
anism; because if it were a direct effect its sign would not change
during the year.

7. Although complicated, the relation seems to offer promise for
weather forecasting nearly a week in advance. Yet the occasional
inversions of effect found inspire caution in a pronouncement of this
character. These apparent inversions are, however, doubtless caused
frequently by one solar change treading too quickly on the heels of
another. Again they may sometimes be caused by delayed receipt
from distant centers of action of waves of temperature effect arising
from former solar changes.

The results thus far are tentative. It is proposed to study baro-
metric pressures as well as temperatures and to extend the investiga-
tion to other parts of the United States and of the world. Prelim-
inary studies have been made, too, of 10-day mean values of solar
radiation and temperature, and we hope that in this way, if reliable
weather-forecasting data are really secured, they may be extended to
months and seasons in advance.

FIELD STATIONS

Observations of the solar radiation have been continued whenever
weather conditions would permit at Table Mountain, Calif., at
Mount Montezuma, Chile, and at Mount Brukkaros, South West
Africa. All three stations continue to report measurements as made
on three-quarters of the days of the year or more. However, not all
of these observations prove satisfactory, so that 60 per cent is a bet-
ter estimate of available observation days for these selected high-
level desert stations.

A strange and serious accident occurred in December on Mount
Brukkaros. It will be recalled that for the sake of uniformity of
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 113

temperature conditions our observatories are in the form either of
tunnels in solid rock or cemented chambers under ground. In a hard
thundershower on January 24, 1930, the interior of the tunnel in
the mountain face was struck by lightning, and the bolometer, the
resistance box, and other parts of the electric circuit were burned
out. Fortunately a second bolometer and some other spare parts
were in stock, so that the observer, Mr. Sordahl, by diligence and
clever adaptations, was able to restore the circuits so as to recom-
mence observing with the loss of only four days.

Mrs. Sordahl is keeping an interesting daily journal of events,
and, having zoological training, is also making a valuable collection
of the fauna and flora of the Mount Brukkaros region for the
United States National Museum.

PERSON NEL

At Washington, Dr. C. G. Abbot continues as director. Finding
himself unable to give sufficiently continuous attention to the work,
he appointed Mr. L. B. Aldrich to be assistant director, beginning
May 19, 1930; F. E. Fowle, research assistant; W. H. Hoover, asso-
ciate research assistant (detailed to the Division of Radiation and
Organisms) ; Mr. A. Kramer, instrument maker; Mrs, A. M. Bond,
statistical assistant, reinstated October 16, 1929, vice Miss M. Mars-
den, resigned October 10, 1929; Mrs. M. D. (Denoyer) Johnson, com-
puter; Mr. W. Oliver Grant, assistant computer.

In the field: Mr. A. F. Moore, field director, Table Mountain,
Calif.; Mr. F. A. Greeley, bolometric assistant, Table Mountain,
Calif.; Mr. H. H. Zodtner, field director, Montezuma, Chile; Mr.
C. P. Butler, bolometric assistant, Montezuma, Chile; Mr. L. O.
Sordahl, field director, Mount Brukkaros, South West Africa; Mr.
A. G. Froiland, bolometric assistant, Mount Brukkaros, South
West Africa.

SUMMARY

This year has been notable for both disappointment and achieve-
ment. Disappointment—because the high hopes of satisfactory ac-
curacy raised by preliminary results of reduction of observations at
Table Mountain proved to some extent illusory, and have given place
to tests of new methods designed to remove more effectually atmos-
pheric sources of error. Achievement—in the invention of a new
method of determining the amount of atmospheric ozone, applicable
on every day in which solar radiation observations have been made;
in the discovery of the apparently large and exceptionally important
114 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

influence exercised by small short-interval solar variations on ter-
restrial temperatures; and for the continuation under favorable
auspices of observing at the station on Mount Brukkaros, South
West Africa.

Respectfully submitted.

C. G. Axsor,
Director, Astrophysical Observatory.
Tue SECRETARY,
Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 8

REPORT ON THE DIVISION OF RADIATION AND
ORGANISMS

Sm: I have the honor to submit the following report of progress
made by the new Division of Radiation and Organisms during its
first year of existence.

The purpose of the division is to undertake those investigations
dealing with radiation bearing directly, or indirectly, upon biological
problems. The central idea in the development of the division is
to build up an especially strong spectrophotometric laboratory, with
a staff of experienced physicists and technicians to work cooper-
atively with men of biological training. Problems undertaken fall
into two classes:

1. Direct investigations upon living organisms.

2. Fundamental molecular structure and photochemical investigations re-
lated to the biological problems.

Briefly, the following developments have taken place. Basement
space in the Smithsonian Building, previously used for storage, has
been reconstructed into a modern physical, chemical, and biological
laboratory. Equipment has been purchased, and the laboratory
appointed. Offices have been furnished and developed in the north
tower. A small staff of investigators, of highly specialized training
in the various allied fields, has been assembled. Plans have been
made, and equipment partially developed for growth of plants
under controlled conditions. A preliminary experiment upon the
phototropic bending of plants has been carried to completion with
interesting results. Equipment has been assembled for a more ex-
tensive experiment in this field. In cooperation with the Fixed
Nitrogen Laboratory, the near infrared investigation of the halogen
derivatives of benzene has been completed.

Arrangements for cooperation with the Department of Agricul-
ture, in carrying out an experiment on the effect of light upon the
rooting of Citrus cuttings and the growth of palms, have been con-
summated. In cooperation with the Research Corporation, staff and
shop have been provided for instrumental development.

115
116 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930
DEVELOPMENT OF LABORATORY

The initial drafting of plans for the development of the space
assigned to the division was begun May 1, 1929. By July 1, the
actual work of reconstruction, transforming the empty basement into
a laboratory, was under way. Room No. 18, the largest of the three
rooms originally assigned, some 60 feet long by 20 feet wide, was
planned to accommodate the main plant experiments and spectro-
scopic work in the visible region. Three small constant temperature
rooms were divided off for photometric and phototropic measure-
ments, and control instruments. Provision was made for experi-
ments dealing with the growth of plants under controlled conditions
in one end of the long laboratory space remaining. The other end
was arranged for the spectroscopic study of the sources of light
required in these experiments. Room No. 17, one of the two smaller
rooms, was subdivided into two parts, the larger portion, some 16 by
16 feet, was equipped with soapstone sinks, hood, furnace, still, etc.,
for a chemical laboratory. This is required for the preparation of
nutrient solutions which replace the soil in the growth of plants, for
dessicating and weighing the plants, for the incidental chemical
phases of other experiments, and later, for the photochemical experi-
ments which may be undertaken. The smaller part of room 17, about
9 by 16 feet, has been equipped for glass blowing and related technical
construction. Room 16, used prior to the completion of the space in
the tower as office and drafting room, was subsequently subdivided
into a large laboratory space and two small constant-temperature
rooms for infra-red work.

Throughout the laboratory, with the exception of the glass-blowing
room, the windows were provided with light-proof curtains, so that
the experiments could be carried out in the absence of daylight when
required. Plumbing and heavy electrical installations were made so
that service would be conveniently available for the experiments.
This service includes gas and air, 110 and 220 volts, both alternating
and direct current. Alternating current, not previously available in
the Smithsonian, was brought in by way of the Freer Building.
A special gas booster was installed to provide gas under sufficient
pressure for the glass blowing of large pyrex apparatus. A large
battery was installed, together with heavy leads for special constant-
light sources in the photometer room, and also in the infra-red
laboratory. All this general reconstruction, including carpentry,
masonry, electrical wiring, plumbing, and painting, as well as the
construction of special tables, was carried out either by, or under
the direction of, the Museum organization, to whom the division is
greatly indebted for the unusually fine laboratory resulting. The
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 117

extensive reconstruction of the laboratory space was finally completed
toward the end of February, 1930.

The detailed appointment and equipment of the laboratory proved
to be a tremendous undertaking, particularly so, because of the
border-line character of the proposed investigations. Although the
laboratory is not unusually large, provision had to be made for
physical, chemical, and biological fields of experimentation. By the
middle of July the volume of correspondence involved was such as
to require the whole time of a stenographer, thus leading to the
employment of Miss Stanley. Mr. Clark, who joined the staff
August 1, was of the greatest assistance in the selection of equipment,
because of his wide experience in technical fields. During the entire
year, a very large part of the director’s time was devoted to this
phase of the work.

INITIATION OF EXPERIMENTS

In spite of the construction work which was continuously in prog-
ress, steps were immediately taken toward beginning experimental
work.

PLANT GROWTH EXPERIMENTS

Arrangements were made with Maryland University for Doctor
Johnston, plant physiologist, to serve in consulting capacity, spending
three one-half days a week at the Smithsonian. In collaboration
with Doctor Johnston, plans were drawn up for a large pre-
conditioning chamber in which plants could be grown where the
individual plants would be under identical conditions, and, at the
same time, the humidity and temperature held at a definite point.
Plans were also drawn up for individual growth chambers to be
mounted in two groups of four. These small growth chambers were
to be water-cooled and gas-tight, so as to permit of the rigid control of
the atmospheric constituents, as well as temperature and humidity.
Windows were introduced for both lateral’ and overhead illumination.
The bases were equipped with adapters for gas-tight connection be-
tween the chamber and Mason jars for the nutrient solutions. As the
division had no shop facilities, beyond such work as could be carried
out as an accommodation through the courtesy of the National Mu-
seum and the Astrophysical Observatory, most of the construction
had to be arranged for with private concerns. With the growth cham-
bers themselves completed, the extensive development of apparatus
for supply and control had to be suspended in March, 1930, for lack
of funds. Near the end of the year, in anticipation of new funds on
July 1, orders were placed for manifold systems and other equipment
required in completing the first set of four chambers.

28095—31——-9
118 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

As artificial light, because of its possibility of rigid control, is used
to replace sunlight in most of these experiments, the problem of con-
struction of such special sources becomes a considerable part of the
undertaking. Because of his extensive experience in the commercial
construction of Neon lamps, as well as his unusual skill in glass blow-
ing, Mr. Clark was added to the staff. By October 1, his glass-
blowing laboratory was sufficiently complete to permit the commence-
ment of construction of high vacuum systems to be used in the evacu-
ation of special lamps and thermocouples. The constructive develop-
ment of these sources will, undoubtedly, be a matter of experimenta-
tion which will extend over several years.

PHOTOTROPIC EXPERIMENTS

As it was early realized that the construction of special growth
chambers would be an undertaking extending probably to two years,
and undoubtedly requiring more funds than were immediately avail-
able, another experiment dealing with the bending of plants in the
presence of light was undertaken. This experiment could be carried
out through the preliminary stages with equipment immediately at
hand. A long constant-temperature room, constructed out of a por-
tion of room No. 18, as has been mentioned, was ideally suited to this
purpose. Tor this phototropic experiment a special photometer box
was constructed. Two beams of light, originating at the extremities
of the box, played from opposite sides on a central plant. By the in-
troduction of water-cooled filters, these beams were restricted to a
narrow range of visible radiation, and provision was made for four
possible colors of light.

Even before the completion of the laboratory, actual observations
on the phototropic influence of different colors were being made.
It was found immediately that beams of equal intensity but different
color affected the bending of the plant in markedly different degree.
A thermocouple was provided so that by the galvanometer deflection
an accurate determination could be made of the relative intensities
of the two beams. By adjusting the beam whose color had the
lesser influence, its intensity could be increased until a balance was
secured against the weaker, but more potent radiation, so that the
plant would grow vertically without bending.

Early in the experiment it was realized that the most important
disturbing factor was the presence of small temperature fluctuations
in the air surrounding the oat sprout whose bending was being
observed. After many failures to remove this source of disturbance,
which vitiated many of the early observations, a scheme was devised
which overcame the difficulty. A double-walled cylindrical glass
shield was placed around the sprout, symmetrically, and maintained
in continual rotation. Thus, if one side were unevenly heated, its

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 119

influence would be carried around so that it was felt equally from
all sides. Ultimately, this only proved completely effective when
the space between the double walls of glass was filled with water.

In order to determine the wave-length range transmitted by the
filters used in the phototropic experiment, spectrograms, secured
through the cooperation of the Fixed Nitrogen Laboratory, were
taken. These showed the varying amounts of light transmitted by
the filter from an incandescent bulb of the type used in the experi-
ment. In order to interpret the spectrograms, a self-registering
microphotometer, previously secured by the Astrophysical Observa-
tory, was set up in one of the small constant-temperature rooms.
Curves were thus obtained, representing the relative transmission of
these filters for the various wave lengths, and so determining defi-
nitely the region of the spectrum, or colors, used.

Completion of this preliminary experiment in September of 1930,
yielded the following facts: First, that red, or infra-red light, pro-
duced no measurable effect; second, that yellow light of the type
used, produced a small, but measurable bending; third, that the green
light was one thousand times (+ or —2 per cent) more effective than
yellow; and finally, that blue light of the range used was thirty
times more effective than the green, or thirty thousand times more
effective than the yellow.

The outstanding points of interest resulting from the preliminary
experiments are two: First, the quantitative reproducibility of the
ratios obtained, that is, within 5 per cent of the magnitudes quoted;
second, the tremendous ratio observed between yellow and green,
together with rapid increase of the effect as one proceeds to shorter
wave lengths, tends to indicate a definite threshold wave length at
which the phototropic influence shows itself. This is typical of
photochemical reactions involving an electronic change of energy.
The conclusions drawn from this observation are of far-reaching
importance, as this constitutes crucial evidence against any theory
which seeks to explain phototropism as merely a thermal effect due
to unequal absorption of radiant energy.

The preliminary results of this experiment proved so interesting,
even at the early stages, that steps were immediately taken to prepare
for a more elaborate experiment. Mr. Hoover, returning from
extensive field experience with the Astrophysical Observatory, was
assigned to the work of the division in December, 1929. An ex-
perienced observer himself, much of the successful carrying out of
this phototropic experiment is due to his efforts.

The things which immediately suggest themselves as desirable
in a new experiment are, first: To use a narrower wave-length range,
or a purer color, in order to determine what wave lengths have a
particular effect, and second; to use a larger number of different
120 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

wave-length regions, or colors, to determine where in the spectrum
the phototropic influence begins as one proceeds to shorter wave
lengths that is, from red to blue. For this purpose suitable screens
are not available and one must, therefore, turn to a monochrometer.
Such a monochrometer would be used, on the one side, to furnish
all the different possible wave lengths or colors, while on the other, a
single standard comparison source would be used. The phototropic
influence of all the various wave lengths, would be expressed in terms
of a single standard. As has been seen in the preliminary experi-
ment, some thirty thousand times variation in phototropic effect is
to be observed. The comparison light, must, therefore, be varied in
intensity over a large range. For this purpose an optical bench has
been purchased. By means of this bench, the comparison hght may
be varied by varying the distance from the plant over a range of
three meters. Since the intensity of hight varies inversely as the
square of the distance from the source, this permits a tremendous
range of possible intensities. As funds were not available for the
purchase of a monochrometer, plans were made for the construction
of an instrument from optical parts available in the Smithsonian.
Lenses belonging to the National Museum, and originally used as
projectors, were loaned to the division for the construction of this
monochrometer. A prism and mirror were loaned by the Astro-
physical Observatory. A spectrometer bearing of a novel type, in-
volving an inverted cone with a ball thrust, was constructed by Mr.
Kramer in the Astrophysical Observatory shop. Because of the
pressure of other work in the shop, this monochrometer, begun in
Iebruary, was not completed until August of 1930. Preparations
for this more extensive experiment are now nearing completion.

COOPERATION

During the second half of the year, Doctor Weniger from Oregon
State College came to the laboratory and undertook the development
of more sensitive radiometers for the Astrophysical Observatory.
The facilities of the laboratory, and a considerable part of Mr.
Clark’s time were placed at his disposal. At the termination of the
6-month period, it was necessary for Doctor Weniger to return to his
position in charge of the Physics Department at Oregon State Col-
lege. ‘The completion of the development of these new radiometers
is, however, still in progress in his laboratory at Corvallis, Oreg.
The radiometers, when finally developed, will not only be of unusual
value of the Astrophysical Observatory in its study of stellar radi-
ation, but also to the Division of Radiation and Organisms in its
contemplated work in the infra-red spectrum upon the molecular
structure of polyatomic molecules.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 121

It will be noted, in this roughly chronological discussion of the
work of the year, that the only experiments mentioned came under
the first head of direct experimentation on living organisms. Some
progress, however, has been made under the second head in the sub-
division dealing with molecular structure. Due to the lack of funds
and shop facilities, it was impossible to undertake any of this work
at the Smithsonian. The only steps taken in that direction were,
first: The construction of two large tanks which will be used for
vacuum spectrograph bodies, and, second, the provision of special
room space in the reconstruction of the basement. Fortunately,
however, through the very generous cooperation of the Fixed Nitro-
gen Laboratory, work begun at the Fixed Nitrogen Laboratory by
Doctor Brackett during the four months previous to his appoint-
ment by the Smithsonian, has been continued during the past year.
Mr. Liddel, appointed as a junior chemist on its staff, has actively
pushed the research work contemplated under the direction of and
in cooperation with the Smithsonian. The first work undertaken,
namely, the study of the near infra-red absorption spectra of the
halogen derivatives of benzene, has been carried through to comple-
tion so far as available materials and equipment permit. Predic-
tions made in the study of the paraflines in regard to the wave-length
position of the absorption due to vibration of hydrogen with respect
to carbon, have been borne out in the case of the phenyl derivatives.
The position of the second overtone of this vibration promises to
furnish an interesting basis for determinating the binding forces
upon the hydrogen atoms in different positions in the various organic
compounds. The work will be extended during the coming year,
largely to nitrogen compounds of a more immediate interest to the
Fixed Nitrogen Laboratory, and, at the same time, of great impor-
tance in biological connections.

Photochemical work bearing on biological problems can not be
undertaken until additional financial support can be obtained. In
the infra-red spectroscopic analysis, undertaken at the Fixed Nitro-
gen Laboratory because of its bearing upon the problems of molecular
structure, the range of spectrum which can be studied is limited by
the transmission of glass of which the prisms are constructed. It
has been the plan to build, at the Smithsonian, spectrographs in
which prisms of salt will be used. This will permit the extension
of the infra-red investigations from 244 to 15u. A more complete
understanding of the structure of polyatomic molecules will depend
upon securing the information from these regions of longer wave
lengths, as the most complete possible data upon vibration wave
lengths must be secured if progress is to be made. ‘The actual con-
122 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

struction of instruments for this purpose was more or less indefi-
nitely postponed for lack of funds and shop facilities as well as
laboratory staff. Arrangements for meeting this situation were
finally completed toward the end of the fiscal year.

In such an undertaking of border-line investigation, it is not sur-
prising that cooperation should have become a matter of unusual
importance. Not only is the division cooperating closely with the
University of Maryland in the plant physiological side, with. the
Fixed Nitrogen Laboratory in the molecular structure work, with
the Research Corporation in instrumental development, but also, in
a large degree with other bureaus of the Department of Agriculture.
Extensive plans have been developed, and something over $1,800
appropriated by the Department of Agriculture for investigation
of the effect of various radiation conditions upon the rooting of Citrus
fruits and the growth of date palms. This work is under the spon-
sorship and cooperative direction of Doctor Swingle. It is proposed
to complete the second group of four individual growth chambers
for that purpose.

PERSONNEL

During the fiscal year the personnel was as follows:

Research associate in charge, Dr. F. S. Brackett.

Consulting plant physiologist, Dr. Earl S. Johnston.

Research assistant, L. B. Clark.

Research assistant assigned by Astrophysical Observatory, W. H. Hoover.

SUMMARY

A well balanced and efficient laboratory has been developed. The
essential nucleus of a staff has been assembled. An experiment in
each of the main fields has been carried through to completion with
interesting results. Essential cooperations of a mutually profitable
character have been established. Foundations have been laid for
extensive investigations of importance in the fields of biophysics
and molecular structure. Preparations have been made for making
generally available specialized instruments developed by the division.

Respectfully submitted.

I, S. Brackett,
Research Associate in Charge.
Dr. C. G. Axsror,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 9

REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE OF
SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the
operations of the United States Regional Bureau of the Interna-
tional Catalogue of Scientific Literature for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1930.

Since publication of the catalogue was suspended by the London
Central Bureau, owing to advanced costs in printing and the ina-
bility of the cooperating European countries to meet these advances
with their depreciated and unstable financial resources, it has been
the policy of this bureau to spend only so much of its annual con-
gressional appropriation as is necessary to keep the organization
alive pending the time when reorganization is possible and publica-
tion can be resumed. The gross expenditure for the past year was
$5,457.96 out of the appropriation of $7,885.

In the several preceding reports conditions affecting the catalogue
due to the late war were noted, and in the last report definite sug-
gestions were made regarding possible means of refinancing the
enterprise and estimates of the sum needed were submitted. Owing
to the still unsettled political and financial conditions abroad, no
definite scheme for reorganization has yet been submitted by the
director of the central bureau or the chairman of the executive com-
mittee, in whom authority for this purpose is vested.

The proposals looking toward reorganization made in the last
annual report were discussed in an article entitled “ The Interna-
tional Catalogue of Scientific Literature Again,” by Dr. Ernest
Cushing Richardson, consultant in bibliography and _ research,
Library of Congress, published in “Science,” June 20, 1930 (Vol.
LXXI, No. 1851 pp. 635-637), and as Doctor Richardson is one of
the great international authorities on bibliography and on the needs
of librarians it is thought advisable to quote at length his remarks,
hoping thereby to aid the effort being made to refinance the catalogue.

THE INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE AGAIN

The proposal suggested by the Smithsonian Institution to revive the publi-
cation of the International Catalogue of Scientific Literature on a very modest
but well-considered budget is a challenge to all scientists and librarians, and
to all trust agencies which are spending good money for the promotion of
research,

123
124 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

It is suggested that a revolving fund of $75,000 and 1,000 library subscriptions
of $50 for 17 volumes will insure the enterprise. Whether or not this is
enough is a detail. If this catalogue or something like it is an indispensable
tool for research, as many first-class scientists seem to think, then any neces-
sary amount should and probably can be had. If the catalogue is not needed,
too much money is now being spent on it. Why waste more?

The Smithsonian raises this question plainly. Why ask the American Gov-
ernment to continue to appropriate six or seven thousand dollars a year in the
procrastinated hope of a resurrection, if the project is better dead? If it is
needed, why procrastinate?

By putting the question the Institution has deserved the thanks of all con-
cerned. It is to be hoped that it will not let the matter rest until it has
a square answer from all responsible parties. * * #*

* * * The question raised by the Smithsonian is not the question of pre-
senting a hew project to be justitied, financed and initiated, but whether per-
fectly good machinery worth at least $3,000,000 is to be scrapped, in an enter-
prise bound to be revived sometime, as Professor Armstrong, of the Royal
Society, prophesies and as many scientific bibliographers in many countries
are on record as believing.

It is at this point that the overture of the Smithsonian becomes a matter
of practical business concern both in the research trust endowments and to the
libraries. The research endowments are bombarded with bibliographical proj-
ects of varying method and degrees of merit. They aid or support a
good many projects. They are deeply concerned as trust organizations
to put their money where it will do the most good. Other things
being equal they prefer to put it where one dollar will do the work of four.
This seems to be a spot where one million, perhaps a quarter of a million,
will do the work of four millions. If its usefulness merely averages with
these other projects the endowments are likely to feel that its claims come
first. It is here they can give the most bibliographical service with the least
money. The proposition touches the libraries in a very similar way. If and
when the matter is revived it will depend for financing, if not on the endow-
ments, then on library subscriptions. If this machine is scrapped, when a new
one is started either a $3,000,000 endowment must be had from promoters of
research or a quadruple price charged to libraries.

This leads straight to the crucial question of whether the international cata-
logue is in fact a primary, essential or indispensable tool in such sense that
it is bound to be revived sometime. It no doubt seems a futile and mortifying
matter to those who have been deeply engaged in the problem for 30 years
that they should have to rejustify and refight a matter which was fought to
the finish 30 years ago. But it is fair enough. It is not the only real biblio-
graphical need of science. There are at least two other equally well-defined
needs—abstracts and handbooks. Without disparaging the usefulness of these
two other tools, it must be confessed that a good case is made by those who
claim that something like the international catalogue is the essential and only
indispensable tool among the three types.

A. dispassionate general bibliographer must recognize that this is a conclu-
sion towards which the whole history of bibliographical experience tends. The
complete survey, in full title form, of the whole literature of any subject or
group of subjects is the only solution of the main need of the student in re-
search and in the higher learning, that is, completeness, and the best solution
as to his need for a perspective. * * *
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 125

In short, bibliographical experience confirms the judgment that something
“very like” this catalogue as to completeness is the essential, and full title
method best, without prejudice as to variety in other details. * * *

Scientific bibliography has the very high honor in bibliographical history of hav-
ing been the first to conceive and to carry out on a large scale in the interna-
tional catalogue the seeing-as-a-whole aspect of things which the modern school
of psychologists is now exploiting. It would be an even greater honor if it
should lead the promotors of research generally to apply the comprehensive
method to other large fields.

Notwithstanding the practical deadlock still existing in interna-
tional relationships, where cooperation is essential to success, it is
hoped and expected that some method will be found to reorganize
and finance this great enterprise, as its history and past success en-
titles it to first place when worth-while projects are being consid-
ered by private individuals or by existing foundations whose aim
and purpose is to aid the advance of knowledge and the welfare of
mankind.

Respectfully submitted.

Leonarp C, GUNNELL,
Assistant in Charge.
Dr. Cuartes G. Axppor,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 10
REPORT ON THE LIBRARY

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi-
ties of the library of the Smithsonian Institution for the fiscal year
ended June 30, 1930:

THE LIBRARY

The Smithsonian library, or library system, is composed of the
10 major and 386 minor libraries of the Institution. It numbers
somewhat more than 800,000 volumes, pamphlets, and charts, of
which many are on art, literature, history, music, and philosophy,
but most on science and technology. ‘The system is especially strong
in serial publications and in the reports, proceedings, and transac-
tions of the learned societies and institutions of the world. The
major units are the Smithsonian deposit in the Library of Congress,
the Smithsonian office library, the Langley aeronautical library, and
the libraries of the United States National Museum, the Bureau of
American Ethnology, the Astrophysical Observatory, the National
Gallery of Art, the Freer Gallery of Art, the Division of Radiation
and Organisms, and the National Zoological Park. The minor units
are the sectional libraries of the National Museum. The system,
with its highly specialized collections, the gathering of which has
been proceeding since 1846, the date when the Smithsonian began
its work, has brought to the Institution and through it to the Gov-
ernment and to American scholars generally the results of the re-
search of the world during its most important scientific era, and thus
has contributed not a little to the fulfilment of the purpose for which
the Institution was founded, namely, that of increasing and diffusing
knowledge among men.

CHANGES IN STAFF

A number of changes occurred in the staff. Miss Isabel L. Towner,
assistant librarian in the National Museum, after several years of
noteworthy service, resigned to accept an editorial position in New
York. She was succeeded by Miss Leila G. Forbes, a graduate of
St. Lawrence University and of the Pratt Library School, who had
been for many years librarian of Randolph-Macon Woman’s College.

Miss Ethel A. L. Lacy, assistant librarian in the National Museum,
also resigned to take a position in another Washington library. Her

126
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 127

place was filled by the appointment of Miss Gertrude L. Woodin, a
graduate of Wellesley College and of the Albany Library School,
who had been for some time a junior librarian on the roll of the
International Exchanges. Mrs. Hope Hanna Simmons, junior
library assistant in the National Museum, was promoted to the va-
eant junior librarianship. Mrs. Mary Arnold Baer, under library
assistant in the Museum, was advanced to Mrs. Simmons’ former
position. Miss Margaret Moreland, a graduate of the library science
department of George Washington University, who was already
serving temporarily on the roll of the International Exchanges, was
selected to succeed Mrs. Baer.

Miss Anna M. Link, a former teacher, and at present a student
of library science at George Washington University, was appointed
to the position of minor library assistant in the Astrophysical Ob-
servatory. Mr. William O. Grant, assistant messenger in the Na-
tional Museum, was given a better position elsewhere in the Insti-
tution, and Mr. Stephen Stuntz took his place. The temporary
employees were Mr. Alan Blanchard, Mrs. Daisy Cadle, Miss
Rosalie Dimmette, Miss Katherine Everhart, Miss Angela Moore,
Miss Margaret Moreland, Mrs. M. Landon Reed, Miss Jennette
Seiler, Miss Eleanor Spielman, and Mrs. M. Frances Watkins.

EXCHANGE OF PUBLICATIONS

In the early days of the Institution the accessions to the library
usually came by purchase, gift, or copyright—for in those days the
copyright law provided that one copy of each new book published
in the United States should be deposited in the Library of Congress
and one in the Smithsonian library. Increasingly, however, since
that time the accessions have come by exchange of publications with
editors of journals and with learned institutions and societies, until
now, while some are still obtained by purchase and gift, by far the
greater number are received in exchange. Many of the latter come
through the United States International Exchange Service, which is
administered by the Institution.

During the fiscal year just closed the Smithsonian library received
24,063 packages by mail and 2,077 through the Exchange, each con-
taining one or more publications. These were stamped and entered—
with the exception of the documents from foreign governments—and
assigned to the units of the library system in which they would be of
most use in furthering the work of the Institution and its branches,
but chiefly, of course, to the Smithsonian deposit and the library of
the National Museum. There were a number of unusually large
sendings, the largest being one of 208 pieces from the Academy of
Sciences at Heidelberg. This went far toward completing the set
of the Academy’s publications in the deposit.
128 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

Among the items received were several thousand dissertations from
the universities of Basle, Berlin, Bern, Bonn, Breslau, Budapest,
Erlangen, Freiberg, Giessen, Greifswald, Halle, Heidelberg, Helsing-
fors, Jena, Johns Hopkins, Kiel, Konigsberg, Leipzig, Lund, Mar-
burg, Neuchatel, Pennsylvania, Rostock, Strasbourg, Tiibingen,
Utrecht, Wiirzburg, and Ziirich; and from technical schools at Berlin,
Bonn, Braunschweig, Delft, Dresden, Freiberg, and Karlsruhe.

Most. of the 1,711 letters written by the library staff during the
yvear—which, by the way, represented an increase of about 400 over
the previous year—had to do with the acquisition of this material.
Many of these involved careful checking of sets and reviewing of
earlier correspondence. Some proposed or accepted exchange for
new publications. This gratifying increase in the number of letters
written by the library was effected largely by the recent reorganiza-
tion of the accessions department. As the immediate result of this
increase the exchange correspondence of the library was brought
practically up to date. Most of the letters were prepared in re-
sponse to special requests for publications needed by the Smithsonian
deposit and the libraries of the National Museum and the Astro-
physical Observatory. The number of items thus obtained was 2,928.

GIFTS

As usual, there were many gifts. The largest one came from Mr.
James Townsend Russell, jr., honorary collaborator in old world
archeology in the National Museum, who presented to the Institu-
tion 1,400 volumes on different subjects, together with a collection of
music. These will be assigned mainly to the Smithsonian deposit,
the office library, and the libraries of the National Museum and the
National Gallery of Art. About 150 volumes and 1,000 periodicals,
chiefly on aeronautics, came from the National Aeronautic Associa-
tion; and 2,000 or more miscellaneous scientific publications from the
American Association for the Advancement of Science, the American
Association of Museums, the Anthropological Society of Washington,
the Geophysical Laboratory, the Hygienic Laboratory, the Interna-
tional Catalogue of Scientific Literature, the Philosophical Society
of Washington, and the Library of Congress. Another important
gift was that of 58 volumes on Japanese history and literature, from
the Historiographical Institute, Tokyo.

Among other gifts were 60 volumes, largely in the field of mining
engineering, from Mr. A. F. G. Lucas, and copies of the following:
Mythology of All Races, volumes 2, 3, 4, 7, 8, and 11, by various
authors, from the Archeological Institute of America and the
Marshall Jones Co., of Boston; The Birds of Tropical West Africa,
volume 1, by David Armitage Bannerman, from the Crown Agents
for the Colonies on behalf of the Governments of Gambia, Gold
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 129

Coast, Nigeria and Sierra Leone; Milestones, 1830-1930, from the
Boston Society of Natural History; The Life and Work of George
H. Corliss, by the American Historical Society, from Miss Mary
Corliss; A Narrative of Colonel Ethan Allen’s Captivity, Containing
His Voyage and Travels Written by Himself, from the Fort Ticon-
deroga Museum; Taking One’s Own Ship Around the World, by
William K. Vanderbilt, from the author; The Naturalist in
Nicaragua, by Thomas Belt, from Mr. Michael J. Clancy; An Early
American Queen Anne Escritoire, 1715-1730, by Ross H. Maynard,
from the author; Air Pioneering in the Arctic—the Two Polar
Flights of Amundsen and Ellsworth—by Lincoln Ellsworth, from the
author; Archaeologia Orientalis, volume 1, Prehistoric Sites by the
River Pi-liu-ho, South Manchuria, by Kosaku Hamada, from the
Far-Eastern Archaeological Society, Tokyo; Av Hvalfangstens His-
torie, by Sigurd Risting, from the author; The Genealogical
Record of the Schwenkfelder Families, edited by Samuel K. Brecht,
from Mr. Wayne C. Meschter; Memorials of Peter A. Jay, compiled
by his great-grandson, John Jay, from Mrs. John Jay; An Introduc-
tion to Biblical Archaeology, by George S. Duncan, from the author;
The Barbary Voyage of 1638, Now first Printed from the Original
Manuscript of Sir George Carteret, from Mr. Boies Penrose; History
of the Natural History Society of Northumberland, Durham and
Newcastle-upon-Tyne, 1829-1929, by T. Russell Goddard, from the
Society; Smithsonian Scientific Series, Patrons’ Edition, volumes
5 and 6—Insects, Their Ways and Means of Living, by R. E. Snod-
grass, and Wild Animals In and Out of the Zoo, by W. M. Mann—
from the Smithsonian Institution; Catalogue of Madreporarian
Corals, Volume VII—A Monograph of Recent Meandroid Astre-
ide—by George Brook and H. M. Bernard, from the British Mu-
seum; Researches in Prehistoric Galilee, 1925-1926, by I’. Turville
Petre, and A Report on the Galilee Skull, by Sir Arthur Keith, from
the British School of Archeology in Jerusalem; and United States
Geological Exploration of the Fortieth Parallel, 1870-1880, volumes
1-7, with Geographical and Topographical Atlas, by Clarence King,
from Mrs. Frederic V. Abbot.

Donors on the staff of the Smithsonian Institution were Secretary
Abbot, Assistant Secretary Wetmore, Dr. William H. Holmes, direc-
tor of the National Gallery of Art, Dr. Marcus Benjamin, Mr. A. N.
Caudell, Mr. A. H. Clark, Mr. P. E. Garber, Dr. J. W. Gidley,
Dr. O. P. Hay, Dr. AleS Hrdli¢ka, Mr. N. M. Judd, Dr. W. R.
Maxon, Dr. G. S. Miller, Mr. A. J. Olmsted, Miss Mary J. Rathbun,
Mr. W. de C. Ravenel, Dr. C. W. Richmond, Mr. J. R. Riley, Mr.
J. T. Russell, jr., and Dr. W. L. Schmitt. Mrs. Charles D. Walcott
also gave the library a number of publications.

130 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930
SMITHSONIAN DEPOSIT

The Smithsonian deposit in the Library of Congress is the main
unit in the library system of the Institution. It dates from 1866,
when for various reasons Congress granted authority to the Smith-
sonian to deposit its library of 40,000 volumes in the Library of
Congress. Since that time the collection has been steadily increased
by sendings from the Institution until it now numbers more than
a half million volumes, pamphlets, and charts, together with thou-
sands of volumes still uncompleted. The deposit comprises works
relating to many branches of knowledge, but chiefly to the natural
and physical sciences, and includes a collection of scientific serials
and of the publications of learned institutions and societies that is
unique for completeness among groups of its kind. Most of the
items have come to the Institution during its 80 years and more of
existence in exchange for its publications and those of the Govern-
ment bureaus under its direction. In 1900 the Library of Con-
gress established a special division, known as the Smithsonian divi-
sion, to take charge of the scientific publications in the deposit, as
well as of similar works belonging to the library itself. The rest
of the publications are shelved in the other divisions of the library
according to subject. It follows that the Smithsonian deposit is
not, as many have supposed, synonymous and coextensive with the
Smithsonian division.

In the course of the year just closed the library of the Institution
forwarded to the deposit 19,144 publications, consisting of 2,720
volumes, 11,802 parts of volumes, 4,352 pamphlets, and 270 charts.
Among these were 2,205 publications that the Smithsonian library
had obtained in exchange for the deposit, in response to want cards
sent from the order division, periodical division, and Smithsonian
division, or more than two and one-half times the number obtained
in the fiscal year 1929 and nearly five times the number in 1928.
Among them, too, were 4,484 dissertations. The library also for-
warded 13,729 documents of foreign governments, without stamping
or entering them, to the division of documents. The total number
of publications, therefore, added to the Library of Congress during
the year by the Smithsonian library was 82,873—an increase of
nearly 10,000 over the year before. This noteworthy increase, which
was due primarily to the reorganization of the accessions department
already referred to, was due also, in no small measure, to the hearty
cooperation the library staff received from those in immediate
charge of the various divisions of the Library of Congress chiefly
concerned, notably the Smithsonian division.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 131
NATIONAL MUSEUM LIBRARY

The library of the United States National Museum, which con-
sists of two major collections—namely, on natural history and tech-
nology—shelved respectively in the Natural History Building and
the Arts and Industries Building, and of 36 minor collections scat-
tered among the various sections of the Museum, is, next to the
Smithsonian deposit, the largest and most important unit in the
Smithsonian library system. It numbers 76,879 volumes and 108,297
pamphlets. During the last fiscal year it was increased by 2,317
volumes and 668 pamphlets. Most of these came in exchange, but
many were purchased and some were received as gifts.

The staff had a very busy year. They entered 8,805 periodicals,
catalogued 1,146 volumes and 856 pamphlets, and added 4,493 cards
to the catalogue of the natural history library and 295 to that of the
technology library. They assigned to the sectional libraries 5,622
publications, and lent to the Museum staff and other Smithsonian
employees 7,745, of which 2,820 were charged at the recently estab-
lished loan desk in the Arts and Industries Building. Of the loans,
1,889 were borrowed from the Library of Congress and 246 else-
where. The number of publications returned to the Library of
Congress was 2,250, and to other libraries 241. The loans to Goy-
ernment libraries and to libraries outside of Washington were 181.
Among the latter were those of the American Museum of Natural
History, the New York Botanical Garden, and the Department of
Agriculture, Ottawa, Canada, and of the following colleges and uni-
versities: Buffalo, California, Goucher, Harvard, Johns Hopkins,
MacMaster (Toronto), Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Minnesota, North Carolina State, Princeton, and Tennessee. The
number of volumes prepared for binding was 2,071, of which 1,271
were bound. The others will be sent to the bindery when additional
funds become available early in the next fiscal year. This work en-
tailed considerable checking of sets, collating, and correspondence.
In this connection it is of interest to note that the library was able
to obtain, without expense, 668 volumes and parts lacking in its sets
by writing special letters to the journals and learned societies
concerned.

The reference use of the library, not only by those connected with
the Smithsonian Institution and the different branches of the Gov-
ernment, but also by students and the public in general, increased
somewhat over that of the year before and necessitated a correspond-
ing increase of work on the part of the staff. Hundreds of inquiries
for information of various kinds were received and answered. To
the technology library alone, with its 700 visitors for the year, out-
132 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

side of the Smithsonian employees, carne about 225 such inquiries,
while to the natural history library came many more.

The sectional libraries, which number 36, are the immediate work-
ing tools of the curators and their assistants. Many of them are
rich in highly specialized material, much of which has not been
catalogued. ‘These libraries present other problems, too, that are
pressing for solution, and one of their most urgent needs is of two
assistants who can be detailed from the main library to spend their
full time looking after the interests of these smaller but very impor-
tant library units. During the past year it was possible for the
library staff to find time for only a few pieces of work in these
libraries, such as preparing 2,680 cards for the pamphlet collection
in the division of mammals, aiding the department of geology in
increasing quite materially its set of the publications of the various
State geological surveys, and cooperating with the scientific staff of
the division of plants in reorganizing the library of that division,
especially by arranging 10,000 cards for its reference file and get-
ting the John Donnell Smith botanical collection ready for transfer
to its shelves. ‘This included the making of a catalogue of the
collection.

These libraries are as follows:

Administration. Marine invertebrates.
Administrative assistant’s office. Mechanical technology.
American archeology. Medicine.

Anthropology. Minerals.

Biology. Mineral technology.
Birds. Mollusks.

Botany. Old World archeology.
HWehinoderms. Organic chemistry.
HWditor’s office. Paleobotany.

Hthnology. Photography.

Fishes. Physical anthropology.
Foods Property clerk’s office.
Geology. Reptiles and batrachians.
Graphie arts. Superintendent’s office.
History. Taxidermy.

Insects. Textiles.

Invertebrate paleontology. Vertebrate paleontology.
Mammals. Wood technology.

OFFICE LIBRARY

The office library serves Smithsonian employees in two ways. It
keeps constantly on hand in the administrative offices, reading rooms,
and other convenient places many works of general reference, includ-
ing dictionaries, encyclopedias, atlases, and sets of Smithsonian and
cther learned publications; it also provides material, to a limited
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 133

extent, of a less technical character, designed mainly for a cultural
and, in some instances, even a recreational purpose. Most of the pub-
lications in the latter group have been received as gifts from em-
ployees of the Institution or from friends outside. During the last
year several hundred such publications were given to the Institution,
especially by Mr. J. Townsend Russell, jr., of the scientific staff of
the National Museum. ‘These will soon be catalogued and placed on
the shelves of the office library. The happy arrangement previously
made with the Library of Congress to lend to the library from time
to time for a brief period some of the latest popular and semipopular
books was continued, much to the satisfaction of the Smithsonian
employees. ‘To the office library were added 1,988 volumes and 316
pamphlets. Its periodical entries were 835.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY LIBRARY

The library of the Bureau of American Ethnology, which is housed
in the Smithsonian Building, is one of the more important units in
the library system of the Institution. It is made up, in the main,
of works on anthropology, not a few of which are quite rare. It
is particularly rich in publications on the archeology, history, myths,
religion, arts, sociology, language, and general culture of the Ameri-
can Indians. The collection has some valuable manuscripts, many
photographs, and several Indian vocabularies. The library numbers
29,071 volumes and 16,527 pamphlets. During the last year it was
increased by 559 volumes and 150 pamphlets. ‘The number of periodi-
cals entered was 4,106, and the number of volumes bound 210. The
additions to the card catalogue were 3,420. The loans were 840. As
usual, hundreds of publications were consulted in the library,
especially by members of the bureau staff, and considerable reference
work was done by those in charge of the collection.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY LIBRARY

The library of the Astrophysical Observatory, while one of the
smaller units in the library system, consists of publications of
especial value in the astrophysical and meteorological work of the
Institution. The main part of the collection is shelved in the Smith-
sonian Building, the rest in the observatory itself, where it is im-
mediately available for the use of the investigators. Its file of
current periodicals is also kept in the observatory, as is the card
catalogue of the library. The collection numbers 4,008 volumes and
8,100 pamphlets. To it were added during the last year 140 volumes
and 151 pamphlets. The number of volumes bound was 50.

28095 —31—10
134 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930
RADIATION AND ORGANISMS LIBRARY

The library of radiation and organisms, which was established in
1929 as a major unit of the Smithsonian library system to meet
the needs of a branch of research recently organized under a separate
division of the Institution, made satisfactory progress during the
year. An excellent working nucleus of reference books was obtained
for it, and arrangements were made to receive regularly the out-
standing magazines in the field of the division’s special interest. A
dictionary card catalogue was begun for the collection. At the end of
the year the library numbered 74 volumes, 8 pamphlets, and 6 charts,
besides about a hundred unbound periodicals.

LANGLEY AERONAUTICAL LIBRARY

During the year the Institution’s famous collection of aeronautical
publications, known as the Langley aeronautical library, was re-
moved from the main hall of the Smithsonian Building, where it
had been kept for many years, to the Library of Congress. ‘There,
with other and larger collections of its kind, it will be more cen-
trally available to the technician and historian as well as the general
student.

The collection will be under the immediate supervision of the
chief of the newly organized division of aeronautics, in the develop-
ment of which the Guggenheim fund has recently taken a generous
interest. But it will remain a unit of the Smithsonian library sys-
tem—a second deposit in the Library of Congress, distinct from the
main unit of that system known as the Smithsonian deposit, but
subject to the same conditions that Congress specified in providing
for the establishment of the older and larger deposit. Its identity
will be shown by a special stamp and book plate, and the collection
will continue to bear the name of the Langley aeronautical library
and will be increased from time to time by sendings from the
Smithsonian—it being the desire of the Institution to preserve the
collection as an independent and growing memorial to its third
secretary, whose work marked the beginning of the scientific study
of aeronautics in the United States.

Many of the library’s rarest items once belonged to Secretary
Langley; others to such well-known investigators and experimenters
as Alexander Graham Bell, Octave Chanute, and James Means.
The library numbers 1,734 volumes and 923 pamphlets and includes
files of most of the early aeronautical magazines, together with a _
large number of photographs, letters, and newspaper clippings. It
was increased the past year by 37 volumes, 362 parts of volumes,
and 85 pamphlets.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 135
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART LIBRARY

When in 1920 the National Gallery of Art was set apart as a sep-
arate Government bureau under the administrative charge of the
Smithsonian Institution, its library ceased to be a sectional library
of the National Museum and became a major unit of the Smithsonian
library system. Since that time the collection, already an important
nucleus of works on fine art, both American and foreign, has grown
yearly by carefully selected additions, until it now contains 1,098
volumes and 1,166 pamphlets. Small as the collection still is, it
almost fills the space available for books in the present limited gallery
quarters in the Natural History Building and will soon need more
room there unless in the early future a special building is provided
for the gallery. When that is at hand, the collection can be ade-
quately shelved, and be permitted to grow more rapidly, to meet the
expanding needs of the gallery. The library was increased during
the year just closed by 97 volumes and 60 pamphlets. Most of these
were purchased or received in exchange, but not a few were gifts,
especially from Dr. William H. Holmes, director of the gallery. The
number of periodicals entered was 271.

FREER GALLERY OF ART LIBRARY

The library of the Freer Gallery of Art is one of the most unique
in the Smithsonian library system. Centering, as it does, primarily
in the interest of the Freer Gallery in the arts and cultures of the
Far East, India, Persia, and the nearer east, it richly supplements
for the purpose of research—especially with its publications in the
Chinese and Japanese languages, some of which are very rare—the
corresponding collections in the Library of Congress. It also has to
do somewhat with the life and works of various American painters,
notably James McNeill Whistler, many of whose pictures are the
possession of the gallery, and with the famous biblical manuscripts
of the fourth and fifth centuries, known as the Washington Manu-
scripts, which the gallery is so fortunate as to own.

The main collection numbers 4,362 volumes and 2,998 pamphlets;
the special collection designed for the use of the field staff of the
gallery, 814 volumes and 500 pamphlets. The former was increased
during the last fiscal year by 93 volumes and 229 pamphlets. The
number of volumes bound was 29. During the year, thanks to the
generous cooperation of the gallery, the work of reclassifying and
recataloguing the library was undertaken. In this connection 1,134
cards were prepared and filed in the new dictionary catalogue. This
work will be continued the coming year.
136 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK LIBRARY

The library of the National Zoological Park is made up of publi-
cations that have to do chiefly with the habits and care of animals,
and is designed for the use of the director and those associated with
lim. It numbers 1,213 volumes and 403 pamphlets. Its accessions
for the year were 4 volumes and 3 pamphlets.

SUMMARY OF ACCESSIONS

The accessions for the year may be summarized as follows:

Pamphlets
Library Volumes and Total
charts

A'strophysical Obsenwatony 5-3. 2 eck oh ee gy 140 151 291
Bureau of American Htnnplogys.2=)4= 22sec Let Seog eee 559 150 709
HrecriGallery ota th: 82 8 a ee ae deed eee ee Pe 93 229 322
Hancley Aeronautical Ste: S28) Oe ev aay PEA SEE ee SR | 37 85 122
Natidnah Gallery pitArts oo 2 2 FS ee ee el ce 97 60 157
National Zoological Park_..--- 4 3 7
Radiation and Organisms -.--- 7s 74 14 88
Smithsonian deposit, Library of Congress__...-___-__-_--_---_-----_-- 2, 720 4, 622 7, 342
Smrithsonianiofiiees.—2— ge oy ae ee ee a De 1, 938 316 2, 254
United States National Museum. --_.-_---...----------.-.-----.---- 2, 317 668 2, 985

(ROU oe eens Jee ee ee ceo re aoe oe eee eee ee 7, 979 6, 298 14, 277

The approximate number of volumes, pamphlets, and charts in the
Smithsonian library system on June 30, 1930, was as follows:

Wilt sis ey siya Pr igs area es Pe pee ete ON, cere ee oe EN ee pe Ph 571, 085
J Soe? OT 1 OU YRS ae Ra TN EE RT I Ba FA GA ek ha, 186, 484
Charts Gate ZAE Ma Pe Cel NED A OE he OE Aa Ea 25, 261

DG) ot Pe BS aR 2 I IR CS BB hte 782, 830

This total does not, of course, include the large number of volumes
in the system still uncatalogued or awaiting completion.

UNION CATALOGUE

Further progress was made on the union dictionary catalogue begun
a short time ago. This will require many years to complete, but
when it is finished it will be an invaluable instrument in the reference
activities of the Institution, for it will constitute a central author-
title-subject finding list, for the most part on Library of Congress
cards, of all the items in all the 46 Smithsonian libraries. Unfor-
tunately, with the present force, the progress of this work must con-
tinue to fall short each year of what we should like.

Notwithstanding this fact, however, the staff, besides keeping up
with the current work, was able to finish cataloguing the important
John Donnell Smith botanical collection, with the exception of one set
of pamphlets and reprints, and to make considerable headway in cata-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 137

loguing the library of the Freer Gallery of Art. This work involved
classifying the publications and mounting many of them in pamphlet
binders. The staff spent some time in checking the Langley aero-
nautical collection and making the necessary changes in the catalogue
cards incident to the transfer of that library to the Library of Con-
gress. It worked out a plan by which the Library of Congress can
obtain copies of certain cards prepared by the staff for filing in its
union catalogue. It also provided that Library with manuscript
copies of a goodly number of titles, to be printed and distributed with
the cards regularly issued by the Library. In addition, it added more
than 15,000 cards to the shelf list of the Museum library, thus ad-
vancing it to a point from which it can be completed at an early date,
and began the preparation of a union shelf list to be kept, with the
union catalogue, in the Smithsonian Building. For this shelf list
27,417 cards were made, besides those prepared for the current publi-
cations catalogued. The cataloguing work of the year may be
shown in detail by the following statistics:

MU MER PORT HIOL UCR FEOTS LSE (hi Qe ea Ne yee _ ee tht 4, 992
Wolnien,recotalostied . 2c safc! sete apes foie bee ee bee sth eet bo 15
TOUS ST COTO Dh 412!) a 2 ne a see a ee eee. ees ae ae 2, 622
0 SLOG SE 2 ee ae, ae ee eee ee eee 289
SE EMER IOC SS 0000 LEGL D0), Col et ON 8, 716
Library of Congress cards added to catalogue_______________________ 26, 513

SPECIAL ACTIVITIES

Some of the special activities of the year have already been re-
corded under the appropriate sections of thisreport. Those that have
not been may be set down here. One detailed piece of work was
the checking of several long sets of publications, with a view to
completing them, especially those of the Carnegie Institution of
Washington, the Zoological Society of London, and the United
States Geological Survey. In connection with this work hundreds
of paper-covered publications of the United States Geological Survey
were listed for return to the survey, to be replaced by cloth-bound
volumes, in accordance with a recent agreement between the Museum
and the survey for the exchange of bound copies of their respective
publications. The reports and other publications of the State
geological surveys, which had been brought together the previous
year from various Smithsonian libraries, were also checked and most
of them used to fill gaps in either the main library of the Museum
or the library in the department of geology. The 434 volumes not
needed for this purpose were given to the United States Geological

Survey. About 1,050 scientific reprints were distributed to the
curators.
138 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

The Wistar Institute cards were filed to date, and more than
10,000 Concilium Bibliographicum cards of the author set were filed
in the main library, while the assignment, begun the year before, of
appropriate parts of the systematic set to the sectional libraries was
continued. It is hoped that the rest of this set can soon be deposited
in the sections interested, and that in the future the new increments
as they are received can immediately be sorted and sent to the cu-
rators for their files. In preparation for the forthcoming Supplement
to the Union List of Serials, the staff checked the periodical records
of all the Smithsonian libraries, except the deposit in the Library of
Congress, for new entries and for sets completed since 1925—a task
which required a great deal of time. The work of organizing, the
scientific duplicates in the west stacks of the main building, which
had been in progress for several years, was completed to the point
where most of the material became available for use. The result was
that before the end of the year hundreds of publications—many of
which could not otherwise have been obtained except by purchase,
and then often at fancy prices—were taken from the collection and
assigned to the sets in which they were lacking. The rest will soon
be used in the same way, or will be sent in exchange to other
hbraries.

In this connection it may be reported that 93 volumes and parts
of the Bulletin of the Philosophical Society of Washington were
sent to the society for use in completing its three sets. About 9,600
other duplicates not needed by the libraries of the Institution were
distributed to Harvard University, Yale University, Chicago Uni-
versity, and the Marine Biological Laboratory at Woods Hole, for
similar use, under an arrangement by which the Smithsonian is to
receive an equivalent exchange, not merely of old material, but in
the case of at least two of the universities, of new material issued by
their presses. This happy arrangement will result in placing pub-
lications not required by the Institution in strategic positions else-
where for the furthering of research and in conserving Smithsonian
funds for the purchase of publications that can not be obtained by
exchange.

The popular and semipopular material that had previously been
brought together in a special building behind the Astrophysical
Observatory and roughly grouped was more carefully arranged,
pending final disposal. The set of star charts that the Smithsonian
has been receiving for some years from various important observa-
tories was transferred as a semipermanent loan to the United States
Naval Observatory, and the Institution’s set of Russian meteorologi-
cal bulletins was likewise transferred to the United States Weather
Bureau, the purpose in each case being to place the material where
it would be of most aid to investigators.
;

F

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 139

It might be added that the librarian gave 14 lectures during the
year, chiefly before local groups, including the Shakespeare Society.
Several of these were on the Smithsonian Institution and its library
system. He also contributed a chapter on the libraries of the Insti-
tution to the history of Washington, entitled “ Washington—Past
and Present,” which has recently appeared.

PHYSICAL CONDITION AND EQUIPMENT

About 400 feet of new steel shelving were installed in the main
stack room of the Museum library. ‘This additional space will relieve
for the time being the congested condition of the library and will
provide room for the rearranging of the collections that is soon to
be undertaken. The improvement in physical equipment and ap-
pearance of several of the sectional libraries, notably those of botany
and geology, should also be mentioned.

CONCLUSION

On the whole, the system of libraries under the Smithsonian made
considerable progress during the year toward becoming a complete
and available reference instrument worthy of the Institution. This
progress was retarded only by the lack of sufficient funds for bind-
ing, for the purchase of many of the books and periodicals requested
by the curators—publications which could not be obtained by ex-
change—and for the employment of enough trained workers to
enable the libraries not merely to meet the daily demands upon
them, but to carry forward the work of reorganization that was
begun a few years ago. It is gratifying to report, however, that this
condition was somewhat relieved by the generous action of the Freer
Gallery of Art, already mentioned, in allotting funds for use in con-
nection with the cataloguing of its library; and that it will soon be
further relieved, for on July 1, 1930, thanks to an increase in the
Government appropriation to the Smithsonian for library purposes,
$1,000 more than last year will be available for books and periodicals,
and two new positions will be provided—namely, for a clerk in the
exchange office of the library and a senior stenographer in the
librarian’s office.

But to make it possible for the system fully to meet the needs
of the Institution, the annual sum for binding and for the purchase
of publications should be further increased, and the staff should be
further augmented by at least two cataloguers to revise the cata-
logue of the museum library and those of other units in the Smith-
sonian system, to expedite the making of the union catalogue, and
to render available at the earliest possible moment the thousands
of important publications still uncatalogued on the shelves; two
140 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

library assistants for service of a general nature in the sectional
libraries; a library aid to relieve the more experienced assistants
of minor library tasks that they are now obliged to perform in addi-
tion to their regular duties; and a stack attendant to keep the various
collections in order, that publications may be found immediately
when called for by the scientists. When this increased sum is at
hand and these positions are provided and filled, the library system
will be able to enter more worthily into the opportunity for service
afforded by its close relation to the work of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution and its branches.

Respectfully submitted.

Wittram L. Corsin,
Librarian.
Dr. Cuartes G. ABport,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 11
REPORT ON PUBLICATIONS

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the
publications of the Smithsonian Institution and the Government
bureaus under its administrative charge during the year ending
June 30, 1930:

The Institution proper published during the year 9 papers in the
series of Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, 1 annual report
and pamphlet copies of the 27 articles contained in the report ap-
pendix, and 1 special publication. The Bureau of American Ethnol-
ogy published 5 bulletins and a list of publications of the bureau.
The United States National Museum issued 1 annual report, 3 vol-
umes of proceedings, 9 complete bulletins, 2 parts of bulletins, 1
volume and 3 parts in the series Contributions from the National
Herbarium, and 32 separates from the proceedings.

Of these publications there were distributed during the year 168,-
163 copies, which included 71 volumes and separates of the Smith-
sonian Contributions to Knowledge, 19,575 volumes and separates of
the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, 29,886 volumes and sepa-
rates of the Smithsonian annual reports, 4,598 Smithsonian special
publications, 87,323 volumes and separates of the various series of
the National Museum publications, 24,868 publications of the Bureau
of American Ethnology, 49 publications of the National Gallery of
Art, 24 volumes of the Annals of the Astrophysical Observatory, 82
reports of the Harriman Alaska Expedition, and 1,615 reports of
the American Historical Association.

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS

Of the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, volume 81, 2 papers
and title page and table of contents were issued ; volume 82, 7 papers,
making 9 papers in all, as follows:

VOLUME 81

No. 14. Prehistoric Art of the Alaskan Eskimo. By Henry B. Collins, jr.
November 14, 1929. 52 pp., 24 pls., 2 text figs. (Publ. 3023.)
No. 15. Arthropods as Intermediate Hosts of Helminths, By Maurice C.
Hall. September 25, 1929. 77 pp. (Publ. 3024.)
Title page and table of contents. (Publ. 3063.)
141
142 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

VOLUME 82

No. 1. Absorption Lines of the Infra-Red Solar Spectrum. By C. G. Abbot
and H. B. Freeman. August 31, 1929. 17 pp., 5 pls., 1 text fig. (Publ. 3026.)

No. 2. The Thoracic Mechanism of a Grasshopper, and its Antecedents. By
R. BE. Snodgrass. December 31, 1929. 111 pp., 54 text figs. (Publ. 3027.)

No. 3. The Radiation of the Planet Earth to Space. By C. G. Abbot. No-
vember 16, 1929. 12 pp., 2 pls., 1 text fig. (Publ. 3028.)

No. 4. The Characters of the Genus Geocapromys Chapman. By Gerrit 8.
Miller, jr. December 9, 1929. 3 pp., 1 pl. (Publ. 3029.)

No. 5. Mammals Eaten by Indians, Owls, and Spaniards in the Coast Region
of the Dominican Republic. By Gerrit S. Miller, jr., December 11, 1929. 16 pp.
2 pls. (Publ, 3030.)

No. 6. The Past Climate of the North Polar Region. By Edward W. Berry.
April 9, 1930. 29 pp., 4 text figs. (Publ. 3061.)

No. 7. The Atmosphere and the Sun. By H. Helm Clayton. 49 pp., 33 text
figs. (Publ. 3062.)

SMITHSONIAN ANNUAL REPORTS

Report for 1928.—The complete volume of the Annual Report of
the Board of Regents for 1928 was received from the Public Printer
in November, 1929.

Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution showing
operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the year ending
June 30, 1928. xii-+763 pp., 145 pls., 52 text figs. (Publ. 2981.)

The appendix contained the following papers:

The Wider Aspects of Cosmogony, by J. H. Jeans.

The Stars in Action, by Alfred H. Joy.

Island Galaxies, by A. Vibert Douglas.

Astronomical Telescopes, by F. G. Pease.

New Results on Cosmic Rays, by R. A. Millikan and G. H. Camevon.

Three Centuries of Natural Philosophy, by W. F. G. Swann.

The Hypothesis of Continental Displacement, by C. Schuchert.

On Continental Fragmentation and the Geologic Bearing of the Moon’s Sur-
ficial Features, by Joseph Barrell.

The “ Craters of the Moon” in Idaho, by H. T. Stearns.

The Oldest Known Petrified Forest, by W. Goldring.

Water Divining, by J. W. Gregory.

Some Problems of Polar Geography, by R. N. Rudmose Brown.

Birds of the Past in North America, by Alexander Wetmore.

Mammalogy and the Smithsonian Institution, by Gerrit S. Miller, jr.

The Controversy Over Human “ Missing Links,” by Gerrit S. Miller, jr.

What is known of the Migrations of Some of the Whalebone Whales, by
Remington Kellogg.

Heology of the Red Squirrel, by A. Brooker Klugh.

Adventures of a Naturalist in the Ceylon Jungle, by Casey A. Wood.

Communication Among Insects, by N. E. McIndoo.

Our Insect Instrumentalists and Their Musical Technique, by H. A. Allard.

The Neanderthal Phase of Man, by AleS Hrdlicka.

‘Indian Costumes in the United States National Museum, by H. W. Krieger.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 143

Mounds and Other Ancient Earthworks of the United States, by David IL.
Bushnell, jr.

Geochronology, by Grand de Geer.

The Physiology of the Ductless Glands, by N. B, Taylor.

Arrhenius Memorial Lecture, by Sir James Walker.

Theodore William Richards, by Gregory P. Baxter.

Report for 1929—The report of the executive committee and
proceedings of the Board of Regents of the Institution and the re-
port of the secretary, both forming parts of the annual report of the
Board of Regents to Congress, were issued in December, 1929.

Report of the executive committee and proceedings of the Board of Regents
of the Smithsonian Institution for the year ending June 30, 1929. 12 pp.
(Publ. 30382.)

Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution for the year ending
June 30, 1929. 144 pp., 2 text figs. (Publ. 3031.)

The general appendix to this report, which was in press at the
close of the year, contains the following papers:

The Physics of the Universe, by Sir James Jeans.

Counting the Stars and some Conclusions, by Frederick H. Seares.

The Lingering Dryad, by Paul R. Heyl.

What is Light? by Arthur H. Compton.

Artificial Cold, by Gordon B. Wilkes.

Photosynthesis, by E. C. C. Baly.

Newly Discovered Chemical Elements, by N. M. Bligh.

Synthetic Perfumes, by H. Stanley Redgrove.

X Raying the Earth, by Reginald A. Daly.

Extinction and Extermination, by I. P. Tolmachoff.

The Gulf Stream and its Problems, by H. A. Marmer.

The Mystery of Life, by F. G. Donnan.

The Transition from Live to Dead: the Nature of Filtrable Viruses, by
A. BE. Boycott.

Heritable Variations, their Production by X rays, and their Relation to
Evolution, by H. J. Muller.

Social Parasitism in Birds, by Herbert Friedmann.

How Insects Fly, by R. IE. Snodgrass.

Climate and Migrations, by J. C. Curry.

Ur of the Chaldees: More Royal Tombs, by C. Leonard Woolley.

The Population of Ancient America, by H. J. Spinden.

The Aborigines of the Ancient Island of Hispaniola, by Herbert W. Krieger.

The Beginning of the Mechanical Transport Age in America, by Carl W.
Mitman.

The Servant in the House; a Brief History of the Sewing Machine, by
Frederick L. Lewton.

‘Thomas Chrowder Chamberlin (1843-1928), by Bailey Willis.

Hideyo Noguchi, by Simon Flexner.

SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS

Explorations and Field Work of the Smithsonian Institution in 1929. 222 pp.,
200 text figs. (Publ. 3060.)
144 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930
PUBLICATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

The editorial work of the National Museum is in the hands of Dr.
Marcus Benjamin. During the year ending June 30, 1930, the
Museum published 1 annual report, 3 volumes of proceedings, 9
complete bulletins, 2 parts of bulletins, 1 complete volume and 3
parts in the series Contributions from the United States National
Herbarium, and 82 separates from the proceedings.

The issues of the bulletin were as follows:

Bulletin 76. Asteroidea of the North Pacific and Ajacent Waters. Part 8.

Forcipulata (concluded). By Walter Kenrick Fisher.

Bulletin 100. Contributions to the Biology of the Philippine Archipelago and

Adjacent Regions.

Volume 9. Bryozoa of the Philippine Region. By Ferdinand Canu and
Ray S. Bassler.

Volume 10. The Fishes of the Families Amiidae, Chandidae, Duleidae, and
Serranidae, Obtained by the United States Bureau of Fisheries Steamer
“Albatross”? in 1907 to 1910, Chiefly in the Philippine Islands and Adjacent
Seas. By Henry W. Fowler and Barton A. Bean.

Bulletin 104. The Foraminifera of the Atlantic Ocean.

Part 7. Nonionidae, Camerinidae, Peneroplidae, and Alveolinellidae. By
Joseph Augustine Cushman.

Bulletin 147. Archeological and Historical Investigatious in Samana, Domini-
can Republic. By Herbert W. Krieger.
Bulletin 148. Collections of Objects of Religious Ceremonial in the United

States National Museum. By Immanuel Moses Casanowicz,
3ulletin 149. Composition and Structure of Meteorites. By George P. Merrill.
Bulletin 150. Revision of the Fishes of the Family Liparidae. By Victor

Burke. ;

Sulletin 151. East African Reptiles and Amphibians in the United States

National Museum. By Arthur Loveridge.
3ulletin 152. The Cancroid Crabs of America of the Families Euryalidae,

Portunidae, Atelecyclidae, Cancridae and Xanthidae. By Mary J. Rathbun.
Bulletin 1538. Birds Collected by the Childs Frick Expedition to Ethiopia and

Kenya Colony. Part 1. Non-Passeres. By Herbert Friedmann.

The issues of the contributions from the United States National
Herbarium were as follows:

Volume 22. Systematic Plant Studies—Chiefly Tropical American.

Volume 24, Part 9. The Grasses of Central America. By A. S. Hitchcock.

Volume 26, Part 4. The Piperaceae of Costa Rica. By William Trelease.

Part 5. Notes on Certain Type Specimens of American Asteraceae in
European Herbaria. By S. I. Blake.

Of the separates from the proceedings, 1 was from volume 75,
22 from volume 76, and 9 from volume 77.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 145
PUBLICATIONS OF THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

The editorial work of the bureau has continued under the direc-
tion of the editor, Mr. Stanley Searles. During the year, five bul-
letins and a list of publications were issued, as follows:

Bulletin S88. Myths and ‘Tales of the Southeastern Indians (Swanton).
X+275 pp.

Bulletin 90. Papago Music (Densmore). xx+229 pp., 19 pls., 4 figs.

Bulletin 91. Additional Studies of the Arts, Crafts, and Customs of the Guiana
Indians (Roth). xvii+110 pp., 34 pls., 90 figs.

Bulletin 938. Pawnee Music (Densmore). xvii+129 pp., 8 pls.

Bulletin 95. Contributions to Fox Ethnology.—II (Michelson). vii+183 pp.,
1 fig.

List of Publications of the Bureau of American Ethnology. 50 pp.

Publications in press are as follows:

Forty-fifth Annual Report. Accompanying papers: The Salishan Tribes of the
Western Plateaus (Teit, edited by Boas); Tattooing and Face and Body
Painting of the Thompson Indians, British Columbia (Teit, edited by Boas) ;
The Ethnobotany of the Thompson Indians of British Columbia (Steedman) ;
The Osage Tribe: Rite of the Wa-xo-be (La Flesche).

Forty-sixth Annual Report. Accompanying papers: Anthropological Survey in
Alaska (Hrdlitka) ; Report to the Honorable Isaae §S. Stevens, Governor of
Washington Territory, on the Indian Tribes of the Upper Missouri (Denig,
edited by Hewitt).

Bulletin 94. Tobacco among the Karuk Indians of California (Harrington).

Bulletin 96. Early Pueblo Ruins in the Piedra District, Southwestern Colorado
(Roberts).

REPORT OF THE AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION

The annual reports of the American Historical Association are
transmitted by the association to the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution and are communicated by him to Congress, as provided
by the act of incorporation of the association.

The annual reports for 1925 and 1926 and the supplemental
volumes to these reports were issued during the year. The annual
reports for 1927 and 1928 (1 volume) and for 1929 were in press at
the close of the year, and also the supplemental volume to the report
for 1927.

REPORT OF THE NATIONAL SOCIETY, DAUGHTERS OF THE AMERICAN
REVOLUTION

The manuscript of the Thirty-second Annual Report of the Na-
tional Society, Daughters of the American Revolution, was trans-
mitted to Congress, in accordance with the law, December 9, 1929.
146 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930
ALLOTMENTS FOR PRINTING

The congressional allotments for the printing of the Smithsonian
Report to Congress and the various publications of the Government
bureaus under the administration of the Institution were virtually
used up at the close of the year. The appropriation for the coming
year ending June 30, 1931, totals $99,000, allotted as follows:

Annual report to the Congress of the Board of Regents of the Smith-

sonianwInstititionee 2285 ea bent) b ho gy See aor ergy Ting Depth 2 Eee $11, 500
National’ Museum. 2-2. ee ee Be ee ee 4 aes 46, 500
Bureau of American@ithnologyt iss _ teen sts eh ee 28, 300
NaticnaliGallery ofeArtst)7 3) 182 Yoml ig te oe eee tite) BES 500
International tixchangeg 4s % 22s Sh Pe eee eee eee 300
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature_____-_--------------~ 100
NETO DI) ZOO lo pei call sega Te a a ne Te ee eee 300
AStroplysical “ODSCRVa Ol Vesa eee oe ee ee 4, 500
Annual report of the American Historical Association____-_--_---_--- 7, 000

SMITHSONIAN ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PRINTING AND PUBLICATION

The editor has continued to serve as secretary of the Smithsonian
advisory committee on printing and publication, to which are re-
ferred for consideration and recommendation all manuscripts offered
to the Institution and its branches. The committee also considers
matters of publication policy. Five meetings were held during the
year and 70 manuscripts acted upon. The membership at the close
of the year was as follows: Dr. Leonhard Stejneger, head curator
of biology, National Museum, chairman; Dr. William M. Mann, di-
rector, National Zoological Park; Mr. M. W. Stirling, chief, Bureau
of American Ethnology; Dr. R. S. Bassler, head curator of geology,
National Museum; Mr. W. P. True, editor of the Institution, secre-
tary; Dr. Marcus Benjamin, editor of the National Museum; and
Mr. Stanley Searles, editor of the Bureau of American Ethnology.

Respectfully submitted.

W. P. True, Pditor.

Dr. Cuarues G. Axpor,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 12

LIST OF SUBSCRIBERS TO THE JAMES SMITHSON ME-
MORIAL EDITION, SMITHSONIAN SCIENTIFIC SERIES,

SINCE NOVEMBER 15, 1929+

Mr. Frank ©. Ball,
Muncie, Ind.

Mrs. John N. Carey,
Indianapolis, Ind.

Mr. Frederic G. Carnochan,
New York City.

Mr. M. Friedsam,
New York City.

Mr. Jobn Gellatly,
New York City.

Mr. William Hale Harkness,
New York City.

Mrs. William L. Harkness,
New York City.

Mrs. Edward Henry Harriman,
New York City.

Mr. T. A. Havemeyer,
New York City.

Mr. Franklyn L. Hutton,
New York City.

Mrs. Amelia L. Lashar,
Fairfield, Conn.

Mr. C. R. Morley,
Cleveland, Ohio.

Dr. Fred T. Murphy,
Detroit, Mich.

Mr. Philip M. Plant,
New York City.

Mr. Charles L. Riker,
New York City.

Mrs. Mary E. Sage,
West Hartford, Conn.

Countess Laszlo Széchenyi,
Washington, D. C.

Mr. W. H. Truesdale,
New York City.

Mr. Charles B. Van Duzcn,
Detroit, Mich,

1¥For full list of subscribers see report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution

for the year ending June 30, 1929.

147
dares, Bie Ek: CO NE
Me. Sake at 8)
percent aed.

'
er

notte

4 en eit Jo prolyat fo geen Yo
= anak Brickiay ‘nore adh mt :
| Whectary, '$ vibe abuibars pean | | | ‘a

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTI-
TUTION FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1930

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

Your executive committee respectfully submits the following report
in relation to the funds of the Smithsonian Institution together with
a statement of the appropriations by Congress for the Government
bureaus in the administrative charge of the Institution.

SMITHSONIAN ENDOWMENT FUND

The original bequest of James Smithson was £104,960 8 shillings

6 pence—$508,318.46. Refunds of money expended in prose-

cution of the claim, freights, insurance, ete., together with

payment into the fund of the sum of £5,015 which had been

withheld during the lifetime of Madame de la Batut, brought

the fund to. the amount-0fsse25 6b bse. ye eserceaeel ce ee $550, 000. 00
Since the original bequest the Institution has received gifts from

various sources, chiefly in the years prior to 1893, the income

from which may be used for the general work of the Institution

ho que aAmoUnt Ofisiests 942 Wb 28 sbese ede ee Fo wack hice f= 260, 602. 39
Total capital gain from investment of savings from income------ 207, 796. 11
Total capital gain from sale of securities, stock dividends, etc- --- 15, 391. 35

Total endowment for general purposes as
TRNAS REDOE = 22 oe $1, 022, 385. 75
Capital gain from gifts during year ended June

a oo wa in sd pe 1, 418. 00
Capital gain from stock dividends, sale of securi-

0 1 OSE ee aes AEE. 2 828. 57
Capital gain from sale of Smithsonian Scientific

7) pe ty all cae ape a pela 2 ha ec ag 0 9, 157. 53

Present total endowment for general pur-
NIN ois ad Rese oS 1, 033, 789. 85 1, 033, 789. 85

1 Approximately $7,000 income from sales of Smithsonian Scientific Series not yet invested will appear
in next report.

28095—31——-11 149
150 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

The Institution holds also a number of endowment gifts the income
of each being restricted to specific use. These are invested and stand
on the books of the Institution as follows:

Bacon, Virginia Purdy, fund, for a traveling scholarship to in-
vestigate fauna of countries other than the United States_-__~ $65, 812. 09
Baird, Lucy H., fund, for creating a memorial to Secretary

Baird eof: = - 92. 233 42 32. cess 2o2 2 ee ee 2, 076. 68
Canfield collection fund, for increase and care of the Canfield

Collection Of minerals. le = ee se ee 50, 242. 50
Casey, Thomas L., fund for maintenance of Casey collection and

promotion of researches relating to Coleoptera__------------ 6, 416. 97
Chamberlain, Frances Lea, fund, for increase and promotion of

Isaac Lea collection of gems and mollusks___.-.----------- 36, 990. 04

Hodgkins fund, specific, for increase and diffusion of more exact
knowledge in regard to nature and properties of atmospheric

Eire eyesentia 14 teen oer uated hee Uys - named jae pet ettytn afuivaliadn, ‘beris Te GPe speipes: fe 100, 000. 00
Hughes, Bruce, fund, to found Hughes alcove___--_----------- 17, 942. 72
Myer, Catherine Walden, fund, for purchase of first-class works

of art for the use of and benefit of the National Gallery of Art-_- 21, 700. 97
Pell, Cornelia Livingston, fund, for maintenance of Alfred Duane

Pell: collection@@w ules 4 Ge SU) = BEY OMT Baits Te gees 3, 171. 41
Poore, Lucy T. and George W., fund, for general use of the Insti-

tution when principal amounts to the sum of $250,000_----- 58, 148. 61
Reid, Addison T., fund, for founding chair in biology in memory

of Asher Tunisusveid. SUsa) Ju BD BAIRUATE 16) OMG Ts is. Sk 23, 476. 50
Roebling fund, for care, improvement, and increase of Roebling

collection: of ‘minGrals US Seu Bel AeA Th Rene Se Oe 158, 524. 06
Springer, Frank, fund, for care, ete., of Springer collection and

library = 2 22 SEO Ua 2s i) ee PO GC, DE Od 30, 000. 00

Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux, research fund, for develop-
ment of geological and paleontological studies and publishing
results«thereof... 22 8 Bona Te BOOS a AOS Beh 12, 477. 50
Younger, Helen Walcott, fund, held in trust.___-.------------- 49, 812. 50
Total endowment for specific purposes other
than Freer endowment as per last report. $626, 003. 70
Capital gain from investment of savings from in-

come during year ended June 30, 1930_-------- 8, 825. 19
Capital gain from stock dividends, sale of securities,

etc., during year ended June 30, 1930__--------- 1, 963. 66

Excluding Freer endowment, total present
endowment for specific purposes _------- 636, 792. 55 636, 792. 55

FREER GALLERY OF ART FUND

Early in 1906, by deed of gift, Mr. Charles L. Freer, of Detroit, gave
to the Institution his collection of Chinese and other oriental objects
of art, as well as paintings, etchings, and other works of art by Whis-
tler, Thayer, Dewing, and other artists. Later he also gave funds for
the construction of a building to house the collection, and finally in
oe SE yy. See

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 151

his will, probated November 6, 1919, he provided stock and securities
to the estimated value of $1,958,591.42 as an endowment fund for
the operation of the gallery. In view of the importance and special
nature of the gift and the requirements of the testator in respect to it,
all Freer funds are kept separate from the other funds of the Institu-
tion, and the accounting in respect to them is stated separately.

Original endowment for expenses of gallery_._.._..__..----_---- $1, 958, 591. 42
Total capital gain from investment of savings from income----- 410, 381. 31
Total capital gain from stock dividends, sale, etc., of securities... 2, 981, 956. 77
Total capital as per last report......---------- $5, 236, 054. 02
Capital gain from investment of savings from in-
come during year ended June 30, 1930___-__- 11, 602. 60
Capital gain from stock dividends, sale of securi-
ties, etc., during year ended June 30, 1930___- 53, 272. 88
Total Freer endowment for specific pur-
ENE LESS ES a 5, 300, 929. 50 5, 300, 929. 50
SUMMARY
Invested endowment for general purposes___.-...-.---------- 1, 033, 789. 85
Invested endowment for specific purposes other than Freer en-
OE A ee ee a ee ee ee. Se ae eee 636, 792. 55
Total invested endowment other than Freer endowment__ 1, 670, 582. 40
Freer invested endowment for specific purposes_____---------- 5, 300, 929. 50

Total invested endowment for all purposes_-_____-_------ 6, 971, 511. 90

CLASSIFICATION OF INVESTMENTS

Deposited in the United States Treasury at 6 per cent per annum
as authorized in the United States Revised Statutes, section

Ui es OE tT ere ee ee eee eee ria 1, 000, 000. 00
Investments other than Freer endowment:
I hl ad, dee nine. Sarit aaa we onlewie ae $252, 024. 65
(EEC SE Ie a Rac Mal od Domi) ye tae 403, 100. 20
Real estate first-mortgage notes__.__.__--- 15, 000. 00
EST Ry apa tee eddy Het 457. 55
— 670, 582. 40
Total investments other than Freer endowment-_______-- 1, 670, 582. 40
Investments of Freer endowment:
a PRE a Re $2, 814, 767. 12
ROOGRica te olde uwdJtduawel de tews ue els dt 2, 407, 664. 50
Real estate first-mortgage notes_______-_-_- 76, 500. 00

EE UE aces as oe ca eae 1, 997. 88
pores. ES, 920, BO

ES EE ae ee J ce Pre 6, 971, 511. 90
152 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

INCOME FROM INVESTMENTS DURING YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1930

Corresponding
4 : 4 figures for year end-
From $1,000,000 deposited in United States ing June 30, 1929
Troan 40 6 ‘perveent:” “ik 40 Beh Pe $60, 000. 00 $60, 000. 00
From $670,582.40 invested in stocks, bonds,
etc., other than Freer endowment at about
BRSPABED CONG. a ire Feces ene ee 1 34, 624. 40 30, 582. 77
Total income other than Freer endow-
Ment _ === 2209s 19.00) Bier Busby 94, 624. 40 90, 582. 77
FREER ENDOWMENT
From $5,300,929.50 invested in stocks, bonds,
ete.,; at about,6.32)per cent-222=2 2-2" 2 L Sae 2 334, 936. 39 282, 435. 13
Total income from investments_—_______ 429, 560. 79 373, 017. 90
CASH BALANCES, RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS DURING THE FISCAL
YEAR 3
Cash; balance on: band June 30, 192922 eee en ee es $216, 994. 28
RECEIPTS

Cash from invested endowments and from mis-
cellaneous sources for general use of the Insti-

LEON EICO) EVE Se ee i epee te Spec re ee OU eee eae $74, 850. 62
Cash for increase of endowments for specific use_ 1, 039. 57
Cash gifts for increase of endowments for general

Cees ee A ea ie i ee ee a 189. 10
Cash gifts, ete., for specific use (not to be in-

VEBHOG) -yeptel seats 1 CebANR I Cok Vid ee AA 105, 710. 88
Cash received as royalties from sales of Smith-

sonian Scientific.Series fat ajo bs Sat ese 21, 833. 92
Cash gain from sale of securities, etc. (to be in-

VIESUCC)) eee es ea om ee ae By ee ees 2,170. 13

Cash income from endowments for specific use
other than Freer endowment, and from miscel-

JanmeOlls SOURCES a ss-= S55 2. 5 eee See 72, 078. 30
Cash capital from sale, call of securities, etc. (to
ESRC ESteG)\ Seek mt ae a See ee ee 175,357. 85
Total receipts other than Freer endowment_-_-_--------- 453, 220. 37

1 In addition to this income the sum of $3,703.13 was received from gain from sale of securities and stock
dividends.

2 In addition to this income the sum of $53,310.34 was received from gain from sale of securities and stock
dividends

3 This statement does not include Government appropriations under the administrative charge of the
Institution.

4 Under resolution of the Board of Regents, three-fourths of this income is credited to the permanent
endowment fund of the Institution and one-fourth is made expendable for general purposes.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 153

Cash receipts from Freer endowment:

Income from investments ---__.__.._----- $303, 780. 87
Net gain from sale of securities, etc. (to be
ee hss bts eee 38, 480. 34
Cash capital from sale, call of securities,
ete, (to be reinvested) J 22-2 1, 432, 644. 95
———_—_————— $1, 774, 906. 16
UE ers oa os Oa meg ee 2, 445, 120. 81
DISBURSEMENTS

From funds for general work of the Institution:

Buildings—care, repair, and alteration - -- - $1, 937. 05
Furniture and fixtures. __-.-..-.--------- 529. 17
General administration 5___._._....------- 24, 154. 26
ee nn nn ; 3, 170. 37
Publications (comprising preparation, print-

ing, and distribution) ............--.--- 13, 224. 93
Researches and explorations-------------- 19, 294. 39

International exchanges-__---.------------- 4, 830. 35
a 67, 140. 52
From funds for specific use other than Freer en-
dowment:
Investments made from gifts, from gain
from sales of securities, ete., and from
eneenne rar SUNN a= = = Oe ek 20, 659. 95
Other expenditures, consisting largely of re-
search work, travel, increase and care of
special collections, etc., from income of
endowment funds and cash gifts for spe-

1 7 ieeeapety Soll Nethet Ts laad Sta gett Na a 2 147, 063. 31
Cash capital from sale, call of securities, etc.,

plemented. ........-.—~.) At. FAR OO. 4 174, 900. 30
—_—_—_—————_ 342, 623. 56
From Freer endowment:
Operating expenses of gallery, salaries, pur-
chases of art objects, field expenses, ete_- 337, 207. 13
Investments made from gain from sale of
securities, etc., and from _income_ ---_---- 50, 045. 48
Cash capital from sale, call of securities, etc.,
ME ROSLOU. ts a US U8 1, 433, 233. 95
———————_ 1, 820, 486. 56
een nen ee ae ee er 214, 870. 17

De tagabosbicdh cettoieh Gees dial Jebel ews ELS 2, 445, 120. 81

4 This includes salaries of the secretary and certain others.

154 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

EXPENDITURES FOR RESEARCHES IN PURE SCIENCE, EXPLORATIONS,
CARE, INCREASE AND STUDY OF COLLECTIONS, ETC.

Expenditures from general endowment:

PUDMGRIONRS oon Soe 6 eed ee ea ee $13, 224. 93
Researches and explorations._._......---...-- 19, 294. 39
SSS $32, 519, 32
Expenditures from funds devoted to specific pur-
poses:
Researches and explorations___........----.- 69, 355. 97
Care, increase and study of special collections... 16, 168. 41
RODICR ONS oo te ee et ae eee or a tee 27, 712. 45
——-—— -—— 113, 236. 83
OUR) <P EAE ore ea ee coe wae ee eee Ble 145, 756. 15

Table showing growth of endownment funds of the Smithsonian Institution

Year

1846-1891 _ ___

1893-1894_ ___
1895-1903 - __-
1904-1913...

Endowment for

general work of

the Institution
being original
Smithson b e -

quest, gifts from
other sources,

and invested say-

ings of income

1 $702, 000.
802, 000.
852, 000.
877, 000.
885, 807.
885, 807.
886, 084.
887, 607.
887, 830.

2 883, 867.
884, 305.
884, 747.
884, 933.
886, 107.
886, 246.
886, 373.
886, 769.
886, 830.
886, 877.
929, 068.

51, 022) 385.

1, 033, 789.

Endowment for
specific researches,
etc., including in-
vested savings of

income

Freer bequest for
operation of Freer
Gallery of Art,
including salaries,
care, ete.

Freer gift for con-
struction of Freer
Gallery of Art
building

$101, 000.
101, 000.
102, 000.
111, 692.
116, 692.
143, 515.
160, 527.
164, 304.
176, 157.
190, 489.
198, 149.
272, 538.
291, 858.
306, 524.
319, 973.
338, 136.
342, 876.
498, 401.
665, 233.
626, 003.
636, 792.

3 367, 072. 04 | $1, 253, 004. 75
Ba ah 1, 842, 144. 75
liga 1 somnsepes ‘ 3) 296, 574. 75

AONE ASS 5, 236, 054, 02
is epee ee Sere 5, 300, 929. 50

1 Original endowment plus income from savings during these years.
? Loss on account of bonds reduced on books from par to market value. __
3 Cash from sale of 2,000 shares of Parke, Davis & Co. stock, including dividends, and interest on gift of

$1,000,000.

‘In this year Parke, Davis & Co. declared 100 per cent stock dividend.
§ Increase Jargely from funds transferred from specific endowment column and income released for general
work of the Institution.
a

BALANCE SHEET OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
JUNE 30, 1930

ASSETS

Stocks and bonds at acquirement value:

I RI en on ee oa $578, 292. 40
SD TR ten ae Set a Sew oe es 5, 300, 929. 50
Deemereraumas, .22ipic. MUU OL O97 30, 000. 00
mr mcote Tune. oi =~ Jui coss eit oil lo 12, 477. 50
ET i a ee ne a 2 49, 812. 50
$5, 971, 511. 90
U. 8. Treasury Department deposit... .............-.....__. 1, 000, 000. 00
Miscellaneous, principally funds advanced for printing publica-
tions and field expenses (to be repaid)___....________-____- 33, 417. 47
Cash:
Funds in U. 8. Treasury and in banks-_~_-_- $214, 870. 17
In office safe for cash transactions.___.___-__ 1, 300. 00
— 216, 170. 17
ee UUIB SELLA UL OS, DIV CTO DILY Fo aot A 7, 221, 099. 54
LIABILITIES
Freer bequest, capital accounts:
Court and grounds fund..-_-----_-_------_ 592, 046. 60
Court and grounds maintenance fund__-_--_-- 149, 608. 46
EE SS ae aa ay pape ae 602, 395. 38
Residuary estate fund. ---.......-..-..--- 3, 956, 879. 06
———————_ §, 300, 929. 50
ES 98 hoa, Sen phy win me SE cs wen ai etre 65, 812. 09
ERE EES Sp Cees Se me ee ene ae ae 2, 076. 68
Canfield collection fund, capital..................--.-----_-- 50, 242. 50
a wees te, fund, capital... ..--+..2....ni.0scn4-8 6, 416. 97
nn WOES, RRO Sn no ewe ddan acaance 36, 990. 04
A RS SED Ree Oe Saye ee oe 100, 000. 00
OS CO ac |) Se Se a a 17, 942. 72
NS IR FE AE a ef Pe 21, 700. 97
EEN EE EERE RE SRO PES Be SE 3, 171. 41
ES EE ie ee eae ee ee ae ee ae ee 58, 148. 61
ES ee ee ee oe ee ewe mney eee ee 23, 476. 50
gS ERE EE ORR ARS Ee 158, 524. 06
Smithsonian unrestricted fund, capital___.....--..-.--------- 1, 033, 789. 85
i, CE ee oe. aie dabadampuencew 30, 000. 00
wameeows research fund, capital....................<......... 12, 477. 50
EES SE ES ae Ween ae ee ee 49, 812. 50
156 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

Freer bequest, current accounts:

Court and.prounds fund © 2 2-5. 42 <ude oe $20, 213. 69
Court and grounds maintenance fund__.__-_--- 5, 629. 15
Curator tings sort feb om ge es 14, 971. 67
Residustwestate fund... S62 c<c eke eee 66, 830. 47
—_—_—_——_ $107, 644. 98
Springer fund, current: account...2. 2... 2 8. 2 oe eee 394, 21
Walcottifund, ‘currentiaccounte 2 are ie 1, 140. 42
Yoqunver fund, Current Account... eee 217. 50
Miscellaneous accounts held by the Institution for the most
partifor specific. use). 2inty St sree eee eee a eee 140, 190. 53
Total: 20422 oe oe a bee eee eee 7, 221, 099. 54

All payments are made by check, signed by the secretary of the
Institution, on the Treasurer of the United States, and all revenues
are deposited to the credit of the same account. Jn many instances
deposits are placed in bank for convenience of collection and later
are withdrawn in round amounts and deposited in the Treasury.

The practice of investing temporarily idle funds in time deposits has
proven satisfactory. During the year the interest derived from this
source has resulted in a total of $8,103.31.

The foregoing report relates only to the private funds of the Smith-
sonian Institution. The following is a statement of the congressional
appropriations for the past 10 years, for the support of the several
governmental branches under the administrative control of the Insti-
tution, and of appropriations for other special purposes durjng that
period.
157

000‘z¢ ‘yred Jo Arepunoq yINos JoJ syed ‘N00‘OTZ$ ‘930 ‘satades 10} Zurpring ,;

‘Amsvoiy sojvig peyiuag Aq pesinqsip spun pue yoy! qory Juystasedng Aq suop AION »

*sosuddxo PUB SOLIB[BS JO} UOIQBIIdoIddw Ul papNypoUy S] VISIT! SIGI SZHI JOYV +

“BplIg 10) SUIPTING »

*pusl [BUOIIIPPY ¢

*qloder 4ysB] JO FuryuyAd 10338 4DV YOL@A\ JO odessed 03 ONp soINSy JOULIOJ JBAO SesBeIOU] ¢
“dOIjNIIIsUy] UB}UOS

P| -4UJUIg 941 Jo spuny oy8Alid Aq paqyioddns useq pey eurl} sty} 07 dn gory ‘doI}B}s UBaTIYO 943 Jo sesuedxe oy] Jo J1vd ZuyuINssB JUSMITIBAOH 03 SNP UOT}BIIdOIdds UI esBaIDU] ¢
SoKtig a. Sf Pe ee ee ee ee ee. EES
al ry
|
& ‘, I. * 00 “#00 ‘98 = te 2 1.00°000,86 00 “Eo8 ‘bE 0000 5eze-5"| O0000"80es 7" “ar"s "=" | ae ae ee ee ae ee ee ae Of6T
s fai sk, news os, | | 00 000 ‘96 00 “€2z% Se 00 “000 ‘08 » 00 ‘0¢¢ ‘S61 00 ‘000 ‘08$ »
2. Seepage re nS | 00 009 ‘2 ¢ 00 000 ‘06 00 "998 ‘OE 00 "000 ‘Sz » 00 ‘000 ‘ZT Sen er ee ee ee a” ee ee ee ce eee
et (aes Se-~ ae fers 2 =| 00 000 ‘9 00 “000 ‘08 onsets: co ("3 Foi Sa lelectra slanted ste dala aia deel ak Sante: eal = Se
Meer eae ee 00 ‘000 ‘9 00 000 ‘06 OOmS20 Toe | ns | es ee ORO oie fo Stees ee ol ae ae oe he ee eee
~ oe 2s. | 00 "000 ‘9$ 00 "000 ‘06 OmngE E> xe OCU ts [oe ee a ee ee ee ee ee ee ee
ee a | ces ot de | 00 OOF ‘LL 00 000 ‘9T ~ ee a COROOOFNEE «Sloss. ogee nt ee a ae eee a Lac ee cae ae
eee ee i | 00 ‘00F ‘22$ 00 000 ‘ST 00 008 Ze MOSCA. |< a ae ec ee ee eee ee ee a ee
i eericc wake ee ae Mee ease Se Sl ee ee 00 000 ‘st BO /OU0 cRer | OOMUUOR Gan. lac es Soe wee so a ae ee ae ae ee a
5 ne > sik Sy) le ae a OUSD00 TOTS tes |S ee ees OORUDOLGEIe: |. 5 a ccs ay ae oe re a ee ee ee ee Se ee
g = =
Burpring A104
10139901 £1810100g yivg yIvg z
Si} -oid a1 require g | uBIsIssV Seas as a ones [BoIF0[00Z 10y| PBo1Zojoog Be ie nly
I [suonippy [eaonIppy yx [euolyIppy [BUO}JBN Zulprengayeg
00 ‘000 ‘1z$ 40, la ew 2 00 “0Z2 ‘98 OOSGSR Las OS (hae “a5 00 “008 ‘89 00 "262 ‘IS
& oN aie Ove i. |= Ss 00 ‘09 ‘98 | 00 "oss ‘2 00 ‘000 ‘0z$ 00 ‘008 ‘9 00 “eee ‘Og
(peas 00096 ‘909 |-7-""-~-""" 777-7] 00 090 ‘Ze 00 “092 ‘L — a ePeOmmceng 00 ‘ees ‘OF
ar new |= =. f= 00 ‘OST ‘TS | 00 ‘009 ‘L i i 2 00 ‘O9T ‘Z¢ 00 ‘092 ‘9F
ee - Ree ey veh [SSS SS 00 ‘OST ‘TE 1 | 00 000 8 c ee be 00 “O9T ‘2g 00 “092 ‘9F
ai a Drew |. 2. so 00 ‘08S ‘Iz | 99°98 ceo = watt 00 ‘O9T “29 00 ‘099 ‘6F
i Sor en, 00 ‘000 ‘STF 00 "Hz ‘ZIT 00 “008 ‘ST | 00 ‘00S en |e a 00 000 ‘FF 00 "000 ‘8h
ere oe 00 ‘OZT ‘SIF 00 ‘PHO ‘60T$ 00 ‘00¢ ‘eT POGDOg (2. e ee | eee ae 00 000 ‘+ 00 ‘000 ‘oF
_ a) ~ eee ger ewe \c .— 2 0000p ‘ge 5 |:00 002.5 |= --- = 000009 | 00 °000 ‘0g
= -— 2 00 ‘OSI 6IFS [777777 777-77" 7 "| 00 000 ‘ers 00 “008 ‘Z$ Eero" =" ss) 00 G0 re 00 000 ‘Oc$
9104819417
101199 [00 tanesnyy | aonpsuedur0o| A107BAIIsqO | ognuatog od mel ABojoum” | sedusyoxry Pp
qe <yeoH | jeaoneNn joosvesouy | [wolsAqdomsy jo endoleiwo gk aks uvojlenry | [pUO}IwUIEWU] A
[suoyuasaquy |?! o
5 1 wee dS ee ee Se ne
uoynysUr UDUWOsSY)IUG 94) fo 9409 9Y} 0} pajsn4jur ‘sna QT 18D] ay) Burinp ssosbuoy fig epow suoynridoiddy ay} Burnoys 91907,
eS ela li Maia a Nh a
158 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

The report of the audit of the Smithsonian private funds is printed

below.
SEPTEMBER 23, 1930.
EXEcUuTIvVE CoMMITTEE, BOARD OF REGENTS,
Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C.

Sirs: Pursuant to agreement we have audited the accounts of the Smithsonian
Institution for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1930, and certify the balance of cash
on hand June 30, 1930, to be $216,170.17.

We have verified the record of receipts and disbursements maintained by the
Institution and the agreement of the book balances with the bank balances.

We have examined all the securities in the custody of the Institution and in the
custody of the banks and found them to agree with the book records.

We have compared the stated income of such securities with the receipts of
record and found them in agreement therewith.

We have examined all vouchers covering disbursements for account of the
Institution during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1930, together with the authority
therefor and have compared them with the Institution’s record of expenditures
and found them to agree.

We have examined and verified the accounts of the Institution with each trust
fund.

We found the books of account and records well and accurately kept and the
securities conveniently filed and securely cared for.

All information requested by your auditors was promptly and courteously
furnished.

We certify the balance sheet in our opinion correctly presents the financial
condition of the Institution as at June 30, 1930.

CapiraL AupiIT Company,
WiuuiamM L. YAEGER,
Certified Public Accountant.

Respectfully submitted.

Freprric A. DeLano,
R. Watton Moors,
J. C. Merriam,

Executive Committee.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR THE FISCAL YEAR
ENDED JUNE 30, 1930

ANNUAL MEETING, DECEMBER 12, 1929

Present: Chief Justice W. H. Taft, chancellor, in the chair, Senator
Joseph T. Robinson, Senator Claude A. Swanson, Representative R.
Walton Moore, Representative Robert Luce, Mr. Frederic A. Delano,
Mr. Dwight W. Morrow, Mr. Charles E. Hughes, Dr. John C. Mer-
riam, and the secretary, Dr. C. G. Abbot. Dr. Alexander Wetmore,
assistant secretary, was also present.

The secretary announced that Representative Walter H. Newton
had resigned his seat as a Member of the House on June 30, last, thus
automatically terminating his appointment as a regent, and that the
Speaker had appointed Representative Robert Luce as a regent to
succeed him.

Mr. Delano, chairman of the executive committee, submitted the
following customary resolution, which was adopted:

Resolved, That the income of the Institution for the fiscal year ending June 30,
1931, be appropriated for the service of the Institution, to be expended by the
secretary, with the advice of the executive committee, with full discretion on the
part of the secretary as to items.

The secretary stated that his report for the fiscal year ending June
30, 1929, had been supplied to the regents, and called attention to the
many interesting and encouraging events of the year.

At the request of the secretary, Doctor Wetmore explained the
proposed building program for the Institution. After full discussion,
the following resolution was adopted:

Resolved, That the permanent committee be authorized to formulate a program
to be presented to the Bureau of the Budget, and subsequently transmitted to
Congress, comprehending the proposed additional buildings needed by the
Smithsonian Institution.

The secretary stated that the Smithsonian Scientific Series was
meeting with gratifying success and that the Institution had already
received from this source royalties amounting to about $28,000,
which would increase as time passed. He reminded the board that
Ambassador Charles G. Dawes had made a grant for the purpose of
conducting historical studies in European archives and that Dr.
Charles Upson Clark, an expert, was now engaged in the work and

had already met with success in his researches.
159
160 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

The annual report of the National Gallery of Art Commission was
presented. The report was accepted, and the board adopted the
following resolution:

Resolved, That the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution hereby
approves the recommendation of the National Gallery of Art Commission that
W. K. Bixby, W. H. Holmes, Herbert L. Pratt, and Charles Borie, be reelected as
members of the commission for the ensuing term of four years, their present terms
having expired.

The annual report of the executive committee was presented and
accepted.

The annual report of the permanent committee was submitted.
This included a suggestion for the establishment of a department for
the arousing of public interest in the Institution and for increasing its
endowment, which was referred to the permanent committee with
power to act.

The matter of the awarding of the Langley medal was next brought
up, and the following two resolutions were adopted:

Resolved, That in view of the service rendered to aviation by his pioneer con-
tributions to the development of the airplane engine, the Board of Regents of the

Smithsonian Institution hereby posthumously awards the Langley gold medal
for acrodromics to the late Charles Matthews Manly.

Resolved, That the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution award the
Langley gold medal for aerodromics to Commander Richard Evelyn Byrd,
United States Navy, for his pioneer flights over the North and South Poles of
the earth, his nonstop flight over the Atlantic Ocean; and the scientific discoveries
associated with these flights.

MEETING OF FEBRUARY 13, 1930

Present: Vice President Charles Curtis, Senator Reed Smoot,
Senator Claude A. Swanson, Representative R. Walton Moore,
Representative Robert Luce, Mr. Frederic A. Delano, and the secre-
tary, Dr. C. G. Abbot. Dr. Alexander Wetmore, assistant secretary,
was also present.

The secretary announced the resignation of the Hon. William
Howard Taft as Chief Justice of the United States, stating that this
action automatically terminated his service as a regent and con-
sequently as chancellor of the Institution. The following resolutions
were then adopted:

Resolved, That the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution has
learned with deep regret of the illness and consequent resignation of its chan-
cellor, the Hon. William Howard Taft, from the office of Chief Justice of the
United States, thereby automatically severing his connection with this Board;

Resolved, That the board hereby expresses its deep sense of the great service
rendered by Mr. Taft to the Smithsonian Institution, and of the loss in counsel
and in association which his departure entails;

Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be communicated to Mr. Taft.
i hl

C—O

PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS 161

The secretary further stated that on December 19, 1929, the
Speaker of the House had reappointed as regents Representatives
Albert Johnson, R. Walton Moore, and Robert Luce.

The secretary recalled to the regents that at the last annual meeting
their attention had been drawn to the building program of the
Institution, the most urgent item of which was the addition of wings
to the present Natural History Building at an estimated cost of
$6,500,000, and Doctor Wetmore exhibited blue prints of the proposed
additions.

The secretary described the work of the new division of radiation
and organisms, and spoke of the interest shown in the Institution
by the Research Corporation of New York, of which he is a director.
He stated that for the past three years the corporation had in each
year made a grant to the Institution of $15,000 to promote the work
of the division of radiation and organisms. He also called attention
to the large sums that had been given by Mr. John A. Roebling to
the Institution for its work in solar radiation and for other purposes,
and stated that Mr. Roebling had very recently added a fund for the
purchase of books of reference on the subjects relating to radiation
investigations.

SPECIAL MEETING OF MAY 29, 1930

Present: Chief Justice Charles Evans Hughes, Senator Joseph
T. Robinson, Senator Claude A. Swanson, Representative Albert
Johnson, Representative R. Walton Moore, Representative Robert
Luce, Mr. Robert S. Brookings, Mr. Frederic A. Delano, Dr. John C.
Merriam, and the secretary, Dr. C. G. Abbot. Mr. Delano was
invited to act as temporary chairman.

The secretary said that the appointment of Mr. Charles Evans
Hughes as Chief Justice of the United States takes him from the list
of “‘citizen”’ regents who are appointed for six years, and constitutes
him under the law an ex officio regent with a life tenure. He said
further that a vacancy existed in the office of chancellor, and the
following resolution was adopted:

Resolved, That the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution hereby
elects the Hon. Charles Evans Hughes, Chief Justice of the United States, as
chancellor of the Institution.

The chancellor then took the chair, expressing his appreciation of
the honor done him.

The secretary said that in view of the resignation of Chief Justice
Taft, the Board of Regents, at their meeting of February 13, 1930,
had adopted resolutions which had been transmitted to the Chief
Justice, and which had been acknowledged.
162 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

The secretary spoke of the development of his researches on the
radiation of the sun, and then called attention to the provisions of
the new civil service retirement act, which makes possible the con-
tinuance in the service of the Institution of certain members of the
staff who would otherwise have to retire on August 20, 1930.

The secretary stated that beginning in 1911, letters had been re-
ceived from a Mr. James Arthur, of New York City, asking certain
information, including problems in mathematics, which had been
carefully answered. Recently, word had been received that Mr.
Arthur had bequeathed to the Institution the sum of $75,000, the
income of which was to be used for (a) the investigation and study of
the sun; (6) to provide annually a lecture to be known as the James
Arthur Annual Lecture on the Sun. Mr. Lloyd N. Scott, a director
and the counsel of the Research Corporation of New York, had been
designated as the legal representative of the Institution in connec-
tion with matters pertaining to this bequest.

The secretary said that the Senate had passed a bill authorizing
the preparation of plans for the construction of wings on either side
of the museum building at a cost of $6,500,000. The bill as passed
was an authorization only, but had not yet been brought before the
House. On motion, the secretary was requested to prepare a resolu-
tion embodying the sense of the board as to the urgency of the matter,
and requesting that the chancellor present the same to the President.

The secretary added that efforts had been made to fix a date for the
presentation of the Langley gold medals to Admiral Byrd and (post-
humously) to Charles M. Manly, but that this had not yet been
accomplished.
GENERAL APPENDIX

TO THE

SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1930

163
ADVERTISEMENT

The object of the Genrran Appenprx to the Annual Report of the
the Smithsonian Institution is to furnish brief accounts of scientific
discovery in particular directions; reports of investigations made by
collaborators of the Institution; and memoirs of a general character
or on special topics that are of interest or value to the numerous cor-
respondents of the Institution.

It has been a prominent object of the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution from a very early date to enrich the annual
report required of them by law with memoirs illustrating the more
remarkable and important developments in physical and biological
discovery, as well as showing the general character of the operations
of the Institution; and, during the greater part of its history, this
purpose has been carried out largely by the publication of such
papers as would possess an interest to all attracted by scientific
progress.

In 1880, induced in part by the discontinuance of an annual sum-
mary of progress which for 30 years previously had been issued by
well-known private publishing firms, the secretary had a series of
abstracts prepared by competent collaborators, showing concisely
the prominent features of recent scientific progress in astronomy,
geology, meteorology, physics, chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zool-
ogy, and anthropology. This latter plan was continued, though, not
altogether satisfactorily, down to and including the year 1888.

In the report for 1889 a return was made to the earlier method of
presenting a miscellaneous selection of papers (some of them origi-
nal) embracing a considerable range of scientific investigation and
discussion. This method has been continued in the present report for
1930.

164
Ee

7

BEYOND THE RED IN THE SPECTRUM?
By H. D. Barcock

[With 2 plates]

One result of the widespread use of radio is a general familiarity
with two terms which have long been household words among
astronomers and physicists—wave length and frequency. Although
some vagueness often adheres to the meaning of these words, they
are exceedingly useful to everyone who uses a radio receiving set.
What matter if the machinery inside the box is permanently mys-
terious, provided a scale on the outside allows one to select the sta-
tion he wishes. We all soon learn the proper scale readings to find
our favorite stations, and we are accustomed to hear the announcer
make his routine statement: “This station operates at a frequency
of so many kilocycles by authority of the Tederal Radio Com-
mission.”

In such an ordinary experience as the use of the radio, a point of
contact is found with the subject of our discussion—Beyond the
Red in the Spectrum. We shall view this topic in its perspective
relation to the whole known range of wave lengths, trace a bit of
the history of its discovery and development, examine some of the
modern methods of studying it. If some idea is conveyed of the
reasons why these studies are worth while, our purpose will have
been in part accomplished. If, in addition, something of the fas-
cination which attends this kind of work is revealed, so that further
acquaintance with it appears desirable to you, the results will be
still more satisfactory.

Now as to radio waves, most of us are chiefly interested in the
ordinary broadcasting which may be received with our familiar
receiving sets. Such wave lengths, as everyone knows, range from
500 meters down to 200 meters—a difference corresponding to a little
over one octave in terms of the musical analogy. Only, instead of
having just 13 notes in the octave, our radio octave is now divided
into some 55 specified wave lengths. Outside the reach of the

1A lecture delivered before the Carnegie Institution, at Washington, D. C., Dec. 10,
1929; and at Pasadena, Calif., Feb. 20, 1930. Reprinted by permission from publications
of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific, vol. 42, No. 246, April, 1930.

28095—31 12 165

166 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

ordinary receiver, however, other radio waves exist, and all that is
necessary to intercept them is a receiving set suitably designed.
Thus we have radio wave lengths ranging from a few meters to
many kilometers, all having the same physical nature and traveling
through space with the same velocity.

In order to make more definite the idea of the relative magnitude
of different wave lengths reference may be made to Figure 1.
Here is represented the region of the ordinary radio waves, and,
following along the scale, we find a succession of other types of
waves, all of which, however, are physically alike, just as all sound
waves are alike, though differing in pitch. Here you see the place
occupied by the visible waves, here the ultra-violet and the famous
cosmic radiation, of which so much is lately heard. This diagram,
doubtless familiar to many of you, is shown especially to point out
the location of the particular field selected for discussion—beyond
the red, but not indefinitely beyond. It also illustrates the fact that
in a broad sense we are all exceedingly color blind.

Radio waves Waves from Infra-red
electric
discharges >

«-Ultra-violet sre X-rays Yylays 2
oe ES

Figur 1.—The octaves of light from The World of Atoms, by Arthur Haas,
English translation by H. S. Uhler. By permission of the D. Van
Nostrand Co.

Having seen the setting of our subject, let us consider a little of
its history. All astronomers honor the name of Sir William Herschel,
who with his son, Sir John, contributed so much to our knowledge
of the universe. His enthusiasm, skill, and insight brought rich
returns. He explored the depths of space with an unprejudiced
mind, the gift of his Creator, and an excellent telescope, which he
made for himself. He sought a way to use his powerful instru-
ment for visual examination of the sun; how to avoid the disastrous
effects of too much heat and light in the eyepiece without sacrificing
the power of his instrument. This led Sir William to make the
first investigation of what lies beyond the red in the spectrum of
sunlight. With a glass prism, three ordinary thermometers, a
watch, some boards and paper screens, he carried out a remarkable
series of observations, an account of which he published in the year
1800 in the Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of
London under the title “Investigation of the Powers of the Pris-
matic Colours to Heat and Illuminate Objects.”

In this paper Herschel gives a most interesting description of his
experimental work. He relates in detail how one thermometer was
exposed to the infra-red part of the solar spectrum, while the others
BEYOND THE RED IN THE SPECTRUM—BABCOOK 167

were near-by but shaded from the spectrum. By reading all three
at regular intervals of time he found that the exposed thermometer
rose at a faster rate than the others. Pushing the thermometers
along the spectrum, he explored a considerable extent of the new
region which he had discovered, and was able to learn something
of the distribution of energy in it.

Later, by an improvement of this method of study, Sir John
Herschel, son of Sir William, continued the examination of the
invisible spectrum. He concluded that one-half of the sun’s heat
is found in the infra-red part of the spectrum—a result surprisingly
close to the modern figure of 45 per cent. The important result
of the Herschels’ work was the demonstration that visible radiation
is only a part of the spectrum, and that nonluminous hot bodies
have spectra just as those which we can see by their own light.

Leaving the work of the Herschels, on which it would be easy to
spend all the time available here, we shall next consider the contribu-
tions of Professor Tyndall, the famous English physicist who lived
in the middle of the last century. With apparatus far more delicate
than that of his predecessors (though it would appear crude to us
to-day) he devoted years to a thorough study of the phenomena of
heat, covering both the visible and the infra-red parts of the
spectrum. To give an adequate idea of the scope and the importance
of Tyndall’s brilliant experimental work would take far too long.
It furnished a sure foundation of established facts on which later
the great theoretical treatment of radiation was to be laid, and it
still constitutes a rich fund of information. | Tyndall studied, among
many other things, the absorbing power of gases for radiation. I
think he was the first to recognize the remarkable difference in the
absorbing power exhibited by a mixture of certain molecules and by a
chemical combination of the same molecules.

For example, if a certain number of molecules of oxygen are
mixed with twice as many of hydrogen, the power of the mixture to
absorb infra-red radiation is very small. But if these same molecules
are combined chemically to form water vapor, the absorptive power
is much greater. This fact finds a unique explanation in the modern
theory of molecular structure.

Another problem which Tyndall undertook to investigate was to
find the proportion in which the total energy radiated by a hot body
is divided between visible and obscure portions of its spectrum.
This proportion is known as the luminous efficiency. For example,
we have already seen that in the case of the sun the luminous efli-
ciency is roughly 50 per cent. Tyndall thus greatly extended the
study of the distribution of energy in the spectrum of a hot body,
which had been begun by Sir William Herschel. One of Tyndall’s
168 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

demonstrations, somewhat modified, is illustrated schematically in
Vigure 2. The infra-red radiation emitted by a hot wire is isolated
by a solution of iodine in carbon bisulphide, which absorbs the visible
but permits the infra-red to pass through. When concentrated at
the focus of a mirror the invisible radiation ignites a match in a
few seconds.

By such means and others, Tyndall was able to find in what pro-
portion the total energy radiated by a hot body is divided between
visible and obscure portions. The relation of this proportion to the
temperature of the body, accurately formulated by the theoretical
physicists Wien and Planck, is a most valuable tool for both the
astronomer and the physicist. ‘Two applications of this idea may be
noted here. The first is the method of determining stellar or plan-
etary temperatures by finding the distribution of energy in their
spectra. For example, the image of a star is formed at the focus of
a telescope on a tiny receiver which has been blackened in order that
it may absorb all the radiation which falls on it. Delicate electrical

Ma
F MATCH

Ficurm 2.—Diagram of one of Tyndall’s demonstrations. A match
placed as indicated is quickly ignited by invisible infra-red radiation
from an electric lamp, although match and lamp are several yards
apart. LZ, an electric street lamp; Mi, Ms, concave mirrors; fF,
liquid filter which absorbs visible but transmits infra-red radiation

devices indicate the slightest change occurring in the temperature
of the receiver. Filters of various kinds, corresponding to the iodine
solution indicated in Figure 2, permit the separate measurement of
visible and invisible radiation and thus the ratio of these quantities
is obtained, leading to a knowledge of the temperature.

A second illustration is connected with recent events of world-
wide interest. When Mr. Edison’s golden anniversary was cele-
brated he once more constructed an electric lamp like his first of 50
years ago. The contrast between such early lamps and those in com-
mon use now is indeed striking. The improvements have resulted
from a knowledge of the distribution of energy between the visible
and the obscure parts of the spectrum. This has led to the opera-
tion of modern lamps at far higher temperatures than were formerly
used, with resultant increase of luminous efficiency. These two
lamps which I now turn on are consuming nearly the same power.
One is a type in wide use 20 years ago, the other a modern form.
It is evident that the brightness of the modern lamp is much greater
than that of the old one.
BEYOND THE RED IN THE SPECTRUM—BABCOCK 169

We pass on to the more detailed study of the infra-red part of the
spectrum, where we shall deal no longer with the continuous spectra
of incandescent bodies, but with spectra of different type which are
produced by atoms and molecules acting as individuals. Now atoms
are in one respect like opera singers—in their most striking and
individual réles each requires plenty of elbowroom. Though the
analogy is imperfect, the continuous spectrum of a glowing solid
may be compared to the chorus, while the line spectrum of a luminous
gas is more like the song of the prima donna, who passes from one
degree of excitation to another, emitting a rapid succession of musical
notes like the brilliantly colored lines which individual atoms pro-
duce, when far enough apart from each other, and suitably stimulated.

When closely bound together as in a solid substance, the atoms tell
us the temperature of the solid, but only little of themselves. When
the solid is turned to gas by heating it sufficiently, the atoms get far
apart and then have an opportunity to do many things otherwise
impossible for them. Thus each kind of atom, whether it be hydrogen
or iron, sends out a characteristic spectrum consisting of numerous
kinds, or colors, of light, each very sharply defined. Some of these
“ colors ” are invisible but readily perceptible by instruments suitably
designed. Each separate color is referred to as a spectral line. The
supply of names for these colors soon proved inadequate and numbers
are now used instead.

Let us consider the case of hydrogen, with only some 50 or 60
lines in its spectrum, and think of each atom of the gas, mingled
with countless others all alike, as a magician having a repertoire of
tricks. At a given moment each atom can perform just one of its
various tricks, and the performance, practically instantaneous, is to
produce light of a certain color. A neighboring atom may be per-
forming a different trick, but it is one of the same repertoire. The
combined activities of all the atoms display the whole repertoire. At
a later time each atom may be doing a different trick from the one
it formerly showed, but the combined effect is the same as before.
Each trick corresponds to a line in the spectrum of hydrogen, and
the intensity of the line is a measure of the preference which the
atoms have for certain of their tricks. Every other kind of atom
such as oxygen, or zinc, has a characteristic repertoire. Each kind
may be recognized by its spectrum even under diverse conditions.

Near the beginning of this century a great physicist, Professor
Planck, to whom we have already referred, formulated a theory of
radiation which is known as the quantum theory. This important
work grew out of Planck’s study of the total radiation of a solid black
body. In 1913 Professor Bohr developed an application and exten-
sion of Planck’s theory to the problem of line spectra emitted by iso-
170 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

lated atoms, and he succeeded in accounting for the known spectrum
of hydrogen with astonishing accuracy and completeness. By cal-
culations based on this theory he showed that the known lines of the
hydrogen spectrum should be precisely where we find them. Further-
more, he predicted the exact position of other lines which the hydro-
gen atom should emit, and these were afterward observed precisely
where he said they should be. This brilliant success was followed by
a rapid expansion of our understanding of all line spectra and of
the atoms which give rise to them.

A basic idea in Bohr’s theory of spectra is this: Whenever an atom
produces one of its characteristic pure colors the energy thus sent
out in the form of radiation is exactly equal to the energy lost by the
atom as a result of the rearrangement of its parts. The atom is
thought of as having a heavy inner part or nucleus, with one or more
much lighter electrons bound to it by electrical forces. The analogy
with the structure of the solar system is obvious and to some extent
helpful, but it must not be carried too far. For example, the planes
of the planetary orbits lie within a few degrees of each other in the
solar system, while in the atoms this is not necessarily true. When
one of the outer electrons in an atom assumes a new position nearer
to the nucleus the atom accomplishes a definite amount of work,
and the energy radiated away is the exact equivalent of this work.
If a weight is allowed to fall from table to floor a certain amount
of work is done. Its equivalent is found in the heat developed,
the sound waves set up, and sometimes also in other ways.

Each line in a spectrum thus signifies the existence of two states
of the atom in which the internal energy of the atom is different.
A line whose color is red arises from a transition between two states
not very different; a line in the ultra-violet, from a transition be-
tween states having a much greater difference of energy. If your
baby falls off a footstool he may express his annoyance by a moder-
ately pitched exclamation; if he falls downstairs he will emit vocal
sound waves at least an octave higher. The color of a spectral line,
accurately expressed on a frequency scale, tells exactly the energy
lost by the atom when it performed one of its tricks.

The physicist measures the positions; i. e., the “colors,” to speak
loosely, of the spectral lines with an accuracy almost unbelievable;
he notes the relative intensities of the lines, their individual peculi-
arities such as sharpness or diffuseness, their varying behavior under
change of conditions surrounding the source of light, such as pres-
ence or absence of a magnetic field; and gradually he learns, for each
kind of atom, the system of energy-states which it possesses. These
energy-states, or spectral terms as they are called, are less numerous
than the lines in the spectrum, and are far more significant of the
BEYOND THE RED IN THE SPECTRUM—BABCOCK 171

nature of the atom. Thus in the spectrum of neon some 900 lines
represent transitions between only 26 spectral terms.

These terms or energy-states themselves correspond to different
arrangements of the electrons which make up the outer part of
the atom. Thus a knowledge of the terms, which is derived from
the observed spectral lines, brings us some definite idea of the
mechanics of the atom.

The periodic table was long ago recognized by chemists as express-
ing some fundamental relations between the elements. By compari-
son of the spectra of elements adjacent in this table, the physicist is
now able to trace, in part at least, the gradual increase in mechanical
complexity of the atoms with their increase of weight. The most
fundamental physical and chemical relationships are thus clarified,
and man’s mastery of his environment is definitely increased.

This digression from the infra-red part of the spectrum has been
necessary in order to show in some fashion what the spectroscopist
is trying to do, regardless of the spectral region in which he works.
As we have seen, the object is to obtain, by a study of its spectral
lines, as complete a picture as possible of the system of terms
associated with each kind of atom and from these to derive the
structure of the atom. ‘To do this a large range of wave-lengths
must be examined; it is not sufficient to measure just the blue part
of the iron spectrum and attempt to find all the terms from the lines
shown there, for terms may exist whose combinations give no blue
lines at all. Even the entire visible spectrum is inadequate, and it
becomes necessary to study the ultra-violet and the infra-red in order
to fill in all the details.

These are some of the reasons which justify the activities of the
spectroscopist and warrant his efforts to extend the photographic
study of atomic spectra into the infra-red. Two other promising
fields of study also invite the more detailed exploration of the region
of longer wave lengths, namely the spectra which are characteristic
of molecules as distinguished from atoms, and the solar spectrum,
The complexity of molecules as compared to atoms is obvious, since a
molecule is a cluster of two or more atoms which have approached
each other close enough to form a partnership. Indeed the struc-
tural complexity is reflected in the spectra which molecules give.
Such spectra present many individual lines corresponding to a single
electronic transition in the molecule, because the atoms which make
up the molecule are free to rotate and to vibrate with respect to the
center of mass, and each of these possibilities is utilized every time
the electrons are rearranged. Thus the spectra of molecules have
furnished information of the utmost importance to the chemist as
well as to the physicist. For example, accurate determinations of
172 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

the distance between the two nuclei in a diatomic molecule, of the
moment of inertia of the molecule, of its heat of dissociation, as well
as the discovery of isotopic forms of the atoms and the calculation
of their masses are all possible in favorable cases where the band
spectra are suitable for precise measurement. To interpret the value
of each of these results, which have actually been obtained for oxy-
gen molecules, would lead us far into fields remote from our topic.
To apply improved methods of observing the infra-red region of
molecular spectra is bound to aid in developing this rapidly expand-
ing department of spectroscopy.

We are thus brought to the third field of large-scale spectroscopy,
namely, the study of the solar spectrum. Here we pause to pay
respect to the genius of Professor Rowland of Johns Hopkins Uni-
versity, who carried out a remarkable investigation of the visible and
ultra-violet parts of the solar spectrum, which has been a storehouse
of information for 30 years. Some 20,000 spectral lines were meas-
ured and described with an accuracy only recently surpassed. There
is no doubt that Rowland would have extended his researches into
the infra-red part of the spectrum if he had possessed photographic
plates which would respond to such radiation.

Yor years it has been comparatively easy to photograph much of
the ultra-violet and all of the visible region of the spectrum, and the
method of photographic spectroscopy has proved superior to all other
ways of determining the exact positions and characters of spectral
lines. As we go beyond the visible red, however, the photographic
process becomes increasingly difficult and finally has to be replaced
by the thermometric method.

The thermometric method, as its name implies, depends on meas-
urement of the heating power of radiation. For this purpose three
types of instrument are in use, two of which utilize electrical effects
and the other, a mechanical effect of the radiation. Instruments of
the first two kinds are called bolometers and thermocouples, while
the third is known as a radiometer—and has been seen by every one
in the windows of opticians and jewelers.

It would be interesting to describe the working of these marvelous
devices and to show the results which they produce. It must suffice
to consider briefly the application of the bolometer to the study of the
solar spectrum. ‘This instrument was invented by Professor Langley
at the Allegheny Observatory in 1881. Subsequently as Secretary of
the Smithsonian Institution he used it with the assistance of Dr. C.
G. Abbot, the present. secretary, to explore in detail the infra-red
solar spectrum. In the 30 years following the publication of this
great work, Doctor Abbot has continued to improve the instrument
and to apply it in a series of brilliant researches. During the past
year, with the assistance of Mr. Freeman, Doctor Abbot has published
BEYOND THE RED IN THE SPECTRUM—BABCOCK 173

the latest measurements of this part of the solar spectrum from
observations made by them at Mount Wilson in 1928.

The bolometer depends on the change of electrical resistance shown
by a metal whose temperature is varied. A delicate electrical record-
ing device draws a continuous curve whose ordinates indicate the
temperature of a hairlike filament of blackened platinum, across
which the solar spectrum is made to pass. Figure 3 shows such a
curve obtained by Doctor Abbot. The electrical connections are so
made that when the curve dips down it means that the filament
became cooler. Thus these notches mean dark lines or bands inter-
rupting the continuity of the spectrum, exactly similar to the well-
known Fraunhofer lines in the visible spectrum of the sun. The wave
lengths here recorded are from 47,600 at one end to about A20,000
at the other. The thermometric method is capable, as you see, of
working over an enormous range of wave lengths, greater in fact
than the photographic method. It has another advantage in that

uae

ATcOO Allo34
Ficurk 3.—Bolometrie record of solar energy in the infra-red, made by
Dr. C. G. Abbot. Beginning at the left with very deep red visible
radiation, the curve extends to the right far beyond the limits of
visibility and also beyond the present limit of photography

it gives, more directly than the photographic method, the intensity
of the radiation at each point in the spectrum. On the other hand
photography permits the observation of finer details than the ther-
mometric method, and leads to higher accuracy. A real advantage
is found, therefore, in observing, in so far as possible, the same part
of the solar spectrum by both the thermometric and the photo-
graphic methods. The greater accuracy of photography serves to
calibrate the wave-length scale of the bolometer, while the bolometric
record shows that the spectral lines recorded by the photographs are
real and not spurious effects introduced by the apparatus.

Nearly 50 years ago Sir William Abney photographed the invisible
solar spectrum as far as the point indicated on the curve—d9,867.
Attempts to extend his work have failed, although a few years ago
Dr. F. S. Brackett, then at the Mount Wilson Observatory, succeeded
in reaching a point just short of Abney’s limit. We shall now con-
sider some recent advances in the photographic method which have
made it possible to use it as far as A11,634.
174 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

Abney obtained his results with a special form of silver bromide
which had the power of absorbing red and infra-red radiation; he
used no dyes. He prepared his own photographic plates shortly be-
fore use by an elaborate process which he described in detail. But
his process is troublesome and uncertain. It has never been seriously
applied to modern spectroscopy, although the resources of the present
chemical laboratory would perhaps warrant a revival of it. Since
Abney’s day, photographic chemistry has been more concerned with
ordinary silver bromide, which of itself absorbs only blue, violet,
and ultra-violet light. To make this bromide useful for longer wave
lengths, dyes are added to the emulsion which, by their absorption
of the yellow, red, or infra-red, are designed to confer sensitivity
to those kinds of radiation. This is the method used in preparing
panchromatic emulsions with which many of you are no doubt famil-
iar. Commercial needs have so stimulated the perfection of such
emulsions that those now obtainable are of excellent quality. For
the infra-red, however, the commercial requirements have not been
so great and progress has been much slower. For many years only
one useful dye was known for this region. It is called dicyanine
and it was with this that Doctor Brackett obtained his excellent
results some years ago. Lately, however, the motion-picture indus-
try developed a need for emulsions which would permit the taking
of night scenes in daytime, since great expense could thus be saved.
Now it turns out that a picture made with infra-red light under
ordinary daylight conditions looks very much as though it has been
made at night. In such a picture the sky, for example, is dark in-
stead of light. (See pl. 1.) Perhaps then, the spectroscopist owes
something to the movies for the fact that not long ago two new dyes
were produced by the Eastman Kodak Laboratory under Doctor
Mees’s direction. One of these is particularly important for our
purpose, and it is the outcome of using it that we shall now hear.
This new dye is called neocyanine. It is produced in the form of
beautiful red crystals which are soluble in alcohol. An ordinary
photographic plate soaked in this solution acquires infra-red sensi-
tivity far beyond that obtainable with other dyes. It has thus be-
come feasible to use instrumental power which is comparable with
that employed in the visible part of the spectrum and sufficient to
bring out a wealth of detail beyond the power of the thermometric
methods.

For this purpose the solar spectrum is formed by an optical
instrument called a concave grating, especially constructed to give
exceptional brightness to the spectrum. A small image of the sun
is formed on the slit of the spectrograph which is covered by a
filter. This stops the visible light and transmits only the invisible
BEYOND THE RED IN THE SPECTRUM—BABCOCK 175

infra-red rays. The plate is exposed to these about 7 hours and
then developed in total darkness. Perhaps you can imagine the
impatience with which the observer waits while the plate fixes sufli-
ciently to permit a glimpse in weak light to see whether he got
anything on it or not.

It turns out that just twice as much of the solar spectrum can
now be studied by photography as in the day of Professor Rowland,
with the result that hundreds of spectral lines produced by atoms
in the sun’s atmosphere are being accurately measured for the first
time. From what has been said about the significance of a line
in the spectrum it will be evident that such new data are valuable
to the physicist as well as to the astronomer. The physicist sees
in the sun’s atmosphere a laboratory in which about two-thirds of
the elements known on earth are trying to tell him the story of their
structure. The astronomer sees new opportunities to examine the
constitution of our nearest star and so to understand what all stars
are like,

Carbon is an element abundant in the earth. We should expect
it to be abundant in the sun also, since the best tests we can make
indicate that the earth is a fair chemical sample of the material
universe. Hitherto the only evidence for the presence of atomic
carbon in the sun has been found in nine faint lines in the visible
part of the spectrum. Although doubtless conclusive, this evidence
is not very impressive when compared to that for other equally
abundant elements. The fact is that throughout the visible and near
ultra-violet region, carbon atoms have no strong lines and only a
few weak ones. When studied in the electric arc, however, the
carbon atom is known to produce a group of very strong lines in the
infra-red. The new solar spectrograms show these same lines; but
since the accuracy here is greater than in the case of the electric
arc, the solar data more completely correspond with the predictions
of the atomic theory than do those of the laboratory.

Perhaps we have talked of too many things in the course of the
hour, and some of them were not interesting to you. But, although
tiresome details may soon be forgotten, some general impressions
may remain. One which I should like to leave with you in closing
is that of the continuity of scientific progress. Some writers who
interpret scientific news in popular magazines and in newspaper
articles emphasize what they call the revolutionary discoveries and
theories of recent years. This no doubt attracts the eye of the
general reader, and at any rate reminds him that science is alive.
But a much truer perspective is had by omitting just one letter in
such headlines and thus bringing out the fact that most important
scientific advances are evolutionary in character, not revolutionary.
176 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

Illustrations abound on every hand, but the subject of our discussion
here is apropos. The Herschels, father and son, Tyndall, Bunsen,
Kirchoff, Wien, Planck, Bohr, and, preceding these, Newton, form
a succession no one of whom overthrew the work of his predecessors.
Instead, before each one saw a little deeper into the pure spring of
truth, he first established himself on the foundation already laid
for his use. Einstein does not overthrow Newton; he adds to
Newton’s truth.
Listen to Alfred Noyes, writing of Newton:

“Tf I saw farther, ’twas because I stood

On Giant shoulders,” wrote the king of thought,
Too proud of his great line to slight the toils

Of his forebears. He turned to their dim past,
Their fading victories and their fond defeats,
And knelt as at an altar, drawing all

Their strengths into his own; and so went forth
With all their glory shining in his face,

To win new victories for the age to come.

So, where Copernicus had destroyed the dream
We called our world; where Galileo watched
Those ancient firmaments melt, a thin blue smoke
Into a vaster night; where Kepler heard

Only stray fragments, isolated chords

Of that tremendous musie which should bind

All things anew in one, Newton arose

And carried on their fire.

* * * he caught
The sunbeam striking through that bullet-hole
In his closed shutter—a round white spot of light
Upon a small dark screen. He interposed
A prism of glass. He saw the sunbeam break
And spread upon the screen its rainbow band
Of disentangled colours, all in scale
Like notes in music; first the violet ray,
Then indigo, trembling softly into blue,
Then green and yellow, quivering side by side;
Then orange, mellowing richly into red.

Here Newton stopped; and here Herschel began the long-
continued, still progressing, sightless but not unseeing search,
Beyond the Red in the Spectrum.
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Babcock PLATE 1

1. FROM A PHOTOGRAPH MADE WITH ORDINARY LIGHT ON A PANCHRO-
MATIC PLATE WITH LIGHT YELLOW FILTER

2. FROM A PHOTOGRAPH MADE WITHIN 30 SECONDS OF FIGURE 1, BUT
WITH A SPECIAL PLATE AND FILTER SO THAT ONLY INFRA-RED RADIA
TION IS EMPLOYED
Smithsonian Report, 1930,—Babcock PLATE 2

PICTURE MADE IN TOTAL DARKNESS, USING ONLY
INVISIBLE RADIATION FROM ELECTRIC HEATERS
CARRYING INSUFFICIENT CURRENT TO MAKE THEM
GLOW EVEN IN A DARK ROOM. PLATE SENSITIZED
WITH NEOCYANINE
GROWTH IN OUR KNOWLEDGE OF THE SUN?
By CHARLES BI. St. JoHN

[With 7 plates]

The differences between the two representations of the sun (pl. 1)
show graphically the wide contrast between the appearance of the
sun as observed and imagined in 1635, and as photographed nearly
300 years later as a composite of spectroheliograms of disk and
chromosphere.

The gulf between the past and the present knowledge of the sun
has been bridged in comparatively recent years, almost within the
lifetime of men now living.

Though absorption lines in the solar spectrum were first observed
by Wollaston in 1802 and catalogued to the number of 576 by Fraun-
hofer in 1814, the real beginning of astrophysics dates from Kirch-
off’s great discovery, in 1859, of the true interpretation of the Fraun-
hofer lines. The application of spectroscopic analysis to astronomi-
cal problems opened broad vistas to active and progressive spirits.
Huggins says, “The news of Kirchoff’s discovery was to me like
coming upon a spring of water in a dry and thirsty land.” The first
triumphs of the spectroscope were won by its application to the sun.
It is interesting to note, however, that in the hands of Huggins and
Draper the novel method of research was extended to stars, nebulae,
and comets with great success before further uses were found for it
in solar work. ;

Lockyer and Janssen in 1868 made a great advance through their
independent observations that the blood-red chromosphere and
prominences, hitherto seen only during a total eclipse of the sun, are
gaseous and owe their redness to the emission of the red line of
hydrogen; and by the discovery of helium in the sun a quarter of a.
century before it was traced to an earthly source. A romantic touch
was thus given to the study of the sun.

1 Reprinted by permission, with author's alterations and additions, from Publications
of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific, vol. 41, No. 241, June, 1929.

177
178 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930
COMPOSITION OF SUN’S ATMOSPHERE

The identification of solar lines with those of the known terrestrial
elements, begun by Kirchoff, was taken up by Rowland, whose ex-
tensive findings were incorporated in his Preliminary Table of Solar
Spectrum Wave Lengths, published in 1896. For a third of a cen-
tury this has been the world’s standard, and the vade-mecum of
astronomers, chemists, and physicists. In the Revision? recently
completed at Mount Wilson Observatory, the original identifications
have been checked and corrected by the use of all available data con-
jointly with modern astrophysical theory and the results of spectrum
analysis. Nearly all, viz. 35, of the elements recognized or suggested
by Rowland as present in the sun, have survived the critical examina-
tion and retain their place as components of the sun’s atmosphere.
To these, 26 have been added, so that 61 of the 90 known elements
are represented with varying degrees of probability. Of particular
interest and importance among the results of the Revision are the
identification of the nonmetallic elements—carbon, nitrogen, oxygen,
and sulphur in the atomic state; the large proportion of the metals
occurring in both the neutral and ionized states; the complete ioniza-
tion of the rare-earth metals; and the importance of the role of
excitation potential.

The identification rests upon reasonable correspondence between
the positions of solar and laboratory lines, so-called coincidence. For
iron this is shown in Plate 2, Figure 1, at A, where it is seen that the
bright arc lines of iron are well represented in the sun’s spectrum.
This is a reproduction of a spectrogram made by simultaneous ex-
posures to the center of the sun and to the luminous vapor between
the two poles of an iron are.

Identifications are furnished also by flash spectra. When the sun’s
disk is covered by the moon at a total eclipse only the glowing gases
of the sun’s atmosphere are exposed to view beyond the moon’s edge.
These then give bright lines which, except in the case of helium, are
the reversals of the dark Fraunhofer lines. This may be seen in
Plate 3, for the strong iron triplet \A4,045, 4,063, 4,071. Normally
helium gives bright lines which appear only in flash and prominence
spectra. The helium line A4,026 is conspicuous in the reproduction.

The symbols of the 90 known chemical elements are given in
Table I.

4Revision of Rowland’s Preliminary Table of Solar Spectrum Wave Lengths, with Ex-
tension to the Present Limits of the Infra-Red, Carnegie Institution of Washington, Publ
No. 396; Papers of Mount Wilson Observatory, Vol. III, 1928.
KNOWLEDGE OF THE SUN—ST. JOHN 179

TABLE I.—Hiements identified in the sun and their position in the periodic table

[Unidentified elements in parentheses]

I II ul IV x vl Vil VIII

H Ved ee nm
Li Be B yeu ecg 0 py (Ne)
ee ie | a s| wl s| cl wa.
K Ca | Se | Ti res rar saw t Lefont | Fe | Co | Ni by
Cu | Zn Ga Ge Ets © " a (xr) |
Rb i Y we agit Aeaggle> | (Ma) i ae] Ru | Rh | Pd |
ae) cx)m | ae] ] cm) fae fio.
(Cs) | ely (Ta) |W (Re) sa| O0t | | Pt |
(Au) | (Ai) ™ or Pe: ay] ey 85 (Rn) ar
ao jan lao fom fon [om |.[

Probably all in the ionized state

Mount Wilson Observatory

Those in parentheses are as yet unidentified in the sun’s atmos-
phere. This does not necessarily mean that these unidentified ele-
ments are absent. For some elements the lines of lowest excitation
potential, the resonance lines, are far in the ultra-violet beyond the
accessible regions in both stellar and solar spectra. A layer of
ozone situated some 50 miles above the earth’s surface absorbs the
radiations to the violet of \2,975 A. The strong resonance lines of
the neon and fluorine groups are in this region. The question marks
mean that the evidence is not strong and that exact laboratory wave
lengths are wanting as in the case of osmium and iridium. Even-
tually such elements will be found to be definitely present or absent.

Ninety of the ninety-two possible elements have been found on the
earth. The heavy elements in the bottom line are all radioactive.
180 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

The end results of the radioactive changes are helium and lead which
are being formed continually from their ultimate sources, thorium
and uranium, through the more highly radioactive elements in the
series of transformations. That these do not appear in the sun may
be due in part to their radioactive degeneration, and the ending of
the series of elements with uranium, at No. 92, the heaviest element,
may be due to the disappearance of possibly heavier elements through
their radioactivity, so that we have left the more stable ones which
have proved the fittest to survive.

ASTROPHYSICS

The methods introduced by Huggins and Lockyer of interpreting
astronomical spectra through observations in the physical laboratory
led to the development of astrophysics, as a branch of physical
science. Confirmation of the soundness and fruitfulness of these
methods could be drawn from many sides. An outstanding illustra-
tion is the work of Hale and his co-workers, who have brought us to
the present view of the constitution of sun spots as great vortices
whose centers are magnetic fields which may in the larger spots reach
intensities of 4,000 gausses over areas of many millions of square
miles.

MAGNETIC FIELDS IN SUN SPOTS

Many lines in the spectra of sun spots taken with sufficiently high
dispersion are doubled or tripled, depending upon the strength of
the magnetic field and the angle between the lines of force and the
path of the light. The components of the doublets were found by
Hale to be circularly polarized in opposite directions. In the lab-
oratory similar doubling with circular polarization of the compo-
nents is observed when the light source is placed between the poles
of a powerful magnet and the light emitted by a spectrum line is
viewed in a direction parallel to the lines of the magnetic field.
Viewed in any other direction, the line is a triplet, the middle com-
ponent plane, and the two side components elliptically polarized;
except when normal to the field, when the two side components are
plane polarized at right angles to the plane of the central compo-
nent. The illustration (pl. 4, fig. 1) shows the Fe line, 6,173, photo-
graphed as an absorption line in a sun spot and as an emission
line in the laboratory (the insert). The horizontal bands are due
to quarter-wave mica strips with their optical axes at right angles
to each other in the alternate bands. These change the circular or
elliptical vibration of the side components into plane vibrations at
right angles to each other in the alternate bands. A Nicol prism in
the optical train cuts out the blue and transmits the red (side) com-
rh

ee

KNOWLEDGE OF THE SUN—ST. JOHN 181

ponent in one strip and cuts out the red and transmits the blue
component in the following strip and so on alternately, producing
the staggered effect. In the case shown, the light from the spot was
not viewed exactly parallel to the lines of the magnetic field, hence
there is a weak middle component, while in the laboratory observa-
tion there is no central component, the line of sight in this case being
parallel to the lines of the magnetic field. As the separation of the
components observed in the laboratory for a given line is propor-
tional to the strength of the magnetic field, the intensity of the field
in a spot is deducible from the separation of the components of the
same line in its spectrum. The magnetic fields in sun spots are
attributed to the rapid rotation of electrically charged particles in
deep-seated vortices in which the gases are in cyclonic rotation.
The low temperature, some 2,000° C. below that of the general sur-
face, was first shown by interpreting the differences between the
spectra of the photosphere and the spot umbra in terms of laboratory
observations, and was later deduced from the theory of ionization.

The polarity of the leading spot in a bipolar group in the North-
ern Hemisphere is opposite to that of the leading spot in the South-
ern Hemisphere, during a given 1l-year cycle. The polarities re-
verse at the beginning of each new spot-cycle, the complete magnetic
period being double that between spot minima. The general mag-
netic field of the sun is relatively weak but was detected by methods
similar to those applied to spots, although still more refined measures
were necessary. It has an intensity at low levels in the reversing
layer of 50 gausses. The magnetic axis is 4° from the sun’s axis of
rotation and revolves around it in 31.5 days.

DOPPLER EFFECTS

Lockyer’s use of the Doppler principle to explain the distortions
of bright chromospheric lines was the first introduction of it into
solar investigation, where it has played a preeminent role.

It has been applied to determining the rotation of the sun by
photographing in juxtaposition the spectra of the east and west
edges of the sun. (PI. 2, fig. 2.) The center strip is from the east
limb and the two outer from the west limb. A careful examination
will show that the Fraunhofer lines from the east and west limbs
are mutually displaced. The displacement at the east limb to shorter
wave length indicates that the eastern equatorial edge of the sun is
approaching the observer with a velocity of 2 km/sec. and that
therefore the sun rotates on its axis once in about 25 days.

A solar spectrum shows dark lines due to absorption by oxygen
and water vapor in the earth’s atmosphere. These atmospheric lines

28095—31——_13
182 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

are not displaced and thus may be distinguished from true solar
lines. A spectrum of the impressive B group of atmospheric oxy-
gen is reproduced in Plate 5, Figure 1. These lines coincide in the
spectra of the east and west limbs while the solar lines are mutually
displaced.

In the case of sun spots, it has made it possible to build up a pic-
ture of the motions of the surrounding vapors and to fathom the

y “CHROMOSPHERE

\

| xcagee7
| hae a é
/O Ay 15-20 p'Fe(I5-40) LEVEL OF
! > Wg 19 /| VELOCITY HNVERSION
hb tag ~g
Mow re A REVERSING LAYER

q
By 7
a
hes

i

!

os
/

Vicurm 1.—Vertical section of a sun-spot vortex showing circulation of the gases at
different heights and the lines of the magnetic field. To be considered in con-
nection with the horizontal section of the high-level vortex pbotographed in the
light from hydrogen at the height of 8,000 km. Plate 4.

sun’s atmosphere. When the spectra of the centerward and the
limbward edges of the penumbra of a sun spot suitably situated
between the center and limb of the sun are photographed in juxta-
position, it was found by Evershed that for lines of moderate
strength the two spectra are displaced, the one from the center edge
toward the violet and the one from the limb edge toward the red
(pl. 5, fig. 2). Interpreted as a Doppler effect, the displacement
KNOWLEDGE OF THE SUN—ST. JOHN 183

means an outflow of the gases from the spot tangential to the sun’s
surface. An extensive series of observations at the Mount Wilson
Observatory gave the data for a more complete analysis of the
motions.

The results are graphically given in the accompanying diagram
(fig. 1), which shows a vertical section of the surroundings of a
spot, the axis of the vortex lying in the plane of the paper. Im-
mediately above the shaded umbra, the gases in which the low-level
lines of iron and those of the heavy elements originate are flowing
outward with velocities proportional to the lengths of the heavy
lines. At higher levels the velocity of outflow decreases and be-
comes zero for the strongest and highest-level lines of iron, the
level of velocity-inversion lying at about 1,200 km. Above this
level the motion is inward, the velocity increasing with height. The
field-forming vortex is below the level of the umbra and in it the
gases are rising as in a terrestrial tornado and spreading outward
above the photosphere. The high-level chromosphere layers tend
to settle, owing to the decreased pressure of radiation over the spot
caused by the cooling of the expanding gases, and form a secondary
vortex, in which the flow, as shown by Doppler displacement, is
inward. The magnetic lines of force are indicated in the usual way
as if diverging from the pole of a magnet. As seen from the earth
in the red light of hydrogen the high-lying cyclone appears as in
Plate 4, Figure 2, which pictures a horizontal cross section of it.

ORIGIN OF FRAUNHOFER LINES

Spectrum lines are due to transitions between two energy states of
an atom, the frequency of the emitted or absorbed radiation being
exactly proportional to the difference in energy between the two
states. Every absorption line is associated with the transition from
one energy state to another of higher energy content and can only be
produced when the atom is already excited to the lower energy state
of the transition to which the line is due, measured by the excita-
tion potential expressed in volts. The absorbed energy, hv, corre-
sponding to the line is diffusely scattered or reradiated without change
of wave length. This alone would give completely black lines, but
the effect of collisions of the “second kind” is to supply radiation
to the middle of the line so that none are completely black; this
residual intensity is what makes the spectroheliogram possible.

LEVELS

Lines in the solar spectrum give information of the conditions ob-
taining in the region of their origin.. Like information concerning
the conditions is given by lines originating in the same layer, but
184 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

the behavor of lines from different layers reveals characteristic differ-
ences. This is shown particularly well in studies of solar rotation
and by the currents observed in the gases in the immediate
neighborhood of spots.

Correlations in level

A. DATA FROM VARIOUS SOURCES

(Norm=linear velocity for lines of medium level]

Lines Pe ae Observers bday Heights
Km/sec. Km/sec. Km
H3 and K3 Ca+ -+0.20 | St. John and Ware____-----.------ in 1.80 12,000
Ha Hydrogen_-_-_--_-_- +0.11 | Adams and Evershed__-----_----- in 1.50 10, 000
42261 @a weed fe -E0206' | JAgliams¥ oss) 2 42s soe: es oe ee in 0.06 2,100
igh-level Meso 222-22 = S= 22 = 22 ee =O 02" SEVeOrSnell 022.0 c6ee es eee 0.00 1, 200
Medium-level Fe_..-.-_-_-_-------- 0.00 | Adams and Evershed------------- out 0. 40 400
Ci 7 Oe = ae eh. | 0305" |W AGAMSs ee. 8 Foo ee oe out 0.75 Low.

B. SIMULTANEOUS OBSERVATIONS AT HIGH AND LOW LEVEL

Equatorial

Lines walodity Observers heey Heights
Km/sec. Em/sec. Em
bii2/andvoles Nips = os Ae 2.03 | St. John. and Ware_--.--2-_.---.2: in 0.36 2, 250
165, and! 6225 We: eee es BoQbrls 2 oe = == ee Eee ee out 0. 60 350
Bisana Key Oa 22 ee ss ee Ps VA aye tat (19.5: SEMALE SR BAAS Se Lan? in 1.80 12,000
WeakiGin Jines 2a oa ats oe 187.) Ses Ot) eae See See out 0. 63 Low.

When the linear equatorial velocity of rotation given by iron
lines of medium intensity is taken for reference, the velocity given
by Ca+t is 0.2 km/sec. greater, with lower velocities for Ha, Ca 4227,
and high-level iron, corresponding to their separate and lower levels,
the lowest velocity being given by lines originating immediately
above the photosphere. The same arrangement of the levels is given
by the flow near spots, high velocity inward, 1.80 km/sec. for Ca+,
decreasing to zero for high-level Fe, and rising to maximum velocity
outward for the lines of lowest level. <A like correlation is shown by
the heights taken from eclipse observations.

CONSTITUTION OF THE SUN

The present view conceives it as a completely gaseous sphere.. For
the sun, built on the Eddington model, in which the radiation pres-
sure is a constant fraction of the total pressure, the temperature at
the center would be of the order of 29,000,000° K. The atoms in
the interior are highly ionized, but are not destroyed or transformed
into other elements, the only changes being the removal, more or
less complete, of the orbital electrons. The mean molecular weight
of the mixture of free electrons and nuclei is taken as 2.11. The
pressure in the deepest interior, 36,000,000,000 atmospheres, is so
KNOWLEDGE OF THE SUN—ST. JOHN 185

great that even at the high temperature the density is estimated to
be approximately twenty-eight times that of water, though the mean
density is only 1.4. The radiation pressure bears a very appreciable
ratio to the weight of the superincumbent material.

The photosphere is a relatively thin gaseous shell, through which
radiation from the interior does not pass directly, its optical opacity
being due to its highly ionized state (Stewart). The temperature of
its surface is approximately 6,000° K, and the pressure there a
thousandth of an atmosphere. The total mass of the overlying gases
according to Russell is approximately 10° tons. The mass of the
earth’s atmosphere is three times as great, but on the sun the pressure
(mass X solar gravity) is distributed over an area twelve thousand
times greater. As the sun’s atmosphere is approximately 10? times
as deep, its volume is 12 10° as large, hence its average density is
extremely small, about 210-7".

The reversing layer is a few hundred kilometers in thickness and
contains all the elements found in the sun’s atmosphere. In it the
vast majority of the Fraunhofer lines originate. It is supported be-
low mainly by gas pressure but above increasingly by the pressure of
radiation. The reversing layer merges gradually into the chromo-
sphere, which reaches 12,000—14,000 kilometers in height, and is sup-
ported by radiation pressure. The eclipse spectra of the chromo-
sphere (pl. 3) show conspicuously the emission lines of the lighter
gases, hydrogen and helium, and of ionized elements such as Ca+
and Ti+. The pressure at the top of the Ca+ atmosphere is of the
order of 10* atmosphere (Milne) and at the photosphere 10° atmo-
sphere (St. John and Babcock).

Prominences are luminous vapors, mainly hydrogen and ionized
calcium, that often rise above the chromosphere to great heights,
reaching at times to more than half the solar radius. (PI. 6, fig. 1.)
Formerly these were observed only at times of total eclipse of the
sun, but now are photographed daily with the spectroheliograph.
Their composition is known but there remains much to be explained
as to the forces that originate and support them and control their
movements. Dark masses of hydrogen are often photographed on the
disk of the sun. (PI. 6, fig. 2.) They were long suspected to be
prominences seen in projection on the disk. This relation to promi-
nences became clear through such fortunate observations as shown
in Plate 7, Figure 1, where a dark hydrogen cloud was caught being
carried off the disk by the sun’s rotation and later in Plate 7, Figure
2, when completely off the disk and bright. The motions of both
dark and bright hydrogen flocculi are now visually studied by means
of the spectrohelioscope recently developed by Hale.
186 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

The corona gives a continuous spectrum in which absorption lines
show faintly and upon which a bright line spectrum is superposed.
The former is ascribed to reflected or scattered sunlight, the latter to
an unidentified gaseous element considered formerly to be a
hypothetical element, coronium, but now thought to be due to some
known element peculiarly excited. The periodic table of the elements
based upon atomic theory has no place for such a hypothetical gas.
The recent identification by Bowen of the hypothetical nebulium lines
with the “ forbidden ” lines of oxygen, nitrogen, and sulphur, whose
production is favored by the extremely low density in nebulae, points
to a similar explanation for coronium.

RADIATION AND AGE OF THE SUN

The solar radiation at the mean distance of the earth from the
sun is 1.94 calories per minute per square centimeter. It is subject
to variation over the 11-year spot-cycle, being about 2 per cent above
the mean when spots are most plentiful. Variations with periods
of a few days may reach 8 per cent (Abbot). The total radiation
from the sun is 88 X10* ergs per second. Since pre-Cambrian times
the sun has been radiating at approximately this rate. This implies
a subatomic source of energy within the sun, the transformation of
hydrogen into helium, the annihilation of matter (Jeans), or radio-
active elements of higher atomic weight than uranium. In modern
theory the output of solar energy is equivalent to a loss in mass of
4,200,000 tons per second. Even at this enormous rate it would re-
quire fifteen thousand billion years for the transformation into en-
ergy of a mass equal to that of the sun. The widely accepted value
for the age of the earth derived from the radioactive content of the
oldest rocks is of the order of sixteen hundred million years. On the
assumption that the planets are the offspring of the sun’s early years,
a minimum age of two thousand million years is found for the sun
(Nernst).

Recently Milne has rediscussed the internal structure of stars and
finds that a star tends to generate a kind of “ white dwarf” at its
center surrounded by a gaseous distribution of more familiar type;
the star being like the yolk in an egg. He concludes that in the in-
tensely hot, intensely dense, nucleus, the temperatures and densities
are high enough for the transformation of matter to take place with
ease and that in this nucleus we must look for the origin of stellar
energy.

SCHEMATIC SECTION

A number of the factors bearing on the constitution of the solar
atmosphere may be advantageously assembled in a schematized dia-

Ee
KNOWLEDGE OF THE SUN—ST. JOHN 187

gram of a vertical section. (Fig. 2.) This represents the results
of observation interpreted in accordance with the idea of levels of

SUGGESTED SCHEME OF THE SUN’S ATMOSPHERE
DISTRIBUTION OF FACTORS ACCORDING TO LEVEL

Fee ere frressuee| “OP as" | HEIGHT |
COMPOSITION SPOTS | Disk |PRESSURE 0° - 45° HEIGHT

tin 1.9 -|3 e= 15°4
H+ LINES CT Kim | LOS Km [10 ATM 1 21akm |!4,000Km
2.0

HYDROGEN 1.5 ¥= 14°65
Ha Km Vv =2.09Km

HYDROGEN
HB eo 1.0Km ®,000Km
Ti*A3085 «| ~—— O.5 Km 6,000Km
SODIUMD,.D, | ~—- 0.2 Km 2,300Km
INEUTRAL CALCIUM] = =O.1 Km 10 *aTM |E = 14.44 | 2.100Km

\4227 ¥ =2.06Km

AL 15-20
Fe 15-40 0.0 Km 10.3 km 1,500Km
Fe 10 > O.2Km |,000Km
Fe4 |— 0.1 Km |,0-0Km E=13.84 |  400Km

BE? ie Illi tit jeies : ce Ua i ald inh fs ai

Fe 00 | 1.0 Km fo.3km \o ATM ¥=1.97Km 275 Km
i as os : ui
ka Ai i He AS a hh

tT AN far Se
FIGURE 2

———

eee Seon tle 19 FAP Vay BAe ae tes
Ke e Frcras fon ‘PH O105 Spieeicy AYER ce ~G ‘ ah ">
i oe

origin of Fraunhofer lines, an idea originally suggested by Lockyer
and later introduced independently at Mount Wilson. The first
column shows certain typical chemical components at various levels.
188 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

In sounding the sun’s atmosphere from the outside, one would, on
passing through the corona, encounter an atmosphere of ionized
calcium; to this would be added at successively lower levels, hydro-
gen, ionized titanium, sodium, normal calcium, and then other ele-
ments in rapid succession until at the photospheric level all constitu-
ents would be present. Helium, probably because of its high exci-
tation potential, does not appear as an absorption line in the solar
spectrum, except over the more actively disturbed areas. It is promi-
nent in eclipse spectra and extends to a height of 8,000 km.

In the second column, the cyclonic whirls in the upper chro-
mosphere are indicated by circles. These secondary high-level
vortices are probably called into existence through the low tem-
perature of the underlying spot umbra, either as a result of the
cooling of the lower chromosphere causing a down rush, or more
directly as the result of a decrease in the radiation pressure by
which the chromosphere is supported. As a rule, the direction of
these high-level whirls corresponds in all sun-spot cycles to the
terrestrial law, counter-clockwise in the Northern Hemisphere and
clockwise in the Southern Hemisphere. For the underlying vortices
constituting the sun spots, the whirls are below the photosphere and
their directions are unknown. Since the magnetic polarity is
opposite in Northern and Southern Hemispheres, and reverses at
each spot minimum, we may infer that change of polarity corre-
sponds to change in the direction of the whirl in the field-forming
vortex (Hale). The directions of the whirls in the upper and lower
vortices are independent of each other. In the same column the
leneth of the arrows is proportional to velocity of flow, and their
directions correspond to the inward and outward motions at high
and low levels, respectively.

In the third column (disk) displacements of high-level lines to
the red and of low-level lines to the violet relative to lines of medium
level, are similar to displacements that occur in stellar spectra and
appear to be a general characteristic of stellar atmospheres, their
magnitude increasing with the temperature of the star. The dis-
placements for the sun are consistent with its position in the evolu-
tionary sequence. As to the displacements of high-level lines to the
red expressed in their equivalent (Doppler velocity in the third
column of Figure 2), the following considerations offer a probable
interpretation. The increase in width of H and K above 8,000 km
indicates high ionic agitation. After emission, it is probable that
some of these atoms will possess large outward velocities, and hence
the next absorption will be from the violet side of the absorption
line, where the radiation is much stronger than at the center. Con-
secutive emissions and absorptions will therefore endow these atoms
with an increasing outward acceleration, and it is possible that some
KNOWLEDGE OF THE SUN—ST. JOHN 189

will eventually escape from the sun with enormous velocities. The
velocities of descent are hardly likely to exceed the velocities of
thermal agitation. When the Fraunhofer spectrum is observed,
there are therefore more atoms absorbing from the red wing than
from the violet. Hence the absorption line will appear displaced to
‘the red, and this feature should become more prominent with in-
creasing height (Milne, Merfield). The displacements to the violet
at low levels seem explicable by the upward streaming of gases near
the photosphere.

The last three columns show respectively the very low pressure
in the sun’s atmosphere by which the sun again shows its similarity
to the stars, the rotation at different levels, and the heights to which
the different gases rise as derived from the eclipse observations.

RELATIVITY

The question of the gravitational displacement of the Fraunhofer
lines predicted by the general theory of relativity has been a subject
of extended investigation, with the result that when other known
characteristic displacements in stellar atmospheres are taken into
consideration the remaining displacements to the red universally
observed are most satisfactorily interpreted in accordance with that
theory (Evershed, St. John). The interpretation is reinforced by
the observed effect in the “ white dwarf” companion of Sirius by
Adams and Moore.

This brief outline of the progress in our understanding of the
sun illustrates the wide-reaching results in astrophysical investiga-
tions from the union between spectroscopic observations on the sun,
work in the physical laboratory, and deductions from atomic theory,
and perhaps justifies the claim of astrophysics that it deals with
the most interesting questions of physical research.
\¢ in etei ae Se a oo saa en aps “s
jad od i a Os eee

8.96 thie’ oleae |
ite .

O
weir’, Wing gf
i
; emt! 71a ug Bos

ing ob e tio

Oo hi

Peay f
re ee rica e iter s yr
gach: MS BUTE to, antEigaop "we oi tn a

in tee ues iff. whieh: phe che!

mths eyre
Ga “gaihintersban 0 ae meaner, oobk onan
Spi patina 004 pic nenans atte atthlonds-obist ond tan
lot,, ayn BEL tu, emtoid arsed. vitjonaesgoege laoiried itive nit
Bi etoeds piccare gaat? cro Lonel baal, pubes del Lan ieelgp
ah _ ill Lisi ebbieysl (yoruba ‘fo mink okt esttitent 2 tog t
Gh db on colo nara | sderglepeIenpintatipe: steoae
mane ik vo eso Bde ox lye ORE sa ReheS tah Pian of osdaageitieg
OT ei Sushanernenitin 422k Oe tn shallan aywetrs, and ip
oc iesayc i a a a seajueite ot whale of AED HUB, thee
Mpemriitiy int rid GR: Ei Cel eas teh OP aa ee, ae pe
rie oat aage Ok ON ees a bis manent. WrIbts eh ua tae iat ‘the velar ue «

a ea a ie Bat i eee hear etaty, evi, Lig teu fines: ta dae ‘
Pith feb tei 141 lags ats paar HH 2 Dapes fend weil iets Tie ;
Ree AC ite 3), be Pane in ee Heian tik ons oitag hy aha us
Ppt piegetlions rele titres. 62) eae hee ed avave: 9,000 Aaa :

ements Aare, OC. RETR Ok. ‘ tess SOUR x a8 yeobah lol iat ‘ 4
ee a ead a lates yaniv) Sepebiaan, anid tag oo
the eS EOE Na wt » trom tee wes sips ae the shsorpitian
Rie ei: A as bis Nee ate ghee ee Hon pentane Ooagen
BOS EOE CER RS ON mul a bevogts PAO Ve o (heartily bra fant thet abit
els aut fhureie i. rua ie? ; senha Pure wns te ty possible ee a e
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—St. John PLATE 1

l

1. DRAWING BY KIRCHER AND SCHEINER, 1635. FROM THE COPY OF KIRCHER’'S
MUNDUS SUBTERRANEOUS" (AMSTERDAM, 1678) IN THE LIBRARY OF MOUNT
WILSON OBSERVATORY

2. DISK OF SUN AND PROMINENCES FROM COMBINED
SPECTROHELIOGRAMS IN THE K LIGHT OF CALCIUM.
1916
M NI G3YM SHL OL GNV 7 NI LAIOIA SHL OL “MSIG S.NNS AHL AO SS909 LSAM ANV
1SV4 SHL AO VYLOAdS NI SANIT YaAAJOHNNVYSA AHL AO SLNAWS3OVI1dSIG ALISOddO AHL AA NMOHS NNS AHL AO NOILWLOYW “2

ZOGEX ga ISX

CTS ae TT’ ee Deo kB hk I a
PO ne im tot
He OSHS EDC ee OD RS” PERCE 1s RA ieA DAME AG Oh ML | OS Bimwee Fr

"918 01109] OY] UI JOdvA UOT JO miniyoeds ‘q ‘Uns 9Y4 Jo eiqoods ‘D

Ou] AO YOdVA OL ANG SANIT YV10S 88z'€ AHL AO MAS Vv JO NOILVOISILNAG! AHL ONIMOHS VY LosadS ‘1
Vv LETEN

L We ‘cee ae

IM Tr Pent at inn HONE LAE

uyof 3S—0¢6l ‘qaodayy urtuOsy WIG

SYSBHdSOW LV S.NNS SHL NIN

c ALV 1d
oUt ] | UA | [OA jsSeyy eq) Uu euly Ue

OJ} ASIP oy a
| 1} Ul &€

119 } iyneu J yj] JSeAUOIIS BY YIEM pereduroo ‘aleyd

II I

MSS8dWVvD “NM M AS WVe9D0Y8 LOAadS ALV1d ODNIAOW
it J [Z0F 94 LO0F 84 CHOP OF OZ0F OT Hut )

€ 31V1d uYyof IS—"O¢H| “Moday ueruosyyug
Smithsonian Report, 1930,—St. John PLATE 4

——

a

1. Zeeman effect given by the Fe line 6,173 in the laboratory at A and in sun spots at B.
The line by which the magnetic fields in sun spots are usually measured, 2. Horizontal
cross section of a high-level vortex photographed in the red light of hydrogen at a height of
8,000 kilometers. ‘To be studied in connection with the vertical section, Figure 1 of text

Wi eee
INS3d SHL AO SADGZA YSALNO AHL AO VHLOAdS “2

LOdS NNS WV SO Vusawe

paoRy] Istpun alt aloudsouryt $,4 1189 ayy 04 enp aout oyu M un a1 jo Seaspa OM VY] JO t 1oeds ul peord Ip ot aul It [oO ani]

NS39AXO DINSHdSOWLY AO dNOYD G ANV SANIT YV1OS °1

OP OUD GE GCP CEREUEMO RR LE8 Od | ce ces) Reesor £18
Sh) ON ES PORES E Oe | sec Bem eee ee Ore

GS 31ivW1d uyof "IS—"O¢CH| ‘Oday UeruosyyUICG
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—St. John PLATE 6

1. PROMINENCE 110,000 MILES HIGH. SPECTROHELIOGRAM IN Ha Hy-
DROGEN

2. HYDROGEN CLOUDS DARK AGAINST THE HOTTER HYDROGEN BACK-

oe eee SR eee eS) oe rom esr
4SIG S.NNS JONANIWOY” LH!
IHL 4HO ANLYWd GNY NO ATLYWd GNOID NSEDSOYNGAH ‘2 JO 3904 3BHL YSAO ANS 1

7 L

L31Lv Id uyof Ts Oc6l “M xdayy UPTuosYy WC
THE MODERN SUN CULT’

By J. W. STURMER
Dean of Science, Philadelphia College of Pharmacy and Science

SUN ENERGY

In the springtime all vegetation awakens to renewed life. This
transformation would be most astonishing if its annual recurrence
had not taught us to accept it as a matter of course. The advent of
the growing season which comes with unfailing regularity, is the
result of more sun energy, that is, more light, and with it, more heat
rays which we can feel yet can not see, and more, also, of that mys-
terious radiation which we can neither feel nor see, but which we
now know to be a potent agency affecting all living creatures, namely
the ultra-violet rays.

Our house plants have the habit of growing toward the sun, and
we ourselves intuitively seek its ight and warming rays. No physi-
cian need order us to do it; it is simply natural that we crave sun-
shine. Under its influence we are alert, active, optimistic, cheerful.
When great lowering clouds hide the sun from us, we are apathetic,
lethargic, and gloomy. “Diogenes,” asked Alexander the Great,
“what can I do for you?” “What boon would you beg of the all-
powerful conqueror of nations?” “Step aside, Alexander,” answered
the old philosopher, who was not noted for tact or courtesy. “Step
aside, and do not shut out my sunlight.”

WINDOWS OF GLASS AFFECTING HEALTH

Primitive man was at one time a cave dweller. His house was
dark. ‘There were no windows. But the chances are that he was at
home but little, that he lived largely in the open, and that only when
the weather was extremely inclement did he take refuge in the dark
hole in the rock which he called home. It is highly probable also
that when the season permitted it, his apparel was not more extensive
than a modern sun suit. We may be sure that he got his ultra-violet
pretty generously, as did also his spouse and children. Unquestion-
ably man is an out-of-door creature intended to live in the sunlight.

1 One of a series of popular science lectures given at the Philadelphia College of Phar-
Macy and Science, 1929 season. Reprinted by permission from the American Journal of
Pharmacy, vol. 102, No. 2, February, 1930.

191
192 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

And for thousands of years he so lived. But a few centuries ago a
marvelous transparent substance was discovered, namely glass, and
this discovery has in a marked degree changed the human habits of
life and of work, for the cold months are now spent largely indoors,
behind this glass, which shuts out the wintry winds, but transmits
sunlight, and with it some of the warmth of winter sunshine. Un-
fortunately, however, and this was unknown until quite recently,
glass does not transmit all the kinds of sun energy which we need,
for the rays of shorter wave lengths than those of light are in large
measure intercepted by glass and so these rays now fail to reach us.
Thus we receive in our homes, and even on our sun porch, a vitiated
and abnormal sun radiation—a radiation which has lost something,
something imperceptible to our organs of vision, but which we re-
quire for our physical well-being.

EFFECTS OF SUN ACTIVITY

The sun is about 93,000,000 miles distant. Its enormous mass ex-
hibits tremendous chemical activity, and it is radiating its sub-
stance—so scientists inform us—at the rate of several million tons
per second. ‘The sun radiation thus engendered streams into space
and only a relatively small per cent of it reaches the planet on which
we live. Yet, as this small portion of the total varies, we experience
winter or summer, great heat or extreme cold; our vegetation flour-
ishes or dies; our hills are green, or they are white with a covering
of water crystals from the skies; our continent experiences a glacial
period, or an age of tropical warmth.

The sun radiation vaporizes the waters on the earth and forms
clouds, fog and rain. It stirs up the atmospheric mantle which sur-
rounds our planet and causes winds to blow—gentle spring zephyrs,
or devastating tornadoes. It develops the green and the yellow pig-
ments in leaves and the riot of colors in flowers. It also makes the
vegetable cell function as a chemical laboratory in which water and
the carbon dioxide of the air form plant substance, and thus our
plants grow, producing our food, our shelter, and our raiment. Even
our fuels, gas, coal, and oil, have a sun-energy origin, and the modern
cliff dweller in his steam-heated apartment, reading his newspaper
under the incandescent Madza, gets light which originated in the
sun, no matter whether the electric current he uses is generated from
coal or by water power. We are warmed by the sun, fed by the sun,
and clothed by it, just as was primitive man, ages before us.

WHAT IS SUN ENERGY?

Now what is it that the sun sends to us through 93,000,000 miles
of space? Is it a stream of electrons? So it would appear. But

ae ee en
MODERN SUN CULT—STURMER 193

we had better not be dogmatic on this subject which is linked with
the fundamental concepts of energy and matter—concepts which have
been modified quite recently, and may soon be modified still further.
Most physicists now subscribe to the corpuscular theory, in accord-
ance with which light, and the ultra-violet and the heat rays as well,
come from the sun as a stream of corpuscles, emitted in a succession
of bursts, but the latter so close together, and following one upon
the other with such inconceivable speed, that the stream is, as far
as We can perceive, continuous and unbroken.

WAVE LENGTHS

When, however, solar radiations are to be dealt with in their prac-
tical aspects, as for instance in regard to reflection or refraction, it
is the other theory of light, the wave theory, that provides the
nomenclature. So we continue to speak of wave lengths, and of wave
frequencies, just as we do in radio parlance. Indeed, it is generally
accepted that certain light waves may be “ tuned in,” and other light
waves refused entry. On this basis we explain the phenomenon of
color. But to understand the explanation we must remember that
the light waves of the different colors of the spectrum differ in
length; that the red waves are the longest, and that the waves become
shorter and shorter, through the orange, yellow, green, blue, and
violet, the latter being less than half the length of the red.

ULTRA-VIOLET

It must not be assumed that ultra-violet rays are of a single wave
length. On the contrary, they embody a range of wave lengths, just
as light rays represent a range. The longest waves of ultra-violet
ure just a little shorter than the shortest violet waves. They are thus
just beyond the violet rays of the spectrum. Hence the term ultra-
violet. It is not quite correct, however, to speak of ultra-violet light,
for light is visible, while the rays of shorter wave lengths than those
of light are invisible. Hence we had better use the term ultra-violet

radiation.
THE ANGSTROM UNIT

We must bear in mind that the waves of light rays are exceedingly
minute—too short to be measured by ordinary methods, and that we
can not conveniently express such infinitesimal lengths in fractions
of inches or even of millimeters. And as the waves of ultra-violet
rays are shorter still, the necessity for a special unit of length to be
employed in the measurement of such minute waves is obvious.

The unit most generally used is called the Angstrém unit, and was

so named in honor of a Swedish physicist by the name of Angstrém.
194 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

It is a metric unit, and represents zope'o5o00 Of a millimeter, the
millimeter being equivalent to about =, of an inch. Now in terms of

this unit visible light ranges from about 3,600 Angstrém units (A),
to about 7,700 A—although it must be remembered that the human
organs of vision vary in their range, and that many persons can not
see the rays of wave lengths as short as 3,600 A, nor those of wave
lengths as long as 7,700 A.

1000A 000A sons dingo 5000A 6000A 7oo0A S8000A

Ay ULTRA viouer = RAYS
A — RE
Lm RAY “700A
1 SUN RA DIATION AS tT se
UM. VISIBLE | RAYS
VISIBLE | RAYS
PADUATON ROU fon

t vi VISIBLE TRAYS
VISIBLE | RAYS TAS
RADIATIC oN FROM ” RCURY VAPOR tAMPERRIOAA

\ DORNO REGION (2900- INS
FIGURE 1

NG

WAVE LENGTHS OF ULTRA-VIOLET

Wave lengths shorter than 3,600 A, and down to about 1,000 A,
constitute the ultra-violet radiation. The shorter the waves, the
higher the frequency, that is, the larger is the number which pass a
given point in a unit of time. All solar radiation travels at the same
inconceivable speed of about 186,500 miles a second, thus being capa-
ble of encircling the earth more than seven times in that short period.
This applies to ultra-violet as well as to visible light, just as it does
also to the very long waves which carry our radio programs. This
means that the rays from ultra-violet lamps reach us so speedily—
if they are not absorbed by an intervening medium—that we have no
time to side-step them, even though we may stand at some distance
from the lamp. We can protect ourselves only by the use of an in-
tercepting medium.

The radio waves, many city blocks in length, the infra-red, visi-
ble light, ultra-violet, and X rays, all seem to be fundamentally the
same, except in the matter of wave lengths and conversely in the
rapidity with which the waves follow one upon the other; but by
MODERN SUN CULT—STURMER 195

virtue of this variation they exhibit a most decided difference in
penetrability and in their action on inanimate objects and on living
organisms.

SOURCE OF ULTRA-VIOLET

An ordinary wood or coal fire emits light and heat rays, but no
appreciable ultra-violet radiation. If, however, carbon disu!phide
is burned in a stream of oxygen, the flame which exhibits intense
white light, emits also ultra-violet radiation. So ordinary combus-
tion can be the source of these mysterious rays. But carbon disul-
phide is a substance both dangerous and malodorous, and its use in
lamps for the production of ultra-violet is limited to laboratory

experiments.
ULTRA-VIOLET LAMPS

The practical ultra-violet lamps are types of electric lamps. This
applies to those which are used for strictly scientific purposes as well
as to the lamps now so largely sold for family use for the irradiation
of the human body. To be sure, the lamps for scientific purposes are
designed to furnish a greater intensity of radiation, and one embody-
ing a wider range of wave lengths. They are also provided with
filters to intercept the light waves, which is not a necessity if the
lamp is to be employed for therapeutic purposes, as for such uses
the accompanying light waves seem to be desirable and certainly
not objectionable.

Structurally the lamps may be divided into two classes: The ex-
posed are lights, and the lamps in which the radiation is produced
within a bulb or tube. The principle upon which the majority of
ultra-violet lamps are constructed is that an electric spark sent
through the vapor of certain metals—iron, nickel, zinc, mercury,
ete.—produces this radiation.

A common form of the are type has carbon electrodes with metal-
lic cores, or cores impregnated with metallic ingredients. But also
carbons without metallic ingredients may be used, in which case
a very wide are (about 2 inches) is employed.

The other kind of lamp (always with a bulb or tube) is known as
a mercury vapor lamp. Such a lamp may have electrodes of mercury,
or these may be of some other metal, such as tungsten; but in either
case the gap between the electrodes is occupied by mercury vapor
which the current traverses and causes to glow with a greenish light,
the invisible ultra-violet rays being produced with the light waves.
The light from such a lamp does not include the longest visible waves,
that is, it is devoid of the red and orange; and as a consequence the
light is colored, for white is obtained when all the wave-lengths of
the red, orange, yellow, green, blue, and violet are produced. The
196 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

lamps used for therapeutic purposes may be arc lamps or mercury
vapor lamps, but for scientific use the latter type of lamp is usually
preferred.

A common: form of mercury vapor lamp is essentially a specially
constructed quartz tube, exhausted of air, and containing liquid mer-
cury which may be made to separate, and thus an arc may be struck.
The wires are connected in such a manner that the spark must jump
from the one body of mercury to the other, thus traversing the gap
occupied by mercury vapor.

Quartz is employed for the tube or bulb because of its remarkable
transparency to ultra-violet rays, permitting penetration of wave
lengths as short as about 1,850 A. Only calcite and fluorspar are
known to transmit yet shorter wave lengths. For the lamps designed
for therapeutic use, quartz need not be employed, as such lamps are
planned to furnish only the ultra-violet rays of wave lengths greater
than 2,900 A, these being the rays which come to us in sunshine.
Thus a special kind of glass may be made to serve for the tube or
bulbs, and the employment of quartz is not necessary for family sun
lamps. Lamps embodying bulbs or tubes are known to become less
efficient with use. This progressive loss of efficiency is largely due
to changes which the radiation effects in the quartz or glass, prob-
ably a gradual devitrification, and a discoloration because of the
deposition of particles by sublimation.

FILTERING OUT LIGHT WAVES

The filters used to cut out the light waves, so that only the ultra-
violet may be transmitted, are either plates of quartz on which a
thin film of silver has been deposited, or they are glasses deeply col-
ored with certain metallic ingredients.

THE INVISIBLE BECOMES VISIBLE

When the invisible ultra-violet rays, unaccompanied by light rays,
are caused to fall upon certain objects, an astonishing phenomenon
may be observed. Objects which in common light have color, may
change color; and objects which are commonly colorless, may ex-
hibit color—may show red, orange, yellow, green, blue, or violet—
any color of the spectrum. Thus, the fingernails, the teeth, and
the eyeballs glow with a pale yellow light.- A crystal of calcite
looks like a coal of fire; a crystal of fluorite shows a beautiful violet
blue. ‘The zinc ore called Willemite, glows brilliantly with a yellow-
green light. Indeed, many chemicals, in ultra-violet light, show
characteristic color effects. Thus, calomel exhibits a brick-red
color, sodium salicylate is violet blue; quinine, violet; petrolatum,
rhe at Ie eee

MODERN SUN CULT—STURMER 197

light blue. The explanation of such extraordinary effects is that
these substances, and many others which show color under ultra-
violet have the property of reducing the latter radiation to longer
wave lengths effecting a step-down, as we might call it, and thus
bringing the rays within the range of the visible spectrum.

FLUORESCENCE

This phenomenon is called fluorescence, because it was observed
first in the mineral fluorite. :

Not only the color, but also the intensity of the fluorescence, varies
greatly. Thus, for example, both sodium and potassium salicylate
show a violet-blue; but the fluorescence of the sodium salt is much
more pronounced. Again some solids which show little or no
fluorescence, may develop it to a marked degree when they are dis-
solved in an appropriate solvent. The examination of substances
under ultra-violet is a new development in science, and one which
gives promise of many applications in solving problems in practical
chemistry.

Certain substances fluoresce with a red light, that is to say, they
step down the invisible rays to about 7,000 A. If the waves coming
from the chemical when it is subjected to ultra-violet are mostly
waves of about 5,500 A, these will appear to our eyes as green; and
so on through the range of colors which are seen in the rainbow.
But we must remember that just as visible light represents not a
single wave length but a range from about 7,700 A to about 3,600 A,
so does ultra-violet radiation represent a range of wave lengths,
beginning where the shortest waves of the visible spectrum end, at
about 3,600 A, and diminishing in length to about 1,000 A. Im-
mediately beyond the ultra-violet there lies an unexplored field; and
then, farther on, in the neighborhood of 100 A there are the X rays
concerning which we have some definite knowledge. And, lastly,
beyond the X rays, come the shortest waves known to science, the
gamma rays, from radium, and beyond these the cosmic rays about
which we now are receiving rather startling information.

ABSORPTION OF ULTRA-VIOLET

We are all familiar with the fact that some substances, like soot,
absorb all the rays of common light, and hence appear black, while
other substances reflect indiscriminately all the wave lengths of
light, as does this paper, and hence appear white. We know also
that many substances exhibit selective absorption, failing to appro-
priate the red, the yellow, the green, or the blue, and thus possess
the colors of the wave lengths which are not absorbed.

28095—31——_14
198 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

Now ultra-violet, speaking generally, is much less penetrating
than the longer waves which we can see, and this feeble penetrability
diminishes more and more as the wave decreases in length. The
opacity of most known substances to the ultra-violet radiation has
tended to make its study difficult, and it was not until the technique
of making quartz glass had been perfected that much headway could
be made. But in fused quartz we have a medium transparent to
waves as short as 1,850 A. For the study of still shorter waves cer-
tain minerals, namely fluorite and calcite, are employed. But the
waves shorter than 1,850 A have at present no practical application,
so the quartz glass serves very acceptably.

THE WAVE LENGTHS WHICH PASS THROUGH THE ATMOSPHERE

Solar radiation is rich in ultra-violet. Just how rich, and what
its range of wave lengths may be, we do not know, perhaps shall
never know, for our atmosphere, even when it is clear, cuts out all the
wave lengths shorter than those of about 2,900 A. What is known
concerning the shorter waves has been learned through the study of
radiation artificially supplied by arc lights and lights from sparks
through metallic vapors.

ULTRA-VIOLET THROUGH GLASS

Common glass transmits only the longest waves of ultra-violet
radiation, those which are longer than about 3,400 A, and hence are
in the neighborhood of the visible violet light waves. This explains
why a sunporch furnishes impoverished sunlight. But in recent
years special kinds of glass have been made, designed to transmit
the solar ultra-violet more generously. The claim is made that this
glass transmits about 65 per cent of the invisible active rays, a
statement which requires explanation. The facts are these: Not 65
per cent of all the ultra-violet waves of sunshine pass through in
the same proportion in which they occur out of doors, but rather 65
per cent of the radiation, with a much greater absorption of the
shorter waves—even a total absorption of some of them—and a
lesser interception of the longer ones. In other words, these so-
called ultra-violet transmitting media do cut out an appreciable
amount of the wave lengths shorter than about 3,000 ik

THE DORNO REGION

The significance of the interception of wave lengths shorter than
about 3,000 A by the special glasses, and of all wave lengths below
3,200 or 3,400 A by common glass is better understood when it is
known that the rays which produce the beneficial effects on the
MODERN SUN CULT—STURMER 199

human skin connected with the production of vitamin D are those
of wave lengths from 2,900 A to 3,130 A. This region of the ultra-
violet range of wave lengths is known as the Dorno region, and
embodies the rays used therapeutically. These are the rays which
are desired chiefly also in the radiation from the ultra-violet lamp.
Rays of wave lengths from 2,800 A to 3,300 A are known to produce
pigment, but particularly is this effect said to be due to the wave
lengths of the Dorno region. It appears that tanning is nature’s
protection against too much ultra-violet radiation of the wave
lengths which cause the chemical changes in the skin, for when the
tan has become deep enough, the Dorno rays no longer penetrate,
but are absorbed by the pigment and changed to heat rays.

WINDOWS

Window panes of quartz glass, SiO, give, of course, the best results
in the transmission of the ultra-violet of the Dorno region; but only
quite recently has the manufacture of quartz window panes been
placed on an industrial basis, and unfortunately the price is still
too high to admit of their general employment in the windows of
solaria. The other types of ultra-violet transmitting glass, though
not as satisfactory, are much cheaper. A still cheaper substitute is
celophane, which is essentially a transparent product of cellulose.
This substance transmits the radiation quite well, but it lacks dura-
bility, and requires a specially constructed frame.

DOSAGE OF SUNSHINE

How much sunshine do we need? Sunshine, like heat, food, or
medicine, or any other agency which affects us, must be taken in
proper apportionment. There is such a thing as too much food.
Certainly, such a thing as too much calomel. That too much heat
hurts us, we learn in early childhood. Sooner or later we learn also
that too much sunshine is harmful. And an extensive and deep
sunburn is not only painful, but like any other burn, is dangerous,
resulting in cell destruction, with the generation of toxins, which
cause systemic poisoning. Thus even sunshine must be taken in
proper dosage. Fortunately, however, sunshine does not ordinarily
harm us if we accustom ourselves to it gradually, and thus avoid
sunburn. This remark, however, applies only to persons who are
well, for in certain diseases even strong sunshine may be detrimental.

PROTECTION AGAINST ULTRA-VIOLET

If we are interested in protection against ultra-violet rather than
in its transmission, we need but remember that substances which
allow only the longer waves of the visible spectrum to pass—amber
200 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

glass, red glass, orange, and yellow glass—will prove opaque to
ultra-violet, while a medium which cuts out the red end of the
spectrum and transmits the violet and blue will prove to be rather
transparent also to the adjacent invisible waves just beyond the
violet. Thus blue cobalt glass transmits some ultra-violet, while
red glass and amber glass filter it out, together with the short-wave
radiation of the visible spectrum, namely, the violet, blue, and green.

It will be seen, in the light of this fact, that the practice, formerly
in vogue, of keeping the lght-sensitive chemicals in blue glass
bottles was a misguided procedure, destined to prove ineffectual,
while our present-day practice of employing amber glass is founded
on sound principles and is much more effective.

Another means employed to shut out ultra-violet is to interpose
a fluorescent substance as a protective, for such a substance will
transform this radiation into visible light waves. The cold creams
and ointments specially devised to protect against sunburn are com-
pounded on this principle and contain fluorescent material. Even
the ointment bases are fluorescent.

That sunlight deleteriously affects house paint is well known, and
we have all observed how much longer paint lasts on the north
side than it does on the southward exposure. The inclusion of a
fluorescent material is, therefore, of benefit in house paint. Now
zinc white is such a substance, and its employment in the paint
materially lowers the penetration of the ultra-violet rays which
are so destructive to the linseed-oil binder, causing the oxidized oil
to disintegrate to powder, thus bringing about the result which
the painter refers to as “chalking.” Most face paint, also, is
somewhat fluorescent, and is to some degree a protection against
sunburn.

CLOTHING AND ULTRA-VIOLET

A few remarks about clothing may be relevant in this discussion.
A person exposed to the ultra-violet in connection with electric
welding may receive a burn through his clothing. This is due to
the intensity of the radiation. But most clothing effectively inter-
cepts the light rays and also the ultra-violet radiation of sunlight.
Animal hair is quite opaque to solar ultra-violet. Only very white
hair transmits it to a slight extent. This means that all woolen
clothing is an effective ultra-violet filter, and that the modern male
promenading on the boardwalk receives practically no such radia-
tion through his clothing. Silk also is fairly opaque, linen a trifle
less so, whole cotton is a bit more transparent. The most trans-
parent textile is a loosely-woven rayon or artificial silk, which
explains why the sex known during the Victorian era as the
weaker sex is on the way to becoming the robust sex. The girls
i a et

MODERN SUN CULT—STURMER 201

are getting more solar radiation, hence more vitamin D. This in
part explains it. I would not be guilty of a breach in tact and
criticize feminine raiment, which by the way would be futile, for 1
know that in the past neither the facts disclosed by science nor
the admonitions of the medical profession have had any influence
on the fashions of dress. Hence it is probably fortunate that I
have warrant for the statement that the feminine dress of to-day is
in far closer harmony with the newer facts pertaining to irradiation
as a health measure than is the modern attire of the male. Women
have gone far, since Civil] War days, in so changing the fashions
as to provide for plenty of sun irradiation; and in this span of time
the men, alas, have made progress merely to the extent of having
shaved off their whiskers and exposing their chins to the sun.
Only on the beach at the seashore does the pipe-smoking sex get
an even break when it comes to solar radiation. What should be
done about this is a matter far beyond the scope of this discussion.
We give it up.
SUSCEPTIBILITY TO SUNBURN

The human skin varies considerably in its tolerance of solar radia-
tion. Light-skinned persons are more sensitive to it than are the
dark skinned, and in most individuals a tolerance may be slowly de-
veloped by progressively increasing doses—if one may use the term
doses in this connection. Speaking generally, our arms can stand
about half again as much as the chest, abdomen, or back; the legs
a little more than the arms, the backs of our hands about 5 times as
much, and the palms about 15 times as much, while the foot soles are
most resistive, because here the skin is thickest, and the outer skin
is a poor conductor of radiation. But persons who do not tan must
be very careful in taking sun baths.

BURNS BY REFLECTED RAYS

A sunburn, unlike a heat burn, does not become manifest instantly.
We may receive an overdose of sun radiation and remain oblivious
of the fact for three or four hours. Nor is it easy to judge how long
we may with impunity subject ourselves to sunshine at any given
time, for so much depends upon the time of day, the season of the
year, and the atmospheric conditions. We should know, however,
that not only the direct rays burn, but that diffused sunlight, and
reflected radiation, does also; that, for example, we may sit in a boat
under an awning and receive a burn. It should be borne in mind
that much of our ultra-violet comes to us reflected from the sky, and
that the north exposure of our house provides about half as much
as the exposure facing the sun.
202  §$ ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930
VARYING INTENSITY OF SUNLIGHT

It may, further, help us to guard against sunburn if we remember
the fundamental fact that the lower strata of our atmosphere are
particularly absorptive toward ultra-violet, much more so than the
more rarified strata higher up, the curve of ultra-violet in sunshine
being virtually identical with the are described by the sun in its
course from horizon to horizon, which explains why old Sol is so
much more powerful near the middle of the day, and much feebler
when in the morning and evening its rays travel a longer distance
through denser strata. It is indeed a common observation that at
sunrise and at sunset even the violet and blue of the visible spectrum
is largely cut out, giving us a preponderance of reddish and orange
light. And as a matter of fact, the ultra-violet is almost wholly in-
tercepted at the same time.

WINTER SUNSHINE

In the winter, the sun is not so high in the sky, and its slanting
rays are for this reason relatively poor in ultra-violet, Just as are
those of the morning and evening sun. Furthermore, there may be
fog, clouds, and soot particles, all of which filter out the shorter rays.
Soot is the greatest offender in this respect, and does much to deplete
still further the enfeebled sunshine of the cold season of the year.
Our industrial centers naturally suffer most in the matter of vitiated
sunlight, for in order that we may keep warm, and that our wheels
of industry may be kept spinning, immense quantities of soot are
belched forth from our chimneys.

DEFICIENCY OF ULTRA-VIOLET

In other words, we are systematically sacrificing the short-wave
solar ultra-violet in order that we may have an abundance of the
longer waves which keep us warm. Only in very recent years have
we learned about the unhealthfulness of this practice, and have
come to the conviction that something must be done about it. A
paucity of solar radiation means, so medical men tell us, a slackened
metabolism, an enfeebled condition, a lowered resistance to germ
diseases. It has in fact been suggested that the gradual extinction
of certain Indian tribes may be due largely to their altered dress,
and their changed modes of life, resulting in inadequate sun irradia-
tion, which is so necessary to them. In children, regardless of race,
too little sunlight may mean rickets, or tuberculosis; and it was in-
deed in the treatment of these diseases that solar radiation was first
employed in a systematic way. The sun cure is not, however, in
reality modern, for Antyllus, a physician of ancient Rome, made use
MODERN SUN CULT—STURMER 203

of it, and he practiced heliotherapy long before anything was known
about vitamin D. It is interesting to know also that rickets is the
disease which he treated with sunlight. But since his day much
definite information has been brought to light, some of it by feeding
experiments conducted with animals, both in the absence and in the
presence of radiation. Curative procedures also have been engaged
in, experimentally on animals, and clinically on patients in hospitals.

VITAMIN D

It is now known that when the skin is irradiated with ultra-
violet, pigmentation or tanning is not the only result. Far more
important is the change experienced by a certain chemical substance
in the skin, a substance which becomes activated to form a vitamin,
namely, the vitamin now designated as vitamin D, which appears
to be just as essential to the proper functioning of the human organ-
ism as is certain mineral matter which, it is well known, we must
supply in our diet. If, then, we receive, because of our abnormal
modern conditions of life, too little sun radiation, the tiny labora-
tories in our skin fail to elaborate an adequate supply of vitamin D,
and as a result, the life functions fail to go on normally and as they
should, even though we may not develop a recognizable disease.

BOTTLED SUNSHINE

We may in such cases proceed in a manner suggested by the serum
treatments. We may obtain from another living organism the sub-
stance which we fail to produce ourselves. If we cannot develop our
own vitamin D, we may buy it, and take it as medicine or food. Now
the codfish, and other fish also, possess an abundance of vitamin D,
the source of which appears to be the marine algae, which are eaten
by shrimp and small fish, which in turn supply the vitamin much
against their will to the larger fish. The vitamin D in fish is found
principally in the liver, and it occurs in the oil expressed from fish
liver. So cod-liver oil has come to be known as “ bottled sunshine ”
useful in the treatment of the diseases which develop because of an
inadequacy of solar radiation.

HOW MUCH SUNSHINE IS ENOUGH

But what amount of such radiation and how much ultra-violet
is adequate? We do not know. Physicians recognize the diseased
conditions which follow a dearth of sunlight but they cannot tell
us precisely how much we must have. Hence we do not know how
long we must be in the sunlight, how great an area of our body
surface must be exposed to it, nor how long we can go on without
irradiation. But we do know that in the winter at least we do not
receive as much as we need.
204 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

SUNLIGHT CAN NOT BE STANDARDIZED

As the ultra-violet rays in sunlight vary, not only according to the
season and the time of day, but also according to atmospheric condi-
tions it is utterly impossible to determine with any degree of accuracy
the dosage of sunlight needed in specific cases. Hence the helio-
therapist has learned to proceed cautiously and experimentally. A
sun bath of an hour may be safe enough on a certain day, but may,
at the same hour, and in the same length of time, on the day follow-
ing, cause a severe sunburn. One can not standardize sunlight with
precision. In this respect, certainly, the ultra-violet lamp offers
an advantage. For with the same apparatus, and with the distance
from the lamp also the same, the time of irradiation practically
determines the dosage. This dosage is now being worked out, al-
though, of course, we must remember that some persons are much
more susceptible than others to the radiation, just as individuals
differ in their tolerance of our common drugs.

IRRADIATED FOODS

The substance in the skin which responds to the ultra-violet is asso-
ciated with cholesterol, and a similar substance is found in certain
plants associated with phytosterol, which suggested that probably
the vitamin could be produced in certain foods by irradiation, thus
making unnecessary the ingestion of the unpalatable cod-liver oil.
Irradiated grain foods, irradiated milk and similar products have
given promise of usefulness. Such irradiated foods are now on the
market, as are also concentrated products obtained by treating an
impure ergosterol with ultra-violet rays. The dose of the latter
product is extremely small, and an overdose is harmful. It is said
to represent 100,000 times its weight of cod-liver oil as far as the
antirachitic effect is concerned. Strange to say, however, when ergo-
sterol, or a food containing it, is irradiated too long, the vitamin
becomes inactive. Indeed, the whole study of irradiated foods, and
of cod-liver oil substitutes generally, is still in its infancy, and much
remains to be learned, if not in regard to the technique of their prepa-
ration, then certainly as regards proper dosage. A preparation of
irradiated ergosterol has been approved by the council of pharmacy
and chemistry of the American Medical Association, and may be ac-
cepted as quite reliable. But such products should be considered as
medicine, to be taken under medical supervision.

USE OF LAMPS

The same cautious course should be followed also in the employ-
ment of ultra-violet radiation when this is produced artificially. We
know that sunlight does not ordinarily harm us if we avoid sunburn.
But the radiation from are lights or mercury vapor lamps embodies
the wave lengths shorted than those found in sunlight which comes
MODERN SUN CULT—STURMER 205

to us filtered by the atmosphere. It is also more intense. For these
reasons the radiation artificially produced is far more dangerous.
But unquestionably, the contrivances to furnish ultra-violet and thus
to compensate for our loss of normal sunshine, are, if used properly,
of great value. It is not wise, however, to proceed to self-treatment
without expert direction. Here also conservatism is the part of wis-
dom. Let those who have been specially trained, do the pioneering.

THE ZONES OF ULTRA-VIOLET RAYS

The radiation from a mercury vapor lamp produces violet, blue,
green, and yellow light waves, which can be filtered out; and also
ultra-violet rays from the violet down to a wave length of about 1,850
to 1,870 A. Waves shorter than 1,850 A are cut out by quartz and are
never found in the radiation from a mercury vapor lamp. ‘The waves
of the Dorno region, 2,900 to 3,130 A, and the longer ones, have the
action of sunlight, but are of course supplied in greater abundance.
Like sunlight they stimulate metabolism, govern our calcium balance,
increase the alkalinity and the iron content of the blood, sharpen the
appetite, and may be used in the treatment of rickets, certain skin
diseases, and of tuberculosis. Such skin irradiation produces a slight
rise in the temperature, which soon falls to normal. It does not af-
fect the blood pressure. If prolonged, it can, of course, cause sun-
burn, and it may cause inflammation of the eyes, this being due mainly
to the waves shorter than about 3,050 A.

Waves shorter than 3,000 A are correspondingly more irritating
and more dangerous to the eyes. Since these shorter waves are pro-
duced in the operation of electric welding, they are frequently en-
countered, and their dangerous nature should be kept in mind.
Goggles of special glass designed to intercept them, are worn by the
persons engaged in such operations; the spectators, however, are not
so protected, and must look out for themselves.

BACTERICIDAL RAYS

The waves shorter than 3,000 A and longer than 2,000 A are de-
cidedly bactericidal, particularly those between 2,490 A to 2,380 A.
But longer wave-lengths also have a killing effect on some germs,
though in a much lesser degree. Indeed, this is true in a measure in
regard to the violet, the blue, and the green of the visible spectrum.
Speaking generally, the longer the wave lengths, above 3,000 A, the
less effective are the rays in the destruction of bacteria.

CHEMICAL ACTION

Waves shorter than 3,000 A also convert oxygen into ozone, hence
this substance is always in evidence when an ultra-violet lamp is in
operation. Ozone is a very active oxidizing agent, and in dilution
acts on us asa stimulant. It is interesting in this connection to note
206 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

that the solar radiation forms ozone in the upper regions of the at-
mosphere, and that when the sky is clear, and when the wind is
from the west or the southwest, some of the ozone is found at the
earth’s surface, thus augmenting the exhilarating effect of the out-
door air, when we are taking a stroll under such weather conditions.
It may explain also why we are apt to feel less energetic when the
wind is from the east, for then the ozone is absent. Old-fashioned
fishermen may even contend that it provides justification for their
deep convictions to the effect that “ When the wind is from the east,
the fishing is the least.” But no one gives credence to what fisher-
men say.
A NEW TOOL FOR THE CHEMIST

To the chemist the ultra-violet lamp has opened up new methods
of identification. Since so many substances exhibit characteristic
fluorescent properties, this fact may be utilized for identification and
for the detection of small quantities of certain contaminations or ad-
ulterations. The ultra-violet lamp may be used in food analysis,
in clinical chemistry, and in mineralogy to identify rock components.
The modern Sherlock Holmes will use not only his microscope but
also his ultra-violet lamp. In the examination of documents, to de-
tect suspected alterations, to establish the authenticity—or the re-
verse—of old paintings, this strange radiation is of great assistance.
In the paint industry it may be employed to study the resistance to
sunlight of various paints and varnish mixtures. Its applications
for the chemist seem indeed almost endless. It is a tool of great
value to the analyst as well as to the physician. But it must, of
course, be handled with caution. Such a lamp is not a plaything.

ANCIENT AND MODERN SUN WORSHIP

Man has since time immemorial recognized sunlight as a natural
agency of paramount influence. Many primitive races worship the
sun as a deity, a practice at one time quite general and extending
over long periods of time. Our American Indians: still conduct
their sun dances. The ancient sun worship, not only in Africa and
in Asia, but also in Europe, and on this continent, had its gruesome
aspects for it entailed, frequently, human sacrifice—sacrifice to the
sun god. The modern sun cult, should, however, exhibit no such in-
human features. Only ignorance, leading to the reckless misuse of
sun therapy, can call for victims. Let us hope, therefore, that this
new health-giving agency may be employed wisely and conserva-
tively by the enthusiastic devotees of the modern sun cult and that
experimentation in this field may be limited to persons who have
the necessary knowledge and skill.

THE MOON AND RADIOACTIVITY *

By V. S. Forsss

Christ's College, Cambridge

In a study of the surface features of our satellite one is immedi-
ately impressed by the remarkable sharpness and freshness which
many of those features exhibit. Further, one is struck by the fact
that evidences of compressive action are in the minority, whereas
the moon’s crust shows clearly innumerable clefts, rifts, and frac-
tures pointing to an extensional tendency beneath its outer envelope.
This is hardly in accordance with our ideas of the appearance of a
sphere which has lost all its heat; everywhere it should show signs
of intense contraction, and arcuate mountain ranges should be more
frequent than upon the face of the earth.

It is now generally accepted that the moon must have cooled to
something like its present condition long before the earth came to
the state in which its igneously fluid mass was crusted over. <Ac-
cording to Dr, R, H. Rastall* the moon is very probably the missing
two-thirds of the earth’s sialsphere, which in the liquid state was
stripped off by some form of tidal resonance. A certain amount
of sima was stripped off at the same time, giving the moon its
density of 3.46. (Density of sial, about 2.7.) Support is lent to
this view by the recent investigations made by Dr. F. E. Wright °
on the optical course of the moon’s radiation. He states that “ re-
sults clearly indicate that at the surface of the moon, no dark rocks,
low in silica, nor iron, nor obsidians are exposed in appreciable
amounts; but light-colored rocks high in silica and powders of trans-
parent substances are possible.” In other words, the moon’s surface
is predominantly of sial,

Now it seems highly improbable that the many well-preserved
surface features of the moon could have been formed at that remote
period before the earth had obtained a solid crust. It is true that the

1 Reprinted by permission, with author's alterations and additions from the Geologt-
cal Magazine, vol. 66, No. 776, February, 1929.

2? The Continents and the Origin of the Moon, Nature, May 2, 1925.

* Carnegie Institution of Washington, Year Book, No. 26, 1926-27, p. 388.

207
208 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

ordinary agents of erosion and degradation are absent on the moon,
but there still remain two destructive forces to be reckoned with;
forces which should surely have obliterated or dulled the trace of
finer markings in the immense period of time at their disposal. The
first of these is differential expansion and contraction in the rocks,
aided by gravity, and rendered far more potent than on the earth by
the tremendous temperature range and the abruptness of thermal
changes experienced on the atmosphereless moon. This force should
operate to cause exfoliation and crumbling of every exposed rock
surface, causing a slow but inevitable degradation of relief. The
rock screes would creep downwards through expansion and contrac-
tion. The absence of water and organic matter would prevent cemen-
tation of the talus, and movement would continue until a low angle
was reached. It should be noted that the smaller gravity value on the
moon is offset by the fact that this reduces friction, so the capacity of
loose material for downward motion is not thereby affected. -

The fact that this temperature change now occurs but once in
every 14 days does not diminish the value of this argument. For if
the moon’s features were formed before the earth’s crust had cooled,
these features were then more often exposed to the temperature
changes, owing to the moon’s then greater rapidity of rotation and
revolution. Subjection to this temperature range, even if only once
every 14 days throughout the immense period which has elapsed
since pre-Archeozoic times, must surely have operated to degrade all
the moon’s features in a marked degree.

If during a brief period the moon possessed an atmosphere, the
ordinary agents of erosion and denudation were then present to
destroy the relief rapidly. Formation of the major part of the
original surface features necessarily preceded the loss of the atmos-
phere, since as long as volcanic action occurred, gases would be
emitted to compensate wholly or partly for the diffusion of the
atmosphere into space. It is indeed surprising that evidences of this
period of active degradation as well as the subsequent and exceedingly
long period of slow degradation, are so conspicuously absent in many
of the moon’s surface features. If, on the other hand, the original
surface features were not of volcanic formation, as assumed above,
an explanation must be sought for a phase of violent vulcanicity at
a later stage in its history.

The second destructional force likely to obliterate the moon’s sharp
relief is the continuous bombardment of meteors and meteorites to
which it is no doubt subjected. The moon being destitute of any
protective gaseous envelope, all meteorites and meteors entering its
gravitative field will come into contact with its surface. The impact

—y
MOON AND RADIOACTIVITY—FORBES 209

of these bodies will by their shock, and also by hitting screes directly,
greatly accelerate the downward motion of rock particles.

Again, the moon exhibits on its surface a color-range between the
dark lavas of the “ seas ” or maria and the dazzling white ray systems
which surround the largest craters or vulcanoids. One can not be-
lieve that this gradation in coloring could have persisted since the
moon’s formation, under an incessant hail of meteors. For if a
meteor’s force of impact be sufficient, its constituents will be imme-
diately volatilized by the resultant heat.*| The meteoric material
will thus be scattered, but will settle down upon the crust. In time
the whole surface of the satellite will be covered by a homogeneous
layer of meteoric dust which will give the lunar features a uniform
hue. If on the other hand the meteoric mass merely pits the surface
without being volatilized, the effect will be to change the color for the
area of that pit. Continuous pitting of the surface will ultimately
reduce the whole surface to the same hue.

Against this it may be said that a certain number of meteorites
will fail to reach the face of the moon visible to us, owing to the
earth’s superior gravitative attraction, and that most meteorites will
fall upon the hidden face. But again it must be remembered that
the moon has not always rotated at its present speed, and that dur-
ing the initial stages of its history it probably exposed every part
of its surface equally to meteoric attack. If it ever possessed an
atmospheric envelope, its loss must have been an early occurrence,
and it can not have acted as a protective mantle for long. If, on
the other hand, it be assumed that the loss of the atmosphere is of
recent date, then it is the more difficult to explain the absence of
marked degradation by weathering in many of the surface features.

It may be argued that it is possible that the earth and moon have
but recently reached a part of space where meteors exist, and that
therefore there has not yet been time for the falling bodies to pro-
duce any marked effect upon the moon’s surface. However, even if
one or other of these arguments be accepted to account for the still-
existing diversity of color evident upon the moon, there still remain
to be explained (a) why our satellite shows signs of expansion rather
than of contraction, (b) why many of its features are so clear in
spite of degradation due to differential contraction and expansion
of its surface materials.

Question (b) induces the idea that those features of the moon
which are clear and sharp are so because they have not long been
exposed to the degradational forces; in other words that they are of
comparatively recent origin. Both questions seem to be satisfactorily

*G. K. Gilbert. Bulletin Philosophical Society of Washington, XII, 1898. p. 259.
210 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

solved when one applies to the moon Joly’s® well-known theories of
radioactivity, which seek to account for geological periodicities upon
the earth.

We have accepted the assumption that the moon was originally
derived from the outer layers of the earth. Therefore it must have
the same radioactive constituents as our globe. Furthermore, radio-
activity should be greater in the moon than in the earth, since the
former contains a larger proportion of sial, and the lighter acidic
rocks are more radioactive than the denser basic rocks. Density
considerations lead us to expect that whereas the inner core of the
moon is sima, a large part of its volume down to a very considerable
depth beneath its crust will be of sial. Joly has advanced the hy-
pothesis that in the earth, heat accumulations due to radioactivity
beneath the continental blocks will escape when the substratum is
liquefied, and the heated areas are brought beneath the thin ocean
beds, through the crust being rotated over the liquid substratum by
tidal drag. He has also shown that under this theory a continuous
belt of land around the equatorial regions of the globe would be an
unstable arrangement, for then no amount of slipping of the crust
over the molten interior would provide any means of escape for the
heat. The continuous belt would ultimately be broken up by melting.

On the moon, however, not only is there a continuous belt of sial
around the equatorial regions, but the whole surface of the sphere
is underlain by a thick stratum of that material. Obviously heat
accumulated within the moon due to radioactivity, can not escape by
the means advocated for its dispersion in the earth. Only a period of
cataclysmic vulcanicity marked by violent eruptions, rending of the
crust and outpourings of lava can release the pent-up heat. It is
to such revolutions that the surface phenomena of the moon may ten-
tatively be ascribed, the state of excellent preservation of the younger
features pointing to comparatively recent date for their formation.

An examination of the moon’s features appears to lend very sub-
stantial support to this conception. Everywhere there are traces of
exceptionally violent eruptions, craters occupying a very large
proportion of the surface. That the largest craters as a general rule
appear to have been formed first, confirms the expectation that the
initial outburst of the compressed lavas would be of great violence.
Concurrently the great rifts, clefts, and fractures were formed, as the
thin skin of unmelted crust failed to extend to cover the now greater
volume of the sphere. For, as heat accumulated within the crust, so
would the constitutents of the interior tend to become liquefied and
less dense. Only the intense pressure would keep them from lique-
faction. However, a time would come when the crust was so far

5 The Surface-History of the Earth, by John Joly, Oxford University Press, 1925.
MOON AND RADIOACTIVITY—FORBES 211

weakened from beneath as to be no longer strong enough to resist the
internal pressure. Once lava had pierced the crust, pressure within
would be lowered and rapid liquefaction and expansion would ensue.
This subcrustal liquefaction would be confined to a substratum
relatively thin when compared with the moon’s radius. The lower
limits of this stratum would be determined by the interaction of heat
and the pressure of the superincumbent magma and crust; the
upper limits by the conductivity of the surface layers. The volume
of the moon would be increased and lava would rise in the innumer-
able fractures caused in the crust. Where the fractures were rela-
tively narrow, lateral conduction in the cool upper layers of the
crust would congeal the lavas before they could issue upon the sur-
face. Where the fissures were wider, as we must suppose them to
have been beneath the maria, conduction was insufficient to solidify
the lavas, which thus were able to be extruded upon the surface.
Evidence of internal expansion is seen in the linear arrangement of
many groups of small vulcanoids, which mark lines of fracture in the
crust. A fine example of this is the line of craterlets over 200 miles
long between the vulcanoids Catherina and Abulfeda,

Shaler ® observes that “those (fissures) which are in appearance
sufficiently conspicuous to be mapped lie mostly in the central part
of the visible surface, between the parallels of 30° north and south
of the moon’s equator and within 30° east and 50° west of the cen-
tral meridian. They are thus remarkably rare in high latitudes
and apparently seldom near the east and west margins of the visible
part of the sphere. This apparent feature of distribution may be
due to the oblique view of these marginal fields.” That this dis-
tribution is apparent rather than real as suggested by the previous
sentence is unlikely, for surely if obliquity of view tends to render
these features invisible, this effect should operate at equal distances
from the central meridian, whereas this is not the case.

An explanation of this distribution of the most conspicuous frac-
tures may lhe in the effects of tidal forces. The moon exhibits a
fossil tide which has been estimated to be too large for the orbit
it now occupies, the result of recession from the earth of the moon,
and the inability of the latter to adapt its form to its position with
reference to the earth. Liquefaction of the substratum would offer
an opportunity of rapid adjustment of the moon’s figure. The rift-
ing of the proximal surface indicates that there the strains of adjust-
ment were greatest, and a like area of rifting probably exists on the
distal portion of the moon. Apparently the crust tended to frac-
ture more on the proximal and distal areas, where it became re-

*N. S. Shaler, A Comparison of the Features of the Earth and the Moon, Smithsonian
Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. XXXIV, 1903. p. 45.
212 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

lieved of support by migration of subcrustal magmas in the direction
of like latitudes on the limb, than the latter areas where it became
subjected to a buoyant thrust. The present existence of an exces-
sive fossil tide, indicates either that during the moon’s last phase
of volcanic activity its adjustment of form to its position was incom-
plete, or that the excess is a measure of the moon’s recession from
the earth since the last phase of vulcanism.

The maria occupy a third part of the moon’s visible surface, and
most observers are agreed that these are outpourings of lava, but a
comparatively thin’ layer upon the surface. Craters are relatively
rare in these areas, owing no doubt to the fact that all but the high-
est of them would be covered in the lava flows. That the formation
of the maria occurred after most of the major craters appeared is
inferred from the melting of crater walls by the maria, a phenome-
non visible in numerous places. Failure of the maria to coincide in
location with that area where fracture by tidal forces appears to
have been most intense, seems to indicate that their positions were
determined by another factor. Local fragmentation of the crust
and consequent extrusion of the maria may have resulted from a high
concentration of radioactive materials beneath those areas. Such
areas would be characterized by higher temperatures than elsewhere.
This would operate to thin the crust greatly, causing much fractur-
ing, and would also render the magma more fluid than elsewhere,
facilitating the flow of the extruded lavas.

The maria occupy the lower portions of the moon’s surface. Bar-
rell* supposes this depression to have been accomplished by the
ejection upon the surface of magma from below the level of isostatic
compensation. ‘This loading of the crust with material heavier than
any found above the level of isostatic compensation would cause a
slight subsidence of the crust, which depression would be enormously
increased by lateral compressive stresses. We have seen that the
maria probably occupy the most fractured portions of the crust, and
the addition of several thousand feet of lava, a relatively thin
covering, does nothing to reinforce the strength of those shattered
areas. As outlined in the following paragraph, lateral compressive
stresses are likely to occur at the close of a revolution, shortly after
the extrusion of the maria took place. These horizontal forces
would naturally find easiest expression in the shattered parts of the
crust covered by the maria. The maria are thus probably not in a
state of isostatic equilibrium, since by far the greatest part of their
subsidence must be ascribed to action of lateral compressive forces.
The supposition is that they are of recent formation, geologically
speaking, and are at present moving towards a condition of isostatic

7 Annual Report Smithsunian Institution. 1928. pp. 295-296.
MOON AND RADIOACTIVITY—FORBES 213

equilibrium. Suess * was one of the first to note the depressions in
which the maria occur. He observes that “ The regular peripheral
surface fractures which surround the Mare Humorum at some dis-
tance from its margin, and other similar examples show, however,
that in some cases the circular subsidence extends beyond the surface
of the lava.” The hypothesis herein adopted appears to be in good
accord with this observation.

The moon having got rid of that fraction of its accumulated in-
ternal heat which brought about liquefaction of the substratum and
consequent convection currents, its crust is now a little too big for
its cooling and contracting interior. Some of its internal mass has
also been lost by extrusions of lava upon the surface. The fissures
originally formed in the extension of the crust can not now be
closed again by the efforts of the outer envelope to contract with the
shrinking substratum, for the fissures are filled with solidified lava.
Accordingly the weakest parts of the surface are subjected to buck-
ling and wrinkling as the more rigid parts of the crust are thrust
against them. As outlined in the previous paragraph, the maria are
particularly susceptible to further depression as the less fractured
portions of the crust exert a lateral pressure upon them. Due to
the same forces, the surfaces of the maria, while plastic are thrown
into the numerous anticlinal folds which they exhibit. A partic-
ularly fine example of this folding is visible in the Mare Serenitatis,
where a meridional anticlinal chain with syntaxis and linking of
ares stretches from border to border. A meridional line of five small
vulcanoids on the face of the same mare points to a line of fracture
in the crust beneath the lava, which latter, subsequent to its extru-
sion, was pierced by minor eruptions along the line of fracture.

The existence of mountain ranges in close association with the
maria, points to the fact that these too were caused by pressure in
the crust striving to accomodate itself to a contracting interior.
Where the rigid crust thrust itself most intensely upon the less rigid
maria, the edges of the latter were crumpled and thrown up into
the ranges which in many places border the maria. That the moun-
tain ranges were elevated after the craters is shown by the fact
that the latter are occasionally seen to be distorted or deformed by
the former features.

The terrace effect within many of the craters, due to stages in the
sinking of the lava within them, may possibly be ascribed to lessen-
ing of internal pressure as an adjacent mare was poured out upon
the moon’s face. Then each terrace would mark a pause in the for-
mation of a mare, and the drop in the lava would be produced by a
reduction in pressure due to renewed extrusions beneath the mare.

®*H. Suess, Das Antlitz der Erde. III. 2. chap. 26, p. 685.
28095—31 15

214 |§ ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

As previously stated, there is strong evidence that the formation
of the maria occurred at a late stage in the period of vulcanism. The
earlier stages were characterized by the eruption of thousands of
craters, and these must inevitably have discharged large volumes of
gases. It is possible that these gases formed a temporary atmosphere
which, even if very tenuous, operated to check the rapidity of loss
of heat into space. Back radiation from gas molecules and fine par-
ticles of suspended volcanic dust would reduce the rate of heat loss.
Carbon dioxide is a common product of volcanic activity, and by
reason of its density it would be retained at the moon’s surface for
a longer period than lighter gases. It predominates particularly
during the closing stages of vulcanism, and would thus accumulate
in largest quantities about the time of the extrusion of the maria.
Under cover of this protective mantle, the lavas which formed the
maria would assume a wider lateral extent than would have been
possible had they been extruded at the inception of vulcanism when
there was no atmospheric envelope to check loss of heat. Indeed, the
extrusion of the maria may only have become possible when an atmos-
phere was provided. If this gaseous envelope did exist, it would
not have remained long after the close of vulcanism, but would have
been dispersed into space, due to the moon’s inability, owing to its
small mass, to retain gases against their diffusive tendency for any
extended period of time.

The fissures on the high ground are those formed at the inception
of vulcanism. A different explanation must be offered for those
fissures seen upon the maria, especially as Shaler ® states that these
phenomena were amongst the last of the moon’s features to be
formed. These fissures appear to be rift valleys, and their occur-
rence on the maria where obvious signs of compression are visible,
is at first hard to explain. However, it is to be noted that the course
of the fissures is at high angles to the prevailing direction of the
ridges on the maria. In other words, the forces which raised the
ridges would not tend to prevent the formation of the fissures, or
to close them up if these latter were of earlier date than the ridges.
The rift valleys on the maria can be ascribed to faulting above fis-
sures in the surface upon which the maria were extruded. These
fissures ran parallel to the line of the compressive forces which
raised the ridges. In these deep-seated fissures the molten magma
was sinking with the contracting substratum, and the surface of the
maria becoming relieved of support in these linear areas, sank,
forming the fault troughs now visible.

An alternative suggestion to that made previously regarding the
origin of the ridges is‘that they were also formed above fissures in

® Op. cit.
\
MOON AND RADIOACTIVITY—-FORBES 215

the surface upon which the maria were extruded; but these fissures
were at right angles to the compressive forces. These forces caused
the magma in the deeply covered fissures to be squeezed upwards,
ridging the surface of the maria. This will explain the absence of
accompanying synclines, which one would expect to find if the
ridges had been formed by a simple wrinkling of the maria due to
lateral pressure.

Barrell *° advances strong evidence in support of the assumption
that the lunar craters were not formed all in one phase of vul-
canicity. In the younger craters there is a sharpness of definition
and a steepness of slope which is absent in the older craters. Craters
of the former type are frequently superimposed upon the latter.
The ancient craters give evidence of previous revolutions in the
same way as do the stumps of denuded orogenic belts upon the
earth.

The freshness of many of the features on the lunar surface and the
persistence of color gradations, induces the conclusion that a rev-
olution has occurred recently, geologically speaking. The moon is
now in a quiescent condition accumulating heat in the substratum,
and therefore does not radiate any perceptible heat. As time ad-
vances, the lunar features will inevitably lose their sharpness of
detail and gradation of color, until a further period of vulcanism
restores the surface to the condition which it now exhibits. During
this future liquefaction of the substratum, the present excess ma-
terial in the fossil tidal protuberances will tend to withdraw in the
direction of low latitudes on the limb, with a renewed fracturing
of the crust on the proximal and distal surfaces. Since the moon
will by then have retreated further from the earth, its fossil pro-
tuberances will be more disproportionately large than they are now.

If we adopt the not entirely unreasonable assumption made earlier
in this article, that the moon during part of its early history pos-
sessed an atmosphere similar to the present terrestrial atmosphere,
then the fact that no traces whatsoever of water action have ever
been recognized upon its surface requires explanation. If we assume
the original surface features to have been of nonvolcanic forma-
tion, then the atmosphere may have become diffused into space
before the effects of vulcanism were impressed upon the ancient sur-
face. This vulcanism could be accounted competent to destroy any
traces of water action which might previously have existed. The
conception of a revolution has had to be introduced to validate the
hypothesis.

If, on the other hand, we assume that the original features of
the moon were volcanic in formation, then, as previously set forth,

Op. cit., pp. 304-305.
216 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

it is probable that the atmosphere was maintained until at least
the close of vulcanism. ‘Then the traces of water action may either
have been obliterated by the agents of degradation previously enu-
merated, or have been destroyed by a later phase of vulcanicity. The
first explanation scarcely seems probable, since innumerable fine
markings exist on the moon’s surface which should have been oblit-
erated if river courses had been hidden by the effects of degradation.
The second explanation points to revolutions at a date subsequent
to the loss of the moon’s atmospheric envelope. The gaseous enve-
lope temporarily provided by these phases of vulcanicity was appar-
ently insufficient to impress upon the moon’s surface the phenomena
of water action.

Taylor’s suggestion +t that the moon was acquired by capture dur-
ing the early stages of the Tertiary, offers another explanation of
the freshness of many of the moon’s features. Then this can be
explained by supposing that the moon has but recently arrived
from a part of space where meteors do not exist. Again, if the
moon were in a part of space far removed from any star, its sur-
face temperature would be in the region of the absolute zero; nor
would any temperature changes due to an external source be ex-
perienced to degrade its features. Taylor seeks to explain the
terrestrial Tertiary orogenesis by the capture of our satellite, but
fails to advance a cause for the equally important periods of dias-
trophism of earlier geological ages. However, even if this theory
be adopted, we have still to explain the lack of signs of marked
contraction, and the evidence of extensional tendencies beneath the
moon’s surface.

According to Jeffreys,” orogenesis is probably due to horizontal
crushing stress developed in the outer layer of the earth. This outer
layer can undergo no further cooling and contraction, and is there-
fore too large to fit the contracting substrata, which lie between the
crust and the region at the center of the earth where no appreciable
change of temperature takes place, and therefore no change of
volume.

We have seen that evidences of compression are visible upon the
moon, but are not developed to that degree which would be expected
if any consideration of its radioactive content were neglected, as has
previously been the case. In this paper an attempt has been made to
demonstrate that there are good foundations for believing that a far
greater proportion of the moon’s volume is composed of radioactive-
rich materials than is the earth. The foregoing arguments induce
the supposition that due to this high proportion of heat-generating

Theory of Continental Drift. Tulsa, Okla. 1928. p. 175. (A symposium on Wege-

ner’s hypothesis.)
122«The Earth,” by Harold Jeffreys. Cambridge University Press. 1929. p. 279.
MOON AND RADIOACTIVITY—FORBES 217

elements, our satellite has attained only that early stage of cooling
where the surface layers are too small to fit the interior, and therefore
are faulted and rifted. Future evolution will move in the direction
of cooling and contraction of the substrata, until the crust becomes
too large to fit the interior. Horizontal crushing stresses will then
be developed in the crust, causing diastrophism. Periodical revolu-
tions resulting in a hydrostatic condition of the upper layers of the
substrata, will temporarily afford a relatively rapid means of escape
of heat by convection from the lower layers. Absence of marked
contraction is thus ascribed to the present high internal temperatures
of the moon, and the lack of well-developed orogenic belts of
terrestrial type is tentatively accounted for under the main hypothesis
adopted in this paper.
Jeo} Lois hyn age He
“gral Fererarel ne hk ihn
Pogeageto:esyome bigns qomatalen, thy
| (bekioanJecormseg hs. teal somal:
- ARReT Uren Apeeaad tisha chy eens
«to vedhad Aphsguono : hare Tatarhbowe hey, deal porn cou

open Se igen ait tha 108 beldgoass ylovidedand ai, ogres Lait,
Sten. Pw in setts was Hi ope, eid asick bod

.
+
°
er ~ ie
r ve oa hp ome sob 94h pry rye ey = coe 4
id Se Aare te eee ase txt 1 ares wtegther ase
4 ? . ‘4.
as £ oi he bey wer -— A : + awe . o> ey eet bos ee \
La bt? t45 "ate 4 iMWAans 4 4 The. DOP ‘Fe F ae at ay Tht x
Sp f wt “ates nes ahinace. bare » ‘ i ;  - Same agg ® Seip ty . ‘
ey tes) aa ees See ee, eee ae Tit? ee | ie te APR HRA Ar ee . rt ,
* , , . £ a
Be ‘ : a ; P . i n : , be. rg saat taille y
Bids a “waht ak spases Wtinco! tianisteen dev ok aed A gukeel
D a

i . . i" ' ae Wd
tacit > os 4 fn } ™ | ‘1 mi; ene Ogu Khe yee
Pe in 2 eo ss a MY PA a Lark 7a phstean Stott Lah a aes. eye sages

* . 3 " . <a} . , * " i) TY i:
Gace) ae ae See f cade: SO PED Tee oer ee Fees. RRP ‘tn BORO, UES
. ORES pee vexy i, - eé A ve t ky a ee | 7

ai BS 2S eee eb CAROLE Te Seti riee. SOUP be €

FPREEENT: o SST} TORE EOS, 278 BEERS “AG UK eK PR BAA.

|

F . ware t bi we ns en Tinh byt a!
SUPE s tt a at at -_s 47i" riter i ¥. Le iy ae hehe ARS Vad ‘satelite

A dees ves an had ye Lee peere a
. mye & , ; gay bid . 1H hee} ‘ wy t sa i yaa te:
Pic it seis) i . + } , tity \ Aah a be 0 es ati
4 DF ony +‘ _" r 3 THE ")
: ON Bi M . eee] DF URS 4 hl AAS 2 oo
y
ry ; ey hah ~ 7
fay, 82 . ‘ ? . : ‘ ‘ wou"
Morgen ine te Tete ardircieds: i aekdetty shee to! bose
bs Tae ek . = . Mi ‘.. + ies ‘cenit Be ee
eerie pieces eyo ee Shee eee ae CE ‘Suhel
” ’ F " - ‘
- — : P Be . Mig Virry € oaeey a ie
Lider cart wade vther cooling and dtnfeectdng ant i
Py i 7 i\
f rad teh Ba date the:
ri a? ay AGE a3 } > >i i Poe) Ses 4 Ti. Vara skagen Tee Pay voit Ye i
ret sent Lhe wei ee wntoy’ of the watth whew ne ‘sipping
“, " : F r A
PT ay CRS ee Rete om 3h eee oo) LOSPoT Gre Tho chatae ah)
SOE y
4 f
;
, f : \ edt Aa
Ag simnbic open the
WHER, US ad rf : P| ie De Cepee
‘ i De r a a be ot + pale nde
ya “yy ‘ Mey’ Me Ve i ek We
St SAL AL } bye ia { {} ASG oe) 5
» years oy ts Nw bod i ’ he (ier heed wade iy
¢ ‘ . Ld ”

er b h tad Codey hAS Si MT Aon a sn rniationae fae: beter Sat b. tay
‘ , . ‘ Vig ee”
Prep 77% ro Liem tals Med : Ww TEATS Te Bs iia} ort anit ounethrae i
r ‘ - aie 7 nS
Mi mnateiet: than is: the bh. “The Jovogtioe syementa a i
‘| ries ‘ . : nt ooh ‘ : ‘Pn pos tet Lie We
ny tear pe te apenas St

Phy : he et ae en

On oe Meade) ferees «  EE ae DP mae,
MODERN CONCEPTS IN PHYSICS AND THEIR RELATION
TO CHEMISTRY?

By Irving LANGMUIR

Only about 35 years ago, during the nineties of the last century,
knowledge of the physical sciences had advanced to such a point
that many of the foremost physicists and chemists began to be-
lieve that the rate of progress of fundamental knowledge must be
slowing up. The concepts of length, mass, time, energy, temperature,
electric, and gravitational fields, etc., had been given precise meanings
and were regarded as having an absolute existence quite as certain
as that of matter itself. The phenomena of nature were explainable
in terms of natural laws expressing relations between these absolute
quantities. It seemed that the most important of these laws of
physics and chemistry had already been discovered and that the work
that remained to do was largely a matter of filling in the details
and applying these great principles for practical purposes.

The laws of mechanics had been verified experimentally with a
high degree of precision so no one doubted that they were rigorous
laws of nature. Back in about 1830, Hamilton had succeeded in
generalizing these laws in a few simple equations which seemed
to contain all the essential truths of mechanics. It was only necessary
to know how the kinetic and potential energy of any given system
varied with the momentum and the coordinates of its parts in order
to have at least a formal solution of the way in which the system
would behave at all times. Thus all future work in mechanics need
only be considered an application of Hamilton’s equations.

Complete knowledge of the nature of light presented more diffi-
culties. Hamilton, about 1820, showed that all the known laws of
geometrical optics could be explained quantitatively in terms of either
a corpuscular theory of light or a wave theory. The experiments of
Fresnel on the interference of light which were made about this
time, seemed to disprove Newton’s corpuscular theory, so that Hamil-
ton’s proof of the complete analogy between waves and corpuscles

1 Presidential address before the seventy-eighth meeting of the American Chemical
Society, Minneapolis, Minn., Sept. 11, 1929. Reprinted by permission from the General
Electric Review, vol. 32, No. 12, December, 1929,

219
230 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

in the case of geometrical optics became only of academic interest.
Through the study of the phenomena of interference, diffraction,
polarization and absorption of light, the wave theory of light became
firmly established. Light was supposed to consist of waves in some
sort of an elastic medium which was called the ether.

About 1830, Faraday developed clear conceptions regarding the
electric and magnetic fields and Maxwell, about 1860, by applying
exact mathematical methods evolved the electro-magnetic theory of
light according to which light waves consisted of fluctuating electric
and magnetic fields which are propagated through space at a speed
which could be calculated from electric and from magnetic measure-
ments in a laboratory.

Although the acceptance of Maxwell’s views came slowly one
could not long remain skeptical after the production of electro-
magnetic waves of relatively great wave length by Hertz in 1884.
It may also be said that Maxwell’s theory was essentially an applica-
tion of the mathematical methods which Hamilton had originated in
his treatment of the laws of mechanics, to Faraday’s concepts of
electricity and magnetism.

Thus in 1895, the physicists seemed to have some justification for
the attitude that the most important laws had been discovered. The
laws of mechanics had not been improved upon in 65 years. Fara-
day and Maxwell had brought in precise conceptions of electric and
magnetic phenomena and had shown that by classical methods like
those which had been so successful in mechanics, all the laws of optics
could be derived from those of electromagnetism.

In chemistry a somewhat similar state had been reached. After
the evolution of the conception of the elements and of com-
bining proportions based upon an atomic theory, rapid progress
was made in accumulating data regarding the elements and their
compounds. Faraday’s laws of electrolysis and new methods for
the accurate determination of atomic weights began to provide the
chemist with quantitative laws almost as precise as those of the
physicists. The work of J. Willard Gibbs had brought into chemistry
rigorous laws as fundamental in their field of application as were
those of Hamilton and Maxwell in physics.

These remarkable advances on the quantitative side seemed to
overshadow in importance the more qualitative results that had
previously been obtained through the stimulus of the atomic theory.
Under the leadership of Ostwald, chemists began to adopt a much
more critical attitude and began to distinguish carefully between
what they considered experimental facts and hypotheses based upon
these facts. Ostwald, although he recognized the convenience of
the atomic theory, believed it must always remain impossible to
= ti PA ek

oe eae Fs. >.

MODERN CONCEPTS IN PHYSICS—-LANGMUIR ZZ

prove the existance of atoms or molecules. He therefore urged that
chemists avoid as far as possible the use of such hypotheses. Per-
haps the chief result of this attitude was to lead physical chemists
to neglect those parts of chemistry where the atomic theory would
have been most helpful and to devote themselves more specially to
the fields in which energy relationships and thermodynamics were
directly applicable.

Physicists in general did not doubt the existence of atoms and mole-
cules, but had by means of this theory developed the kinetic theory
of gases which had led to many new quantitative laws, verified by
experiment. However, the physicists in general had little to do with
atoms and molecules but were more concerned with the ether, in
which they believed unreservedly, although direct knowledge of the
ether was far harder to obtain than knowledge of atoms and
molecules.

Perhaps one of the main reasons why the physicists were so sure
of the ether and the chemists so doubtful of the atoms and molecules
was an unconscious belief in the respectable old adage “ Natura non
facit saltum,’ Nature makes no jumps. Certainly in those fields
of physics and chemistry in which rigorous quantitative laws had
been found applicable no discontinuities or jumps such as those
implied by the atomic theory had been found.

The discovery of X rays by Roentgen, in 1905, marked the be-
ginning of an extraordinary revolution which is today still in prog-
ress. ‘This sensational event revealed to the physicist that great and
fundamental discoveries were still possible even in the field of radia-
tion where physics had had such complete success. It immediately
caused great numbers of physicists to study the phenomena of electric
discharges and to look for other sources of radiation. The discovery
of radium and radioactivity by Becquerel and the Curies soon
showed the importance of these new forms of radiation to the
chemist as well as to the physicist.

Although Stoney in 1874 had seen that Faraday’s laws of electro-
lysis together with the atomic theory required that electricity should
also have an atomic structure, and although in 1891 he proposed the
name electron for these atoms of electricity, J. J. Thomson should
be regarded as the discoverer of the electron. He was able to show
that electrons were contained in all forms of matter and found that
the electron must weigh only about */;<00 as much as a hydrogen
atom.

The studies of radioactivity, largely by Rutherford and his stu-
dents, showed that radium spontaneously disintegrated to form
helium and proved to the chemist that atoms were not indestructible
and even that transmutation of elements was possible.
222 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

By the application of thermodynamics to radiation processes |
Boltzmann proved that the total radiation, of all wave lengths,
within a cavity in a heated body must increase in proportion to the
fourth power of the absolute temperature; this law had already
been found empirically by Stefan. By a further development of
thermodynamic methods Wien, in 1896, derived an important law,
known as Wien’s law, by which the intensity of radiation of any
particular wave length could be calculated in terms of the wave
length and temperature. This law was found to agree with experi-
ment in the case of visible radiation from incandescent solids, but
serious discrepancies were observed when an attempt was made to
calculate the intensity of infra-red radiation or heat waves. Lord
Rayleigh and Jeans, in 1900, using what seemed to be unimpeachable
methods based on the electromagnetic theory of light, arrived at an
entirely different relation between the intensity of radiation and
the temperature and wave length. This equation agreed excellently
with experiments on the radiation of heat where Wien’s law had
failed but led to absurd results when applied to the shorter wave
lengths of the visible spectrum. In fact, if the total radiation in-
cluding all wave lengths were calculated from the Rayleigh-Jeans
equations an infinite radiation density was obtained even at low
temperatures. Thus by means of the classical theories of radiation
it was found on the one hand by Boltzmann that the radiation in-
creased with the fourth power of the temperature, and on the other
by Rayleigh-Jeans, that the radiation was infinite at all temperatures.

It was shown in 1905, by Planck, that this paradox could only
be solved by assuming an essential discontinuity in the energies or
motions of electrons whose vibrations caused the radiation. This
gave birth to the quantum theory, which within recent years has
grown to be one of the most important theories of physics and
chemistry. In 1906, Einstein showed that the photo-electric effect
and many photochemical reactions could be explained in terms of
the quantum theory if light itself consisted of discrete particles of
energy or quanta, now usually called photons. Although such a
corpuscular theory of light seemed utterly incompatible with the
accepted wave theory, an increasing number of phenomena were
discovered in which it seemed necessary to resort to this corpuscular
theory. The really rapid development of the quantum theory, how-
ever, dates from 1913, when Bohr began to develop his theory of
atomic structure by applying the quantum theory to Rutherford’s
more or less qualitative theory of the nuclear atom.

RELATIVITY THEORY

Among all the changes in the ways of thinking which were being
forced upon physicists at this time, the most important by far was
MODERN CONCEPTS IN PHYSICS—-LANGMUIR 223

that which resulted from Einstein’s relativity theory, first stated in
1905. In 1895, as we have seen, electromagnetic waves and matter
were thought to be manifestations of the properties of an all
pervading ether.

As an example of the way that the physicists thought of the ether
I will quote from the preface to Lord Kelvin’s Baltimore Lectures.
This preface was written in 1904, but the lectures were those that
were delivered at Johns Hopkins University in 1884.

I chose as subject the “Wave theory of light” with the intention of
accentuating its failures; rather than of setting forth the admirable success
with which this beautiful theory had explained all that was known of light
before the time of Fresnel and Thomas Young, and had produced floods of new
knowledge splendidly enriching the whole domain of physical science. My
audience was to consist of professorial fellow students in physical science.
* * * TI spoke with absolute freedom and had never the slightest fear of
undermining their perfect faith in ether and its light-giving waves by any-
thing I could tell them of the imperfection of our mathematics, of the insuffi-
ciency or faultiness of our views regarding the dynamical qualities of ether,
and of the overwhelmingly great difficulty of finding a field of action for ether
among the atoms of ponderable matter. We all felt the difficulties were to be
faced and not to be evaded; were to be taken to heart with the hope of solving
them if possible. * * * It is in some measure satisfactory to me and I hope
it will be satisfactory to all my Baltimore coefficients still alive in our world
of science, when this volume reaches their hands to find in it dynamical
explanations of every one of the difficulties with which we were concerned
from the first to the last of our 20 lectures of 1884. All of us will, I am sure,
feel sympathetically interested in knowing that two of ourselves, Michelson
and Morley, have by their great experimental work on the motion of ether
relatively to the earth, raised the one and only serious objection against our
dynamical explanations.

This Michelson and Morley experiment of 1887, through the
theoretical investigations of Lorentz and others, kept growing in
importance until it finally stimulated Einstein to evolve his relativity
theory.

According to this theory space and time can not be considered as
existing independently of each other. They can not in any sense be
regarded as absolute but are both dependent upon the point of view
of the observer. For example, Einstein showed that it has no
meaning to say that two events which took place at a great distance
apart occurred simultaneously. Some observers knowing of both
events would have to say that event A occurred before B, while
other observers moving at a different velocity from the first observers
would conclude that B occurred before A.

It is not my plan to try to explain the relativity theory to you even
if I knew how to do so, but it is rather to discuss the way in which
this theory and others of a somewhat similar nature have gradually
brought about profound changes in the viewpoint of the physicists
224 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

and how similar changes are beginning to occur in the attitude of
the chemists. The importance of Ejinstein’s work thus lies not so
much in the facts or phenomena that can be explained by the rela-
tivity theory, but in the discovery of a new way of thinking as
applied to physics. Somewhat similar methods of thought had, it
is true, been used in some branches of mathematics and sometimes
in philosophy, but Einstein subjected our elementary conceptions of
space, time, mass, energy, etc., to a searching analysis quite new in
the history of physics.

CONCEPTS INVOLVE OPERATIONS

Prof. P. W. Bridgman, of Harvard University, has recently written
a popular book entitled “The Logic of Modern Physics,” in which he
analyzes the changes in our concepts that have resulted primarily
from Einstein’s work. Bridgman’s thesis is that physical concepts
have meaning only in so far as they can be defined in terms of opera-
tions. He shows that this new attitude toward our fundamental con-
ceptions is perhaps one of the greatest changes that has been brought
about by Einstein’s work. There is no question in my mind but that
the recent remarkable advances in quantum mechanics that have been
made by such men as Bohr, Heisenberg, Schroedinger and Dirac have
been stimulated by the desire to formulate all concepts in terms of
operations. Bridgman has not originated this method, but he, more
than anyone else, perhaps, has been conscious of its widespread appli-
cation in modern physics.

I should like to outline to you the way in which Bridgman de-
velops this thesis and to consider how well it apples to the most
recent changes that have taken place in physics and in chemistry. I
believe the chemist can derive great benefit from the conscious appli-
cation of a similar critical attitude in his own science.

Bridgman points out that “hitherto many of the concepts of
physics have been defined in terms of their properties.” An excellent
example is Newton’s concept of absolute time. The following quota-
tion from Newton’s Principia is illuminating.

I do not define Time, Space, Place, or Motion, as being well known to all.
Only I must observe that the vulgar conceive those quantities under no other
notions but from the relation they bear to sensible objects. And thence arise
certain prejudices, for the removing of which, it will be convenient to distin-
guish them into Absolute and Relative, True and Apparent, Mathematical and
Common.

(1) Absolute, True and Mathematical Time, of itself, and from its own nature
flows equally without regard to anything external, and by another name is
called Duration.

Thus, according to Newton, time and space have properties of a
very abstract kind and are looked upon as “things” which exist inde-
MODERN CONCEPTS IN PHYSICS—LANGMUIR 225

pendently of all other things. There is, however, as Bridgman says
“no assurance whatever that there exists in nature anything with
properties like those assumed in the definition, and physics, when
reduced to concepts of this character, becomes as purely an abstract
science and as far removed from reality as the abstract geometry of
the mathematicians.” Nevertheless, these conceptions of space and
time prevailed until the relativity theory was proposed.

In the development of this theory Einstein, in analyzing the con-
cepts of space and time, considered what means are available by
which an observer can measure distances between two points on a
rapidly moving object. For example, imagine two planets moving
past each other at high velocity and two observers, one on each
planet, provided with means for observing each other and communi-
cating with each other; such means, for example, as light signals.
Einstein asks, what are the operations by which the two observers
could compare their units of length and time? He finds that each
observer would logically conclude that the other observer’s unit of
length is shorter than his own, and that the other’s unit of time is
longer than his own. Einstein thus proved that there can be no
such thing as absolute length or time, or rather proved that the con-
cept of absolute time has no meaning, for we have not been able to
conceive of any method for determining the absolute time of any
event.

In order to illustrate his thesis Bridgman considers in detail the
concept of length. Probably one of the earliest concepts of length
was obtained by counting the number of unit lengths that can be
placed end to end between two given objects. For example, the
number of paces are counted in walking from one object to another.
An extension and refinement of this method is employed to-day when
the standard meter at the Bureau of Standards is compared with a
steel tape and this is then used to lay off a base line for a survey
by triangulation.

As Bridgman suggests, it was one of the greatest discoveries of
the human race to find that these operations performed with a
measuring rod afford a useful and convenient means of describing
natural phenomena.

During the transition from the earliest pacing of distances, to our
modern refined measurements with the meter stick, the concept of
length itself must have undergone radical modifications since the
operations involved had been modified. For example, if distances are
to be paced, it has no meaning to consider distances of yoy5 of a
pace unless the concept is modified to include arbitrarily chosen
methods by which a length equal to yo'59 of a pace may be deter-
mined. In our modern measurements with a steel tape we must
226 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

measure the temperature of the tape and the force used in holding
the tape taut, and then by means of the coefficient of expansion and
the coefficient of elasticity, apply corrections to the observed length.
It is hard to see what methods primitive man could have used in
applying such corrections to his distances measured by pacing.

Why do we now apply such corrections? Merely because it has
been found by experiment that the result that we get by applying
such corrections is a quantity which proves to be more useful in
describing natural phenomena than the results we get without these
corrections. We must not think that we do it in order to obtain the
“true” or “absolute” length.

To-day we have many other methods of measuring length than by
use of measuring rods or steel tape. For example, we use optical
instruments and measure distances by triangulation, we measure
heights in the atmosphere by means of a barometer, we measure the
distances of spiral nebulae by measuring the brightness of the
Cepheid variables observed in them by our most powerful telescopes,
we measure the lengths of molecules by finding the area of a water
surface over which a given amount of oil will spread, we calculate
the diameters of molecules by measurements of the viscosity of gases
by means of the kinetic theory, or we use X-ray diffraction patterns
or, finally, we calculate the diameter of an electron from its mass
and charge by means of the electromagnetic theory assuming that
all the energy of an electron lies in the electric field outside of its
surface.

Now each of these measurements of length involves an entirely dif-
ferent set of operations and, therefore, fundamentally, according to
Bridgman, we should regard them as different concepts; logically,
in fact, they should all have different names. It has, however, been
found as a matter of experiment that two or more of these methods
when applied to the measurement of the same distance give results
which agree more or less with one another. This, then, is our justi-
fication for calling all these concepts by the same name, length.

We may, if we wish, extrapolate and predict that by applying
suitable corrections to each of these methods of measuring lengths
we may be able to get better and better agreement between them.
Such methods of extrapolation may be useful and stimulating but
we must always expect that sooner or later we will be unable to
obtain agreement between these methods with more than a limited
degree of accuracy. This may not be due merely to experimental
difficulties but may often result from unavoidable fuzziness in the
concept itself. Such concepts as the diameter of a complicated mole-
cule, or the mean free path of a molecule in a gas are inherently fuzzy
conceptions and can mean not much more than when we speak of
MODERN CONCEPTS IN PHYSICS—LANGMUIR 227

the diameter of a tree or of the length of the waves during a storm
at sea.

Perhaps the strongest reason for the general belief in the existence
of an absolute space lay in the apparently perfect agreement between
our measurements of length and the theorems of Euclidian geome-
try. During the last century, however, mathematicians began more
and more to realize that Euclidian geometry was only one out of
many possible logical geometries, and since all of these were based
solely on certain axioms or postulates none of them had any real or
necessary connection with physics. The apparent agreement between
our physical observations and Euclidian geometry, therefore, does
not prove that space must have the properties postulated in Euclid’s
axioms.

MODELS

As chemists we are all more or less familiar with various models of
atoms and molecules that have been proposed within recent years.
The structural formulas which the organic chemists have used for
a good part of a century are another example of an extremely useful
type of model. I want to discuss later some of the models which the
physicists have used in giving more concrete forms to their theories.
Logically, I believe, we should regard Euclidian geometry as a model
devised primarily to help us “ explain” natural phenomena.

Observation of nature reveals great complexity. We receive enor-
mous numbers of impressions simultaneously and if we are to make
progress in understanding phenomena we must concentrate on certain
aspects of the things we see about us and thus discard the less im-
portant features. This involves a process of replacing the natural
world by a set of abstractions which we have become very skilful in
choosing in such a way as to aid us in classifying and understanding
phenomena. Thus it was found useful to develop concepts or ab-
stractions such as shape, position, distance, etc., and separate these
characteristics of the phenomena from others such as color, hard-
ness, etc Euclidian geometry was found useful in correlating these
concepts of shape, position, etc.

Physicists and chemists have usually felt that they understood a
phenomenon best when they could explain it in terms of a model or
concrete picture. The chemist explained the law of multiple com-
bining proportions in terms of atoms which combine together to form
molecules. The heat conductivity, viscosity, etc., of gases was ex-
plained in terms of the kinetic theory, with molecules making elastic
collisions with one another according to the law of probability.

When we use the atomic or molecular theories to explain phenom-
ena in this way, we assign to the atoms and molecules only those
properties which seem needed to accomplish the desired result; we
228 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

do not consider what the atom is made of nor what its structure is,
but usually feel justified in assuming properties which are as simple
as possible. For example, in the elementary kinetic theory it is
assumed that the molecules are hard, elastic spheres, not because
anyone really believes that molecules have these properties, but
merely because these are the simplest properties we can think of
which are consistent with the known facts.

What we really do, therefore, is to replace in our minds the actual
gases which we observe and which have many properties which we
do not fully understand by a simplified model, a human abstraction,
which is so designed by us that it has some of the properties of the
thing we wish to displace.

There is thus a difference of degree rather than of kind between
the adoption of a mechanical model and the development of a math-
ematical theory such as Euclidian geometry. When the mathe-
matical physicist develops an abstract theory of actual phenomena—
for example, Hamilton’s equations to summarize the laws of me-
chanics—he is in reality constructing a mathematical model. Math-
ematical equations have certain definite properties or rather they
express certain relationships between the symbols which enter them.
In a mathematical theory of physical phenomena the equations are
so chosen that the relation between the symbols corresponds in some
simple way to that which is observed between measurable physical
quantities which are the bases of our concepts of physics.

Within recent years, especially in the development of the rela-
tivity and quantum theories, physicists have been making increasing
use of mathematical forms of expression, and have been giving less
attention to the development of mechanical models. The older gen-
eration of physicists and chemists and those among the younger men
who are less skilled in the use of mathematics are inclined to believe
that this is only a temporary stage and that ultimately we must be
able to form a concrete picture or model of the atom, that is, to get
a picture of what the atom is really like. It seems to be felt that a
mechanical model whose functioning can be understood without the
aid of mathematics, even if it only gives the qualitative representa-
tion of the phenomena in question, can represent the truth in some
higher sense than a mathematical theory whose symbols perhaps can
be understood only by a mathematician.

There is, I believe, no adequate justification for this attitude.
Mechanical models are necessarily very much restricted in scope.
The relationships of their parts are limited to those that are already
known in mechanics (or in electricity or magnetism). Mathematical
relationships are far more flexible; practically any conceivable quan-
titative or qualitative relationship can be expressed if desired in
MODERN CONCEPTS IN PHYSICS—-LANGMUIR 229

mathematical form. We have no guarantee whatever that nature is
so constructed that it can be adequately described in terms of me-
chanical or electrical models; it is much more probable that our most
fundamental relationships can only be expressed mathematically, if
at all.

In analyzing our attempts to describe nature, we have discussed
concepts, models and mathematical theories. We find that they are
all alike in that they represent human abstractions which are found
convenient in describing nature. Going back a step further we must
recognize that words themselves constitute elementary concepts.
They are, it is true, much more vaguely defined than our concepts of
physics and chemistry, but qualitatively they are very much like the
latter; in fact, most of our misunderstandings in science arise from
assigning reality to concepts whose main reason for existence is the
fact that they are represented by a word. Logically we should aim
to define our words in terms of operations. We should have in mind
specifications by which we can test whether or not the word is prop-
erly applicable.

The progress of science depends largely upon (1) giving to words
meanings as precise as possible; (2) definition of concepts in terms
of operations; (3) development of models (mechanical or mathe-
matical) which have properties analogous to those of phenomena
which we have observed.

MEANINGLESS QUESTIONS

A great deal of time and effort is wasted in scientific circles as
well as in the world at large through failure to give sufficiently
definite or useful definition of words and concepts. Bridgman em-
phasizes this in connection with his discussion of “meaningless
questions.”

In some cases questions fail to have meaning because of the more
or less inherent fuzziness of the concepts involved. For example,
if we compare two trees of about the same size it may have no
meaning to ask which tree has the larger diameter, for no one has
defined the diameter of a tree with the necessary precision.

A more important class of meaningless questions arises when
there are no conceivable operations that could be performed to
arrive at a decision. For example, what is the meaning of the
question, “ Would the United States have entered the World War
if the Lusitania had not been sunk?” Such a question may be a
good subject for a school debating society, but no one is apt to
think that the question has thereby been answered.

A study of meaningless questions may serve a very useful purpose
in science. A statement that a certain question has no meaning may

28095—31——-16
230 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

be equivalent to stating a fundamental law of nature; for example,
to say that the question, “ What is the true velocity of the north star
through space?” has no meaning is a fairly good statement of at
least a part of the relativity theory.

In some cases it may have no meaning to ask whether or not
there is a magnetic field in a certain portion of space. For example,
suppose an observer, stationary on the earth, studies an electron in
motion. The motion of an electron constitutes an electric current
and experimentally he will observe the characteristic magnetic field
surrounding this electron corresponding to this current. If another
observer moves along with the electron, it will appear to him to be
at rest, and, of course, he can observe no magnetic field. Otherwise,
the presence or absence of a magnetic field around an electron or
group of electrons could be used to determine absolute motion
through space, which would be contrary to the relativity theory.
The relativity theory thus requires that a magnetic field can have no
real existence in any absolute sense.

We have seen that there are fundamentally as many different con-
cepts of length as there are different ways in which length may be
measured; nevertheless, we find approximate agreement between
different ways of measuring the diameter of molecules and therefore
are justified in assigning some reality to the concept diameter of a
molecule. When, however, we ask what is the diameter of an elec-
tron, we find that the question is practically without meaning. It is
true that we can calculate a diameter by assuming that the electron
behaves like a charged sphere and that the classical laws of electro-
dynamics can be applied in this case. However, since we have no
independent way of measuring this diameter, the process is one
which involves reasoning in a circle.

There are many meaningless questions which afflict the chemist.
It clearly has no meaning to ask what is the molecular weight of
sodium chloride in a crystal. It is very doubtful whether it has any
meaning to ask what is the molecular weight of water in liquid
water. There are many cases where the concept of temperature has
no definite meaning. Strictly speaking, temperature acquires mean-
ing in terms of operations only in so far as an approach is made to
equilibrium conditions. When the motions of molecules or atoms
follow Maxwell’s distribution law, that is, a random or probability
distribution of velocity among the molecules, the concept of tempera-
ture becomes very definite. If, however, we deal with mercury
vapor streaming into a high vacuum, or the conditions near a hot
tungsten filament in a gas of low pressure, temperature has very
little meaning. The same is true of the conditions frequently exist-
ing in an electric discharge tube such as a mercury arc, where the
MODERN CONCEPTS IN PHYSICS—LANGMUIR 231

electrons act as though they had a temperature of perhaps 50,000°,
whereas the atoms have motions corresponding to far lower tempera-
tures. Strictly speaking, neither the electrons nor atoms have well-
defined temperatures, for the conditions are far removed from
equilibrium.

In much of the recent discussion of the radiation hypothesis of
chemical reactions, chemists have been discussing meaningless ques-
tions usually without realizing it. At first it was proposed that the
radiation is absorbed by the reacting gas to form excited molecules
in accordance with Einstein’s photochemical law. When this is
found not to be in accord with experiment, the concept of radiation
is altered repeatedly as new experimental facts are found so as to
make the modified theory continue to fit the facts. After this process
has been carried on sufficiently, it no longer has any meaning to ask
whether the reaction is caused by radiation or whether the radiation
hypothesis is true.

In the studies of the properties of liquids, questions of the degree
of ionization and of association and in some cases of internal pres-
sures have been discussions of questions without meaning. A great
deal of such discussion might be simplified or even avoided entirely
if chemists would agree in defining these concepts in terms of
operations.

Theories of valence within recent years have been afflicted with the
same difficulties. As long as chemists deal with the ordinary valence
rules of organic chemistry, they are dealing with concepts of valence
which are actually defined in terms of operations; that is, the organic
chemists know how to conduct experiments to prove that the valence
of nitrogen in dimethylaniline is 83. The types of operations needed
to establish the valence of magnesium in magnesium chloride are in
many ways quite different, and they are still different if we consider
the case of so-called quinquevalent nitrogen in ammonium chloride or
heptavalent chlorine in perchloric acid. I believe that the chemist
has much to learn from the physicist in regard to the proper method
of attacking such problems as these.

The electrochemist has been troubled in locating the source of
electromotive force in cells. The physicist has similar difficulty in
finding the origin of the contact potential between metals. Funda-
mentally it must be recognized that unless or until there are methods
by which these quantities can be measured, questions involving them
have no meaning.

A practical example of the meaninglessness of some questions in-
volving electric potential has recently arisen in the numerous pro-
posals that have been made to construct a speed indicator for
airplanes which will give the speed with respect to the earth’s surface
232 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

independently of that of the wind surrounding the plane. It is
reasoned that since the plane is moving through the earth’s magnetic
field a potential will be set up between the ends of a wire stretched
between the wing’s tips. It is only necessary to measure this poten-
tial difference in order to calculate the speed of the plane with
respect to the earth. Careful analysis shows that the concept of the
potential difference under these conditions is meaningless except with
reference to a particular reference system. If this system is referred
to the plane itself, this potential difference is zero quite regardless
of what the speed of the plane may be with reference to the earth.
A contrary result would conflict with the relativity theory.

Meaningless questions will assume far greater importance in future
years. We shall see that the latest forms of the quantum theory now
give us the best of reasons for believing that the identity of separate
electrons within atoms or molecules may be partly or wholly lost, so
that it may have no meaning to ask whether a particular electron we
find as a result of experiment is the same electron which has pre-
viously produced an observed phenomenon. Even more far-reaching
in its consequences is the Bohr-Heisenberg uncertainty principle ac-
cording to which it has no meaning to ask what is the precise position
and velocity of an electron or atom. An electron may have a definite
position or a definite velocity but it can not in any exact sense have
both. 'This doesn’t mean merely that there are experimental difficul-
ties in measuring them, it means that the concepts themselves (posi-
tion and velocity) are relative to one another in a sense somewhat
analogous to that of time and space in the relativity theory.

One’s instinctive reaction when first questioned as to the objective
reality of space, time, position, velocity, etc., is to object to such
consideration on the grounds that they are too metaphysical. The
recent advances in physics demonstrate that these methods of think-
ing are eminently practical; they represent, in fact, an attempt to
get away from the metaphysical character of much of our thinking
in the past. Instead of taking for granted objective realities cor-
responding to our concepts, we now deal with things which can be
measured in the laboratory, the concrete data that we have to
start from.

It is, however, very useful to retain the concept of reality. Bridg-
man suggests that reality should be measured by the number and
the accuracy of the independent ways in which we arrive at similar
measures of the concept in question. For example, owing to the
fact that we have so many concordant methods of measuring the
distance between the ends of a base line used for triangulation, we
attribute great reality to the concept of length or, rather, to those
concepts of length which are applicable in cases of this kind. We
MODERN CONCEPTS IN PHYSICS—LANGMUIR 233

thus have some justification in saying that two points are really
one kilometer apart. We do not attribute, however, much reality
to the concept of the diameter of an electron.

Thirty years ago the physical chemist doubted the existence of
atoms or believed the concept was useless if not pernicious. A few
years later the leader of this movement, Ostwald, in the preface of
one of his books stated that he believed that the existence of atoms
had been proved experimentally beyond question, although in pre-
vious books he had stated that there are always an infinite number
of hypotheses that could be advanced to explain any given set of
experimental facts.

To-day, what can we say in answer to the question “ Does matter
really consist of atoms?” Must we say that this is one of those
meaningless questions ?

Of course, the amount of meaning that can be attached to any
such question depends upon the definitions of the words and con-
cepts which it contains. If we mean by atoms indivisible and in-
destructible infinitely hard, elastic spheres, we are compelled to
answer the question in the negative. In accordance with modern
usage, however, we do not attribute any such properties to the atom.
If, by the use of the word atom, we mean to imply principally the
concept that matter consists of discrete particles which can be
counted by the various methods which are now known for this
purpose, we have the very best of reasons for answering the ques-
tion in the affirmative. If in our studies of nature we discover
evidences of discontinuities or of the presence of discrete natural
units which can be correlated in a definite way with the numerical
integers, we have come, it would seem, about as close to something
absolute in nature as we can hope to get. Einstein in the relativity
theory has taught us to look upon the intersections of world lines
as the data upon which our observations of nature rest. Such
points of intersections, which can be called events, are essentially
discontinuities. In general they are all unlike one another. When
we find in nature discrete units which in many respects appear to
be identical with one another, and we can count these units, it would
seem that the number of these units which obtain as a result is apt
to be independent of our system of reference; therefore, they have
in general, a certain kind of absolute significance.

In this respect, therefore, it seems that the atomic theory and the
quantum theory in which integers play such a fundamental role
may be considered as representing reality to a higher degree than
almost any other of our physical and chemical theories.

Skepticism in regard to an absolute meaning of words, concepts,
models or mathematical theories should not prevent us from using
234 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

all these abstractions in describing natural phenomena. The prog-
ress of physical chemistry was probably set back many years by the
failure of the chemists to take full advantage of the atomic theory
in describing the phenomena that they observed. The rejection of
the atomic theory for this purpose was, I believe, based primarily
upon a mistaken attempt to describe nature in some absolute manner.
That is, it was thought that such concepts as energy, entropy, tem-
perature, chemical potential, etc., represented something far more
nearly absolute in character than the concept of atoms and molecules,
so that nature should preferably be described in terms of the former
rather than the latter. We must now recognize, however, that all
of these concepts are human inventions and have no absolute inde-
pendent existence in nature. Our choice, therefore, can not lie be-
tween fact and hypothesis, but only between two concepts (or
between two models) which enable us to give a better or worse
description of natural phenomena. By better or worse we mean,
approximately, simpler or more complicated, more or less convenient,
more or less general. If we compare Ostwald’s attempts to teach
chemistry without the use of the atomic theory with a good modern
course based upon the atomic theory, we get an understanding of
what should be meant by better or worse.

The more recent advances in atomic theory which have resulted
from the development of the quantum theory and which have given
us our present knowledge of atomic structure, afford us interesting
applications of the new methods of thought, first introduced into
physics and chemistry by the relativity theory.

The older atomic and molecular theories of the chemists took on
more definite form through the development of the kinetic theory
of gases, and through the electron theory and the study of radio-
activity developed to a point where the atom is conceived of as con-
sisting of a definite number of electrons revolving around the nucleus.
The atom ceased to be indestructible and was no longer the smallest
particle of matter which could take part in a chemical reaction.
The nucleus, rather than the atom, became characteristic of the chem-
ical elements. The chemical properties of the atom, however, de-
pended upon the number and arrangement of electrons.

Bohr, in 1913, developed a marvelous new theory of the atom by
combining Planck’s quantum theory with a relative theory of the
nuclear atom. He evolved several new quantitative mathematical
relationships with new concepts such as energy levels, quantum states,
etc., and showed how the spectra of elements could be explained
in terms of these new concepts. He also gave a mechanical model
consisting of electrons revolving in orbits about the nucleus accord-
ing to laws which were partly classical and partly inconsistent with
MODERN CONCEPTS IN PHYSICS—-LANGMUIR 235

classical laws. This model enabled him to derive certain mathemat-
ical equations from which he was able to calculate the frequencies
corresponding to the different lines in the spectra of hydrogen and
other elements, these frequencies being obtained from fundamental
quantities such as the charge and mass of the electron and the quan-
tum constant A, and did not involve any quantities dependent on the
properties of the elements in question. The agreement between the
theory and experiment was practically perfect, often enabling the
frequency to be calculated with an accuracy of one part in 200,000.

Such remarkable success made most physicists and chemists be-
lieve that Bohr’s model, for the hydrogen atom at least, was sub-
stantially correct. That is, they believed that Bohr’s work proved
that in a normal hydrogen atom the electron really described a
circular orbit around a nucleus having a diameter and a frequency
given by Bohr’s model. Bohr himself never attached any such
importance to the mechanical model, realizing that the important
steps that he had taken consisted mainly in the introduction of new
concepts and more particularly in the mathematical equations by
which the observed frequencies in the spectral lines could be
calculated.

Within recent years, largely through the work of Bohr himself
and his students, and Sommerfeld, Schroedinger, and others, this
theory of the hydrogen atom has undergone changes. According to
Bohr’s original model the radiation of energy corresponding to a
spectral line resulted from transition in which the electron passed
from one stationary orbit to another. No physical picture of this
transition seemed possible. To account for the known phenomena
it seemed necessary that the transition should occur so rapidly that
the electron would have to move from one orbit to another with a
velocity greater than that of light, and yet the train of waves in
the resulting radiation lasted for relatively long periods of time,
about 10-* seconds. Radiant energy could be absorbed by the atom
only if the frequency was just that which was capable of trans-
ferring an electron from one orbit to another definite orbit. Thus
only one frequency could be absorbed at a time by an atom. It
was found, however, that the frequencies corresponding to many
lines could be scattered by a single atom. This seemed to require
the presence within any given atom of a number of oscillators as
great as the number of lines in the spectrum. One of the greatest
arguments in favor of the original Bohr theory was that it avoided
just this sort of complication in the atom.

To get rid of difficulties such as these, Heisenberg and Bohr real-
ized that it was necessary to sweep out of the theories of atomic
structure the many concepts which were characteristic of the me-
236 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

chanical models that had been proposed and to develop a mathe-
matical theory of the atom which would involve only concepts that
were definable in terms of operations. That is, the theory was one
that dealt more directly with measurable quantities such as the
frequencies of spectral lines. New methods of matrix calculus had
to be evolved, a kind of calculus of discontinuities or discrete quan-
tities instead of the calculus of continuous quantities which had
characterized classical mechanics.

Only a little later Schroedinger, by developing De Broglie’s wave
theory of quantum phenomena, was able to build up a theory that
we will now refer to as the wave mechanics, according to which
the whole atom with all its electrons can be looked upon as a wave
phenomenon. The electrons are no longer considered to be moving
in orbits. For example, the hydrogen atom is found to have spheri-
cal symmetry instead of the axial symmetry of the old Bohr model
of the atom. Yet this theory leads to identically the same equations
for the frequencies of the lines in the hydrogen spectrum. We must
not say that Bohr’s theory of the hydrogen atom has been over-
thrown. Bohr’s mechanical model has been superseded, but the
more important model which is represented by the equations and
the concepts which he evolved is even better to-day than it was
when it was first proposed.

The wave mechanics which involves the calculus of continuous
variables is not now in conflict with the Bohr matrix calculus of
discrete quantities. The two theories are essentially merely different
mathematical methods applied to a single fundamental problem.
The resulting mathematical equations always agree with one another.
One begins to believe that the mathematical theory is a far better
model of the atom than any of the mechanical models which are
possible.

The long-standing conflict between the wave theory of light and the
corpuscular quantum theory now disappears with the new wave
mechanics, the two aspects of light being somewhat analogous to the
two aspects of the quantum theory, the wave mechanics and the
matrix mechanics. In fact, the quantum theory now indicates that
the electron itself can be regarded as a particle, or as a wave, just
as light can be thought of as a photon or a wave. Whatever re-
mained of the conflict between the wave and corpuscular theory of
light and of the electron seems now to be fundamentally removed
by the Bohr-Heisenberg uncertainty principle. To ask whether
an electron is a particle or a wave is a meaningless question; the same
is true of the question whether light consists of corpuscles or waves.
One must answer that both of these are particles or waves accord-
ing to the kind of operations that we may perform in observing
MODERN CONCEPTS IN PHYSICS—LANGMUIR 237

them. If we make an experiment which proves that an electron
has a very definite position, then it would seem to prove that it is a
particle. In that case, however, according to the uncertainty prin-
ciple, we are not able to determine accurately the velocity and there-
fore can not predict where the particle will go. °

Bohr has emphasized that the essential reason that the classical
theory falls down in any detailed description of atomic phenomena
is that our knowledge of such atomic systems can only be obtained
through an act of observation which makes the observer inherently a
part of the system. On the classical theory we assume that we
could have knowledge of a completely closed system as though it
were possible to know anything of what would go on in a strictly
closed system. In order to make an observation some signal must
be transmitted from the system to ourselves, and if we take this
interaction completely into account we are forced to the quantum
theory with its uncertainty principle.

An interesting feature of this new quantum mechanics is that
the original conception of the relation between cause and effect
which was universally accepted in science has lost its meaning.
Atomic processes seem to be governed fundamentally by the law
of probability. It has no meaning to ask when a particular radium
atom will disintegrate, for no operation is conceivable by which such
an event could be predicted. The same is true of every individual
quantum process. We have no guarantee whatever that the expul-
sion of an a-particle from an atom of radium has any immediate
cause. In chemistry the formation of nuclei in supercooled liquids,
etc., must be essentially quantum phenomena in which no cause can
be assigned for the formation of the individual nucleus. By vary-
ing the conditions we may alter the probability that a nucleus will
appear at a given point, but in no absolute sense can we ever make a
nucleus form through a direct cause.

By a deeper analysis of this question of causality Bohr concludes
that we have an option of two alternative descriptions of natural
phenomena. If we choose to describe phenomena in terms of ordi-
nary space and time then we must abandon causality. We may,
however, retain the conception of causality if we are willing to
describe atomic phenomena in terms of what the mathematician calls
configuration space. Consider, for example, a helium atom with its
two electrons. If we attempt to give the position of both of these
electrons in space we would need a set of 3 coordinates, x, y, z, for
each of the electrons, that is, 6 coordinates in all, 3 of which belong
to one and 3 to the other electron. The mathematician, however,
finds that the 2 electrons in general could also be described by 1
point in 6-dimensional space, for such a point has 6 coordinates.
238 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

This is a representation of 2 electrons as a single point in a con-
figuration space of 6 dimensions. Now it turns out from Schroe-
dinger’s theory that the motion of electrons, or rather of the waves
corresponding to them, can be completely described in the case of
the helium atom by-a quantity which has a particular value at each
point in this 6-dimensional space or configuration space. The
helium atom, however, can be described in terms of the motion of
2 electrons in 3-dimensional space if we are content merely to know
the probabilities that the electrons may be found at any point in
this space.

These matters undoubtedly seem very abstract to those of you
who have not previously become familiar with them. I give them
here mainly in order to illustrate how far the modern concepts of
physics differ from those of 20 years ago.

If we must thus abandon our ordinary ideas of cause and effect,
it may be asked why have the physicist and chemist so long believed
that the whole teaching of science gave proof that every phenomenon
resulted inevitably from the causes that led to it. I think the
answer is that in the past scientists chose as the subjects for their
investigations almost wholly those phenomena in which such definite
relations as cause and effect could be found. These phenomena are
those in which such enormous numbers of individual quantum phe-
nomena are grouped together that the result is determined only
by their averages. Jor example, when we study the variation of
the pressure with the volume of a gas, the forces that we measure
result from the impacts of great numbers of molecules, the average
force remaining steady and definite. If, however, we only had one
molecule in a small volume, the pressure exerted on the walls would
be zero except for those instants at which the molecules struck the
wall. It would then be impossible to predict in advance what the
pressure would be at a particular time.

I think in trying to estimate the reliability of any of our scientific
knowledge we should keep in mind that the whole complexion of a
science may be made to change by the psychology of the investi-
gators which governs the choice of the subjects that are investigated.

Our best knowledge of time and its relation to other concepts is that
which we have obtained through Einstein. Yet in the whole rela-
tivity theory there is nothing to distinguish between positive and
negative time, that is, between future and past, any more than there
is between different directions in space, such as right and left. There
thus appears to be something curiously incomplete in our knowledge
of time, for every one of us knows the vast practical difference be-
tween past and future. Eddington, in his recent book, the Nature of
the Physical World, discusses the “ arrow of time” at some length.
MODERN CONCEPTS IN PHYSICS—LANGMUIR 239

He suggests that the second law of thermodynamics is the only funda-
mental law of nature which provides us with any distinction between
future and past. One way of stating this law is that all spontaneous
processes that occur in nature involve an increase in entropy. Ed-
dington thus proposes that the positive direction of time can be
defined as that direction in which the entropy increases. If we had
a system in absolute equilibrium the entropy would be constant, and
there would then be no arrow of time. This is in accord with the
fact that in such a system there are no changes with time.

It is improbable that there are two independent fundamental fac-
tors which provide an arrow for time, so that it would seem that
Eddington in having found one such factor has found the only one.
There are, however, grave difficulties with this view. An arrow is a
vector quantity which should have magnitude as well as direction.
Now the rate of change of entropy does not seem to give us any
measure of time. For this purpose we use phenomena which are as
nearly reversible as possible, such as the swinging of a pendulum in
a vacuum.

Fundamentally entropy is a measure of randomness. A random
distribution of molecules in space and velocity is a system having the
maximum entropy. If we throw a pack of cards out of the window
and collect them from the ground they have become effectively
shuffled. We would not expect by this process, starting with a
shuffled pack of cards, to find them at the end in the order in which
they come from the manufacturer. ‘The direction in which the ran-
domness increases thus provides an arrow for time. This arrow is,
however, equivalent to that involving the increase of entropy.

It is still an open question, however, whether processes directed by
intelligent beings may not involve a decrease in entropy. In fact it
seems conceivable that the evolution of organic life on the earth is in
some measure fundamentally contrary to the second law of thermo-
dynamics. ‘The inherent tendency of evolution seems to be to bring
about an ordered rather than a random arrangement of parts, and in
the future perhaps forms of life may evolve which cause a decrease
of entropy on a large scale. Are we then to have some parts of the
universe in which the arrow of time points in the opposite direction
from that in neighboring parts ?

Such speculations may seem fantastic. It is, however, I believe, of
the utmost importance for the chemists and the physicists to evolve
fundamentally sound conceptions of such things as time and entropy.

The profound changes in physical thought, particularly those
represented by the quantum theory, are rapidly bringing about a
revolution in physical chemistry. The third law of thermodynamics
involving chemical constants has changed radically our methods of
240 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

studying chemical equilibria. The application of the quantum
theory to band spectra promises to be of the utmost importance in
chemistry. By enabling us to determine the moments of inertia
of chemical molecules, the actual distances between the nuclei of the
atoms in molecules can be found. Apparently our most accurate
determinations of the heats of dissociation of elementary gases can
be obtained from the band spectra through a knowledge of the
energy levels of the various possible states of the molecules. In
recent numbers of the Journal of the American Chemical Society,
particularly in the paper of Giauque and Johnston, we see the be-
ginnings of what promises to be the most accurate and fertile source
of knowledge of chemical equilibria. From a detailed knowledge of
the spectrum, for example, of oxygen, and without recourse to any
other experimental determinations, the specific heat at all tempera-
tures can be calculated, and the entropy of oxygen at all tempera-
tures is thus found. This, together with the heats of reactions,
which may be found by a similar method, makes possible the calcula-
tion of the degree of dissociation of oxygen and will ultimately make
possible the calculation of all chemical equilibria.

The remarkable work of Dennison, Bonhoeffer, and Kucken in pre-
dicting and isolating parahydrogen should prove to the chemist how
many of his chemical discoveries will be obtained in the future by the
application of these new theories of physics.

Gurney and Condon have recently derived from the wave
mechanics an explanation of the fundamental law of radioactivity.
Similar methods will probably before long enable us to understand
the processes involved in chemical reactions far better than we ever
have before.

Physics and chemistry are being inevitably drawn closer together.
It seems that there has never been a time when we can predict with
such certainty rapid progress in fundamental chemistry, for the new
theories of physics have as yet scarcely begun to be applied in the
field of chemistry. The physicist on the other hand has much to
learn from an increased knowledge of chemical phenomena which
should provide him with a richness of experimental data far greater
than any he has yet had an opportunity to use.

Unfortunately, although theoretical physics and chemistry are
thus supplementing each other and in many respects are being
merged into a new science, there are remarkably few men as yet that
have received adequate training in both sciences. Before long, I
hope, sharp distinctions between physics and chemistry will no
longer exist, but at present there seems to be a very practical
distinction.
MODERN CONCEPTS IN PHYSICS—-LANGMUIR 241

In order to find approximately how many chemists are also active
as physicists and vice versa, I have selected at random 100 pages of
the fourth edition of American Men of Science (1927) which con-
tains the names of 13,500 American scientists. Of these, approx-
imately 2,700 are classed as chemists and 760 as physicists. Of the
chemists 87 per cent are members of the American Chemical Society,
while only 2.5 per cent belong also to the American Physical Society.
Seventy-seven per cent of the physicists are members of the American
Physical Society, while 3.3 per cent are also members of the Ameri-
can Chemical Society. Thus only about 3 per cent of the physicists
and chemists of the United States, whose names are given in the
American Men of Science, belong to both of the national societies.
This leaves far too small a number of men who are capable or are
properly prepared to carry on the important work of bringing these
two sciences close together.

To pave the way for the coming revolutionary changes in chemis-
try we must be prepared to modify our methods of thinking, prob-
ably along lines now so prevalent in physics. But above all we must
urge young chemists in the universities and after graduation to be-
come thoroughly well trained in mathematics and in modern physics.
WAVES AND CORPUSCLES IN MODERN PHYSICS *

By Lovuts DE Broaiie

[With 2 plates]

A study of the properties of common bodies leads us to put them
into two classes: Composite bodies, which may be changed into more
simple ones by appropriate operations, and simple bodies, or ele-
ments, which resist all attempts at reduction into simpler ones. An
examination of the quantitative laws, following which these sim-
ple bodies, or elements, unite to make the composite ones, has led
chemists for a century to adopt the following theory: a simple body
is formed of small particles, each the same and called the atoms of
this simple body; composite bodies are formed of molecules made by
the union of several of these atoms. According to this hypothesis,
the dissociation of a compound body into the elements of which
it is composed means the breaking up of its molecules and the set-
ting free of the atoms which the latter contain. The number of
these simple bodies or elements actually known is 89. It is believed
that in all there will finally be found 92. Therefore out of 92 differ-
ent species of atoms all material bodies are constructed.

The atomic theory has been successful not only in chemistry but
also in physics. If the substances of bodies are made of molecules
and atoms, then their physical properties should be interpretable
from their atomic constitution. The properties of a gas, for exam-
ple, should be capable of explanation, supposing it to be formed of a
very great number of atoms or of molecules in rapid movements.
The pressure of a gas upon the walls of its container will be due to
the blows of the molecules upon these walls; the temperature of the
gas should be related to the mean agitation of these molecules, this
agitation increasing as the temperature rises. This conception of a
gas has been developed as the “ Kinetic theory of gases” and has
led to an explanation of the gas laws revealed by experiment. If
the atomic theory is a proper representation of nature, the proper-

1 Lecture delivered by M. de Broglie, who had been awarded the Nobel prize, at a
conference at the Bureau of Arts and Measures, presided over by M. Painlevé, Jan, 26,
1930. Translated by permission from Revue générale des Sciences, vol. 41, No. 4, Feb. 28,
1930.

243
244 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

ties of solid and liquid bodies should be amenable to interpretation
by picturing the molecules and atoms in such states as existing much
closer to each other than in the gaseous state. The considerable
forces which should then be expected to exist between the atoms and
molecules should lead to an accounting for the properties of incom-
pressibility, cohesion, etc., which characterize solids and liquids.

The atomic theory of matter has been confirmed by remarkable
experiments such as those of M. Jean Perrin which permitted him to
measure the number and weight of the divers atoms within a cubic
centimeter. I will indicate here merely that the weight of an atom
is extraordinarily small, yet the number per cubic centimeter is al-
ways enormous under ordinary conditions.

Without going further into the development of the atomic theory,
we will merely add that in physics as in chemistry, the hypothesis,
according to which all bodies are composed of molecules which them-
selves are built up of divers combinations of elementary atoms, has
proved itself very fruitful and should be considered a good model of
reality.

The physicists, however, were not content to stop here. They
wished to proceed further—to know the structure of the atoms—in
what way the various elements themselves differed from each other.
In this task they were aided by the progress which had come in their
knowledge of electrical phenomena. From the very beginning of
the researches into the study of electrical processes it had seemed
useful to treat electricity as a fluid—to suppose, for example, that
the electric current passing through a wire was the flowing of some
fluid through it. But as you know, there are apparently two kinds
of electricity, positive and negative. Consequently it was natural to
postulate the existence of two fluids, a positive fluid and a negative
fluid. We may picture these fluids in two different ways: It is
possible to suppose the fluid to be a continuous substance occupying
uniformly the region it occupies; or better, to suppose it to be formed
of clouds of small corpuscles, each corpuscle being a small ball of
electricity. Experimental evidence has decided in favor of the
latter. For some 30 years we have known that negative electricity
is composed of small corpuscles, all identical and of extraordinarily
small masses and electrical charges. These corpuscles of negative
electricity have been designated electrons. It has become possible
to eject these electrons out from matter and then study their
behavior as free electrons in a vacuum. It has been shown thus that
their motions are such as would be predicted by the laws of classical
mechanics for small electrified particles. The study of the behavior
of these small particles in electric and magnetic fields has led to the
measurement of their size and electrical charge. These are extremely
WAVES AND CORPUSCLES—DE BROGLIE 245

small. The experimental knowledge of the corpuscular structure of
positive electricity is less direct ; nevertheless, physicists have reached
the conviction that positive electricity is also subdivided into cor-
puscles, all the same in kind, and now called “ protons.” The proton
has a mass, which, although very small, is nearly two thousand times
greater than that of the electron. Its charge is equal to that of the
electron but of contrary sign, positive instead of negative.

Electrons and protons have extraordinarily small masses; never-
theless this mass is not zero and an enormous number of protons
make a total mass of considerable amount. It is therefore tempting
to suppose that all material bodies, essentially characterized by
weight and inertia, in other words, by mass, are built of an enor-
mous number of protons and electrons. Looking at the matter in
this way, the atoms of which the elements are composed and which
are the materials from which all bodies are constructed, must be
formed of protons and electrons. The 92 different atoms constitut-
ing the elements must be 92 different assemblages of protons and
electrons.

The idea that atoms are formed from electrons and protons has
been elaborated through the experimental work of the great English
physicist, Sir Ernest Rutherford, and the theoretical studies of the
Danish scientist, Niels Bohr. The atom of a simple body is supposed
to be composed of a central nucleus carrying a positive charge equal
to a whole number N times the charge of a proton and N electrons
circulating about this nucleus. The assemblage is therefore electri-
eally neutral. Without doubt the nucleus itself is formed of protons
and electrons, the number of protons exceeding by N units the num-
ber of electrons. Almost all the mass of the atom is seated in the
nucleus since this contains the protons. The protons are far more
heavy than the electrons. The simplest atom is that of hydrogen.
It is made up of a nucleus containing a single proton with one elec-
tron revolving about it.

What distinguishes the atom of one element from that of another
is the number N of elementary positive charges carried within the
nucleus. We can accordingly arrange these elementary bodies in a
series formed of increasing values of N from hydrogen (N = 1) to
uranium (N = 92). We may note that the order in which these
bodies fall in such an arrangement is precisely that which would
result from their atomic weights and chemical properties and which
is known as the Mendeleeff classification.

I can not explain here in detail the idea that the atom is a kind
of solar system formed of protons and electrons as has been adyo-
cated by the physicists. 1 will limit myself merely to saying that
it allows the interpretation not only of the chemical properties of
the elementary bodies but also of a number of their physical prop-

28095—31——-17
246 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

erties such as the composition of the luminous rays they are capable
of emitting under definite conditions, for instance, when they are
heated to incandescence.

There is one point which we must note. In order to develop in
a satisfactory manner this theory of an atom similar to a solar sys-
tem, Bohr had to introduce a strange idea which he united with the
theory of quanta earlier developed by Planck. I have just indi-
cated that in the experiments where we can follow the motion of an
electron, the latter behaves like a small corpuscle of very small mass
and that its motion can be predicted by the laws of classical me-
chanics. But let us take into consideration the movements of an
electron in trajectories of very small dimensions—motions which we
can not follow in detail in experiments but which we needs must
imagine in developing certain theories and explaining certain facts.
Planck found by his calculations that such movements could not be
predicted only from the laws of classical mechanics. To be more defi-
nite, among all the motions predictable in ordinary mechanics, only
certain ones could be followed by the electron; these privileged ones
having been designated “ quantized orbits.” In his theory of a solar-
modeled system, Bohr found it necessary to add this idea of Planck,
for in the atoms the trajectories of the planetary electrons are
necessarily of very small dimensions. He found that the electrons
could execute quantized orbits only; in a manner this circumstance
gave the key to all the atomic properties.

Let us summarize briefly what we have said. The study of the
properties of matter has led physicists to think of it as formed of
little corpuscles—electrons and protons. Various assemblages of
these corpuscles form the atoms of the 92 simple elements; from
these are formed the composite bodies; in turn, from the latter is
made all matter, which therefore is composed of corpuscles of known
mass and charge and which in their movements obey the laws of
classical mechanics.

However, when we consider movements taking place on a very
small scale, the corpuscles seem incapable of making most of the
movements which the laws of classical mechanics would authorize.
They can take only certain quantized paths. This odd circumstance
warns us that it is doubtless insufficient to consider the ultimate ele-
ments of matter, the electrons for example, as being merely small
corpuscles. This manner of considering the electrons must be modi-
fied and completed in a way suggested by certain light phenomena.
Accordingly we must turn our thoughts to some phenomena
concerning light.

Light which comes to our eyes from the sun or the stars has
traversed immense space where matter is absent. Light passes with-
out difficulty through a vacuum and, differently from sound, is not
WAVES AND CORPUSCLES—DE BROGLIE 247

bound up with matter. Our conception of the physical world there-
fore will not be complete unless another phenomenon independent
-of matter be added to it, namely, light.

But what is light? Of what is it constituted ?

The philosophers of antiquity and many scientists up to the be-
ginning of the last century maintained that light was made up of
small corpuscles in rapid movement. The propagation of light in
straight lines under usual conditions, as well as the reflection of
light by mirrors, was easily explained by such an hypothesis.

The corpuscular theory of light had been abandoned for a century
following the experiments of Young and Fresnel. Young and Fres-
nel had discovered a large class of light phenomena—those relating
to interference and diffraction—the interpretation of which was im-
possible by the corpuscular theory. However, another conception,
the wave theory of light, as Fresnel admirably showed, explains both
the older class of phenomena—the rectilinear propagation of light,
its reflection and refraction—as well as the later class connected with
interference and diffraction.

The undulatory conception of light had been upheld previously
by certain farseeing geniuses hike Christian Huyghens, who thought
that light should be compared to the propagation of a wave in an
elastic medium; for instance, like the movement of a ripple upon the
surface of a sheet of water upon which a stone has been cast. Since
light passes through a vacuum, Fresnel imagined a sort of subtle
medium, the ether, which impregnated all matter, filling the empty
spaces and serving as a basis for the propagation of the luminous
wave.

Let us now consider how a luminous wave is conceived. Light
freely propagated is analagous to a succession of waves of which the
crests are separated by a constant distance called the “ wave length.”
A group of these waves moves in the direction of propagation with
a definite velocity known as the “ velocity of ight.” For light waves
in vacuo this should be taken as 300,000 km./sec., as has been meas-
ured by experiments made since the death of Fresnel. At any given
point in space the different waves with their crests and troughs pass
successively. The magnitude which is propagated by the waves
therefore varies at a given point periodically and the period of that
variation is evidently equal to the time which elapses between the
passage of two successive crests.

We have just seen how a wave moves forward in a region where
there is nothing to hinder its progress. A different action occurs
when the wave in its motion impinges upon an obstacle, for example,
if it encounters a plane surface which stops and reflects it; or if it
must pass through apertures pierced in a screen; or further if it en-
counters a point which diffuses it. Then the disturbance will be-
248 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

have as if deformed, bent back upon itself, so that instead of having
a simple wave we will have to deal with a superposition of simple
waves. The state of oscillation at any point depends upon the re-.
sult of the superposition of the various waves, an effect sometimes
additive, at times subtractive. If the simple waves are additive, or
as we may say, are in the same phase, a very strong oscillation re-
sults; if, on the other hand, the waves oppose each other, or, as we
may say, there is an opposition of phase, then the resultant vibration
will be very small or even possibly zero. Now it can be shown that
the existence at a point of concordance or discordance of phase de-
pends essentially upon the wave length of the wave which happens
to strike the obstacle. Resuming, the presence of an obstacle dis-
turbs the passage of a wave, causing the appearance of a complicated
distribution of vibration intensities depending essentially on the
wave length of the original wave. ‘There result the phenomena of
interference and diffraction.

If we adopt this idea that light is made up of waves, we are
led to predict that if obstacles hinder the free passage of the bundle
of rays, then the phenomena of interference and diffraction will
make their appearance. Within the region of interference the dis-
tribution of light will be complicated but we can easily predict
it from the wave length of the light, that is to say, from the color
of light employed. Young and Fresnel showed that light exhibits
the phenomena of interference and diffraction. Fresnel showed fur-
ther that the conception of light waves sufficed to explain in every
detail all the observed phenomena of interference and diffraction.
On the other hand, the theory which considers light as being simple
moving corpuscles can not lead to the conception of wave lengths
and is wholly incapable of explaining interference. Following
Fresnel, and during the whole of the last century, the undulatory
conception of light was admitted without opposition.

You know there exist divers kinds of simple light, each corre-
sponding to a definite color. The white light given out by an
incandescent body, an electric light, for instance, is made up of a
continuous sequence of simple lights of which the colors vary pro-
gressively by imperceptible gradations from violet to red, forming
what we call the spectrum. The wave theory of light naturally
led to the designation of the quality of each component of the spec-
trum by its wave length; that is, there exists a correspondence
between wave length and color. Since interference phenomena de-
pend upon the wave length, they give us a means of measuring the
wave length corresponding to each color of the spectrum. And
so we have been able to determine that the wave length varies,
increasing continuously from the violet end of the spectrum where
WAVES AND CORPUSCLES—DE BROGLIE 249

it is about 4/10,000 of a millimeter, to the extreme red where it
attains a length of 8/10,000 of a millimeter.

There exist in nature other waves analogous to these light waves
but to which the eyes are not sensitive. We are able to show their
existence by various methods and to measure their wave lengths.
They are included under the general designation “radiations,” a
term which also includes light waves. Certain radiations (ultra-
violet, X and A rays) have wave lengths shorter than those of
light; others, (infra-red, Hertzian) on the contrary, have longer
wave lengths. X rays have wave lengths of the order of 1/10,000,000
of a millimeter. They therefore have a very much shorter length
than the visible ones.

Thirty years ago no one questioned the undulatory theory of light.
Since then hitherto unknown phenomena have come to light produced
by radiations which did not appear to be explainable except by the
corpuscular theory. The principal one of these phenomena was the
photo-electric effect. Here are its characteristics: When we illu-
minate a piece of matter, a metal, for example, with either light or X
rays, this piece of matter emits electrons, moving more or less
rapidly. A study of this phenomenon showed that the velocity of
these expelled electrons depends only on the wave length of the
incident light or X rays and the nature of the matter upon which
this radiation falls. It does not depend upon the intensity of the
radiation. Only the number of emitted electrons depends upon that
intensity. Further the energy of the expelled electrons varies in-
versely with the wave length of the incident wave. Einstein, re-
flecting upon this phenomenon, saw that in order to explain it,
it would be necessary to return to a corpuscular structure of light.
He supposed that the radiations are made up of corpuscles trans-
porting an energy inversely proportional to the wave length of the
light and showed that the laws of the photo-electric effect can be
readily deduced from such an hypothesis.

And so it came to pass that the physicists were much embarrassed,
because on the one hand there was a class of phenomena, the phe-
nomena of interference and diffraction which indicated that light
must be made up of waves, and on the other hand there was the
photo-electric phenomenon, as well as other evidence, which as
insistently indicated that light must be made of corpuscles or
“ photons ” as they are now called. The new corpuscular theory of
Einstein defines the energy of a light corpuscle in terms of a
wave length, which is foreign to the idea of a strictly corpuscular
radiation.

The only way to escape from this difficulty is to admit that light
is formed of waves and corpuscles so closely bound together that
they behave as two complementary aspects of reality. Each time that
250 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

a radiation exchanges energy with matter, the exchange can be de-
scribed as being an absorption or emission by the matter of a photon,
and when we wish to describe the movement in space of corpuscles
of hght we must speak of the propagation of a wave. Elaborating
further this conception, we are led to admit that the density of a
cloud of corpuscles, which constitutes a luminous wave, is always at
every point equal to the intensity of the associated wave. It thus
happens that we come to the synthesis of two old rival theories of
hght. We thus explain at the same time both the interference phe-
nomena and the photo-electric effect. Great interest lies in this
synthesis because it indicates to us that in nature both light waves
and the corpuscles of matter are intimately connected, at least in
the case of hight. But if this is true with light, may we not also
expect it to be true with matter? Until now all the efforts of physi-
cists have tended to reduce matter to a complicated structure of
corpuscles, photons, and electrons. But just as a photon can not be
conceived without its wave which travels with it, should we not also
suppose that the corpuscles of matter are always escorted by a wave?
Such is the leading question now asked of us.

Let us suppose that a corpuscle of matter, an electron, for example.
is always accompanied by a wave, the corpuscle and the wave being
intimately bound together. The movement of the corpuscle and
the propagation of the wave are not independent, and we should be
able to obtain a relationship between the mechanical magnitude of
the corpuscle—the velocity and the energy—and the magnitude
characterizing the wave—the velocity of propagation and the wave
length. In suggesting the connection which should exist between
the protons and their associated light waves, we can indeed estab-
lish a parallelism. This theory of the bond between the material
corpuscles and their associated waves is to-day know as wave me-
chanics. Naturally I can not to-day lay before you the details of
this mechanics. I will limit myself merely to telling you that it
leads to attributing a wave length to the wave associated with the
material corpuscle, a value which varies inversely with the velocity
of the corpuscle. The more rapidly the corpuscle moves, the smaller
is the wave length of the associated wave.

When the wave moves freely in a portion of space whose dimen-
sions are large compared with the wave length, the new mechanics
attributes to the associated particle a movement identical with that
predicted by the classical mechanics. There is therefore here an
accordance between the old and the new mechanics. Particularly is
this the case with the electrons which we can observe directly, and
we thus explain why the study of the electron movements on a large
scale led to considering them as simple corpuscles moving according
to the laws of the classical mechanics.
WAVES AND CORPUSCLES—DE BROGLIE 251

But we meet with two cases where the laws of classical mechanics
fail to predict the movements of the corpuscle as will the new theory.
The first case is where the propagation of the associated wave is
limited to a region of space of which the dimensions are of the
order of magnitude of the wave length. This occurs for an electron
in the interior of an atom. ‘The wave associated with the atom is
then obliged to take the form of a stationary wave analogous to the
elastic stationary waves which may occur in a cord fixed at both
ends or the stationary electric waves which form in the antennae
used for wireless telegraphy. Theory shows that these stationary
waves can take only certain well-defined wave lengths corresponding
to certain definite movements of the associated electron. These move-
ments are precisely the quantized states introduced by Bohr in his
theory of the atom and we now have an explanation of the hitherto
very mysterious fact that these quantized states are the only possible
ones for an electron bound to an atom.

There is a second case where the movement of the electrons, ac-
cording to the laws of the new mechanics, should not obey the laws
of the classical mechanics. This is where the associated waves strike
an obstacle in the path of propagation. Interference phenomena are
then produced and the movements of the associated corpuscles are no
longer what would be expected from the classical mechanics. In
order to render an account of what takes place, let us be guided by
an analogy with radiations. Let us imagine that we observe a radia-
tion of known wave length with a contrivance capable of showing
interference upon a screen. Since we know that the radiations are
formed of photons, we can just as well say that we see a swarm of
photons upon the screen. In this conception, in the places where in-
terference takes place, the photons arrange themselves in such a
manner that they become concentrated where the light intensities are
the greatest. If we now send upon the same screen, not a radiation
but a bundle of electrons of which the associated waves have the same
wave length as the radiation previously employed, the waves will
interfere in the same manner as in the preceding case since it is this
wave length which controls the phenomena of interference. It is
therefore quite natural to suppose that the electrons are concentrated
there where the intensity is the greatest; in other words, in the new
experiment the electrons arrange themselves in space similarly as did
the photons in the first experiment. If we can prove that this is
indeed the case we would then have shown the existence of a wave
associated with an electron and we could measure its wave length,
establishing the truth of the fundamental basis of wave mechanics.

Now, wave mechanics leads us to attribute to electrons moving
with such speeds as usually occur in our experiments, an associated
wave whose wave length is of the order of that of X rays (0.0001
252 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

of a millimeter). In order to show the existence of the associated
electronic waves, it is necessary to try to realize with them phenomena
of interference analogous to those which we get with X rays. Phe-
nomena of this nature have been obtained. The first physicists who
succeeded in obtaining such results were Messrs. Davisson and Germer
of the Bell Laboratories in New York. But I am not going to de-
scribe their experiments; instead I will tell you of the beautiful
results, analogous in nature, although slightly different, which were
made later by G. P. Thomson in England and by M. Ponte in France,
for M. Ponte has had the kindness to lend me the photographs so
that I may lay before your eyes the actual results.

When we send a pencil of X rays upon a powder composed of
small crystals oriented in random directions the X rays are diffused
by the regularly arranged molecules in the small crystals and inter-

Powder of
Crystals

Photographic
Filre

FIGURE 1

ference takes place between the diffused X rays. Theory predicts
that if we place a photographic plate perpendicular to the pencil
of rays incident upon the plate in the manner shown in Figure 1,
the X rays should affect the photographic plate in circles centered
upon the direction of the incident ray. Experiment verifies splen-
didly the prediction and we have upon the plate rings which are
black upon the negative itself but white as shown in the positive
reproduced in Plate 1, Figure 1.

The diameter of the rings depends upon the nature of the crystal-
line substance employed as a diffusing means and upon the wave
length of the radiation. If with the same diffuser we employ X-ray
radiations of shorter and shorter wave lengths the system of rings
moves toward the center.

We may employ in the place of the powder of small crystals a very
thin metallic plate. The study of the structure of metals has shown
that they are formed of a conglomeration of small confused crystals.
WAVES AND CORPUSCLES—DE BROGLIE 253

The experiments which we have just described, which appear to
have been first made by my brother Maurice before the war, are
generally known as the experiment of Debye and Scherrer. They
prove the wave structure of X rays, but that was already known be-
fore these experiments. If now we repeat these experiments with
electrons, we would have a proof of the wave character of the elec-
tron. This was realized by Messrs. Thomson and Ponte. M. Ponte
proceeded as follows: He sent a bundle of electrons upon a film of
zine oxide formed of little crystals of this substance. Then placing a
photographic plate as I have described above he obtained photo-
graphs such as are shown in Plate 1, Figure 2.

The diameter of the rings corresponds to what was foreseen by
the formulae of wave mechanics. These formulae, we have seen,
tell us the wave length associated with the electron which is smaller
the greater the velocity of the electron. Therefore, if we first send
upon the zinc oxide screen electrons having a certain velocity, we
obtain a definite system of rings (pl. 2, fig. 1); if next we send
electrons of greater speed, we obtain a similar system of rings but
moved further in towards the center (pl. 2, fig. 2). The corre-
spondence with the predictions of wave mechanics is quantitative
with an accuracy of at least 1 per cent.

The experiments of Davisson and Germer, of G. P. Thomson, of
Ponte, and of others, have proved that the electron is not a simple
corpuscle; it is at the same time a corpuscle and a wave. It is doubt-
less the same case with the proton as all recent experiments seem to
prove. As matter seems to be formed of protons and electrons, we
see that matter, like light, is made of corpuscles and waves. Matter
and light thus appear to be much more similar than we had supposed
only a very short time ago when we considered matter as being com-
posed of corpuscles only. Undulatory mechanics has thus em-
bellished and simplified our conception of Nature. Further it has
led us to predict interference and diffraction phenomena with elec-
trons of which I have just shown you the experimental proofs. One
can say then that an important step has thus been taken along the
road which little by little leads the human mind to a more exact
knowledge of the secrets of Nature.
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—De Broglie PLATE 1

1. INTERFERENCE OF SCATTERED
xX RAYS

2. INTERFERENCE OF SCATTERED ELECTRONS
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—De Broglie PLATE 2

2. RINGS FORMED BY SCATTERED ELECTRONS (FAST)
NEW RESEARCHES ON THE EFFECT OF LIGHT WAVES
ON THE GROWTH OF PLANTS

By F. S. Bracketr AND Ear S. JOHNSTON

[With 38 plates]

One of the most commonly observed relationships between plants
and light is that of phototropism, or the directional growth of plant
organs as influenced by light. A potted plant, such as the geranium,
placed on the window ledge where light will fall on it from one side
will, in a comparatively short time, turn its leaves in a position to
receive maximum light from outside the room. The beautiful sym-
metry of plants is very easily lost when they are exposed to unilat-
eral illumination.

Various parts or organs of plants respond differently to light.
Young shoots and leaf petioles usually grow toward the source of
light, while the leaves frequently set themselves at right angles to its
beams. Occasionally there are organs which grow away from the
source of light. These three types of growth are known respectively
as positive, transverse, and negative phototropism. One of the few
plants which shows all three types of phototropism is the mustard
seedling illustrated in Plate 1. A 200-watt electric lamp served as
the light source in this particular case. The direction of the light is
indicated by the arrow. The shoot shows positive phototropic bend-
ing, the roots negative, and the small leaves distinctly show a
tendency to expand at right angles to the beam of light.

Light has a threefold effect on plants. The plant’s response to a
bright light is different from that to a dim light. Chlorophyll, the
green pigment, is formed in the presence of light, but if the light is
very intense, this coloring matter is destroyed. The number of hours
per day that the plant is exposed to light governs to a large extent
the nature of its growth. The very interesting and extensive experi-
ments of Garner and Allard of the United States Department of
Agriculture have conclusively shown that plants may be made to
grow vegetatively, or to set flowers and fruit, merely by changing the
length of time they are exposed to light. The color, or wave length
of light, also plays an important part in the plant’s behavior.
Chlorophyll formation will be more rapid in red than in blue or
violet light. On the other hand, the short wave lengths at the violet

255
256 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

end of the spectrum have the greatest retarding effect so far as the
rate of stem elongation is concerned. Thus, plants grow and develop
differently in accordance with the intensity of light, its duration,
and its color.

The three light variables just mentioned, which influence the gen-
eral character of growth, likewise should be considered in the specific
case of phototropism. In many of the early experiments dealing
with the bending of plant stems toward light sources, the lights used
were such that it was impossible to determine accurately whether it
was the color or the intensity of the light that was causing the bend-
ing. To be sure, both these factors of light influence this one-side
growth response, but the relative influence of the different colors, or
wave lengths of light, could not be determined because of the different
intensities of the colors used. In order to determine which colors are
most effective in phototropic bending it is necessary to use wave
lengths of known intensity. With the object of determining in a
quantitative way some of the fundamental growth responses of
plants to light, the Division of Radiation and Organisms of the
Smithsonian Institution has initiated a series of experiments which
will eventually clarify this problem. Before describing the methods
used in eliminating the intensity from the wave-length effect of light
on growth, it may be well to examine briefly the mechanics of
phototropism.

About 100 years ago De Candolle, the Swiss physician and botanist,
thought that positively phototropic bending was due to the retarding
effect of light on growth. The side of the stem most brightly
illuminated would grow slower and bring about a bending toward
the light source. The enormous elongation of potato sprouts in a
darkened cellar would seem to substantiate the view that plant stems
grow longer in the dark than in light. Thus the shaded side of the
stem of the geranium plant growing by the side of a window will
elongate more than the side more brightly illuminated. The result
is obvious. The stem and the petioles bend toward the window.
Mature plant tissues that have almost completed their growth cycle
do not show this bending nearly so much as young tissues. Only
the tissues that contain cells still capable of dividing or of enlarging
are the ones concerned in this phenomenon.

Objections were made to this early view of phototropism. Such
distinguished men as Darwin and Pfeffer, the noted German plant
physiologist, were led to believe that there existed a region in the
plant capable of receiving a stimulus and that such a region was
more or less localized. In one experiment the apex of a young sprout
was exposed to light while the bending occurred at the base which
was not illuminated. It thus appeared that in addition to a region of
perception, there was a region of response. If this were true, then
LIGHT AND PLANT GROWTH—BRACKETT AND JOHNSTON 257

the tissues between these two regions must be capable of conducting
the excitation from the former place to the latter. It would appear
on first sight that a plant is very much like an animal which, for
example, sees food with its eyes. The excitation travels over the
nerves to the legs which react in such a manner as to carry it toward
the food. In a growing shoot, the tip perceives light on one side.
The sensation is transmitted to the part lower down where differ-
ential growth goes on in such a manner as to point the stem or shoot
toward the light.

A good deal of work on phototropism has been done with the
coleoptiles of plants belonging to the grass family. The coleoptile
is a leaf sheath surrounding the plumule or bud of the ascending shoot
or foliage leaves. The oat is a favorite plant for such experiments.
One ingenious experimenter as recently as 1910 hit upon the unique
idea of cutting off the top of a coleoptile and sticking it back on the
stub with melted gelatin. When the tip was illuminated on one
side the shoot still showed marked phototropic bending at the base.
Did the stimulus received by the tip travel to the base after passing
through a layer of gelatin? This experiment stimulated much
interest and many curious methods were devised for decapitating
the coleoptiles and replacing their “heads” in various positions.
Further interesting experiments are reported in which the “ heads ”
of coleoptiles illuminated from one side were cut off and stuck on the
stumps of decapitated coleoptiles grown in the dark. These
“ doctored up ” coleoptiles when allowed to continue their growth in
the dark showed positively phototropic curvatures in the proper
direction.

Professor Priestley, of England, has recently been studying these
very interesting plant traits and has done much toward giving this
peculiar phenomenon a rational explanation. He shows that photo-
tropic curvature in coleoptiles is consistent with the “ light-growth ”
hypothesis in spite of many seemingly discrepant experiments. The
amount of light required to induce phototropic curvature in normal
light-grown shoots is greater and must be continued longer than that
required to bring about similar curvatures in etiolated shoots.
Etiolated shoots are those grown in the absence of light. Such
plants are white or pale in color and usually differ from normal
plants in the structure of their tissues. Light affects normal and
etiolated shoots quite differently as will be shown.

It is well to pause at this point to consider a few essential condi-
tions for growth. The meristematic tissue consists of a group of
actively dividing cells. An available water and food supply is
necessary for this kind of growth. Extending up and down plant
stems are tiny tubes through which water and solutions of food
material pass. In order that these materials, so essential for
258 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

growth, reach the cells located at a distance from the main trunk
lines, it is necessary for them to pass through the walls of the inter-
vening cells. The more permeable these walls are to water and the
foods dissolved therein, the better are the chances for rapid growth
of the meristematic tissues. Wilted plant cells can not grow.
Growth ceases even when the cells just begin to wilt. Cells stop
growing when they lose water faster than they can absorb it or when
they can not get a sufficient amount because of a blockade in the
line of cell walls connecting them to the water mains (vascular
tissue). The entire system is very delicately balanced.

How is this sap or water system related to phototropic bending?
As Professor Priestley states, “In this delicately balanced equilib-
rium, strong lateral illumination may mean that the sap supply first
fails on the side more directly lit, where evaporation will more
rapidly bring about a state of ‘incipient drying’ in the walls of the
tissues. * * * Tf the walls between the vascular supply and
superficial meristem are in this condition, food supplies to the meris-
tem will fail, and there will be a cessation of meristematic growth.”
Less growth will occur on the drier or more illuminated side. This
will result in a positively phototropic bending.

In etiolated shoots the mechanism of bending is quite different.
Very little light will cause marked growth curvatures, whereas with
shoots previously illuminated a stronger light is necessary. The
walls of the cells making up the tissue in etiolated shoots contain fat
and protein, a substance similar to egg white. ‘These substances pre-
vent the ready passage of sap and water from the vascular supply
to the meristematic tissue, which, under favorable conditions, is
capable of rapid growth. Blaauw, a Dutch scientist, points out the
similarity between light in its photochemical effect on a photo-
graphic plate on the one hand, and on an etiolated coleoptile on the
other. Relatively small quantities of light produce a photochemi-
cal action in these shoots. Protein and fatty materials disappear
from the cell walls, the latter substances migrating mainly to the
cuticle. The passageway between the meristematic cells and their
water and food supply is opened up. In the words of Professor
Priestley, “‘ Increased superficial growth now ensues. Growth as a
whole may be as active as ever on the more brightly lt side of
the etiolated shoot, but it is differently distributed. More cells are
added to the surface of the stem and leaf, and less proportionately
contributed to the inner layers of the shoot axis. The result is,
therefore, in the aggregate, a retardation of growth in length on the
illuminated side and a positive phototropic curvature.”

Although many roots are not sensitive to light there are a few,
as previously mentioned, which show negative phototropism. The
section of the root capable of bending is situated just back of the
LIGHT AND PLANT GROWTH—BRACKETT AND JOHNSTON 259

apex or tip. In this region the cells are rapidly enlarging by tak-
ing in water. The water fills up a space in the cell’s interior called
the vacuole. Such vacuolating cells grow rapidly by enlarging. In
their earlier stage, when forming the meristematic tissue, growth
proceeded by rapid division of the cells. Negative phototropic
bending of these roots is attributed to the increased rapidity with
which these vacuolating cells enlarge under the influence of light.
Those on the shaded side of the root enlarge less rapidly.

On the basis of the above theory it may be worth while to examine
the results obtained with decapitated coleoptiles. These organs, at
the stage they are used in such experiments, grow entirely by cell
enlargement and not by cell division. Light increases the rate of cell
enlargement but the final size is less. The veins or water pipes
running to the tip of the coleoptile, terminate in a pore. When
the shoot becomes gorged with water this pore serves as a safety
valve and frequently a drop of water is seen on the tip of this shoot.
If the water pressure is decreased in the pipe line on one side, growth
on that side is retarded. Light, by its photochemical action on the
proteins and fats, makes the passage of water through the coleoptile
tissue comparatively easy, hence when one side is illuminated the
flow of water through the vein in that region is facilitated, thereby
reducing the turgor or water pressure. This in turn retards growth
on the brighter illuminated side. On the less lighted side growth
is faster. This causes the shoot to bend toward the light. By cut-
ting off the tip, water is freely lost and growth retarded. Now if
half the stub is covered so that the veins in that region are blocked,
bending due to increased rate of growth will occur even in darkness
in such a manner that the blocked veins are on the convex side of
the curved shoot. It seems a likely hypothesis that the mechanics
of phototropism is a light-growth reaction based to a large extent
on the relation of growth to available water and food supply.

There is little doubt but that the wave length, or color of light,
is an important factor to be considered in a study dealing with funda-
mental problems of plant growth. Since it appears that photo-
tropism is a specific case of light-growth reactions, it is believed that
some of the underlying principles relating to the growth of organ-
isms, especially plants, can be worked out from accurately controlled
experiments dealing with phototropic responses of etiolated shoots.
Such shoots are extremely sensitive to light of relatively low in-
tensity and short exposure. Before the wave-length effects of light
can be determined accurately, it is, of course, necessary to eliminate
all intensity effects. This phase of light and growth is one of the
problems being investigated in the laboratories of the Smithsonian
Institution.
260 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

For this purpose a wooden light-proof box, 7 feet 10 inches long
and 12 inches wide, was built. This box was divided into five com-
partments or separate chambers. The two end compartments con-
taining the light sources were approximately 27 inches high, or 5
inches higher than the other three. The central, or plant compart-
ment, was 2 feet 10 inches long. Between the central and the end
chambers were partitioned off two small &mpartments containing
ray filters and the water and air cooling devices. This apparatus,
the plant photometer, is illustrated in Plate 2.

Briefly, the method of carrying out this experiment is to place, for
example, a yellow ray filter in one end of the central or plant cham-
ber and a green one in the other end. The intensities of the lights
coming from the lamps in the end chambers were so adjusted that they
register the same intensity on a delicate thermocouple placed at the
center of the plant compartment. After the proper adjustment had
been made the light measuring apparatus was removed, as illustrated
in the picture, and the seedling of an oat plant placed in the chamber.
The seedling was placed in a vertical position and surrounded by a
rotating double-walled glass cylinder. This cylinder, rotating slowly
around the seedling, insures equal temperature and moisture condi-
tions in the immediate vicinity of the plant. This precaution is
necessary since slight differences of temperature or moisture will
cause unequal growth in the side of the stem and bring about a
curvature.

After the seedling has been properly adjusted between the yellow
and green lights of equal intensity, the box is closed and the plant
permitted to grow from two to four hours. When the plant was
examined in this particular experiment, it had grown toward the
green light somewhat in the manner of the seedling illustrated in
Plate 3. Thus, of the two colors of equal intensity used in this
experiment the green was more effective in retarding growth, as
was evident from the plant’s bending toward that light.

In order to evaluate the effect of one color in terms of another,
other experiments were carried out after changing the relative in-
tensities of the two lights. Intensities were finally reached at which
the plant grew without bending toward either light. The intensities
were then measured, and it was found that the yellow light was
approximately 1,000 times as intense as the green at the balancing
point. The hght passing through the blue ray-filter used in these
preliminary experiments exerted a greater growth-inhibiting influ-
ence than either the yellow or green lights, the factor being 30 when
compared with green or 30,000 when compared with yellow, assuming
a linear intensity effect. We see, therefore, that the effect becomes
much more pronounced as we shorten the wave length. ¢

In order to more completely describe this increase of phototropic
effect with decrease in wave length, that is, in passing from red to
LIGHT AND PLANT GROWTH—BRACKETT AND JOHNSTON 261

yellow, yellow to green, and green to blue, it is desirable to expose
the plant to a narrower wave-length band. If we look at white light
as it is spread out into the spectrum by a prism, we see that the red
changes gradually into yellow, the yellow into green, and green
into blue, and that an indefinite number of different pure colors
actually exists. By using an instrument called a monochrometer, it
is possible to select a more definite shade of yellow or green, and
instead of using just three wide color bands, we could divide the
spectrum into 50 or 100 purer colors or bands, of more restricted
wave-length range. If we plot, then, the intensity of each shade
required to balance the phototropic influence of a given standard
lamp against the wave length, we can obtain a group of 50 or 100
points instead of the three obtained in the preliminary experiment.
The equipment for this more elaborate undertaking is under
construction.

In the general study of the very complicated phenomena of plant
growth, light enters as an important factor in many ways. Supply-
ing, as it does, the necessary energy for the process of converting
carbon dioxide into sugars and starches, its relation to this process,
termed photosynthesis, is one of greatest interest. As the energy
which we derive from our food was originally stored up by this
process of photosynthesis, an understanding of the process is of
the greatest importance to our existence. Experiments are being
undertaken, designed to study the effect of different colors of light
upon plant growth, together with observations as to the amount
of carbon dioxide utilized under rigidly controlled conditions. In
these experiments nutrient solutions instead of soil are used because
of their reproducibility. Lights similar to Neon signs, but yielding
more nearly a single wave length, replace the usual sunlight. It is
hoped that these experiments will throw some light upon the little
understood process of photosynthesis.

Among the difficulties which face the experimenter in studying
these phenomena is the fact that he does not know the construction of
the very complicated molecules which are present in living tissue.
Chemical analysis yields information as to the elements which make
up these complicated molecules, but the usual methods of observation
do not offer enough data for determining the position of the various
atoms, or the forces which hold them together. Study of the light
which such molecules emit or absorb offers a wealth of new data
which may serve as a key to a more complete understanding of those
molecules which are of pivotal importance. In order to understand
how such information can be gained, it may be well to make some
simple comparisons. When we hear a sound we are immediately
able to say that the source of the sound is a bird, a whistle, or a horn,
as the case may be. We do so by associating the characteristic

28095—31——-18
262 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

pitches, frequencies or wave lengths of the sound with the source. In
the same way, the frequencies or wave lengths of light emitted or
absorbed by a molecule are characteristic of the molecule, and are
determined by its construction. To get the most information about
the characteristics of the sound and relate these characteristics to the
construction of the source of the sound, the ear is inadequate, and an
apparatus must be provided for determining just what frequencies or
wave lengths are present. So in the study of light we must have a
machine which will distinguish between the different wave lengths,
or colors, in a more quantitative fashion than the eye is capable of
doing. Such an instrument is known as a spectrometer. Looking
into a spectrometer we see the light spread out into its constituent
colors, the red on the left and the blue on the extreme right, with all
the intermediate wave lengths or colors arranged between them in an
orderly fashion. Unfortunately, the light which gives the most
information in regard to these large complicated molecules is of too
long wave lengths to be seen by the eye. It is necessary, therefore,
to substitute for the eye a very sensitive electrical thermometer. By
turning a single dial successively different wave lengths are caused to
fall upon this sensitive thermometer, which by its change in tempera-
ture, records the amount of each wave length present.

A spectrometer is very similar in its analysis of light to a radio
receiving set in its analysis of the electrical oscillations which it
picks up. As one turns the dial slowly, the instrument responds
first, say, to 200 meters, then to 201, 202, and so on to the other ex-
treme of its range, say, 800 meters. If a station is broadcasting on
a wave length of 304 meters, as one comes to the dial number 302
he begins to hear it. It comes in strongly at 304, and fades out at
306. The range over which it may be picked up on the dial is asso-
ciated with the selectivity of the set. In the same way a spectro-
meter responds to the different wave lengths of hight. If a single
strong wave length is being “ broadcast ” by a mercury arc, and that
wave length is 1p, or one-millionth of a meter, the spectrometer will
pick it up weakly at a dial reading a little less than 1p, show a
maximum response at 1, and as one continues to turn it, gradually
lose it as lp is passed. The range over which it responds depends
upon its selectivity, or resolving power. As a matter of fact, the
mercury arc broadcasts not simply on one wave length, but on sev-
eral, so that as one turns the dial, he picks it up at several different
points. The accompanying illustration, Figure 1, shows the differ-
ent wave lengths of radiation received from a mercury arc. The
widths of the bases of these peaks depend upon the selectivity, while
the heights indicate the intensity or strength of the signal. If the
selectivity were less the bases would be broader, and the signals of
very nearly the same wave length would be confused and not ob-
served as a separate effects, just as in a poor radio one gets several
LIGHT AND PLANT GROWTH—BRACKETT AND JOHNSTON 263

stations coming in at once. The construction of such an infra-red
receiving equipment or spectrometer which will automatically record
the intensities of radiation of different wave lengths upon a moving
photographic plate is a part of the program. One such instrument
to be used in the range of wave lengths between lp and 2.5p or
between 1 and 25 millionths of a meter is already completed and in
operation. Other machines to operate in the region between 2n and
15n are under construction.

00h 110 L20 130

hah p L150 160 /70 /80
Figure 1.—Emission spectrum of the mercury arc

Molecules not only emit frequencies which are characteristic of
them, but also when light is passed through them, absorb through
resonance the same frequencies. Often it is more convenient to study
their absorption than their emission. Thus light may be taken
from an ordinary tungsten Mazda bulb, passed through a liquid,
the structure of whose molecules is to be studied, and analyzed to
see what frequencies have been weakened. The top curve of Figure
2 shows the light from a Mazda bulb passed through 1 cm. of carbon
264 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

tetrachloride. As carbon tetrachloride is practically transparent in
this region, all frequencies of the range are present in considerable
strength. The second curve shows the effect of adding 0.127 grams
of paradichlorbenzene. Here it will be noticed that frequencies in
the region of 1.13» and 1.66 are much weaker, those being the char-
acteristic frequencies absorbed by the paradichlorbenzene. The other
curves show successively greater concentrations of paradichlorbenzene.
Tt will be noticed that the weaker absorption frequencies are more
clearly evident in the greater concentrations. By comparing the
characteristic frequencies absorbed in paradichlorbenzene with other
halogen derivitives of benzene, important information can be gained
in regard to the structure of these interesting molecules. This
type of study will eventually be extended to molecules which are of
importance in the biological processes.

While it is possible, through direct observation of complicated
living organisms, to accumulate a vast amount of valuable informa-

le 12 13 14 1S 16 17 7.8

Ficgurp 2.—Absorption spectrum of paradichlorbenzene

tion, complete understanding of the processes which are involved
is impossible without a knowledge of the structure and characteristics
of the molecules entering into these processes. Most of the molecules,
such as those of chlorophyll, the various proteins, and enzymes, are so
complicated as to render it impossible to gain even the customary
chemical knowledge derived from analysis and synthesis. Real un-
derstanding requires not only this information, but a knowledge of
other physical characteristics which determine the nature of their
chemical reactions and their responses to various wave lengths of
light. The most logical hope of progress in studying these very com-
plicated molecules is to bring to bear those methods which yield the
greatest amount of independent data. The type of investigation
just described is one of the most promising approaches which has
offered itself. Thus these types of research which, at first glance
seem remote from biology, should, in the long run, prove of the
greatest value in gaining a fundamental understanding of these
biological processes which are of such vital importance.
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Brackett and Johnston

MUSTARD SEEDLING GROWN UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF UNILATERAL ILLUM
N THE DIRECTION OF THE LIGHT IS INDICATED BY THE ARROW

NATIC
HLMOYD LNV1Id NO LHDIT AO SYHO1OD LNSYSSSIG AO SLOS449 AAILV1ISY SHLANINSSLAG OL GASN YALAWOLOHd LNV 1d

@ ALV 1d uojsuyof pure a2PeIg— EG] ‘Wodey ueruosy{IUIg
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Brackett and Johnston

AN OAT SEEDLING SHOWING PHOTOTROPIC BENDING AS A RESULT OF DIFFER-
ENCES IN WAVE LENGTHS OF LIGHT ILLUMINATING IT FROM OPPOSITE SIDES

THE AUTOGIRO: ITS CHARACTERISTICS AND
ACCOMPLISHMENTS?

By Haroxtp F. PIrcaArrn
President, Pitcairn-Cierva Autogiro Company of America

[With 9 plates]

To reach a correct understanding of the Autogiro and the prin-
ciples which underlie its performance, I feel that it will first be
necessary to tell something of the man who has invented the most
remarkable aircraft known up to this time.

Senor Juan de la Cierva is a Spanish gentleman of great per-
sonal charm and brilliance. In his own land he is a person of
real consequence. On the technical side, his genius undoubtedly
places him among the world’s foremost mathematicians.

His democratic manner, kindliness, and tirelessness in his work
have brought him the respect of all with whom he has come into
contact, and although he has received some of the highest of the
world’s honors, he is among the plainest of men in his ways. He
is a tremendous worker; the present degree of perfection to which
he has attained in the Autogiro is due, almost in entirety, to his
efforts alone. He had faith in the principle which he first brought
forth, and in the face of many disappointments, due to machines
which refused to leave the ground, he persevered in his efforts until
the Autogiro has finally proven practical and safe.

In his boyhood, Cierva, with two friends of his own age, built
and flew kites and gliders. Progressing further, they built, or
rather rebuilt, a power plane which flew more successfully than
when new. In 1912 a French pilot brought a French biplane to
Madrid for exhibition flights. People then were not as accustomed
to airplanes as they are now, and when this pilot landed the crowd
rushed in upon him, with the result that there was a serious acci-
dent. The machine was completely wrecked, although the pilot
himself was unhurt.

Later, Cierva and his young friends approached the pilot with
the novel offer that they would rebuild the plane if he would test

1 Presented at the stated meeting of the Franklin Institute held Wednesday, Nov. 20,
1929. Reprinted by permission from Journal of the Franklin Institute, vol. 209, No. 5,
May, 1930. 265
266 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

fly it. Thinking it more a joke than anything else, the pilot ac-
cepted. There was practically nothing salvageable about the
machine excepting the motor and the wheels. With these as a basis,
the boys set energetically to work.

The carpentry shop of one of their fathers was open to them and,
doing all the intricate work of fitting bits of wood and stretching
canvas, they turned out a machine which flew decidedly better than
the original. This machine was the first in Spain.

Later on, in 1913, they started to build a racing plane. In this
they had at first the support of their people, who were encouraged
to help them because of their initial success. However, in striving
after speed, the boys gave their monoplane so little surface that it
could scarcely get off the ground. After several minor taxying
accidents in which undercarriages gave way, their parents’ confi-
dence waned and the boys were compelled to give up the project.

All this amateur experimentation had given Cierva the feel of the
air and the conviction that his future career lay in aeronautics.
Upon his return to school at that time, which was about at the be-
ginning of the World War, he elected to take an eight years’ course
covering civil and mechanical engineering, since that was the nearest
approach to an aerodynamic engineering course available. At that
time there were no schools of aerodynamics in Spain. During his
school career he always stood well near the head of his class.

I wish to emphasize that it was Cierva’s thorough grounding in
engineering and mathematics which enabled him to work out in
theory alone the invention of the Autogiro. It was the result of
tireless effort and endless patience, and was achieved along logical,
constructive lines. The invention was not a haphazard one.

Toward the close of the World War, the Spanish government an-
nounced a competition for the design of three types of military
planes. These were pursuit, reconnaisance, and bomber. In a sport-
ing spirit, Cierva entered the design competition for the bomber, and
produced a plane which in many respects was years ahead of its time.
When he designed it, the warring countries still withheld all informa-
tion on design, so that the machine could truly be called his own.
It was a 3-motored tractor biplane, with a wing span of around 100
feet. At that time there were no other 3-engined machines excepting
the Caproni, and that was not of the modern tractor type.

The machine proved entirely successful. Cierva’s test pilot, dis-
tinctly scared by its great size, treated it with great gentleness at
first, but as he found it responsive and maneuverable, his fears dimin-
ished and overconfidence set in, with the result that he flew it in a
way that no big machine could be handled, and while flying near
the ground, stalled and crashed. He was only bruised, but the ma-
chine was demolished.
THE AUTOGIRO—PITCAIRN 267

The accident caused Cierva to review the entire progress of
mechanical flight. He reasoned that if a proven, efficient airplane
could be crashed so easily by a seasoned pilot’s flying it slowly near
the ground, there was something fundamentally wrong with the
airplane. He canvassed the entire field of flight by heavier-than-air
craft in the search for a fundamentally safe flying machine. Finally,
after continuous research in theory and practice, he struck upon the
idea of autogiration.

While there are many forms of autogiration, but one seemed prac-
tical to the great inventor. This was the result of extraordinarily
sound and inspired engineering developed from higher mathematics.
The Autogiro would have been impossible without the preliminary
development of the correct theory.

On his first machine he used two 4-blade rotors. One of these was
placed above the other, with the two rotating in opposite directions.
He had realized that the lift on the blades while traveling with the
flight path would be much greater than while going against it, and
the idea of the two rotors with opposite directional rotation was
calculated to cancel out the tendency to tip over. He found that the
upper rotor turned much the faster, however, and the tendency to
tip over was so strong that no real attempt was made to take it off
the ground. This was Cierva’s only attempt to use two rotors on
the same machine.

His confidence was undiminished, and he set to work on the second
type. It should be mentioned here that, although probably in excess
of 50 or 60 Autogiros have been constructed, there have been only
6 or 8 general types, and that many models were simply slight modi-
fications of their predecessors. The rotor of the second type em-
ployed three rigid cantilever blades. He attempted to compensate
for the difference in lift between the blades while advancing and
while receding by a mechanism which changed the angle of incidencé
of each as it revolved, giving the greater angle on the receding blade.
This mechanism proved cumbersome and substantially ineffective.

On the third general type, which like the others was constructed
around an airplane fuselage, he used five blades, and—it flew. The
tendency to tip over was corrected with ailerons. Although it flew
but a few feet, he told me that no other machine has ever given him
the thrill that he experienced when this proved that an Autogiro
could be flown. The machine of course had many deficiencies, chief
among which was that of the strong gyroscopic force set up by the
rotation of the large rigid rotor. The gyroscopic force was so strong
that the controls of the machine had to be greatly modified.

Encouraged by its flight success, however, he built a model which
embodied one of the main principles essential to a successful Auto-
giro. In this he constructed the spars of the blades with rattan,
268 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

which in itself is quite flexible. This flexibility took the place of the
articulation which was the secret of success in later full-sized
machines. Also, in a small model rough action would be unnoticed,
since there is a very great difference between observing the perform-
ance of a model, and actually being in a machine yourself. This
model flew remarkably well and encouraged him to proceed with
further experiments.

It was the next machine, employing hinged joints at the attach-
ment of the blades to the rotor hub, which proved really successful.
The construction permitted the blades to flap upward and downward
during rotation, so that each vane automatically took the correct
effective angle of incidence at all times. For the first time, the
problem of gyroscopic force, which is a very powerful influence to
work against, was nullified.

Besides the immediate and great improvement in the performance
of the rotor, this articulation solved a number of other besetting
problems. It made autogiration possible at angles of attack where
otherwise the rotation of the rotor would discontinue. In wind
tunnel tests which Cierva conducted in Spain it was found that the
rotor would continue to turn at every angle. This however would
not be so if the blades were rigidly attached to the rotor hub.

Secondary articulation, permitting variation of the position of

the blades with regard to one another along the circle which they
describe, was another important step. This gave smooth action to
the rotor, which before was rough. Further success came with the
addition of the fixed wing, which improves efficiency in the present
state of the art of the Autogiro. Before that time, Cierva had
utilized ailerons on outriggers, as it had been found necessary to
have some type of lateral control, although he had flown the
machines with neither fixed wings nor ailerons,
' Another improvement in efficiency came with the use of the geared
motor. The gears in this case refer only to reduction of propeller
speed since the rotor depends entirely on the action of the air
during flight. A large slow turning propeller gives much greater
efficiency at slow forward speeds than a smaller one turning at
engine speed. The geared propeller therefore increases greatly the
efficiency of the Autogiro since its best angle of climb is at a much
slower forward speed than the airplane.

A step toward making the Autogiro practical is the self-starting
tail invented during the past year by Cierva. This is a boxlike bi-
plane structure by which the slipstream can be diverted upward
while the machine is at rest on the ground, thus bringing the rotor
to the necessary speed for take-off. Befcre the introduction of this
feature, it had been necessary to taxi slowly for some time about the
field until this rotational speed was attained.
THE AUTOGIRO—PITCAIRN 269

The Autogiro presents certain new problems with the undercar-
riage because of its ability to land vertically. Although the vertical
speed of descent in late models has been as low as 12 feet per second,
the condition of landing straight down requires longer travel of the
undercarriage with more shock absorption than in the airplane. A
satisfactory arrangement is an oleo-pneumatic strut of very long
travel combined with the Goodyear air wheel.

The stability of any flying machine is a matter of importance. At
slow speeds and particularly during vertical descent the Autogiro
is inherently and perfectly stable. This is because the center of
gravity is well below the rotor. The center of gravity is also slightly
ahead of the center of support. This provides longitudinal control
during vertical descent and gives the machine a marked tendency to
glide forward when the power is cut-off. This insures directional
control and stability. Very slight forward speed is required for
lateral control and in vertical descent stability is so great that no
control is necessary even in rough weather. In fast forward speed
control and stability are similar to the airplane.

In point of performance, the Autogiro offers some distinctly novel
experiences to the pilot accustomed to fixed-wing craft. There is
something fairly exciting about doing things which he has been
instructed to avoid at peril of accident. Such, for instance, as stop-
ping in the air, descending vertically, or even flying backward.

When stopping or descending vertically the sensation, for an air-
plane pilot, is uncanny to say the least. He has been taught since his
earliest flying days not to lose his flying speed, but in the Autogiro
this results in nothing more than slow vertical descent. And then
if there is some wind and the machine is facing against it, the pilot
will have the outrageous sensation of flying backwards in relation to
the earth.

Slow speed flying at low altitude is a most pleasant diversion, but it
is a sport attended in the airplane with great danger. In the
Autogiro, on the other hand, one can fly low and slowly at will,
observing at leisure the interesting features of the country. On
account of the slow speed he is able to turn to one side or the other
very quickly to avoid objects looming in his path; so in thick weather
he can grope his way along at lower altitude than the airplane and
also, on account of his slow speed, has time to see obstacles before
hitting them. If the engine stops he can get down into very small
spaces,

Improvement in the Autogiro must be in the nature of evolution,
much as it came about in the airplane. To take a good example, our
first Mailwing plane, built about three years ago, had a high speed
of around 125 miles per hour with 225 horsepower. Constant refine-
ment has increased this to 145 miles per hour. With N. A. C. A. cowl-
270 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

ing this has been further increased to 160 miles per hour, yet with
the same horsepower. We expect the Autogiro we have just finished
to do about 120 miles per hour with the 225 horsepower, only 5 miles
less than the first Mailwing, and if we compare this machine with
the first Mailwing it will be readily apparent that there is much
more opportunity for reducing drag in the Autogiro than in the case
of the early Mailwing.

The Autogiro is much more susceptible and sensitive to improve-
ment than is the airplane, and responds in greater degree. For in-
stance, when we recently completed one of the first American ma-
chines, its initial flight test showed a high speed of 87 miles per hour.
When the pilot landed and reported the disappointing 87 miles-per-
hour speed, there were long faces to be seen everywhere.

Senor Cierva held his peace, but when he went to work on his
figures that day he checked up everything and told me that 87 miles
per hour was correct because of the detail arrangements; and that
we would make a few changes in the machine and it would do 105.
After these changes were made the next day, the machine did 105,
much, I believe, to the surprise of the pilots and aeronautical experts
who were present. Later, with other modifications, it definitely is
expected to show around 120.

The Autogiro has many more parameters than the airplane. In
their sum total and in their relationships to each other and to other
combinations, they present an almost infinite variety of viewpoints,
by means of which, through evolution and selection, engineers can
improve the Autogiro. For instance, in the airplane we have wing
area. In the Autogiro we have blade area, disk area, fixed wing
area, and the relation of the various areas. In the airplane we have
aspect ratio, or the relation of wing span to chord. In the Auto-
giro we have solidity, or the relation of blade area to disk area. In
the airplane we have the wing curve, while in the Autogiro we
have the curve of the fixed wing, curve of the rotor blades, and its
constantly changing effective curve, caused by its differing attack
as it rotates. In the airplane, we have angle of incidence. In the
Autogiro, we have the speed with which the air strikes the rotor
blades, which is constantly changing on account of the relation
between forward and rotational speed. Then, of course, there is
the all-important matter of good proportion of the above items.
Small improvements to parasitic drag, power loading, and disk
loading result in relatively large advances in performances.

If an airplane, by streamlining or refining some of its parts,
increases it speed, say, 10 miles per hour, the same degree of
refining will increase the Autogiro’s speed about 15 miles per hour.

Finally, we are very fortunate in that, unlike the airplane, im-
provement to one phase of the Autogiro’s performance helps the
THE AUTOGIRO—PITCAIRN 271

other phases. For instance, modifying the rotor for higher for-
ward speed may be so handled as to decrease rate of vertical descent.

Without the theory worked out and developed by Cierva, all this
would be impossible. Recently he has put this theory into written
form for the use of engineers. He has also developed a series of
graphs with accompanying explanation which will enable the engi-
neer to calculate performance and design Autogiros of various sizes
and types. This theoretical work alone would in itself be a monu-
mental achievement for many a lesser engineer.

So far, as I have said, the Autogiro is the work of one man only.
Think what the Autogiro will be when the same effort is put on it
that has been applied to the airplane. Also, the engineers now con-
centrating upon the Autogiro have many more factors with which
to deal than those who took the airplane in hand, and they have
extensive knowledge of aerodynamics to work with, gained from
wind-tunnel tests and airplane experience.

In conclusion, I may say that the Autogiro is now a practical
machine, and within a reasonable time many will be produced com-
mercially, The Autogiro is free from many of the inherent limita-
tions of the fixed-wing aircraft, and while its performance is even
now superior to the airplane in many respects, all considerations of
performance are subordinated to the one feature which it affords
in large measure; that feature is safety.
; Hie fed ¢ ee
Jf fi ,
Ag es ae oie
Diet fregokan ii tees ae

WENA i 4 4 age fe a
ay sation ohboenh ily. pital turpeatl oe ‘inn

To. asim & ba " aleve Leehite anh BEL: pe
f Hw, iF ie corre 2 ace

hg ae oaths) asian bois: sant a4! iis ’
omigna, teaeal gery aaces #01 deroger? eats a

ws, 4 [no ayaa acto. to iow mL eeonigodas sh! ot bike vial: D) afi yuna"
ght oe Ags ei: ttolie ones sald % xd. [lew ‘erase orld: tnibersti i
(rato ee eee ers bee odd ond Sette: file ld a7 hb videgqia stone as i ig
ghia, <ddias, «eto \aagan renin: ov.adl, eB wt) cogi gaits ,
featiaoahds Ac onbw agin: rssh
Cod aspke ge
a + eal
Tnitt as 03iey fond al
tu wei we base \othidnas
biome A atl licen

: igs
Pushes : with w shcvaad ‘ual ¥ to

poe

DTG NE SLB aT eITe

erciiheak Jecdiss orteanorts

SNOYS TY YO SONIM
OaXI4 LNOHLIM LSYIa LY NMOTY4 “YOLOY G3LVINOILYY ONIADGOEWA ‘EZ6L ‘OYMIDOLNY TWOILOVYd LSAINdVv43

l aLwId UNI —"OEH| “WOEdayy URrUOsYyTUIG
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Pitcairn PLATE 2

THE ‘“‘DEVIL’S DARNING NEEDLE,’’ 1925
Z261 (ANIONS YadIA ASBISSION) OCYISIOLNY OYAY HSIIONS

€ ALV 1d UWI Y— "YEH “Woday UPrmosyytG
8¢6l “ISNNVHD HSIISNA ONISSOND (YOLOW XNA) OYIDOLNY OYAY HSITDNA

y aLlvd usted q—OE6| “Oday ueruosy WG
B39v1FSN4 OYAY ‘HOLOW

(G-T) QNIMTYIHM LHOIYM NYMIVDLId “4 GIOYVH AG BZ6L NI 3ALVT VIHdIAVTIHd OL LHONOYNG ‘VOINAWY NI OYISOLNY 1LSYHI4 SHL

-.

bet “yp . a «
; is ahi scart wae”
> eesti”

G 3aLVW 1d UWI —"OEH| “Oday uwruosyyuag
(AVYVOS YANYVM) OCYISOLNY 3AOV1d-2 IWLNAWIYEdxKyA NVOIMAWY

OF Ay day FEY se
‘ . . wd '

9 ALV1d ule 4G— (Eb | *ywoday URIUOSY FIL
€Z6l (YOrFYW LANSS AS1S0OIS DNOYULSWYY) OYIDOLNY 3OV1d-2 Ill HYVW 61D GYVONVLS HSIISONG

ZL31W1d UWI —"YEH| “UOEday UeruosyyUG
Cd °H S2@z19/F LHDIYM) OYIDOLNY S3OV1d-€ Z-WOd NYIVOLId

8 3ALV1d ule} f—"()EG| ‘Woda uvtuosyqIUICG
Vd ‘SAOHUDSD MOTIIM ‘A13!l4 NYIVOLId LV ‘O61 ‘2-VWOd “SSAISDVLSEO 3y40s3qg ONIGNV')

ESR TT TN en Te Ge aay
u é, man Mt ad ws A pir ft 7

Sh Er As ® UR gs: dik

¥

6 3ALW 1d UIP —"YE6) ‘yuoday upruosy {rc
a

TEN YEARS’ GLIDING AND SOARING IN GERMANY *

By Pror. Dr. WALTER GEORGII
Darmstadt, Germany

[With 16 plates]

We are looking back on 10 years of development and on an un-
broken series of 10 gliding competitions held at the Wasserkuppe
in the Rhoen, since 1920. The organization has not only maintained
its range of activities all these years but has largely extended it, and
in this way has given the best proof of its vitality and purpose. In
the first decade, now completed, successes have been achieved such
as few foresaw, and the cause may be sought in the spirit of close
cooperation with which the sportsman strove to avail himself of
the flying possibilities opened up by the scientist.

This union of sport and science is in the true traditions of German
gliding since its revival in 1920. At Frankfurt in that year, Oskar
Ursinus directed the air-minded members of the younger generation
toward gliding as a substitute for power flight of which they were
perforce deprived; but he had the progress of aeronautical science
at least as much at heart as the interest of the sport. He desired to
direct aeronautical investigation along a new path, and to free it
from the restricted view that progress was bound up with power
flight. Were it possible te develop gliders carrying appreciable
loads, they would serve as prototypes for light airplanes, without
losing sight of more general sporting possibilities. The evolution
of the light sporting airplane from the glider was his technical
objective. His sporting aim was to offer keen youngsters a chance
of flying at no great financial outlay by giving their time freely to
constructing gliders. In the course of their purely sporting activi-
ties they would develop a sound team spirit and would find a stimulus
to technical and scientific work.

On his initiative the first gliding competition at the Wasserkuppe
in the Rhoen was held in August, 1920. In spite of initial difficulties
a new gliding record of 2 minutes 22 seconds, and of 1,830 meters,
was made by W. Klemperer, whose design (pl. 1, fig. 1) first

1 Lecture delivered before the Royal Aeronautical Society, London, on Feb. 19, 19380.
Reprinted by permission of the society.
273
274 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

settled the type of construction suitable for gliders. It was a canti-
lever low-wing monoplane, in which great care was given to keep
down drag with its adverse effect on performance.

In the following year the same principle of keeping down body
drag was more fully applied by G. Madelung to his glider Vampyr,
the design of which has had a lasting influence. The Vampyr type
prevails at the present time, and this is a measure of Madelung’s
contribution to glider design.

Since gliding fiight depends on the use of slowly rising currents
in the air, a practicable glider is chiefly characterized by a small
vertical component of velocity, or sinking speed. A small rate of
descent may be obtained either by reducing the sum of the resistances
or by reducing the wing loading. These two methods have been
appled, and lead to two special types of glider, both of which
find application for special purposes. A large span and good aspect
ratio are favorable to a small (induced) drag, and further reduc-
tion of drag is gained by a closed body, cantilever contruction (no
external bracing) and by dropping the starting carriage.

From the Vampyr, the prototype of German high-performance
gliders, onwards, all these methods of reducing drag have been
carefully studied and carried out, so that further fundamental im-
provements are scarcely to be expected. The following photographs
show the best-known German high-performance gliders from the
Vampyr of 1921 to the Wien of 1929:

Vampyr, Academical Flying Club of Hanover, 1921 (pl. 1, fig. 2) ;
Consul, Academical Flying Club of Darmstadt, 1923 (pl. 2, fig. 2) ;
Miinchen, Academical Flying Club of Munich, 1928 (pl. 3, fig. 1) ;
Wien, R. Kronfeld. Built by A. Lippisch, 1929 (pl. 3, fig. 2.).

On the Wien, Kronfeld carried out his great duration flights,
covering distances up to 150 km.

In designing for low head drag the structural weight is in-
creased to a restricted degree, and the structural methods, illustrated
above, produce medium heavy gliders with a margin of strength for
high performance and for flying in gusty weather. The additional
weight gives the greater air speed required for progress against
strong winds and for passing rapidly through unfavorable belts of
down wind. The glider of low drag and considerable structural
weight is the best all round for long cross-country glides by virtue of
its slow descent and high air speed.

Another method of reducing the sinking speed, by reducing the
wing loading, is widely applied to glider design but quite unsuit-
able for high performance. It produces a very special type with
low air speed, poor gliding angle, light structural weight, and simple
form.
GLIDING IN GERMANY—GEORGII 275

The Djalvar Anamma (“Devil take it”) is of this type and its
main characteristics are: Braced monoplane wings, simple girder,
tail hook, and boat-shaped cockpit below the wings. Plate 3,
Figure 3, shows a standard glider of this type.

It has a good duration performance in light winds but a restricted
range on account of its slow air speed. In the school type the
aerodynamical qualities are sacrificed to more robust construction,
simplified for ease of repair; the cockpit is not covered so that the
pilot may fall clear in a smash, and restricted gliding and soaring
powers are desirable for training purposes. The best known of this
derived type is the Zoegling, shown in Plate 4, Figure 1.

Once the principles of successful soaring were recognized, results
soon followed. In 1922, Hentzen and Martens, both students, car-
ried out the first soaring flights, lasting over an hour, on the Vampyr.
Hentzen’s record flight of 3 hours 10 minutes, attaining an altitude of
350 m., made the activities at the Wasserkuppe world famous.

It elucidated the problem of soaring flight by using the energy in
the air’s motion. In accordance with the laws of motion soaring is
possible in an ascending current of air, and in a horizontal air
current of variable velocity.

When the rate of ascent of the air current equals or exceeds the
rate of descent of the glider, “ static soaring” is possible. When
the horizontal wind is variable, the pilot gains height as the velocity
increases and loses height as the velocity decreases. As the air forces
are proportional to the square of the air speed, it is possible in prin-
ciple to obtain a net gain. If the net rate of gain equals or exceeds
the sinking speed, this “dynamic flight ” becomes possible. It is
quite probable that some dynamic gain was obtained in the earlier
flights, but not by any systematic use of the wind fluctuations.

The extensive efforts made from 1921 to 1923 to connect pulsating
dynamical effects with the performance of man-carrying gliders did
more harm than good to the development and reputation of soaring,
the possibilities of which, apart from any such effects, have been
fully shown by the subsequent years.

To revert to static soaring, local rising currents are produced by
every irregularity of the earth’s surface—knolls, dunes, woods, the
waves of the sea—and may be utilized for soaring flight. The
following photographs show well-known soaring grounds:

The Wasserkuppe in the Rhoen (pl. 5, figs. 1, 2) ; the French soar-
ing grounds at Vauville (pl. 6, fig. 1); and the soaring grounds at
Rossitten on the Kurisch Lagoon (at the mouth of the Memel in
East Prussia) (pl. 4, fig. 2).
276 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

The following table shows a number of duration records:

Wasserkuppe Rossitten
Year SS SS SSS SS SS Year ee
Pilot Duration Pilot Duration
H. m H. ™.
1022 eee aes entzen. 2 ee! Peal (0 Pa 7 ee ST tL) eee 8 24
1QASVE a Lee Tet Kronfteldiw sr - 322s. TPoa NG IO252 2 eet oO 2 ert Obie esr reees 14°47
Ly eee ee ee NWeininger 2 pa | Tes Fx: eae eae IDinorte.-= 2-4 ee 14 43

It is seen that the records at the Wasserkuppe have dropped far
behind those at Rossitten. Such flights are a useful stimulus to
the sport but do not much help further developments of soaring.
For this reason cross-country flights have been preferred at the
Wasserkuppe as eminently serviceable for research work, and by
this means alone new regions of favorable rising winds have been
delimited, and the practice of soaring has been made less dependent
on time and place. The performance has been steadily improved and
a high aeronautical and scientific standard of instruction in the
methods of soaring has been attained. The following table shows
the progress made since 1922:

Cross-Country Soaring Flights

Distance
Year Pilot in kilo- District
| meters
DAE lce sa i Sr IVS beris 7" ete 8 See eee eee 9.5 | Wasserkuppe.
112} a a oe Botseh-&-\ = 3-3 a ould ee 19 Do.
TDG SF TET CERES Nehring s 2. 208s ASEAN PRR ERs 21 Do.
1b ee TE 6 (RE ae 3 2 Ss Ce eee 2 52 Do.
PODS SES co sh ee BCRUIZ ae. 2 RE AAS SERRE TS 62 Rossitten.
DAS See Aes Ee ee oe IN/elcla cee ocean eee LE ADR TATA Oe 72.3 | Odenwald.
LOZGRE ORE eee Ae SE KONTO ne ee ee ae ee ee 100 | Teutoburger Wald.

The technique of cross-country soaring flights is best shown by
plotting the course on a counter map, with barogram readings of
the heights attained, and other information supplied by the pilot.
Plates 8 and 7 show the masterly flights of Nehring and Hirth,
from the starting point round a fixed mark and back. Soaring
flight by Nehring round the Heidelstein on the Darmstadt, August,
1927, is shown in Plate 8, Figure 1; soaring flight by Hirth round
the Schweinsberg on the Lore, July, 1929, is shown in Plate 7,
Figure 1.

In the flight round the Heidelstein, Nehring first soared over the
south slope of the Wasserkuppe until he had gained 150 m. height
above the starting point. He then flew parallel to the ridge and at
right angles to the prevailing wind to Miinzkopf, where he used
the strong upcurrent to reach his maximum height at 260 m., which
was sufficient to reach the Heidelstein and return to the starting
point.
Smithsonian Report, |1930,—Georgii PLATE 1

1. KLEMPERER'S SAILING AIRCRAFT, 1920

2. ‘““VAMPYR’’ GLIDING, 1921
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Georgii PLATE 2

1. TOWED FLIGHT IN DARMSTADT

2. SAILING AIRCRAFT ‘‘CONSUL’’ OF THE DARMSTADT
ACADEMIC FLYING GROUP, 1923
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Georgii PLATE 3

1. SAILING AIRCRAFT ‘‘MUNCHEN'’ OF THE MUNICH
UNIVERSITY FLYING GROUP, 1928

2. SAILING AIRCRAFT ‘‘WIEN,'’ R. KRONFELD'S AIR-
CRAFT, CONSTRUCTED BY A. LIPPISCH, 1929

3. DJALVAR ANAMMA
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Georgii PEATE ‘4

1. INSTRUCTIONAL GLIDER ‘‘ZOEGLING’’ OF THE RHOEN-
ROSSITTEN Co., 1926

2. GLIDING GROUND AT ROSSITTEN FROM THE NEHRUNG
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Georgii PLATE 5

1. SAILING FLIGHT GROUNDS AND FLYING STATION ON THE WASSER-
KUPPE IN THE RHOEN

2. WESTERN DECLIVITY OF THE WASSERKUPPE, RHOEN. MAIN SAILING
FLIGHT DECLIVITY
AddNyMyasSSVM AHL NO LHOITWG GAMOL *2@ ATTMANVA YVAN SGNNOYD LHSITW ONITNIVS HONEY ‘1

<a a

AS
ye
eat

9 ALVW1d 131099 — *()€6| ‘yaodayy ueRIUOSY}IWIG
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Georgii PLATE 7

Hirth auf Segelfiugzeug “Lore” am22729. Schweinsbergflug.

1. SCHWEINSBERG FLIGHT BY HIRTH ON THE SAILING AIRCRAFT ‘“‘LORE,"’
JULY, 1929

2. HEIDELSTEIN FLIGHT BY NEHRING ON THE SAILING AIRCRAFT ‘‘DARM-
STADT.’’ AUGUST, 1927. COURSE OF FLIGHT ACCORDING TO T RIGONOMET-
RICAL MEASUREMENT
PLATE 8

Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Georgii

Wind ay | he
oe

Der Heidelstecn Kug f RY
M estan

der Harms toca t.”

am 17. 8.23 a
Air /,

ae ei crn eee wag : fi ?
nn 5
1) Krewzen od
f j | Merger trent — Hiomaldn iby
V\ ey,

HEIDELSTEIN FLIGHT BY NEHRING ON THE SAILING
AIRCRAFT ‘‘DARMSTADT,’’ AUGUST, 1927. PLAN OF

THE COURSE OF FLIGHT

ile

(- Serfen rtf)

Der, Heidelsresn fiug : der Dacmstadt”

2. HEIDELSTEIN FLIGHT BY NEHRING ON THE SAILING AIRCRAFT
STADT,’’ AUGUST, 1927

Bo cee.
Citebase |

‘*‘DARM-
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Georgii PLATE 9

e
|
Blatt 53

| Urdrehungszet betragt 2 Stunde Y
n| 800m
s} 8
sei tae? stalling pf 53 hh
. j >
ae
; | i
PHN | 7,
|
|
|
LZ
£
‘

Goerz Héhenschreiber __

~~“
,

1
i
Fs

|
a

|
7)
|

1. BAROGRAM OF THE FLIGHT BY NEHRING TO BERKA, AUGUST, 1927

Blatt 53

u
o
=
o
©
=
o
“
S
ry
ee
°
xz
~
c

2. BAROGRAM OF THE FLIGHT BY NEHRING TO BERKA, AUGUST, 1927
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Georgii PEATE 10

Flugweg dar ,Qarmstadt™ am 9.8.2). von dar Wasserkupwe nach Barkha. [Fihrer Nehring]
@ « Segelstellen = --~.- Rugoahn 518km Entfernung

3
M: 4:200000 j

1. VERTICAL SECTION AND PLAN OF THE COURSE OF THE FLIGHT BY
NEHRING TO BERKA. DISTANCE FLOWN 53 KILOMETERS, AUGUST, 1927

2. METEOROGRAM OF THE SURVEY FLIGHT OF APRIL 30, 1928
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Georgii PLATE 11

Aufstieg Ne:4 vorn 12.202
Flugzeug G.M.G.Ia D1331
Fithrer: Nehring. 11°20-11's

* Meteorograph a
. . b

Sinkgeschwindighert

as ao ar ay ao as so

32 oe Be 36 Min “

1. TESTING OF A WIND-BORNE SURVEY FLIGHT OF JULY 12, 1928

cA > a el re oem a a
tH lest tot tse
rere eer td te |
“Bee Nar hs ere

2. TESTING OF A WIND-BORNE SURVEY FLIGHT IN THE FACE OF A
SQUALL ON JUNE 26, 1929
Ber in-Friedena.

BAMBERGWERK

Askoma-Werke A. G.

Smithson

PCE Stund

ian Report, 1930.—Georgii PLATE 12

1. THE HIMMELDANKBERG FLIGHT BY R. KRONFELD

a eee ae nan

+t

Lhs 2000/100

janaaize ict aooree HEE
A pith bi tee RHeae

preree ore eeeae Seeienn

a we Geer ae Bay aS ite ni

EARS

2. SAILING FLIGHT BAROGRAM OF THE AIRPLANE *‘DARMSTADT’’ OF AUGUST 10,

1928
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Georgii PLATE 13

1. THE 150-KILOMETER FLIGHT BY KRONFELD FROM THE
WASSERKUPPE TO BAYREUTH, AUGUST, 1929

a a REDE ES SSL SOS

a ee FS ER oak
"Fert i ct
©

ae ee ee ar rat AL CAE TEIRICIEEE TE 32 22 EE IES

{ SSS a a A 2 BBE
Se aa EScnEEEET RETESET + +--+ 2 sa Me a Ae RA A EL —
a SVSSEReS RASA EC MSGL NEP “an S028 | 4

ie Sanent. de’ |

rt pa a oe oe es
Ehret ee
! i

2. BAROGRAPH CURVE OF THE FLIGHT BY GROENHOFF WITH A PASSENGER
ON JULY 30, 1929
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Georgii PLATE 14

1. MOVEMENT OF THE AIR ON THE ENTRANCE OF COLD MASSES OF AIR INTO
WARMER MASSES, ACCORDING TO W. SCHMIDT

2. THE TAILLESS AIRPLANE ‘‘STORCH’’ AS A SAILING AIRCRAFT
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Georgii PLATE 15

4

ROUTE SAILING FLIGHT BY KRONFELD OF 143 KILOMETERS IN THE FACE OF
A STORM

1, Representation of the face of the storm and the path of flight before it; 2, barogram of the flight;
3, movement of the face of the storm and horizontal path of flight.
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Georgii PLATE 16

1. TAILLESS AIRPLANE ‘‘STORCH’’ WITH 8-HORSE-
POWER D. K. W. ENGINE

2. TAILLESS AIRPLANE ‘‘STORCH’’ AS A MODEL
GLIDING IN GERMANY—GEORGII 277

Hirth’s flight was more difficult and more instructive. He started
from the west slope of the Wasserkuppe, and maintained himself
there until he had gained 400 m. in height, and then carried out
his cross-country flight to the immediate neighborhood of the
Schweinsberg without serious difficulty. On the return flight he
found that he had lost height badly and was 200 m. below the start-
ing point. He was twice forced to turn back and soar over valleys
with upwinds in order to regain sufficient height to regain the west-
ern slope, over which he cruised until he was high enough to land
on the plateau of the Wasserkuppe at the prescribed point.

In this admirable exhibition of the methods of cross-country work,
it is seen that the pilot leaves the original region and seeks new
areas of rising wind, leaving nothing to chance, but laying his course
beforehand, according to the wind prevailing and to the lay of the
land. It is characteristic of such flights that the best course is not
in general the shortest distance, but may involve long detours in
reaching upwind areas, and lengthy soaring over a particular point
in gaining suflicient height. Briefly, the pilot must fly on sound
topographical and meteorological information, if he is to reach his
goal. Cross-country flights will be achieved over wide regions by
flying from slope to slope, from hill to hill, and finally, from range
to range. The satisfaction of skillfully adapting soaring flight to
the configuration of wind currents and landscape is enhanced, if
need be, by the sporting excitement and by the real value to flying.

Nehring’s 1927 flight is another instructive example of cross-
country work in which a whole range was traversed by passing from
hill to hill. There was no straightforward continuous region of
upwinds available. Local areas of rising wind had to be sought
out on slopes facing the general direction of the wind, and wide
belts of downwind lying between them had to be crossed. The
masterly fashion in which Nehring carried out these successive stages
is shown on Plate 8.

A barogram of Nehring’s 53 km. flight to Berka, August, 1927, is
shown in Plate 9, Figures 1, 2, and a plan and height contour of
the same flight in Plate 10, Figure 1.

The ups and downs of the barogram correspond to the up- and
downwind regions which were met. The plan of the course shows
very well the flying tactics adopted in circling over hills which pro-
duced rising winds, long enough to gain extra height for the next
stage of the flight.

Kronfeld’s 100 km. flight in spring, 1929, over the Teutoburger-
wald was achieved by these same tactics, and supports the view that
a sound knowledge of the flow of the wind round hill ranges, hills,
knolls, and dunes enables a soaring pilot, competent in his art, to
achieve remarkable cross-country performances, over hill and dale,

28095—-31——-19
278 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

We can not remain content to restrict soaring to hilly country but
must strive to bring within its scope the regions of the air above
flat lands. The sailing flight of birds, indeed, shows that upwinds
exist over plains, and are probably adaptable to soaring man flight.

Research on soaring was initiated just at the beginning of the
serious crisis of 1924 and 1925. Soaring gliders had not been involved
in the restrictions imposed on power aircraft, but were adversely
affected by the revival of interest in the sporting possibilities left
open to light airplanes, when the worst restrictions were removed.

After the record duration soaring flights of 1922, England,
France, Italy, and Russia had held soaring competitions, but interest
had soon passed back to the light airplane. Even in Germany soar-
ing came to be regarded as a mere makeshift for power gliding. Only
when this erroneous view had been disproved, and soaring shown to
have its own individual scope, did the crisis pass.

The Rhoen Rossitten Gesellschaft was founded in these difficult
times, with the purpose of supporting gliding schools, of holding com-
petitions to give publicity, of improving performance, and of stimu-
lating gliding activities generally. A special research department
was established at the Wasserkuppe for advancing technical and
scientific knowledge of the problems involved, and the management
was placed in the hands of the writer in 1926.

The Rhoen Rossitten Gesellschaft may be regarded as the center
of the gliding movement in Germany and in other countries. Teams
were sent to the meetings in the Crimea at Asiago and at Vauville.
Instructors were sent to the United States on the formation of the
American gliding school at Cape Cod. A French educational com-
mission has received full training, and this has stimulated the sport
in France. Technical advice has been given to Hungary, Holland,
and Belgium. In these ways the society has made its contribution
to the common problem of soaring flight to which in turn all other
nations can contribute their activities. Since 1926, having overcome
the crisis of 1924-25, the practice of soaring and gliding has made
vigorous and continuous progress. Glider schools have been estab-
lished, and standard gliders have been distributed along with work-
ing drawings and instructions for building them. These include the
Zoegling, Priifling, and Professor types. The number of air-minded
youngsters and their interest in gliding have been increased by these
measures, and, above all, research has opened out new possibilities and
has contradicted the prevailing belief that soaring depends entirely
on the use of rising current over hill slopes.

The investigations of rising currents in the free atmosphere car-
ried out in the last few years at Darmstadt and at the Wasserkuppe
have shown that soaring under cumulus clouds and near cold fronts
is practicable, both entirely new conditions.
GLIDING IN GERMANY—GEORGII 279

It has long been known that cumulus clouds are associated with
rising currents of air, but few measurements were available. Re-
search was directed to the determination of these currents in the
spring of 1928 from measurements of the vertical rate of a power
plane gliding beneath a cumulus cloud with its airscrew stopped.
Repeated glides of as long as 10 minutes without loss of height were
obtained.

Plate 10, Figure 2, shows a meteorgram of experimental flight,
April 30, 1928. It is seen that there was no loss of height from
point 7 to point 10 of the barogram, which implies a rising current
of 2 m./see.

Plate 11, Figure 1, shows a reduction of experimental flight meas-
urements in a rising current, July 12, 1928, and the observed descent
of the airplane gliding. From this is subtracted the known sinking
speed in still air, about 1.9 m./sec. The difference measures the
vertical motion of the air.

From time 20 minutes to time 28 minutes there is a rising current
of from 1 m./sec. to 2 m./sec., and from 28 minutes to 30 minutes
of 2 m./sec. to 5 m./sec. These are high values and give excellent
conditions for soaring in gliders, which have sinking speeds as low
as 0.7 m./sec.

Plate 11, Figure 2, shows a reduction of rising current measure-
ments before a line squall, June 26, 1928. A “cold front ” produced
a line squall of moderate intensity, and the airplane, with airscrew
stopped, maintained itself without loss of height for 15 minutes.
From these results it was inferred that a soaring glider starting from
the Wasserkuppe could reach the region of rising currents under a
cumulus cloud or the front of an approaching squall, and this was
successfully accomplished.

Plate 12, Figure 2, shows a barogram of soaring flight by the
Darmstadt, August 10, 1928. The barogram shows clearly the vig-
orous effect of the rising current under a cloud in comparison with
that produced by a hill barrier.

The Darmstadt maintained itself over the west slope of the
Wasserkuppe at 100 meters above the starting point. In 20 minutes,
the boundary of the up-current below an approaching cloud was
reached and the glider was quickly carried up to a height of 400 m.

Plate 12, Figure 1, shows a record of Kronfeld’s flight at the Him-
meldankberg, August, 1928. The plan of the course is shown in full
line under the cloud, in dotted line outside their influence.

Kronfeld started from the western slope of the Wasserkuppe, and
flew at once toward an approaching cumulus cloud, which he fol-
lowed toward the east with continual gain of height, reaching
finally 470 m. above the starting point. The cloud began to dissipate
and the up-current became ineffective, so that Kronfeld left it and
280 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

flew with considerable loss of height to the Himmeldankberg as pre-
arranged, and there soared for some time in the up-currents. On the
approach of another cumulus cloud Kronfeld used it to gain consid-
erable height, and then flying always from cloud to cloud he reached
the Wasserkuppe at his maximum height of 540 m. above the start-
ing point.

These details illustrate the difference between hill and cloud fly-
ing, between flying from hill to hill over a course, which must be
adjusted to the contours of the ground, and flying from cloud to
cloud over hill and plain, when the ground is ignored and the
pilot scans the cloud formations and adjusts his course to their
motion.

Plate 18, Figure 2, shows a barogram of Groenhofi’s flight with
a passenger on the 2-seater Vhoenadler, July 30, 1929.

The next flight shows the extended performance obtained by fly-
ing into the cloud instead of soaring below it. Groenhoff started
from the west slope of the Wasserkuppe and soared over it for a
short time, then flew under a cumulus cloud and rose through it
almost to its summit, reaching a maximum height of 1,250 m. above
the starting point, and covering a course of 33.3 km., both figures
being records for soaring flight with a passenger.

The sinking speed of the glider in still air was 1.1 m./sec., from
which the vigor of the upwinds may be inferred.

Severe vertical gusts were met with in the cloud. At 1,800 m.
the glider was driven down 140 m. in a few seconds and immediately
sitter it was carried up 170m. Two more such gusts followed after.
The reduction gives a down-current of 9 m. /sec., and an up-current
of 10 m./sec.

On the same day and under the same weather conditions Kronfeld
made his great cross-country flight of 150 kilometers. Plate 13,
Figure 1, shows Kronfeld’s soaring flight from the Wasserkuppe
to Bayreuth (150 km.)

Immediately after the start Kronfeld flew under a cumulus cloud
and was carried up continuously to a height 2,150 m. above the
starting point. The up-current given by the measurements was
5m./sec. After leaving the cloud, height was slowly lost in passing
over flat country. In two hours the Threungerwald was reached,
and the flight was continued for 4 hours in the rising currents from
the ridges. Finally a landing was made at the Fichtelgebirge 150
kilometers from the Wasserkuppe.

This masterly flight is a fine example of the art of soaring, and
illustrates the manner of utilizing the various means available. In
particular a record height in this manner was gained in the up-
current of a cumulus cloud formation sufficient to cross flat and
GLIDING IN GERMAN Y—GEORGII 281

hilly country alike, independently of the consideration of the
surface.

The most important result is the ease with which great heights
can be reached in the up-currents of cumulus-cloud formations. The
second part of the flight gives fresh evidence of the value of the
older established method of flying in the up-currents from hills.

A more recent development of cloud flying is the use of up-currents
at the cold air fronts of line squalls, of which measurements with an
engined aeroplane have been referred to. In this type of atmos-
pheric disturbance masses of warm air are pushed up by the inrush
of cold air along the surface of the earth. Plate 14, Figure 1, shows
motion of the air caused by cold air flowing in under warm air
(W. Schmidt). The lines of flow show the local direction of the
wind. In front of the line squall the air rises almost vertically and
offers the best soaring region.

Plate 15, Figures 1, 2, and 3, shows Kronfeld’s flight in front of a
line squall (143 km.), the region of up-currents before the cold front,
the barogram of the flight and the time changes in the line squall
along the course.

Kronfeld started at the moment when the wind was freshening,
just before the passage of the line squall, and by utilizing the rising
currents before the cold front rose 2,000 m. above the starting point.
The middle part of the barogram shows that he then maintained
steady flight.

The meteorological records determine the motion of the storm
accurately, and in conjunction with the pilot’s account lead to the
conclusion that he flew about 2 km. in front of the squall, rising
or falling slightly as he was nearer or farther. After turning away
from the front the glider rapidly lost height and landed 143 km.
from the Wasserkuppe after 414 hours flight.

The knowledge gained as to the configuration of line squalls, leads
to the conclusion that there is no danger if the pilot keeps some
distance before the advancing front.

It appears from recent investigations at the research institute of
the Rhoen-Rossitten Gesellschaft that heights of 4,000 to 4,500 m.
above the starting point may well be attained, in comparison with
the existing record of 2,150, and that the cross-country record of
150 km. may be increased in like proportion,

Plate 6, Figure 2, shows a flight with towed glider at the Wasser-
kuppe. Systematic experiments have been carried out by the society
with gliders towed by power airplanes and released at a sufficient
height to reach regions of up-currents and to continue independent
cloud flying. Plate 2, Figure 1, shows a flight with towed glider at
Darmstadt.
282 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930
THE PROSPECTS FOR SOARING FLIGHT

The performances recorded above show that flying without engine
power, by using the energy of rising currents in the atmosphere,
is already established. We can not, indeed, expect it to meet the
requirements of air transport, but its value as a sport can not be
questioned, and as such is on a high level in its demand for physical
fitness, skill, quick decision, and courage, and in addition a serious
study of the scientific and technical problems involved.

Especially, soaring flight has had a beneficial effect on the design
of light airplanes which now give performances with low engine
power which were only possible formerly with powerful engines.

The soaring glider with an auxiliary engine is unsatisfactory
both as a glider and as a power airplane, and this line of develop-
ment has been given up in Germany except for special research
work.

The research institute of the society has recently established a
new and important system of aerodynamical tests of new aircraft
types. In the first place free flights by large models of three to
four meters span are carried out at small cost. When all that can
be learned from the models has been recorded, gliders of similar
aerodynamical form are built and tested by a pilot in different
flying attitudes. Finally, an engine is fitted and ordinary flying
tests are carried out. In this way the successive steps in the devel-
opment of a new type are carried, with minimum of cost and danger,
to a point where the design of the full-sized airplane offers no
serious uncertainties. ;

The tailless Storch (“ Stork ”) was developed on these lines. Plate
16, Figure 2, shows the Storch in model size; Plate 16, Figure 1,
in glider size; and Plate 14, Figure 2, as a light-power airplane.

Fitted with an 8-horsepower engine it attained a speed of 125
km./hr., and attracted much attention at the Tempelhof Flying
Ground by its speed, maneuvering, and great stability, and gave
impressive evidence in favor of this method of designing. The
question remains whether gliding is a sound basis for piloting a
power airplane. Opinion is divided, but it may be taken that glid-
ing is a sound basis for further training, and soon tests the balance,
touch, and eye. But a pupil who has mastered every branch of
gliding still requires comprehensive further training when he goes
on to power airplane piloting. Of far more importance than the
preliminary training in hand and eye, is the extension of piloting
experience to the special lore of the currents of the air, gathered in
far richer measure during a flight of a hundred kilometers from hill
to hill and from cloud to cloud, than in year-long flying on power
aircraft. Such experiences will give a new generation of flying
GLIDING IN GERMANY—GEORGII 283

men a body of weather wisdom by which they may safely meet and
even turn to useful purpose the atmospheric disturbances so fre-
quently met with in air transport today. Pilots of this school will
imitate the exploits of Kronfeld, and so far from fearing wind and
weather will master them and ride the storm front in their flights
across the land. The true meaning of “air sense” lies in this con-
quest of the variable atmosphere by the soaring pilot. Just as the
master of a great liner must serve an apprenticeship in sailing ships
to learn the secret of sea and wind, so should the air transport pilot
practice soaring flights to gain wider knowledge of air currents, to
avoid their dangers and adapt them to his service.

In confirmation of this view, pilots with soaring experience have
shown their special worth in the difficult Lufthansa service across
the Alps.

It has not been possible within the limits of this paper to describe
more fully the growth of soaring flight, its present activities, its
new problems and its future scope. I would call in aid all civilized
nations, and particularly your own, in advancing its achievements
to a higher level and opening to its activities all regions of the
earth, temperate, and tropical.

May I conclude with the hope that the unusual combination of
scientific and sporting interest will bring you to join us, in friendly
rivalry, in opening the regions of the air to man by means of soaring
flight.
ey, oar e det, ai be

es. ie pittiiae ‘aia
: ave a e Be

oliq drouaiaty

ie ‘= ales aS

ga eitertiey ai 10"

qf ai ie ‘Sit ont fat bye w oe
~e 928 rit & Ni B ifoift Qai CIRGe got
pallets ite ie ae pie bis ow T “ape 3 4 omit ua

Pe "ae

—-Birioa Moulage air bart) iti Pisa aft Oy

th ' i vy ete 4 bY , i Fea tat 'y
> ih ng i a Bs ss iy a7) Hjok Syf ‘a? ‘Salgode’ funn’ Brot
is OMe Dawe? t f tie ta: 8 Libiogans Gra: : Feeble ;
f } 6 c ;
ae itt fails Lent wid a

j iy Ft ots * Hag 5 i
: altho? to atin sit ud ep p} tis a6 . dahun’ dt
#3 bi ay Ce SeReC Rees}

r ‘ ya
‘ we J “ . a Gh
i” Bt) La % ' Ap pEEiees
, 2, *: 4
; ‘ Saye
ere ew! 7 :
Oe
; :
’ = o% ns
y 45 7
tx pa . ¥
‘ cle .
: . ‘ i ‘ ‘
2 i :
. 7
My :
ty
, te 8
fi )
P ! .
‘> ae
ow * io
N a ‘
. rg ;
= 7 » 4
fe i
# A.
45 ’ Sib}
ne : ;
sf *
er ¥ i
AT
Rw
i
wf a Mi ‘ ar’
¥ ‘
: bt
) ‘ \
” , aid)
- y —
ve
>
4 ~
; a &
- f
n 1 e
cs Se
* ,.
. i
A ‘ ag é
pie
THE FIRST RAINS AND THEIR GEOLOGICAL
SIGNIFICANCE '

By Assan HaAppvIna

In studying the sedimentary rocks one has to face problems of the
most varying nature. I have before had occasion to discuss several
of these, especially those related to the formation of conglomerates.
In connection with my investigations on these rocks the following
questions also arose: Which are the oldest sediments on the earth?
Where do they occur? When were they formed? How are they
constituted? As will be seen in the following these questions also
involved others, and especially one of them—When did the first
rains fall on our earth and what was their effect ?—must stimulate
our fancy. I shall here only present a few reflections, to which
these and kindred questions have given occasion.

THE CONGLOMERATES INDICATE OLDER SEDIMENTARY SERIES OF
STRATA

On examination of a conglomerate, pebbles of older sedimentary
rocks are often found. These pebbles are naturally of a particular
interest in cases where they are the only remains of a series of strata
otherwise broken down.

The Lower Cambrian sandstones and the basal conglomerates en-
closed in them are the oldest known undoubtedly marine deposits
in Sweden. They were formed on the shore of the Cambrian sea
during its first transgression. In these conglomerates, however,
pebbles of sedimentary rocks, derived from earlier deposited strata,
also occur. There is no reason for astonishment at the presence
of these pebbles, as from several parts of the country we are aware
of sedimentary series of strata of pre-Cambrian age, which are
formed in continental basins.

On turning to the pre-Cambrian series of strata, we also find in
these only slightly metamorphosed sandstones and shales. But the
rocks in the said series are for the most part more or less meta-
morphic, transformed into quartzites, phyllites, mica-shists, and

ee $0003 Te Bie Set seen a oe ieee bg i a eed A et 0 See et a A
1From a lecture delivered before the K. Fysiogr, Sallsk, at Lund on Mar. 9, 1927.
Reprinted by permission from Geologiska Foreningens i Stockholm Forbandlingar, Janu-

ary—February, 1929.
285
286 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

paragneisses. We can, however, trace these sediments deep down
in the Archaean without any difficulty.

On close examination of a conglomerate in these series of strata
we find as a rule also pebbles derived from still older sediments.
As a natural sequence we ask ourselves: Is it possible to reach the
bottom of the sedimentary formations?

WHEN WERE THE OLDEST SEDIMENTS FORMED?

The sedimentary rocks are mostly deposited in water, and we may
without hesitation say that sedimentary rocks have been formed
as long as water has existed in liquid state on earth,

When we have got so far in our discussion of the problem this
question immediately presents itself: When did water appear in
liquid state on earth? We can give no direct answer to the ques-
tion, but we can make the reflection that, as soon as the temperature
of the atmosphere and of the earth’s surface falls below the boiling
point of water, the atmospheric water begins to condense in the form
of rain or dew. When the first rains fall, a new period of earth’s
history begins. We can infer the conditions of this period by study-
ing the sediments, but we can only comprehend the extent of the
change occurring at the transition to this period when the conditions
on the earth’s surface preceding the condensation of the water are
clearly understood.

THE CONDITION AT THE EARTH’S SURFACE DURING THE
PREAQUATIC PERIOD OF THE EARTH

During the time preceding the first condensation of the atmos-
pheric water, during the period which we may call the preaquatic,
igneous rocks and to a large extent also gneisses and other metamor-
phic rocks were formed in the earth’s crust. Sediments such as we
now find covering the greater part of the earth’s surface did not
exist, but we can not say that clastic rocks were wholly absent.
Loose material was produced as well by the tectonic movements in
the earth’s crust, at this early period no doubt very violent, as by
variations in temperature. The bulk of the loose material on the
surface of the earth, however, consisted undoubtedly of volcanic ash.
This was carried far by the wind. No water basins existed, in which
the ash could get lodged, no water solutions could deposit
a cement binding together the grains. Where juvenile gases did not
effect cementation, the material remained a loose mass.

An ash-covered earth, no traces of water, no traces of life. A hot
surface of earth under a hot atmosphere, rich in water vapor and no
THE FIRST RAINS—HADDING 287

doubt also in ash dust. Volcanic cones and folding mountains of
greater height than the present ones, tablelands (future continental
platforms) and wide depressions (future oceans), equally void and
ash colored. Thus may the earth be pictured before the condensa-
tion of water.

Then the first rains fall.

THE EFFECT OF THE FIRST RAINS

What a wonderful impression is made on us by that which now
takes place! Falling drops hit a ground never touched by water,
a ground so hot that it has not been able to hold any liquid water.
What salts were not to be leached out! How rapidly could not the
rills cut deep grooves in the ash! Never have the rivers been so
full of mud as during this first condensation. Never have depres-
sions been so quickly silted up, never have the oceanic basins had
such a supply of salts, and never has the circulation of water by
condensation and evaporation been greater than in this early period.

However, if we do not allow ourselves to be wholly carried away
by our imagination of this deluge, consideration will teach us that
the progress was not as simple as related above. Certainly the
condensation did not set in in such haste as my words perhaps
implied. It is not even certain that the first condensation took
place around the ash particles in the atmosphere. Perhaps the
earth’s crust did cool more rapidly than the atmosphere, so that
the water was deposited in the form of dew. Perhaps it accumu-
lated below the surface before it appeared on it. Even if the
progress was the last mentioned, the formation of dew and rain
may have occurred almost simultaneously, provided we measure the
time with geological measures. We may expect an answer also
to this question, whether the condensation was longest delayed owing
to the high temperature of the earth or to the strong radiations
of the sun. The problem is intimately connected with the cooling
and shrinkage of the sun on the one hand, and with the growing
thickness and reduced emission of heat of the earth’s crust on the
other hand.

We leave the initial time of condensation and turn instead to the
epoch when the condensation is in progress and has already pro-
ceeded so far that its geological effects have become perfectly dis-
tinct. If it had been possible for us to see the changes effected, we
should probably, apart from the appearance of bodies of water,
have taken most notice of the redeposition of the loose material
which has taken place. Subaquatic sedimentation has begun and
has made a magnificent start.
288 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

How, then, were these oldest subaquatic sediments constituted
and how did they occur?

THE OLDEST SUBAQUATIC SEDIMENTS

The sediments deposited in connection with the first appearance
of the seas were of a peculiar type. The material was entirely
eruptive, mainly volcanic ashes. A sorting of it according to the
size of the grains took place in connection with the transportation
but, the material being for the most part and on large areas very
fine and uniformly grained, this should have led to no more pro-
nounced stratification.

As the material was loose from the beginning, it could immediately
be redeposited without previously being loosened by weathering.
Hence it follows that the oldest sediments to a large extent must
have possessed the same mineralogical and chemical character as
the igneous material (or, to put it more exactly, as the volcanic
ashes) from which they were formed. Thus it was not clays, lime-
stones and sandstones that constituted the first subaquatic series of
strata but pyroclastic rocks more uniform in their character.

The pyroclastic sediments grew rapidly thicker in larger as well
as in smaller basins. In most places the subaquatic sediments rest
on aeolian material, and it is not possible to show any petrographical
difference between these aeolian and subaquatic parts of the series
of strata.

Upon the first, short period, with the formation of exclusively
pyroclastic sediments, a second one follows during which the chem-
ical effects of the water begin to be noticeable in the sediments. The
leaching out of alkali, lime, and iron was, as mentioned, greater than
during any other period in the earth’s history, and probably the de-
position of lime and iron compounds was very abundant, even though
locally limited. A precipitation of for example ferric hydroxide
might then as now take place on a very different scale in different
basins. Differences in accessions, in the circulation of water, in the
evaporative conditions, etc., interrupt the uniformity otherwise char-
acterizing these early periods.

We have hardly occasion in this connection to follow the develop-
ment further. The next step in the subaquatic sedimentation fol-
lowing immediately upon the one just mentioned, is the formation
of sediments abundant in clay and quartz as well as those rich in
lime and iron. We then have such a normal formation of sediments
as may be followed through the geological periods up to our time.

If the first subaquatic sediments have possessed a peculiar charac-
ter and have had a magnificent development, one must ask if some-
thing of them is not to be found in the earth’s crust.
THE FIRST RAINS—HADDING 289
WHERE ARE THE OLDEST SEDIMENTARY ROCKS TO BE FOUND?

As already preliminarily mentioned, the Lower Cambrian con-
glomerates contain pebbles from pre-Cambrian sediments, and the
conglomerates in the Upper Archaean contain pebbles from earlier
deposited sedimentary series of strata. In this way we can immedi-
ately follow the formation of sediments back to the Lower Archaean.

If we look for sedimentary rocks in the Lower Archaean, we must
however understand that they can not appear in their original form.
No part of the earth’s crust has undergone so many and so thor-
oughly metamorphic processes as the oldest one, and in no other part
have the rocks been so mixed with injected igneous matter.

Thus we can only expect to find the oldest sediments in a highly
metamorphic shape and probably strongly broken up by younger
igneous rocks.

In the course of time a great part of these rocks must have been
destroyed by erosion or concealed below younger strata and partly
also pressed down to such a level that they could partake in a mag-
matic circulation. What now lies denuded can therefore only be a
very small part of what once was formed. We turn to the oldest
Archaean regions in search of it.

The two regions to be thought of next are the North American
and Fenno-Scandian. Both are well known by the ardent studies
pursued for many years by a very great number of geologists,
amongst whom we find several of the leading petrographers and
geologists of the present and the past generation. Thanks to the
works of these students we are at the present day very well able to
survey the origin of the Archaean rocks. We shall only turn to the
Swedish region. Is there then any cause to suspect that some of its
rocks belong to the oldest sediments on the earth? My answer will
without hesitation be affirmative, and I am persuaded that every-
body, who knows the Swedish Archaean rocks, and who approves of
the train of thought I have followed above, must answer in the same
manner. And moreover, everybody must come to the same conclu-
sion. The Swedish pyroclastic leptite formation contains the oldest
subaquatic sediments on the earth and the limestones and iron-ores
connected with this formation bear evidence of the first chemical
weathering and differentiation of sediments. We shall discuss the
premises of this conclusion.

No doubt, many will immediately object: “The iron ores in the
Swedish leptite formation are igneous.” Nobody can deny that ore-
minerals occur primarily in the igneous rocks and certainly nobody
can doubt that iron ores also may occur as products of magmatic
differentiation. We have sufficiently good evidence of this in many
quarters. But it does not imply that all ores occurring together with
290 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

igneous rocks are of magmatic origin. Least of all can we proceed
from such a supposition in the case of ores among the Lower
Archaean rocks. On the contrary we must, as I have shown above,
take for granted that sedimentary iron ores not only can but also
ought. to be present in the Lower Archaean. The metamorphism to
which they have been exposed and the admixture of younger igneous
matter, they may exhibit, only make the determination of their
primary character more difficult.

The same holds good to a certain extent of the limestones and other
para rocks. Besides their chemical character, which indicates a
sedimentary differentiation, their occurrence also shows that they
belong to a sedimentary series of strata. We find them above the
oldest gneisses, that contain neither pyroclastic elements nor rocks
formed by sedimentary differentiation (limestones, iron ores, etc.),
but they lie below the Upper Archaean with its abundance of fully
differentiated sediments. Thus they occur just where the oldest
sediments are to be found.

This is not the place to discuss the primary character of the
different gneisses or limestones nor to debate as to which ores may
be considered of magmatic and which of sedimentary origin. The
reason I have dwelt upon these questions has only been to emphasize
the necessity of keeping in sight not only that different possibilities
of interpretation exist but also that there are undoubtedly different
types of rock, igneous and sedimentary, in the leptite formation.
There is often great difficulty in judging their character and it is
increased by the fact that the rocks formed by sedimentary differ-
entiation, especially limestone and iron ore, frequently appear by
subsequent liquefaction in intimate connection with igneous matters.

As already mentioned, the mineralogically and chemically differ-
entiated rocks belong to the second stage in the formation of the
cldest. subaquatic sediments. The first sedimentation by running
and tranquil water consisted of a redeposition of the loose ash-
material. When looking for the oldest subaquatic sediments we
therefore may expect to find, besides the first sedimentarily differ-
entiated ones, also those with the chemical character of the volcanic
ash. These rocks ought, as a matter of fact, to form the greater part
of the oldest sediments, and we may take it for granted that they
originally had the character of tuffs.

Do then traces of these pyroclastic rocks also exist in the Lower
Archaean? Yes, not only traces but large masses. They appear
first in the leptite formation and form the bulk of it. It is fully
manifested that Swedish leptites as well as the hilleflinta are mostly
and often entirely constituted of volcanic ash. It is also known
that these rocks occur almost spontaneously in enormous quantities
in the Lower Archaean and likewise that they are accompanied by
THE FIRST RAINS—HADDING 291

the oldest known strongly differentiated rocks. I find it therefore
logically correct to draw the conclusion from the premises given
in the quoted material that the leptite formation is formed on the first
appearance of liquid water in the earth.

The reasons of the above-mentioned conclusion may be summed
up as follows:

1. Normal subaquatic sediments are found in several places in
the younger part of the Archaean. We can easily follow the sedi-
mentary series of strata in a more or less metamorphic shape down
to the Lower Archaean. In this then we have to look for the oldest
sediments.

2. The Lower Archaean is nowhere easier of access than in Swe-
den. Therefore we may expect to find traces of the oldest sedi-
ments in the Lower Archaean of Sweden.

3. Rocks of sedimentary origin occur in the Swedish leptite
formation, which we consider as the upper part of the Lower
Archaean. These rocks are partly strongly differentiated (above
all limestone and iron ores), partly undifferentiated, of pyroclastic
origin.

4. It has not been possible to show any rocks of sedimentary origin
in the part of the Archaean that is older than the leptite formation.

As to the progress of formation we may add:

5. Before the condensation of the water the earth’s surface was
to a large extent covered with loose volcanic ash, which was bound
only by juvenile gases and lava beds.

6. By the appearance of liquid water the ash was formed into
enormous quantities of tuffs, that soon came to enclose leaching
products also, above all lime and iron compounds. The chemical-
mineralogical differentiation was gradually accomplished by normal
weathering and sedimentation. The pyroclastic rocks then became
less conspicuous and normal sediments dominated.

We may sum up the argument thus: The details are debatable but
only one opinion on the process as a whole and its general results is
possible. From this point of view we must conclude that the leptite
formation contains the oldest sediments of the earth, and that these
were formed in connection with the first condensation of the water.

SOME MORE PROBLEMS

Though I have now discussed the problem of nearest interest to
me I can not forbear to mention a few more that are directly con-
nected with this. One of them concerns the question: How far back
in the earth’s history does the first appearance of the water lie?

We are accustomed to use large figures when stating the age
of rocks belonging to one formation or another. These figures are
292 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

also widely varying according to the estimate of age being made
on the one principle or the other. If the age of the oceans is esti-
mated from their percentage of salts to be 50 to 200 millions of
years or from their accession of sediments 35 to 400 millions, we
still have no satisfactory knowledge of the time of the water’s
first appearance. From the disintegration of the radioactive ele-
ments the age of a great many different rocks has been estimated.
According to such an estimate the age of a rock belonging to the
Lower Archaean but younger than the oldest sediments would
be 1,300 millions of years. It seems probable to me that 1 or 2
milliards of years have passed since the first rains fell on the earth.
I shall, however, abstain from any further discussion of this prob-
lem, as I can not give any new contribution to its solution. I shall
instead draw attention to an attempt to compute the age of the
earth at the time of the crust’s solidification. Herold Jeffreys at
Cambridge published a work in 1924 entitled “ The Earth,” in which
he asserts that the earth’s transition from a gaseous mass to liquid
form must have taken place in less than 5,000 years. After a further
10,000 years or when the earth was less than 15,000 years old, it had,
according to the estimates of Jeffreys, a solid crust of such thick-
ness that the strong radiation of heat was prevented. It may of
course be supposed that a good deal of time had still to pass be-
fore the water began to condense, but the quoted figures are undeni-
ably amazingly small compared to the millions upon millions of years,
by which we compute the age of the following formations.

Another problem of geological interest is the following: Did
the first condensation occur somewhat simultaneously all over the
globe, or did it start in certain places, for example at the poles? In
the latter case an essential part of the enormous percentage of
water in the atmosphere would be discharged in certain regions.
This would no doubt also have left its marks on the sedimentation.
If the inclination of the earth’s axis toward the plane of the ecliptic
was not too small, the condensation was no doubt begun at the poles
and in the winter half year. At any rate this ought to have been
the case, if the condensation was longest prevented by the radia-
tion of the sun and not by the heat of the earth. However, I shall
also desist from further discussion of this problem and the possible
significance of the distribution of the leptites for its interpretation.

Then one more problem, the last one: With the condensation of the
water the development of the organic cells is made possible. We may,
without running the risk of being refuted, say that no living organisms
existed on the earth before the first rains fell. Water accumulated
gradually in large and smaller depressions. It was hot or warm
water and, in several basins at least, rather strongly saline (or ac-
THE FIRST RAINS—HADDING 293

count of the strong leaching of the volcanic ash and the strong evap-
oration). ‘Thus the conditions for the origin of life, i. e., for an or-
ganic cell’s formation and growth, were favorable. It also appears
most natural to me to imagine life begun at this time. If an organic
cell could be formed in the one pool, it could also be formed in the
other, and we then come to the conclusion that the origin of organic
life on the earth may be derived from several protoplasms. To ex-
plain the appearance of life on the earth by accession of germs from
other heavenly bodies is only to push the problem away. It then re-
mains to explain its appearance in the place from where it first
comes. We have no occasion to suppose the conditions on other plan-
ets to have been more favorable for the formation of a cell than
those on our earth.

SUMMARY

A survey of the problems connected with the first condensation of
water on the earth gives us an idea of the significance of this process.
The problems are astronomical, geophysical and geochemical, geolog-
ical, and biological. The size and temperature of the sun as well as
the thickness of the earth’s crust and the radiation of heat through it
were decisive of the temperature in the atmosphere of the earth. The
quantity of water and probably also that of dust in the atmosphere
were decisive of the temperature of condensation.

The nature of the atmosphere, the movements in it, the possibili-
ties of local (polar) condensation, the formation of dew and rain are
other paleo-meteorological problems of great interest.

The conditions of the earth’s surface before the condensation, the
direct influences of the condensation on the superficial layers, the
size and progress of the erosion, the nature and development of the
sediments, the nature of the first marine basins, the variations of the
salinity in different basins and in the oceans on the point of forma-
tion are circumstances that may possibly become objects of investi-
gations and computations.

The division of land and sea also becomes an actual question by
the appearance of water.

The chemical weathering and leaching out of soluble salts begins
first after the condensation of water. The chemical sorting of the
inaterial takes place simultaneously as well as the cementation by
the precipitation of substances dissolved in water. All the rocks
formed by sedimentary differentiation belong to the period after the
condensation.

Finally I draw attention to the biological significance of the con-
densation. This and this only made it possible for the organic cells
to develop and continue to live on the earth.

28095—31——20
294 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

The first rains, or perhaps more correctly the first condensation of
the atmospheric water, are of perfectly revolutionizing significance,
geologically, geochemically, and biologically. There would be rea-
sons to call the preaquatic time the primeval of the earth and the
time between the first condensation of water and the more general
appearance of determinable forms of animals the prehistoric time
of the earth and, finally, to refer the remaining younger parts to the
historic time of the earth. At any rate, the significance of the first
condensation of the water is not overestimated by this, that the time
of its appearance is made the boundary between two of the greatest
periods in the earth’s history of evolution.

As I already preliminarily stated, I only present a few reflections
here. I have hinted at the problems, and if I, with regard to the
geological ones, have also dared to make some suggestions as to their
solution, I have made them, fully conscious of the fact that the prob-
lems are still equally fresh and alluring and in many points quite
unsolved.
WEATHER AND GLACIATION !
By CuHester A. REEDS

INTRODUCTION

Weather as it affects glaciation is a subject which has been under
observation during the past century. Remnants of the last glacia-
tion still exist in Greenland, Antarctica, and on some of the islands
of the polar regions and in the high mountain fastnesses of the
temperate and tropical zones. Weather conditions are modifying
these ice masses; in fact, the variability of the weather causes
glaciers to grow at certain times and wane during other periods.
The changes that are going on to-day are apparently similar to
those that took place during past ages.

There is a distinction between weather and climate. Climate is
the average of normal conditions of the atmosphere, while weather
constitutes the variations from the normal. Weather changes are
of a day-to-day occurrence. When averaged for the year and for
longer periods, they yield differences which make the weather of
one year vary from that of another, as well as for groups of years.

During the last decade a few meteorologists have correlated
weather changes with variations in solar radiation. This correlation
has been specially emphasized by H. H. Clayton in his volume,
World Weather, 1923. The correlation of changes in glaciation
with solar radiation variations has been mentioned by various scien-
tists, but it has not been discussed in the light of recent develop-
ments. In this paper special application of these changes to glacial
deposits at Haverstraw, N. Y., and New Haven, Conn., will be made.

THE CONDITIONING OF ICE SHEETS AND GLACIERS

There are two opposing factors which modify ice masses—namely,
nourishment and depletion. Nourishment consists primarily of snow-
fall, hoar frost, rime, glaze, sleet, and needles, or spiculae, sometimes
referred to as “ frost snow ” or “ polar snow.” According to Antevs
(1929), depletion occurs through melting, evaporation, discharge of
bergs, etc. Melting, which is the most important agent, takes place
through high temperature, insolation, and to a minor degree from

1 Address before section E of the American Association for the Advancement of
Science, Dec. 27, 1928. Reprinted by permission from the Bulletin of the Geological
Society of Anrerica, vol. 40, pp. 597-630, Dec. 31, 1929,

295
296 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

rain, air, wind, and water. Glaciers advance after heavy winter
precipitations followed by low summer temperatures and cloudiness.
They retreat following slight winter snowfalls, high summer tem-
peratures, and clear sky.

It has been said that the cause of the principal variations in the
present size and condition of glaciers in Alaska is due to variations
in altitude, in latitude, in precipitation, and in direction of slope
(Tarr and Martin, 1914). Fluctuations in Alpine glaciers have been
traced back to about 1600 A. D.; in Norwegian glaciers, to about
1700 A. D. Yearly measurements were begun on the Rhone Glacier
in 1874 and on other glaciers in various parts of the world since
1894. Weather changes are not immediately recorded at the termi-
nal end of an ice mass, since glaciers vary as to size of the névé field,
depth of the catchment basin, width of the fern field, length of the
ice tongue, etc. For example, small glaciers in the Alps began to
advance in 1909 and 1910; medium-sized glaciers in 1912 and 1918,
while long valley glaciers, such as the Aletsch, did not advance until
1920, when it moved forward 120 feet, and a greater amount in 1921.
The variability of the weather thus causes glaciers to advance or
retreat, but not all at the same time; for, being of different sizes,
their respective masses, as well as other factors, tend to govern their
movements.

SOME PROPERTIES OF ICE

Under the influence of heat, ice behaves as most solids do, con-
tracting when cooled, expanding when heated. As regards the evap-
oration of ice, it was shown by Barnes and Vipond in 1909 that it
goes directly into vapor without passing through a preliminary
liquid phase. The melting point of ice is lowered by increase of
pressure. The rate at which this occurs is 0.0075° C. for every
atmosphere of pressure. This fact was theoretically predicted by
James Thomson in 1849 and demonstrated by Sir W. Thomson (Lord
Kelvin) in 1850.

Although there is no rise of temperature accompanying the melt-
ing of ice, a definite quantity of heat is absorbed—namely, about 80
calories per gram, or 78.818 thermal units. The same amount of
heat is evolved when water becomes ice—that is, the amount of heat
required to convert ice into water, or vice versa, would raise the same
amount of water through 80° C. This is the latent heat of fusion
of ice or the latent heat of water. Because of this fact, ice is the
most difficult of all solids to melt, as regards the amount of heat
energy required to be put into it in order to effect fusion, and water
the most difficult liquid to freeze of all substances, owing to the
relatively large amount of the latent heat needed. It is fourteen
times as great as for lead and twenty-eight times as great as for
mercury.
WEATHER AND GLACIATION—REEDS 297

The temperature at which water reaches its maximum density is
89.2° F. (3.945° C.), according to the researches of Joule and Play-
fair. When cooled below this temperature water expands instead
of contracting, and the expansion goes on to the total extent of
rotor of its bulk, until freezing occurs, at 32° F. (0° C.), when
there is a sudden expansive leap of nearly a tenth of the whole
volume of the water as it freezes to form ice.

The X-ray study of ice crystals by Sir William Bragg (1925)
shows that ice contains an open hexagonal lattice structure consisting
of four molecules of water. This lattice structure reveals why ice
can be melted under pressure and how it is possible for water (with
the molecules closely compressed) to occupy less space than ice. It
also accounts for the sudden and relatively enormous expansion
which occurs when water freezes. On becoming ice, the water has
increased in bulk by 9 per cent, and this increase occurs instanta-
neously and with enormous, well-nigh irresistible, force. It also
explains why ice is lighter than water and why ice floats on lakes,
rivers, and the open sea with about one-tenth of its volume above
water level.

The fresh water of lakes continues to contract with increasing cold.
The surface waters, being colder, and thus heavier, sink, and the
warmer waters from the bottom rise to the surface. The convection
currents thus set up continue until all of the water in the lakes has
been reduced to the maximum density of water, after which the
circulation stops, for the surface waters, when cooled to lower
temperatures, remain on top and grow steadily colder until they
suddenly freeze at 32° F. (0° C.).

SOLAR RADIATION VARIATIONS

The sun’s rays supply nearly all of the heat of the earth’s surface.
They affect not only the weather, but also insolation and tempera-
ture, two of the agencies conditioning ice masses; hence a brief
consideration of solar radiation is important in discussing weather
and glaciation.

In 1837 Pouillet invented the pyrheliometer, with which he en-
deavored to measure the heat of the sun. Violle, Crova, Chowlson,
and the Angstréms followed him and increased the knowledge of
the subject. Langley invented the bolometer for studying the selec-
tive absorption and the scattering of light in the atmosphere. With
this instrument he measured, during 1902, 1903, and 1904, the solar
radiation, corrected for atmospheric influence, and announced that
the intensity of solar radiation is subject to irregular variations due
to conditions in the sun itself.

More recently Dr. C. G. Abbot, Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution, has improved the instruments and methods of Langley
298 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

and determined the mean of the “solar constant ” to be 1.938 calo-
ries per minute per square centimeter. Solar radiation is subject
to variations which, although slight, are important. The value of
the “solar constant” at a given time may differ from the mean.
The highest monthly mean for the years 1918 to 1929 was 1.969 for
September, 1921; the lowest, 1.912 for July, 1922, giving a range of
0.057, or 2.9 per cent. The highest yearly mean for the same period
was 1.952 for 1921, and
the lowest 1.927 for 1922,
or a range of 1.3 per cent,
according to solar con-
stant values supplied by
Doctor Abbot in a per-
sonal communication of
November, 1929.

The “solar constant”
variations for the period
1905 to 1929, inclusive,
have been arranged in the
form of a graph, Figure
1, by entering the yearly
mean fluctuations on the
ordinates and the years
on the abscissa. This is
the same method and grid
used in Figures 2 to 13
for the varved clays. The
value, 1.900, is equivalent

to the base line. The
VSOLAR CONSTANT VARIATIONS original drawing has been

reduced one-half during
FicurRH 1.—Graphs of solar constant and sun-spot : :
variations 1905 to 1929 publication,
Curves smoothed by taking the mean of successive According to Wolfer’s
four (solid line) and eight (dotted line) years, sun-spot numbers there
appear above each graph. In the solar-constant 5 ;
graph the vertical lines have been dotted where Was & Maximum of spots
the data were incomplete for the year. (Data in February 1907 a min-
from Dr. C. G. Abbot, November, 1929.) ; ; j .
imum in May-June, 1913;
a maximum in August, 1917, a minimum in August, 1923, and a maxi-
mum in July, 1928. These figures, when compared with the solar
radiation values, as noted in Figure 1, show a relation between them
in the 1l-year cycle. Abbot (1929) states that the solar radiation
rises to a maximum with medium sun-spot numbers and declines
thereafter as sun-spot numbers increase. Furthermore, superposed
on the sun-spot influence variation there appears to be three pulses
of regular periods of about 25, 15, and 11 months respectively, and

1910 1915 1920 1925
SUN-SPOT VARIATIONS (Half values)

8

WEATHER AND GLACIATION—REEDS 299

of amplitudes which are large enough, when combined in similar
phase, to nearly overpower the maximum sun-spot effect on the
solar-constant values.

The 1905 to 1929 monthly averages of sun spots show little appar-
ent relation with that of solar radiation. The yearly means, how-
ever, 1905-1929, exhibit a more evident comparison. A closer resem-
blance between the two is secured when the 3 to 4 year oscillations in
solar radiation, which are not appreciable in sun spots, are smoothed
by means of four, and further smoothed by taking the means of each
consecutive two means, Figure 1, as was done by Clayton (1923).

According to Abbot (1926), the intensity of solar radiation is ex-
pected to increase when sun spots are numerous. However, when an
individual sun spot crosses the central part of the sun a depression
in solar radiation is usually noticeable, which is attributed to a sort
of cloudiness over each sun-spot group. The resulting depressing
effect may exceed one of increased radiation. Thus it may be said
that there is a real relation, though not a very close one, between
sun spots and solar radiation.

EFFECTS OF ATMOSPHERIC OPACITY

The radiation from the sun which reaches the earth is considerably
reduced by the opacity of the earth’s atmosphere. According to
H. N. Russell (1926), only about 70 per cent of the initial solar radi-
ation gets through to sea level when the sun is at the zenith and the
air is free from dust and clouds. The opacity increases as the sun
approaches the horizon, due to the greater distance the rays have to
travel through the atmosphere and the loss of the shorter rays by
diffraction. The only satisfactory way of dealing with these varia-
tions is to measure with the spectrobolometer the energy received
when the sun is at various altitudes. Each different wave length
has to be measured separately to determine the depletion for each
and the various amounts summed up to find the total solar radiation
outside the atmosphere. The process is definite, but laborious.

Normal opacity of the air may be much increased by the presence
of four by-products, which may be regarded as factors that affect
solar radiation—namely, water vapor, carbon dioxide, ozone, and
dust. Water vapor has the most thermostatic influence. In tropical
regions, where the humidity is high, nearly half of the sun’s heat is
absorbed by a cloudless sky. A cloud surface may reflect more than
70 per cent of the sun’s rays and absorb a large part of the remain-
der, while a canopy of dense clouds may permit only a small part of
the sun’s radiant energy to reach the earth. Since carbon dioxide
and ozone are present in the air in very small quantities, their influ-
ence is subordinate to that of water vapor. Ozone probably absorbs
300 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

some of the solar radiation, since laboratory experiments tend to
show that it does.

Dust in the air causes a decrease of the solar radiation reaching
the earth. When dust is blown to heights of 10 to 50 miles by vol-
canic eruptions—that is, into the isothermal region or stratosphere—
the direct solar radiation at high sun may be reduced as much as
20 per cent, as was noted following the Katmai eruption of June 6,
1912. Not all great volcanic eruptions decrease the surface tem-
peratures of the earth, but only those that drive a lot of dust into the
isothermal region of the atmosphere. Volcanic eruptions during his-
toric times and their influence on solar radiation and the weather
have been traced. Such eruptions may have accounted for many of
the great changes in the weather that the earth has experienced.
W. J. Humphreys has accepted this view and formed his vulcanism
theory of glaciation.

Humphreys (1920) considers the average size of the volcanic dust
particles in the stratosphere to be 1.85 microns. He calculates that
it would require about one year for such particles to fall from an ele-
vation of 35 km. to the lower limit of the stratosphere, which has an
elevation above sea level of 17 km. in tropical latitudes, 11 km. in
middle latitudes, and 6 km. in polar regions. He considers the finest
volcanic dust, which may have reached an altitude of 40 to 80 km.
following the eruption of Krakatoa in 1883 and Katmai in 1912, and
which encircled the earth a number of times, to have taken two and
one-half to three years to reach the base of the stratosphere, or upper
cloud level. He estimates that the total quantity of volcanic dust
required to cut down the intensity of the direct solar radiation by
20 per cent to be only the 174th part of a cubic kilometer, or the 727th
part of a cubic mile, assuming that the particles are spherical. Since
the particles are more or less flat, it is probable that not more than
the 1,500th part of a cubic mile, or the 350th part of a cubic kilo-
meter, is needed to reduce the intensity of direct solar radiation 20
per cent. This amount, if indefinitely continued, he concludes, would
be capable of producing an ice age.

With the particles all being 1.85 microns in size, he calculates that
the volcanic dust is some thirtyfold more effective in shutting out
solar radiation than it is in keeping terrestrial radiation in. This is
because radiation, both solar and terrestrial, is simply scattered by
such small particles and scattered in proportion to the inverse fourth
power of the wave length. Since the ratio of solar wave length to
terrestrial wave length is, roughly, 1 to 25, and the ratio to their
fourth powers as 1 to 39 x 10*, it follows that the interception of
outgoing radiation by the very finest, and therefore most persistent,
dust is wholly negligible in comparison with its interception of 1 in-
coming solar radiation.
WEATHER AND GLACIATION—REEDS 301

SOLAR RADIATION AND THE WEATHER

Since 1915 H. H. Clayton, retired, formerly chief forecaster for
Argentina, has been using the averages of groups of high, medium,
and low solar radiation values of the Astrophysical Observatory of
the Smithsonian Institution in attempting to correlate them with at-
mospheric changes on the earth. He has compared these means with
the means of temperature and pressure variations scattered over the
earth and attained results which show systematic changes which
seem difficult to explain on any other grounds than a real relation.

The more usual solar fluctuations are irregular and occupy a few
days or weeks. Clayton (1923) obtained the best comparisons of
day-to-day fluctuations by averaging the values of each phenomenon
in groups of 5, 10, or more days, after allowing, in some instances, an
interval of 3 days for a lag in the effect. He noted a tendency to
short-period variations in 3.5, 7, and 13.5 days, which he attributed
to successive outbreaks of faculae on the solar surface. Traces of
similar tendencies in the weather were also observed.

Clayton also noted solar radiation values of similar kind at inter-
vals of about 11 and 16 days, which he correlated with the movement
of heated gases from one side of the sun to the other. These heated
gases are associated with solar faculae. He observed similar varia-
tions in temperature at Buenos Aires in 1921.

In addition to the day-to-day variations, Clayton has averaged
those for monthly, yearly, and longer periods and established an
intimate relation between them and those of the weather. He ob-
serves that the complexity of the weather changes arise from com-
plexities of solar radiation in which changes of short period are
mixed with progressively longer waves of change going up into years
and centuries.

Clayton has shown that with an increase of solar radiation the tem-
perature rises and the pressure falls in equatorial regions and is
immediately followed by a rise of pressure and a fall of temperatures
in temperate regions, reaching a maximum between latitudes 40° and
60° north and south. Over the oceans, in still higher latitudes, 60°
to 70°, the relation is again direct, as in the tropics—that is, the tem-
perature rises and the pressure falls with increase in solar radiation.
From the region of maximum rise of pressure, a wave of returning
pressure starts toward the Equator with a velocity inversely pro-
portional to the length of the solar cycle and drifts eastward with
the eastward drift of the atmosphere, dying out in low latitudes.
This effect is true, whether the increase in solar radiation be for
a few days, for months, for years, or for longer periods. With the
solar radiation below normal, the effects for the different regions for
the same time of year are the reverse of those when there is an equiv-
alent excess of solar radiation.
302 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

As noted by Clayton, the monthly means of solar radiation and
those of temperature and pressure show that with an increase in in-
tensity of solar radiation the maxima of pressure form over the
coldest parts of the temperate zones, which are the continents in
winter and the oceans in summer. The more intense the radiation,
the farther north and south are these maxima of pressure formed.
The abnormal distributions of temperature and precipitation are in-
timately related to the distribution of pressure. Thus the centers
of action move north and south of their mean position with the vary-
ing intensities of solar radiation. There is a lag in the solar effect
near the centers of action proportional to the duration of the solar
change. In general the lag is about one-twelfth of the length of the
interval from maximum to maximum or minimum to minimum.
The lag may vary from a few hours to a year, depending on the
duration of the effect.

The year-to-year variations in solar radiation are shown by Clay-
ton to be connected with year-to-year variations in rainfall and river
heights in North America, South America, and Australia. He also
observes that the solar measurements clearly indicate the existence
of a 3 to 4 year change in solar radiation, which is reflected in a
3 to 4 year change in pressure, rainfall, etc. This he attributes to
a variability in the intensity and amount of faculae on the surface
of the sun.

Clayton’s studies of the effect of maximum and minimum sun-spot
periods on the weather show that the pressure is lower at the time
of maximum sun spots in the equatorial zone, especially in the humid
regions, at all times of the year. The differences of pressure are,
however, much less than in the case of the monthly means. Koppen
has shown that the mean temperature of the surface air over the
globe was lower at sun-spot maximum than at sun-spot minimum.
Although much has been written concerning the effect of sun spots
on the weather, investigators agree that weather conditions are far
more variable than sun-spot numbers.

RECORDS OF WEATHER CHANGES EXTENDING OVER MANY YEARS

Weather changes extending over long periods of time are reflected
in the annual growth rings of trees (Douglass, 1909, 1914, 1919, 1928,
1929; Huntington, 1914). Harris (1926), in considering the correla-
tion between sun-spot numbers and tree growth, concludes that the
coeflicients indicate a low positive correlation between them, but the
relationship is by no means so intimate as many writers imply.

The best-preserved records of weather affecting glaciation are
found in the aqueo-glacial deposits of Pleistocene age, which pre-
serve seasonal, annual, and longer period variations. The deposits
are commonly known as laminated or varved glacial clays.
WEATHER AND GLACIATION—REEDS 303

These laminated glacial clays, which record the annual retreat
and ablation of the last continental ice sheet, have been studied,
during the last 20 years, in North America, Sweden, Finland, Ice-
land, Argentina, and the northwestern Himalaya Mountains of
India. While the primary object of the investigation has been
the establishment of a geochronological time scale, with the varve
or year as the unit of measurement, a study of the variations in
thickness preserved in the seasonal and annual layers is of special
interest, since it involves weather changes which affected the melting
of the ice during its retreat.

The material composing the varved clays was brought directly
from the melting ice by subglacial streams and deposited in fresh
or slightly brackish water lying in front of the receding ice mass.
The mud was brought into the lake during the annual melting
period—that is, the summer months. The quantity delivered was
in all probability proportional to the quantity of ice that under-
went melting. It apparently was not directly influenced by the
nourishment of the ice as was the retreat of the ice front. Thick
varves thus signify a long period of warm summer weather; thin
varves imply short summers, with cold and foggy weather. ‘The
varve graphs which have been published, showing summer and
winter thicknesses, record fairly accurately the yearly variations of
the amount of summer temperature. f

The lamination of the clay sediments postulates a strict peri-
odicity, not only in the melting of the ice and the deposition of the
“summer” layer, but a pause of several months, during which
time the supply of sediment is interrupted and the fine clay particles,
which remain suspended in the fresh-water lakes following the
summer influx, have had suflicient time to settle to the bottom and
form the dark “winter” layer, consisting of pure clay. No phe-
nomena other than seasonal variation—that is, the alternation of
summer and winter—meets this postulate. Varved clay sediments
produced by this seasonal variation are being deposited now in Lake
Louise, Alberta, Canada (Johnston, 1922).

In addition to the seasonal variation, there is an annual or varve
variation in which changes in thickness occur from year to year.
The thickness of the varves usually varies in different basins from
a few millimeters to 3 or 4 cm., sometimes more. For instance,
the varves in the Hudson River Basin at Haverstraw, N. Y., average
35 mm. (1.88 inches) in thickness, while those in the Quinnipiac
Basin, near New Haven, Conn., average 23.24 mm. (0.92 of an inch).
The relative differences as well as other structural features, how-
ever, remain constant over wide regions as well as over widely
scattered occurrences. Thus it is possible to identify and correlate
the varves in separate sections.
304 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

With samples of the material in hand the correlation is often
effected by a comparison of the variations in thickness, color, or
peculiar lamination of successive varves or groups of varves. The
seasonal and yearly variations are also noticeable when measuring
the thickness of the sediments in the field on strips of paper. Their
relative values, however, are made more apparent when plotted
graphically, according to a method initiated by Gerard de Geer, of
Sweden, in 1906. The diagram consists of a horizontal base line
from which arise a number of vertical lines spaced one-half centi-
meter apart. These equally spaced lines on the abscissa are numbered
to represent the varves or years. The thickness of the successive
varves from the bottom upward are entered as ordinates from left
to right on the successive vertical lines and the tops united with one
another to make them stand out more effectively. A comparison of
such diagrams representing different sections brings out whether they
are common varves and how they are related to one another.
(Fig. 2.)

Varved clays are extensively represented in the Pleistocene epoch
(De Geer, 1910, 1912, 1921, 1926, 1927a, 19276; Antevs, 1922, 1925,
1928; Norin, 1927; Reeds, 1926, 1927; Sauramo, 1923, 1929; Sayles,
1919). They are also represented in glaciations older than the
Pleistocene (Antevs, 1925; Reeds, 1923; Sayles, 1914; Schuchert,
1914; Siissmilch and David, 1919).

FLUCTUATIONS IN HAVERSTRAW AND NEW HAVEN VARVED CLAYS

In order to investigate the possible relation between varved clays,
glaciation, and weather, the laminated clays at Haverstraw, N. Y.,
and New Haven, Conn., have been measured, correlated, and specially
diagramed. The Haverstraw clays extend along the west bank of
the Hudson River from a mile south to 2 miles north of the town and
reach inland one-half mile from the river front. These clays vary
in thickness from 50 feet in a 60-foot terrace facing the Hudson
River in west Haverstraw to more than 100 feet in the low plain
bordering the river bank. The New Haven clays occur in the low-
lying Quinnipiac River Valley, in the eastern portion of the city.

The varves in the Haverstraw clays were measured, correlated, and
diagramed by Chester A. Reeds and Ernest Antevs, working inde-
pendently. ‘The Reeds diagram of 736 varves was shown and accom-
panied by abstracts at the Cleveland, 1927, meeting of the Geological
Society of America, while Antevs’ Haverstraw curve appeared in
March, 1928, in his book, The Last Glaciation, published by the
American Geographical Society, Research Series No. 17, as graphs
marked New Haven Al, B1, Plate I; A2, B2, A3, B38, A4, Plate IT.
The New Haven varved clays, which Antevs correlates with Haver-
REEDS 305

WEATHER AND GLACIATION

“OAR GospnAy

ent JO upe[dpoog aq} OUT Snp usaeq <avq S}Id Jaeq}0 ey) ¢ yan 99110} JOOJ-O9 V Ul Ivodde s}id uLsouUNd pue AoyOaqusOF OU,

"qdBis yore 7° aseq oy} 1keUu aul] Uaxoag 94} Aq pavoIpUl sB ‘inoj Jo sdnoads Ul S}JuUOUIAINSLvAW BAIVA aq} Sarsvaaaw Aq podolaaap
ueeq sty Ssydeas aay oy} JO YOUVE BAOge Sujavedde aaind peqjoows ayy, ‘“Surpeys yowlq Aq po}Bopuy SrsAvl JojJUIA JO sseuyo GL

‘XN ‘AMviI}sI9AB_, 3B Si{d-AvpO ojRvIVdes OAY UL BuyliNddN0 SaAIBA OY JO UO]}LIeIIOD Speay “Y “‘O—Z TUNA

022 092 os? Ovz

“< VA aT) aan AT pA pn S\ fi’ Th Cabgeae Seageeeys

ph PAN path WA lew WV

NEV Wt

LI <a PTT vinta! bar peas WH \ie0 PH TLL MN | Hg

pet LA age AAAI IN

i MY WY TON TI

ann ipa +4 \ a Phat AM TNA TAY li ,

WWW AN, WAL AWAY
ie ii A

ATS
NM VA

ge PL TN ANN MO
NaN VE aN per tS

306 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

straw, also appear diagramed and described in his report as graphs
labeled New Haven, C2, C3, Plate II.

In Figure 2 appears an example of the correlation which Reeds
has made of the varves occurring in five separate clay pits at Haver-
straw, N. Y. Seventy varves, with field numbers +20 to +90, serial
numbers 231-801, appear on this diagram. The thickness of the
“summer” and “ winter” layers in each varve has been differen-
tiated, the “ winter” band being represented by a black shading,
the “summer ” layer by the ruled vertical line extending from the
base line upward to the beginning of the winter layer in each sec-
tion. Five such graphs, one for each pit, appear on the diagram.
As the curves closely simulate one another in their oscillations, the
correlation may be said to be firmly established. The thickness of
the varves in each graph has been averaged and the mean for each
determined, as follows: Hornbecker pit, 14.8 mm.; Dunnegan pit,
15.1 mm.; Washburn-Fowler pit, 23.9 mm.; Morrisey pit, 26.0
mm.; Renn and Archer pits, 27.4 mm. This variation in thickness
of the deposits is attributed primarily to their location and elevation,
during the deposition of the clay. The Hornbecker and Dunnegan
pits, which are a quarter of a mile apart in west Haverstraw, have
been cut into the 60-foot escarpment, which is one-half mile distant
from the Hudson River. The Washburn-Fowler pit, a quarter of a
mile long, stretches lengthwise from near the floor of the Dunnegan
pit eastward on the flood plain of the Hudson River. The Morrisey
and Renn-Archer pits are deep ones, appearing south of Jones Point,
near the Hudson River front, in Haverstraw. They are fully a mile
southeast of the Hornbecker, Dunnegan, and Washburn-Fowler pits,
in West Haverstraw. The Haverstraw deposits, when contrasted
with those in West Haverstraw, show not only a greater average
thickness, but particularly so for the corresponding winter layers.
These variations are due, no doubt, to a greater depth of water and
volume of sediments over the Jones Point area in Haverstraw, al-
though farther from the ice front, than the terrace banks in West
Haverstraw, which were fartheest removed from the main channel of
the glacio-fluvial river, the Hudson. With a greater depth of water
and a larger volume of sediments in the main channel than near the
margins of the lake, it is not surprising that during the winter
months more clay particles settled down through the cold milky
waters to form the thicker “ winter ” layer at Jones Point than that
on the sites of the Hornbecker and Dunnegan pits. Each of the five
curves has been smoothed by taking the average of each four succes-
sive varves. The smoothed curves have been entered as single-line
graphs above the other curves by using the mean of each section as
a base line. A comparison of these smoothed curves shows a close
agreement in all of the pits. These smoothed graphs represent a
307

WEATHER AND GLACIATION—REEDS

‘qdvid youve aaoqe paoutd useq savy Spaay Aq S9AIND payjoomg ‘aAIND spaay ul Suypeys yrep <q
pajueseidar JABT JoJUTA JO SsauRoyT, “payover you asvq ‘A[Juapuadopuy SuryI0M ‘sAd]uy "| pus spssy “y “oO Aq PoufMsj9p sy
S40ID “A ‘N ‘AVIJSIOAVAY 9} Ul SAAIBVA BSIMOT 9} JO ,, S9AIND [VMION,— FE ANAT

eInarn oc

INWALZ

UAL)

—

\/
;
-VAN MvaLedaady

”

” Qg ” “ -———
SaAJOA 4 JO UDayy —
ONIVIT
ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

308

‘SUIGISBIP SUIMOT[OT
ay} puB STIy? UL Sspesy AQ SUBOT PUe SaAIND PayqjoOoUIg ‘A[JUepUIdapUT SUIYIOM ‘SAdJUY ‘| PUB Spsasy “y ‘OD Aq PoulUAs}ep SY
‘K (N ‘MUIJSIOAVTT 3B COT-GE SeAIVA JO SOAIND [VULION—'F GUNdI,7

SIAAVA 001

HV PA a) ve Wf VIAL AA Aw

spooy -B yy muaLowaniy

rT
al CA At ai

SAAIDA + jo Daly a
ONI9F7
309

WEATHER AND GLACIATION—REEDS

‘[Quepusdepuy ZuyyIOM ‘saojUYy ‘GM puBw Spoay “VY “DO 4q pausasajep SV
os 18 C)T—CG SOAIVA JO SaAIND [vaION—'e annoy

Ov! o¢l o2i ol
WAAL IN lin Ti

PORUeIMDUTL

om

TTT oll

o9!

NAY

Aa

SOAJDA 4 jo UDaW ——
ON3937

28095—31——21
ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

310

“A[j}Uepuedspul SuryioM ‘sAojUY “WY pus spsey “y “DO Aq PeutTmMAIIJep SY
‘Uu0D ‘UdABAY MON PUB “X ‘N ‘MVIISIOAVHA 3B CFZ—-CLT SATIVA JO S9AIND [VPMION—'9 GUND

SOALVA O¥2 022 oz 092 o6t ogt
Saas eae Wa AA

pet To AW HE Uh ALAA

Peay
Pre lnrow WO Vee l: ies A

-----< 2 7 7. — —

Liaplecclgiy FATT Ske PTT <umpa

(|) AAA EAA

=TAN MvaLszanyyy

AVM wy
AVANT

\V/ WM EZ SZ UOaly

[pon mee
4

CONADAT

REEDS 311

WEATHER AND GLACIATION

‘A[juepuadapuy ZuyyIOM ‘saojuy “W
‘an0D ‘UaABAR MON puB “X ‘'N ‘MVIJSIOABH 3B

SBIAUVA OC

Ny

Te

a “VW\Y VY 3 ra V

of oe ee

- “ oo al =
SIAIDA4 Jo UDajy ——

ONIDI7

PE AAAI

pus spesdy ‘y “9 Aq PaulmMusjep sy
CT§—-Chs SOAIBA JO SAAIND [RULION—') THMNDIY

O12 092

~ osz
HH A ALLA Gas TAL ST aan

AA

SA

"NHOD ‘NANYLY ail § LY A | aid

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

312

“A]QUepuedepur Suryi0M ‘sAojJuy ‘| Pu spssy “y “DO Aq PoeuluMIe}JOp SV
‘uu0D ‘UaABH] MON Pu “X ‘N ‘MRIJSIOABH 3B EQE—-CTE S9AIVA Jo S9AIND [PUION—'S GANDIy
G2N410A OV o1e ove

o2ze
MAT om | | A ae aes "

AAW »

\
spay -] Ah MyULsaanvy

CITT jour | | UALS SHAUL ee TT Loft pl

NANA eS a

\ WME CE UDOW
| iaeat Reet, Aas HWA aguas BS

in pr

AY Vv

SOAIDA b jo
ONI9I7
313

WEATHER AND GLACIATION—REEDS

‘A[juepusdepul SuyysoM ‘sAojuy “| PuB spssy ‘Wy “DO 4q PeutMIs}Jep Sy
“au0D ‘UaAT_, AON pus “XX ‘Nh ‘ABIISIBABH 3B CCF—-CRFE SOAIVA JO S9AINO [VPMION—'G Gung
SIAAVA OSE Oty Olt

Ott 00%
Sagcue maT AUTH Thar rT

Van Aa" ayy

Vasa AAU

eth Tecar an tas

et TLL aa TTI] LL
RONAN HTL AL
Hoa ae
g-

SeAIDA + jo uDay —
QN39971
ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

314

‘A[JUeptodepul SuryIOM ‘saojuYy “W PpuB Spsdy “y “DO Aq PouluIejJEp sy
‘udop ‘udAvT] MON pus “XK ‘N ‘MBIISIOABA 3B GZG-GGF SeAIvA JO SaAIND [VMJON—'OL mun

00¢ “06r iil

Va. iL NY v0

ols

\wAKYA Th TTL iil NTT ip TOO

Awa

SOAION 3 jo uvaw —

INU

SINALA O2S

| | for Wal

yall

Rae ATUL

Cam 3
TAA TTT
pera rin

pu TALL] FPA AY

ca ep Ls

jit
ae

315

WEATHER AND GLACIATION—REEDS

‘<[juopusdepuy Suyyi0M ‘sAojuy “Gq PUB spss “Y ‘Oo fq PouTMIEJOP BY
‘UU0D ‘HAABAY MAN puv “X ‘N “MUBIJSIOAIVET 3B CEQ-—GZg BaAIVA JO SAAIND [VUION—TI Gano”

oe¢c ol¢ oo¢ _ oss ous oce
a ERE pEaaC” TTT Nr AA Uti THA

NS AL

M i ie yw W

| A ea
in

5a iS WALL Th Inlet | il

C9AAdDA O69

PAN IOUITINA

NA UPR ira

SOAIDA $ Jo UDay —
ONJ937

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

316

“A[WUopusdaput ZuryIOM ‘sAojJUW ‘| Pur spss “WY ‘OD Aq PouTmMI9I0p SY
‘K ‘N ‘MBIJSIOABHA 3B GOQ—-—CEG SeAIBA JO SaAIND [BUIION—ZIL Gund

VAM Ncw vit h,

th [| TT iii MH

SBAIDA g jo UbaW oe
ON3937

REEDS 317

WEATHER AND GLACIATION

‘[Quspuvdepuy ZuyyxIOM ‘sAgjUY ‘Gq pPuBe spes2ey “Vy “DO Aq pouluJejep sy
‘K ‘N ‘ABIISIOABH 3B LE)—C9Q S9AIvVA JO SOAIND [VUAON—ST Gundry

wat Wc aww

b AS gS2c3e8 seeeeecoe | Le ai Bece Rape ia
: i) He atl

00L 069

HTT SA

\ / Wa

~ Do - a

SOAIDA 4 jo uDapy —
ONIVI7
318 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

suggested correlation with the more prominent short-cycle varia-
tions of weather and solar radiation as noted by Clayton (1923).

To form a “ normal curve ” for the entire series of varved clays at
Haverstraw, the five partial sections shown on Figure 2 and those
from other similar sheets were averaged and drawn as one curve to
form the Reeds graph represented in the lower portion of Figures 3
to 18. The Reeds curve is characterized by dark shading for the
winter layers. The Antevs Haverstraw curve, consisting of 732
varves, occupies the middle position, while the curve of the New
Haven sediments, representing 343 varves, is placed at the top. The
varves as represented in the three curves correlate closely. Each of
these curves represents the mean of the varve measurements taken
in different clay pits. They are thus “normal curves.” Antevs’
curves have been developed from measurements taken in the field
usually from three to five sections, while the data for Reeds’ curve
have been taken from field samples preserved in metal trays. The
normal number of parallel sections used by Reeds was 5, but in some
portions of his curve as many as 14 sections were averaged.

When the Haverstraw and New Haven varved clay graphs are
compared they agree closely in contour. The mean, however, of the
Reeds Haverstraw curve shows an average thickness of 35 mm., the
Antevs Haverstraw curve 32.31 mm., and the Antevs New Haven
curve 23.24 mm. These graphs show, furthermore, a variation in
the thickness of sediments in groups of 3, 4, or 5 years, with occasional
larger and smaller groups. This group arrangement suggests a
correlation with the weather and solar radiation changes as noted by
Clayton (1923). Accordingly, the mean of each four consecutive
varves, in each curve, has been taken and set above the normal curve
by using the mean of each curve as a base line—that is, the 35 mm.
line in the Reeds curve. The consecutive groups of four varves,
which were averaged in this manner, have been joined by a horizontal
line near the base of each graph. The Reeds Haverstraw curve has
been further smoothed by taking the mean of each two consecutive .
groups of four varves—that is, 8 varves, as indicated on the charts;
also of every 11 varves. According to Clayton, the 8 or 11 year
curves give some idea as to what the sun-spot curve for this 736-year
period might have been like.

These smoothed curves show not only the more prominent group
fluctuations in the deposition of the clay, but also those minor stages
in the melting of the retreating ice fields. When the curve is above
the mean, it indicates a period of more active melting and deposition
and the reverse conditions when it is below.

In Figure 14 the smoothed curve, derived from Reeds’ normal
curve by taking the mean of each successive group of four varves,
319

WEATHER AND GLACIATION—REEDS

‘spe0y “VO
fq ‘poonpas SajAvsp [BUpSlIO ‘sioJaMIT[]m CF Sf SEAIBA OEY JO Sats 91]} U9 aq} 1OJ UVaM oY, *IvdB Ja}0NIT}U90 B JO J[BY-au0 SSuq
-ovds [80]}10A UO pade}ue SBA ‘N ‘MUI}SJOAL]] 1B SPAIBA INO] JO dno1is aalssedons YORE JO Uva By} SJUOSeIdeI BAIND Poq}OOUIS s{qy

@AIND peyjooms B JO MBIseIG— FI wang

Ob
320 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

has been arranged on the graph spacing used in Figures 2 to 138.
This arrangement permits the entire smoothed curve of 736 varves
to be placed on one sheet. The annual varves do not appear. It
also affords an opportunity to see at a glance the more prominent
major fluctuations and periodicities in the melting of the ice. Regu-
lar cycles are not apparent. The first prominent warm period was
for the years 52-68. This was followed by a comparatively cold
period to the 112th year, but it was not as cold as during the next
192 years, terminating with varve 300. For eight years, 300-308,
the melting of the ice almost reached the normal between cold and
warm temperatures. From 308 to 332 the curve moves gradually
downward, indicating a 24-year period when the successive summers
were progressively colder. Then, during the next 204 years, there
follows a series of short cycles of warm and cold periods of vary-
ing length, which were for the most part below normal, terminating
with 528 years. Then, curiously enough, the last 208 years, 528 to
736, were cyclic in form, but predominantly warm—that is, above
the normal or mean line. When an opportunity has arisen to check
varves 52 to 68 and 700 to 716 with varves from other localities,
then we shall know whether these abnormal fluctuations were caused
by excessively warm periods or were accentuated by local causes.

PERIODICITIES IN VARVE CLAY GRAPHS AND TELECONNECTIONS

Periodicities in varve graphs have been noted by W. Koppen
(1928), C. E. P. Brooks (1928), and E. Antevs (1929). K6ppen
recognized periods of 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8 years in North American
varves, with the period of 2,3, 4, and 5 years being frequent. Brooks
has analyzed the teleconnections of De Geer between Sweden, North
America, Argentina, and India. In Argentina he notes cycles of
5.1, 10.4, and 51 years in a curve secured by Doctor Caldenius at
Lago Corintos, which was described and figured by De Geer (1927).
The period of 10.4 years noted by- Brooks approaches the 11-year
sun-spot curve in length, but not in rhythm. In fact, Brooks com-
ments on the almost entire absence of an 11-year periodicity in the
varved clays. Antevs states that while stadial moraines indicate
the periodical retreat of the ice edge and are especially suited for
long-range periodic phenomena, the clays enable us to determine
the exact length and character of the periods. The varve graphs
are best suited for the study of short cycles. He regards the al-
most complete absence of the 11-year cycle in the curves studied
by Brooks as being perhaps the most important result so far obtained
from the analyses of varve curves.

Brooks (1928), in discussing De Geer’s (1926) teleconnections
between Zealand (Denmark) and the Little Ferry, N. J., clays of
the Hackensack Valley, which were described and diagramed by
WEATHER AND GLACIATION—REEDS 321

Reeds (1926), calls attention to two correlation coefficients, one of
+35, which suggests that the teleconnections appear to be undenia-
ble; the other of +24, which shows that nearly half the apparent
connections are due to a 2-year periodicity common to both. Brooks
makes further comments, but it does not seem desirable to feature
them, since De Geer’s correlations, in this instance are premature and
misleading. Reeds informed De Geer of this fact in August, 1927.

On Plate II (1) De Geer attempts to correlate: (1) The Swedish
curve, years 5540 to 5629, with portions of Reeds’ Hackensack curve
and Anteys’ Connecticut Valley curve; (2) through years 5629 to
5684 he arranges the Hackensack and Connecticut Valley curves
in juxtaposition; (3) for years 5666 to 5892 he places Hackensack
varves opposite Scanian (southern Swedish) varves; (4) for years
5736 to 5869 he diagrams varves from Dutchess Junction, N. Y.,
opposite those from Hackensack and Scania.

The objections to the aforementioned teleconnections are as
follows:

A. The agreement between the various graphs is apparently not
close enough to suggest a correlation.

B. The direction of ice retreat from the terminal moraine on
Staten Island and Long Island was northward up the Hackensack,
Hudson, Connecticut, and smaller river valleys. As the ice border,
which extended in a general east-west direction, retreated northward
at a rate somewhat less than 100 feet per year, clays were de-
posited in marginal glacial lakes in the separate river basins. The
Hackensack Valley clays at Little Ferry, N. J., are the southernmost
exposures and consequently the oldest known in eastern North
America. Twenty-five miles to the north of Little Ferry, and in
direct line of retreat of the ice, is Haverstraw, N. Y., with the oldest
clays appearing in the Hudson River Basin. The Hackensack and
Hudson River Basins, although parallel for nearly 50 miles, are
separated by the Palisade Ridge and Verdriderger Hook. Fifteen
miles to the north of Haverstraw, in direct line of retreat of the ice
and on the north side of the Highlands of the Hudson, is Dutchess
Junction, N. Y.

C. Antevs (1928) has definitely correlated the Haverstraw clays
with those in the Quinnipiac River Basin at New Haven, Conn.
Likewise, he correlates the Dutchess Junction clays with Hartford,
Conn., clays. The 2,500 varves in the Hackensack clays, being older
than the Haverstraw clays, are not considered in the correlations
which Antevs has established between Connecticut localities and the
Hudson River Valley.

D. The geographical position of the localities in New Jersey, New
York, and Connecticut with reference to ice retreat and deposition,
as well as the correlations which Anteys has established in eastern
322 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

North America, render De Geer’s correlation of Hackensack clays
with Dutchess Junction and Connecticut Valley clays as premature
and misleading. It will be necessary for Brooks to revise his coeffi-
cients of correlation again when the teleconnections between Sweden
and eastern North America have been established.

SUGGESTED CORRELATION OF SOLAR RADIATION, WEATHER, AND
VARVED CLAY VARIATIONS

It has been stated that the character of the weather during the
melting period of the ice varied from year to year, and that these
fluctuations are reflected in the varying thickness of the annual de-
posits (Bruckner, 1921; Osborn and Reeds, 1922; Sauramo, 1929).
After calling attention to wide range correlations or teleconnections
between Sweden, North America, Argentina, and northwestern
Himalayas, in which more than 80 per cent of the varves are said
to agree, De Geer (1927) states:

This remarkable coincidence of such rapid variations at such considerable
distances, caused by simultaneous ice melting, seems not to be explicable in any
other way than by variations in the amount of heat from the sun.

De Geer (1926) states that the rate of melting depends almost en-
tirely on the intensity of solar radiation. In those temperate regions
which were glaciated during the Pleistocene epoch he considers that
practically all of the solar radiation was spent in melting the ac-
cumulated snow and ice, while now, after the yearly snow and ice
is melted, the balance is available for warming the ground. During
the retreat of the ice he notes that the changes in solar radiation
correspond fairly well with the changing amount of melting water.
Since this water found its way to the ice edge, he considers that the
amount of reassorted morainic material eroded and carried away
by the subglacial rivers varied very nearly at the same rate as the
amount of melting water. Furthermore, by getting accurate meas-
urements of the annual amount of the finest and most regularly de-
posited sediment from such waters (varved clays), he considers it
would be about the same as getting readings from a gigantic natural
self-registering thermograph. Brooks (1928) suggests solarigraph
for thermograph.

A comparison of Figure 1 with Figures 2 to 13 shows that the
solar radiation variations, when plotted in the same manner, are
not different in kind from those of the varved clays. In fact, it is
surprising how close the solar fluctuations simulate those of the
varved clays. No direct comparison can be made between them,
since the years represented in Figures 1 and 2 to 13 are not con-
temporaneous. The close agreement in the form of the graphs,
however, leads one to offer a tentative correlation of the annual solar
radiation variations with those of the varved clays. Clayton has
WEATHER AND GLACIATION—REEDS 323

shown that there is a real relation between solar radiation varia-
tions and weather changes; and, since weather affects the condition-
ing of glaciers and is reflected in the varve graphs shown herewith,

equal area projection.

Asia and mountains in Europe and

Lambert's

Fieure 15.—Northern Hemisphere

North America and northern Europe: Areas glaciated during the last glaciation.
America: Areas glaciated at one time or another during the Pleistocene.

(After Antevs.)

a suggested correlation of solar radiation weather and varved clay
variations is here proposed.

CONCLUSION

It may be stated that weather, as distinguished from climate,
affects the conditions of ice masses daily, seasonally, annually, and
324 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

in groups of years of varying length. Glaciers are conditioned by
opposing factors, nourishment, and depletion. These, in turn, are
governed by changes in the weather and in the amount of solar
heat. The intensity of solar radiation reaching the earth is affected
by the amount of water vapor, carbon dioxide, ozone, and dust in
the air; also by irregular variations in the sun itself. The varia-
tions in the sun fluctuate slightly about a mean of 1.938 calories
per minute per square centimeter. Although these solar variations
are moderate, they are important, for a real relation between them
and weather changes, as well as glacial conditions on the earth, is
strongly suggested. The records preserved in living and fossil
trees and varved glacial clays show not only seasonal and annual
variations, but also fluctuations for irregular groups of years, which
seem difficult to explain on any other grounds than a real relation
between them and the changes in weather and solar radiation.

The graphs of solar constant and varved clay variations appear-
ing in this paper show that they are not unlike; in fact, they bear
close resemblances. Short cycles, averaging four years in length,
are prominent, as shown by the smoothed curves. Longer periods
as noted in Figure 14 are not wanting.

A special study of Haverstraw and New Haven varved clays of
the last glaciation (fig. 15) shows that their fluctuations in thickness
were due not to local causes, but to primary factors embracing a strict
periodicity in the melting of the ice, summer by summer. The fact
that these fluctuations vary from year to year, and for short as well
as for long irregular cycles, shows that these variations were gov-
erned by changes in the weather and solar radiation extending over
a period of more than seven and one-third centuries.

BIBLIOGRAPHY

C. G. Apspot (1911): The Sun. D. Appleton & Co., pp. xxv, 448.

(1918) : On periodicity in solar variation. Smithsonian Miscellaneous

Collections, Vol. 69, No. 6, publ. 2499, p. 8.

(1926) : Measuring the sun’s heat and forecasting the weather. The

National Geographic Magazine, Vol. XLIX, pp. 111-126.

(1929): Solar radiation and solar eycles. Reports of the conferences
on cycles, Carnegie Institution, pp. 14, 46.

Ernst ANTEVS (1922): The recession of the last ice sheet in New England.
American Geographical Society, Research Series No. 11, pp. iii, 142.

(1925) : Retreat of the last ice sheet in eastern Canada. Geological

Survey of Canada, Memoir 146, pp. 1-142.

(1928): The last glaciation. American Geographical Society, Research

Series No. 17, pp. x, 292.

(1929) : Cycles in glacial and postglacial deposits and cycles in varia-

tions of glaciers and ice sheets and in ice melting. Reports of the con-

ferences on cycles, Carnegie Institution, pp. 9-10, 52-55.

WEATHER AND GLACIATION—REEDS 325

Sm Wii1iAM Brace (1925): Concerning the nature of things. Harper & Bros.
New York and London.

C. EB. P. Brooks (1928): The problem of the varves. Quarterly Journal, Royal
Meteorological Society, Vol. 54, pp. 64-70.

E. Brickner (1921): Geochronologische Untersuchungen tiber die Danen der
postglazialzeit in Schweden, in Finnland und in Nordamerika. Zeitschrift
fiir Gletscherkunde, Band XII, Heft 1-2, July, pp. 39-57.

H. H. Crayron (1923): World weather. The MacMillan Co., New York,
pp. xx, 398.

(1927) : World weather records. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections,
Vol. 79, pp. 1199.

T. W. E. Davin (1919): See Siissmilch, C, A., and David, T. W. E.

Essa Hur pe Geer (1928): Late glacial clay varves in Iceland measured by
H. Wadell, dated and connected with the Swedish time scale. Geographi-
eal Annals, Stockholm, Heft 3, pp. 204-214.

GeRARD DE Geer (1910): A thermographical record of the late Quartenary
climate. In Die Veriinderungen des Klimas seit den maximum der letzten
Hiszeit ; Eine Sammlung von Berichten . . . des XI Internatl. Geologenkon
gn., Stockholm, pp. 303-310.

1912: A geochronology of the last twelve thousand years. Compte

Rendu Congrés Géol. Internatl. XI A Stockholm, 1910 (Stockholm), fase.

1, pp. 241-253.

(1921) : Correlation of late glacial clay varves in North America with the

Swedish time scale. Geol. Féren. Foérhandl., Stockholm, Vol. 43, pp. 70-73.

(1926) : On the solar curve as dating the Ice Age, the New York moraine,

and Niagara Falls through the Swedish time scale. Geographical Annals.

Stockholm, Vol. 8, pp. 253-284.

(1927a): Late glacial clay varves in Argentina measured by Dr. Carl

Caldenius dated and connected with the solar curve through the Swedish

time scale. Geographical Annals, Stockholm, Vol. 9, pp. 1-8.

(1927b) : Geochronology as based on solar radiation. Science, Vol.
LXVI, No. 1715, pp. 458-460.

A. E. Dovetass (1909): Weather cycles in the growth of big trees. Monthly
Weather Review, June.

(1914): A method of estimating rainfall by the growth of trees. In

Huntington, E., The climatie factor, chapter 11. Carnegie Institution,

publ. no. 192, pp. 101-121.

(1919, 1928): Climatie cycles and tree growth. Carnegie Institution

publ. no. 289, Vol. 1, 1919; Vol. 2, 1928.

(1529) : Conclusions from tree-ring data and cycles in tree growth. In
reports of the conferences on cycles, pp. 5-6, 34-41, Carnegie Institution.

J. A. Harris (1926): Correlation between sun-spot number and tree growth.
Monthly Weather Review, Vol. 54, pp. 13-14.

ELtswortH Huntineton (1914): The climatic factor. Carnegie Institution,
publ. no. 192, 1914, pp. vi, 341.

W. J. Humpnureys (1920): Physics of the air. J. B. Lippincott & Co., Phila-
delphia, pp. xi, 665.

W. A. JoHNston (1922): Sedimentation in Lake Louise, Alberta Province,
Canada. American Journal of Science, fifth series, Vol. 4, pp. 876-386.
Abstract, Science, new series, Vol. 56, p. 174. :

W. Koéppen (1928) : Mehrjiihrige Temperatureschwankungen yor 8 bis 18 jahr-
tausenden. Met. Zeitschr., Vol. 45, pp. 263-265.

28095—31——-22

326 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

PrRrkK Norn (1927): Late glacial clay varves in Himalaya connected with the
Swedish time scale. Geographical Annals, Stockholm, Vol. 9, pp. 157-161.

H. F. Ossporn and C. A. Reeps (1922): Old and new standards of Pleistocene
division in relation to the prehistory of man in Europe. Bulletin of the
Geological Society of America, Vol. 33, pp. 411-490.

C. A. Reeps (1923): Seasonal records of geologic time. Natural History, Vol.
23, pp. 370-3880.

(1926) : The varved clays at Little Ferry, N. J. American Museum No-

vitiates, No. 209, pp. 1-16.

(1927) : Glacial lakes and clays near New York City. Natural His-
tory, Vol. 27, pp. 54-64.

H. N. Russetxi, R. S. Ducan, and J. Q. Stewarp (1926): Astronomy, Vol. 1,
pp. ii, 470. Ginn & Co., New York.

Martrrr SAuRAMO (1928): Studies on the Quaternary varve sediments in south-
ern Finland. Bull. Comm. Geol. de Finlande, No. 60; also, Fennia, Vol.
44, No. 1, 1924.

(1929): The Quaternary geology of Finland, Bulletin de la Commis-
sion géologique de Finland, No. 86.

Rogert W. Sayres (1914): The Squantum tillite (Massachusetts). Harvard
College, Museum of Comparative Zoology, Bulletin 66 (geology series 10) ;
pp. 141-175.

(1919) : Seasonal deposition in Aqueo-glacial sediments. Harvard Col-
lege. Memoirs Museum of Comparative Zoology, Vol. 47, No. 1.

CHARLES SCHUCHERT (1914): Climates of geologic time. (In Huntington, E.,
The climatic factor, chapter 21.) Carnegie Institution, publ. No. 192, pp.
265-298; also in Ann. Rep. Smithsonian Institution, 1913, pp. 277-311.

C. A. SUssmincH and T. W. E. Davin (1919) : Sequence, glaciation, and corre-
lation cf the Carboniferous rocks of the Hunter River district, New South
Wales. Journal and Proceedings of the Royal Society of New South Wales,
Vol. LIII, pp. 246-338.

R. S. Tarr and L. Martin (1914): Alaskan glacial studies.° National Geo-
graphic Society, pp. xxvii, 498.

WILD LIFE? PROTECTION—AN URGENT PROBLEM

By Ernest P. WALKER

Assistant Director, National Zoological Park

(With 4 plates]

When the white man first reached America he found a country
generally abounding in big game, upland birds, waterfowl, fur
bearers, fish, turtles, and frogs, which could be used as food or in
other ways. It was necessary for him to utilize these and he did
so with profit to himself. In his settlement of the country, he
destroyed the forests, plowed the prairies, drained the swamps,
grazed his stock on the hills to the injury of the forage, and gen-
erally greatly depleted the wild stock and restricted the areas avail-
able to the wild forms that first made his existence on the continent
possible. The condition is essentially the same throughout the world
wherever man has settled. Now, man’s greatly increased progeny
still has the desire for the wild life or its products, but some forms
have been exterminated and nearly all have been so far reduced
that the supply is far short of the demand. Some people value
animal life for itself, others for the recreation of taking it, others
for the profit to be derived from it, and others for the beauty or
usefulness of its products.

Some of the depletion and restriction of the habitats has been
inevitable, but much has been the result of thoughtlessness and a
disregard for the future and can be remedied. The so-called
“development of natural resources” has all too often consisted of
taking what nature has supplied without providing for a continu-
ance of the resource. It has been little less than exploiting or loot-
ing and was never development in a true sense. The time has now
arrived when real development work must be carried out if our
wild life resources are to be perpetuated in such quantities as to
be of material value and benefit to us.

Not only the United States and its possessions but the remainder
of the world has large tracts of so-called “ waste land” well adapted
to raising different kinds of wild life that are needed by mankind

1The term “ wild life” as herein used refers to all forms of wild vertebrates.
327
328 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

but which are now producing little or nothing. Many lands that
may require 50 years to grow a crop of timber can, during that
period, produce annual crops of fur and game with no detriment to
the growing timber; and some of the abandoned farm lands are
probably better adapted to raising profitable crops of wild life
than they ever were to domestic crops.

Proper administration can greatly increase our yield of wild life
and place the various species on a secure constant production basis
instead of the precarious existence many of them now experience.
Financial or recreational values can be restored where little or none
have existed since the time when man depleted or destroyed the
original stock.

We are supposedly living in a machine age, and we utilize ma-
chinery whenever possible. We should therefore utilize animal life
to convert vegetation into more valuable products, for such animals
as beavers and deer convert surplus vegetation into fur or meat,
while the carnivores accomplish the same result by eating animals
that have already converted vegetation into meat.

To produce such crops, however, in paying quantities will require
the application of wild-animal husbandry, just as good management
is necessary in domestic livestock raising.

American principles of wild life protection are based upon
the premise that the wild life of the country is the property of the
people, represented by the Government, and the individual has no
title in it except as he subjects the wild life to possession in accord-
ance with laws or regulations or in the absence of any prohibition
against the taking. The landowner has no right to the life merely
because it occurs on his land. He may take it there only under the
general conditions prescribed, which usually apply to landowner
and nonlandowner alike. The landowner may prevent others from
taking the animals on his land only by preventing trespassing. On
the public domain, that is, land owned by the Federal, State, or
county governments, permission to take animals is usually granted
to all who obtain licenses or can qualify as to residence or citizenship
requirements when such are required. This almost invariably re-
sults in the taking of more animals than should be killed if the stock
is to be maintained.

The system does not encourage the individual to leave wild life
to breed in order that the supply may be increased, for there is
no assurance that he who exercises moderation in his killing will
profit by his discretion. On the contrary, the next hunter, trapper,
or fisherman may take an unreasonable number, even within legal
limits, and kill the very animals that the first man has left as
breeding stock. This system seems to have been modeled upon the
saying “A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.” If our
WILD LIFE PROTEOTION—-WALKER 329

wild life is to be saved, we have the option of giving it more com-
plete protection or of abandoning the principle that any one who
qualifies as to license, citizenship, or residence requirements may
engage in taking it. In other words, we have before us the imminent
prospect of practical extermination of those forms of wild life
commonly taken by mankind, unless we adopt stringent enforce-
ment of laws and regulations for their protection or give the
landowner control of wild life on his lands. In the latter event
the man who does not own land will have no place to hunt, trap,
or fish unless he obtains the privilege from the landowner.

A few people realize the reasons for the depletion of wild life
and know that in many instances proper_wild-life administration
will restore interesting and valuable forms, but the greater number
do not know that conditions can be remedied, and they accept the
exhaustion of the natural resources as inevitable.

The idea expressed by one concern selling fur-bearing animal
stock that “fur wearers are breeding faster than fur bearers” can
well be applied to all kinds of wild animals used by man. As no
adequate substitutes have been found for the animals themselves
and many of their products, and as we have not reached the stage
of checking the rate of increase in human demand, the only remedy
apparent is to increase the wild life.

This indicates a very definite field for the student of wild life, for
he is the only one qualified to determine the true relative value
of the various forms of wild life and to advise legislative bodies,
game protective organizations, and the public in general as to their
value and the proper steps that should be taken to perpetuate the
animals and assure the maximum returns,

The array of forms that have been exterminated locally or en-
tirely, or that have been seriously depleted, is generally better
known to scientific men than to any other group, and they are in
the best position to show the values of such life. With the various
means of the present time for presenting information—through the
- daily press, magazines, special circulars, motion pictures, the radio,
and personal lectures—the scientific man has ample facilities for
reaching the public.

The public is glad to receive authoritative information from the
scientific man provided the material is presented so that it can
readily be understood. Legislative bodies and game _ protective
organizations also appreciate his assistance and advice.

The almost universal interest in animal life and its behavior as
shown by the regularity with which hunting, fishing, or discussion
of animal actions arises in gatherings of men free to discuss varied
subjects augurs well for the success of a program to gain the interest
and support of the public in the movement for wild-life upbuilding.
330 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

The harmonizing of the various interests and the development of
well defined programs for wild-life administration requires the broad
and technical training of naturalists. They alone are in a position
to anticipate the far-reaching results of protection or control meas-
ures. Furthermore, because of their interest in the wild life they
should be the leaders in its proper development and administration.
The field of technical advisors to wild-life administrators is a large
one and as yet practically untouched. From the wildest and most
remote tracts in the world to small city parks, there are problems
relating to wild-life administration and it is doubtful if there is in
existence to-day an organization administering wild-life protection
that does not have numerous unsolved problems of a biological nature
that are handicapping its work.

Successful protection of the wild life of any region or country is
primarily contingent upon the development of an attitude on the
part of a majority of the people favorable to wild-life perpetuation.
Protection is necessarily based upon public sentiment, well drafted
laws, and their vigorous and impartial enforcement. To obtain
either the enactment of good laws or their successful enforcement it
is necessary that the masses of the public realize that it is to their
benefit to protect wild life. This points out the great importance
of developing methods of showing the value of wild life, means to
employ for its preservation and the benefits to be derived from
protection.

Heretofore, the sportsmen or a very few foresighted and coura-
geous lovers of wild life have led minority fights for its protection.
Some of these fights have ultimately been successful and have ac-
complished great good, but they have been hard struggles and the
burden has been heavy on the few who were working for the general
benefit. Many good causes have failed and most of those that have
succeeded have been limited in scope to the lines in which the spon-
sors were most interested. As might be expected, the result of vari-
ous groups of diverse interests taking up the matter of protection
of the objects of their particular interest has produced inconsistent
local legislation, usually designed for the protection of one group
of wild life, often at the expense of another, which in some instances
has been of equal value.

In keeping with the development of the legislation, the enforce-
ment of the laws has frequently been spasmodic and inconsistent and
often in the hands of those interested in particular kinds of game,
fur, or fish rather than wild life as a whole, which has resulted
harmfully in some instances. With a few outstanding exceptions we
have had no consistent wild-life administration programs. That is,
but few regions have developed really consistent and properly bal-
anced wild-life laws and enforcement calculated to develop the maxi-
WILD LIFE PROTECTION—WALKER 331

mum benefits from all forms of wild life that might be produced
on the lands or in their waters.

The relative values of the various kinds of wild life have not ordi-
narily been carefully considered. If the dominant group was inter-
ested in upland game birds or waterfowl these forms were usually
given fair protection and other forms of life ignored, while such
interesting and valuable fur bearers as raccoons, skunks, and minks
were termed vermin and campaigns of extermination waged against
them. If big game was the principal object of concern, other forms
were neglected.

As the scientific man observes the policies and work of the game
administrators, his frank, unprejudiced commendation as well as
criticism will be of value and will encourage adherence to sound
policies. The custom of human nature to be silent when matters are
satisfactory and to speak only when displeased often makes it dif-
ficult for public officials to adhere to the course that is best for the
greatest number of people. While the masses are satisfied and silent
the selfish interests are criticising, and attacking, and exerting every
effort to gain their ends. More frequent expressions of approbation
might assist the officials in following the correct path.

Wild-animal husbandry is a field almost as novel as the term itself
and offers problems comparable to those being worked out by stock
raisers and farmers who are assisted by technical advisors and
experiment stations. As a whole, the basic problem is that of
obtaining the maximum continuous production under wild con-
ditions.

The relatively new industry of fur farming shows that animals
at one time scarcely considered can be raised at a profit. The pro-
duction of wild animals might be compared with the ranging of
cattle, sheep, and horses on the western stock ranges of the United
States. As tracts are inclosed a more intensive and better controlled
production can be obtained, which would be comparable to some of
the modern fur farms. Figuratively speaking, the minks and
martens may play about the feet of the deer in the forests, while
young muskrats and baby ducks romp in the marshy edge of the
lake and watch the fish jumping in deeper water.

In addition to the general work needed by the county, State, and
Federal agencies concerned with wild-life protection, there is a
field for the biologist conservationist (bio-conservationist) in assist-
ing clubs and landowners to make their tracts yield properly. Such
positions may be termed consulting naturalists or technical wild-
life advisors.

There are innumerable wild-life administration problems to be
solved. Among the outstanding of these are the determination of
the maximum numbers of various species that can be produced on
332 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

areas of various types, and the combinations of animal life on va-
rious areas that will yield the maximum returns either in money, or
pleasure, without detriment to other interests.

The raising of more than one kind of crop at a time on land is
very appealing to the agriculturist, and in wild-animal husbandry
this practice is particularly applicable. For example a tract while
growing timber on the uplands can produce beavers and mink in
the streams and bonds, raccoons and opossums will roam the entire
area with the foxes and deer, and some fish can be raised in the
streams and ponds in excess of those killed by the minks, while frogs
and turtles may supplement the yield.

The working out of methods by which the carrying capacity of
areas may be determined is an important problem that has a wide
application. Excellent progress has been made in determining how
many sheep or cattle should be grazed on various types of stock
ranges and much good has resulted from application of the knowl-
edge obtained. Similar need exists for yardsticks by which we
can ascertain how many deer or elk can be produced on a given
tract or how many beavers or muskrats, or both, can be raised on
various lakes and streams, and how many fish can be raised in such
waters at the same time. How many raccoons, mink, otters, turtles,
and frogs can be produced on a given swamp? Could greater reve-
nue be derived by raising waterfowl, or should a compromise be
aimed at and a combined harvest of fish, turtles, frogs, fur bearers,
and birds be sought? What kinds of stock should be placed on a
tract and how many of each kind?

In line with the teaching of the proper times and methods of tak-
ing wild life is the teaching of proper methods of preserving animals
or animal products for use or for the market. Ignorance and
neglect of the best methods of preparing the pelts of fur bearers an-
nually costs the trappers a surprising sum. Waste of game meat
and other products should be unheard of in the present day but it
oceurs regularly among sportsmen who apparently do not inform
themselves how to care for game and by aborigines and some others
who regularly live upon game. The prohibition against com-
mercialization of parts of game animals has resulted in the waste of
many fine skins and heads of such animals killed for food purposes.
Certainly no provision should be advocated which will stimulate
ereater killing of valuable forms where the supply is already in-
adequate, but thought can well be devoted to devising means of per-
mitting the utilization of all parts of the animals that are law-
fully killed.

Determining the proper proportions on the range of the sexes of
polygamous game animals such as deer and elk is a problem that has
a direct bearing on the formulation of laws and regulations for the
protection of these animals.
WILD LIFE PROTECTION—WALKER 333

Presentations of the cash values of wild life produced on given
areas well stocked as compared with the revenue from the same
areas or similar tracts poorly stocked or producing farm crops of
limited value often can be used with convincing effect. This can be
strikingly shown by assembling such figures as are available of game
mammals, birds, fur bearers, frogs, turtles, or fish that have been
taken from known areas such as islands, lakes, counties, or States and
multiplying the number by the present values of such animals. In
many cases it will show that the wild stock that can be produced on
the area is far more valuable than the domestic products now being

raised,
Perpetuation of Species assured | __Perpetuation of species assured Extermination hreateed

S| uu a

No surplus

Line

Annual Surplus
oF extinction

Danger

ey oer point
. 4 “Breeding Reserve f3

- Including Margin for Natural Losses -

PROGRESSIVE UTILIZATION AND EXTERMINATION OFA SPECIES”

Ficurp 1

In an effort to show diagrammatically or graphically the progres-
sive utilization and extermination of a species,? the design shown
in Figure 1 has been developed. It is an attempt to enable one to
visualize what to-day is probably the greatest problem with which
the wild-life administrator is confronted. It is based upon the fact
that a given area of land or water or both can continuously support
only a certain maximum number of breeding animals and their prog-
eny until the reproductive stage of such progeny is reached. There
are, of course, innumerable factors that affect this condition, but the
SSIES ell i A IE RE a

*This and certain other diagrams and extracts herein are taken from the author’s
paper Getting Public Support for Mammal Protection published in the Journal of
Mammalogy, vol. 9, No. 3, pp. 195-200, August, 1928.
334 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

basic principle is that an area can sustain up to and not beyond
a certain abundance. If the stock is increased above the carrying
capacity of the area its productive capacity is lessened, and this
naturally leads to ultimate reduction of numbers. If the area is
not fully stocked it will not produce as large a crop as it might
under best utilization.

If more than the normal surplus produced by the basic breeding
stock is taken, the breeding supply will be reduced and production
can not be sustained. If all the surplus is not used it is not only
wasted but it also becomes a source of danger through overstocking.

This is intended to make clear the fact that there is a definite
critical point which, if passed in the case of any valuable animal
or plant, leads to reduced production and threatened extermination.

It can be shown that by building up the wild stock a surplus can
be provided that may be harvested at a profit, and indeed it must be
removed to prevent overstocking. The work of the biologist is to

67. year ~— 76 |
4th year - 34

FIGURB 2

determine the dividing line which is not always clearly defined and
varies as conditions change.

Reliable statistics applied to the graph in Figure 1 will show
the trend of the wild life population. Appropriate action then be-
comes obvious.

The steps in increasing the wild-life supply may be graphically
illustrated by the inverted pyramid.

The problem is one of arithmetical progression and by application
of the proper figures appropriate to the species, region, and condi-
tions of life it is possible to illustrate the case quite clearly. The
method is applicable in illustrating the increase of injurious forms
as well as beneficial ones.

With the foundation idea established of maintaining a definite
maximum breeding stock and harvesting only the surplus, we next
have for consideration factors that must guide us in harvesting the
surplus. Different factors, of course, are operative in different
animals,
WILD LIFE PROTECTION—WALKER 335

PREECE EEE
Fe

ae

EEEEEHH

ia Piet eae
iG 2188 RRR
ie 2 0/85 SSR RRNA
(1.2 26) SR ORR ER

4
Pama
H
‘
s
“a
i

Sea
(ili 1/52 PES PRRP PER RARA oe eee
(Gf 2 Se SSRs Pee ee
(19% 268 6 BRR RR Rees
0 SSERSS ROPERS se a

PEEP CEE EEE eee

NB aS ae

V8 2055 8 ORS ROR
A ee I
119 3852S BRR Se eee
PEPE REET EET EEE TTC eer
BSE EREP EET ELEL EE ERE TCR
SSS ISS Sees SSeS eSe Sees Zz
Jo IDS a SASS SRS SARIN e! Sees Ssees.

aps dad asstisesssia aastt fasstits Ste

ca

(Li ae 8 PEP ERR CERN ALE ees i Cee
SOR ORS Oe eR Ae se a
aff ta] fe IN AY man
Br 1 SGS 8 SSR ORE OE eee
O10 0 89 5 PSR BREST) PERG e eee ee
eee ere I
ERE ETE ELL Let tt 8 PLING TT
rip 0S Bee

Ef
al
if

7

Ff f eS OW THIE ASTEIRN \

nam om CN
PPTETTLe LLL LL a LELLLULA PLLA lbh el ALLL
BCE EEE AA A SB ACN

Ww cI

Ficcure 3
ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

336

a
=
a
FH

Biel
ee a) HOSTER

alee)
BRa eae
FIGURE 4

an

337

WILD LIFE PROTECTION—-WALKER

sla Sheba

fc

eee ca
SPE ASLE EEL EEL eee CHEE Fee Pree CreE Cree reer CEH
Se ae a EE
yee nt 0 ae
EEE eee ete ee
Es EEEECecstesstes trea tes res tton enon ton eeaeteoe feos ecetootfaeteaetsoedeoatear:
ME (EERE nee eee ee eT EE EEE CPE Peer
EEE Eee bos ost S047 EEg-EOE- Gots GERTOnE, OBE, OGE, CatScdn CMRCORR ORCA MS ETEEC.

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

338

= ane eee
Seen eS? -—a08
= eee

Feb. ‘Mar. Apr. May June

=— ae
SEU 0S00 See Ee —— on
BREE CECE Ca EEE
rT
=e
rrr tree
AREER EERE EEE EEE

re

Pt Ty tT ah tt Te
4
mn

=

Ck) ANT AN CLEA

LONG ay

Aug. Sept Oct. Nov. Dec: Jan.

zr
ili

ar
|
a
|
a
|
ql
|
a
|
|
8
|
a
{|
5
|
a
a
a
|
|
|
a
a
a
a
a
|
g
|
a
|
a
fa
| |
gi
:
a
H
a
is
|
a
a
|
B
|
a
a
|
|
|
&
| |
a
re
|
|
|
|
H
i
a

FIGURD 6
WILD LIFE PROTECTION—-WALKER 339

The land fur bearers are a group of mammals that are utilized
in a rather uniform manner and are subject to certain fairly con-
stant factors and the changes in the value of their skins in the course
of a year can be shown graphically in what might be termed “The
Cycle of the Fur.” The graphs are not intended to be exact but
rather to illustrate the underlying principle. They are based upon
statistics of Alaska furs, supplemented by an intimate knowledge
of fur conditions in the territory. They have also been modified to
meet suggestions made by fur dealers and trappers. Each graph
represents a general average for the various species in southeastern
Alaska over a period of years, but can also represent equally well an
individual fur bearer.

The practical application of these is obvious, namely to indicate
the proper period for open seasons. It will be seen that the peaks
of primeness do not coincide

for all the animals. This * 575

clearly demonstrates the need 500

for the fur seasons being ad-

justed for the various species 400 ao
if the maximum values are to ne

be derived from the animals
taken during open seasons. 200
The next problem is to dem-
onstrate to the public why it
is good business to prevent
encroachment on the breed- Ist Mo. 2nd.Mo. 3rd. Mo.
ing reserve; and if the stock Approximate average monthly distribution
has already been depleted it of 1000 land fur bearers taken during
is even more important to in- ¢ % Months trapping season
dicate where use must be an
curtailed in order to restore the proper capital of breeding stock.

To illustrate this, the fur bearers have again been drawn upon for
an example. It is well known that in general the trapper takes
the greatest portion of his total catch during the earlier part of
the season; and that the daily catch declines as the end of the season
approaches. ‘his, of course, is due to the fact that there are more
animals available for him at the opening of the season and that
they are less wary and thus more easily taken. To illustrate this
point and another still to be brought out, let us assume that on a
given area 1,000 skins of a fur bearer might be taken during a
8-months’ open season. The first month there would probably be
575 taken, the second month 375, and the third month 50.

In the example just given it has been indicated that 1,000 skins
would be taken on the area. Let us assume, however, that the tak-

100
340 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

ing of this number of animals will not only consume the surplus but
will also make inroads on the basic breeding stock or capital. Under
these conditions a wise administration demands that the taking of
part of this number be prevented. How can this be done and still
satisfy the trapper, the manufacturer, and the consuming public?
If the season be shortened a little at both ends, reducing it to two
months, let us suppose that this will save 50 animals and that it
will prevent encroaching on the breeding stock. It is a matter of
surprise to many that the 950 animals taken in two months will be
worth more than would be the 1,000 taken in three months.

Juty| Aug Sept] Oct | Now| Dee, Jan, | Feb Mar | Ar: | May |.
—_—_ B
ee paver seater ly ff coker tae at ola
950 Shins having | ere
valuelof $\8693.75 in
-
7Aree manths \season
/jooao eo Aavin 575 | 375 | 50
8 velue a 7\F6 8. | |
PEC
Pee bea bess oe) bs ce es sch oae Gstsooce
bs ey i iota seit eee ae

A means of illustrating the advantages of shart ©
open seasons For the taking of /and ftur-bearers

FIGURE 8

This may be illustrated by combining the graph showing pelt value
by primeness with that showing the total fur taken by months. Of
the 1,000 animals trapped, the 575 of the first month of the open
season will be taken mainly before they are prime or in the best
market condition; the 375 of the second month are the only ones
taken within the period of their maximum value; and the 50 of the
WILD LIFE PROTECTION—WALKER 341

third month are taken when their value has considerably declined.
The value of this take would be about as follows:

perremeirpeter ee O75 see pe ri hi Qs eed oe ee ele nls peel $4, 025. 00
NONE | See oS ee a ee: ee 8, 468. 75
TE | ie ay Sees ts eee Lee? AC Se wae S 375. 00

RE A le ORS Ye ee a ee eats yo co ecat eoerae see 7, 868. 75

Fieurs 9.—Relative values of beaver skins of different sizes

On the other hand the two months’ season allowing a take of 950
animals with fur in prime condition in practically all cases would

produce:

nr nt Goes bos 16 sebeveRud Pda alin) oral $5, 318. 75

I ge UTR A Og ei lie hc a ad Se EE eS ae 3, 375. 00
a URIUTIES a7 COROT On ee ee erenaies 8, 693. 75

Thus by taking 50 fewer animals in two months the actual re-
ceipts from the fur crop would be $825 more than would have been
brought by the 1,000 animals taken over a period of three months.

In this way the two principal objects have been accomplished,
namely saving the adequate breeding stock and increasing the profits.

28095—31——-23
342 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

Another means of enabling visualization of a problem in con-
nection with the harvesting of the fur crop is the diagram on page
341 that shows the relative values of different sizes of beaver skins,
otherwise alike.

AVERAGE VALUE

~
ri

13.

~

2 im

te

ne

in

1916 1917 1918

TOTAL VALUE

Figure 10.—Number, average value, and total value of land otter skins produced in
Alaska from 1912 to 1927, inclusive

This should convince the most skeptical trapper that it is to his
interest so to conduct his trapping operations that the young and
small beavers are allowed to grow up before they are trapped, and
it points out the desirability of trying to develop trapping methods
and practices that will avoid the taking of the young animals, or,
if they are taken, of liberating them.
WILD LIFE PROTECTION—WALKER 343

An example of statistics so arranged that they can be generally
visualized and advantageously used is given in Figures 10, 11, and 12.
An intimate knowledge of the conditions explains certain peculi-
arities in the figures, such as periodic abundance of the animals,
unusual weather conditions during the trapping season, extensive

+ eH EHH
a! | AAA HRA

3

BARRAGE
INABARBAGE

TOTAL VALUE

Figure 11.—Number, average value, and total value of marten skins produced in
Alaska from 1912 to 1927, inclusive

sickness among the trappers, open and closed seasons, as well
variations due to changes in prices of the furs, and variations in
numbers of animals from normal causes.

The overstocking of areas may be illustrated by the example of
the farmer who overgrazes his pasture to such an extent that the
344 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

grass is destroyed and the pasture becomes capable of sustaining
only a very limited number of livestock. This condition has be-
come extensive at one time or another throughout the western
United States where stock has been ranged. The situation is

1926 1927

300,000

TOTAL VALUE”

Figure 12.—Number, average value, and total value of lynx skins produced in
Alaska from 1912 to 1927, inclusive

graphically shown by the illustration of the extermination of a
species, wherein the range or vegetation is represented by the area
labeled basic stock and the carrying capacity or annual forage pro-
duction is represented by the area marked “Annual surplus.” It
can also be illustrated by the following diagram (fig. 18).
WILD LIFE PROTECTION— WALKER 345

Such a method of calculating animal life as is outlined by Lin-
coln * in “ Calculating Waterfowl Abundance on the Basis of Band-
ing Returns” is well worth giving a thorough trial under varying
conditions. It is a direct application of the method heretofore used
of calculating the value of basic breeding stock on the assumption
that the animals annually taken bear a more or less definite
relationship to the basic stock,

Taylor’s “Methods of Determining Rodent Pressure on _ the
Range ” * points out some methods of making studies of certain types
of animal life and the practical application of such work.

There is real need for the development of uniformity in termin-
ology and methods of studying and stating the data for wild-life

Grazing 4 ; e Range _
a a Sie, ang, y: in at ® * 0 Lt oy
‘ = . 7 °
. =< ~% eit, yf
a

Fictre 13.—Iilustration of year by year increase from an initial stock of 10 animals
having a potential annual increase of 50 per cent

administration. Fur again furnishes a good illustration. The
graphs of the “ Cycle of the Fur” show that there is a varying but
short period when the skins of animals are in a condition of the
maximum value. This condition may be compared to the condition
of grain or fruit when it is said to be “ripe” or the condition of
meat animals when they are said to be “finished.” Among trap-
pers the word “ prime” is commonly used and is very satisfactory.
However, one writer has criticized the use of the term because
skins can not always be positively referred to either the groups of
prime or unprime. Skins can, however, be so designated as accu-
rately as many forms of produce can be graded, but it may be desir-
able to establish certain standards with a series of grades as has been
done for cotton, grains, and meat.

When biologists have entered upon such studies as are needed in
wild-life administration, it will be found that the problems are
fully as interesting as those in other lines of biology and there is a

*Lincoln, F. C., Circular No. 118. U. 8S. Department of Agriculture.
‘Taylor, Walter P., Ecology, Vol. XI, pp. 523-542, July, 1930.
346 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

keen satisfaction to be derived from the development of scientific —

data which has an immediate practical application. In addition,
studying the problems of wild-life administration develops infor-
mation in biology relating to life histories and to ecology that is
of the utmost importance in biological sciences in general.

Even the few problems herein mentioned cause one to wonder |

where capable men are to be found to undertake these and the in-

numerable other problems that are not mentioned. It is probable |
that with the increase in wild vertebrate conservation which is neces- |
sary if the wild life is to be built up some of the biologists now |
engaged in other lines will take up the new work, but it would seem |
that there is a need for universities to give special training along |
such lines. Scholarships might well be established, and special re- —

search funds dedicated to such lines would be of great value, until
such time as the public and public institutions are fully alive to the
need for such work.

There is a real need for many people to devote their energies to
the development of compact, forceful, and convincing ways of show-
ing the benefits of wild-life administration and protection. As
many brains with different viewpoints attack the problems of devel-
oping our wild-life resources, solutions will be produced for prob-
lems that now appear quite beyond us, and when the biologists and
wild-life administrators have joined forces, we can expect a new era
for proper handling of the important natural resources that hitherto
have suffered so seriously from indifference and ignorance.

SUMMARY

1. There has been extensive depletion and in some cases extinction
of valuable or interesting forms of vertebrate animals.

2. There is need for increasing the wild life supply for:

a. Recreational uses.
b. Commercialization.

3. The supply can be increased by proper administration or wild
animal husbandry on lands and water now producing scanty or no
crops.

4. Proper administration necessitates work by competent natu-
ralists to:

a. Ascertain existing conditions.

b. Plan steps for improving conditions.

c. Submit their findings and plans to those in a position to
facilitate their execution.

d. Educate the public on the subject to the end of obtaining
its full cooperation in improved wild-life production.

OHYVQ]! HSI) ONV ‘3SNO0YSD “IMOsSYALVM AWOS ‘'SYSAVES Maga V 'SHNIWC ‘SYSLLO GNY
‘SYHYSHSI4 YO SNALYVW ‘SYVSEG'SH19 Y3S5q0 ‘SLVOD NIVLNNOW YO daaHS NIVLINNOW 39nNGOed MIM SIHL S¥ AYLNNOD HONS

| 31W1d J24PA\— "OLS! *‘yaodayy uRtuOsyyIUCG
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Walker PLATE 2

1. A TRACT COMMONLY REFERRED TO AS WASTE LAND WHICH ANNUALLY PRO-
DUCES MUSKRATS TO A GREATER VALUE PER ACRE THAN WOULD BE PRODUCED
ON MANY FARMS RAISING USUAL CROPS AND LIVESTOCK. MARYLAND

* Aversa
sit

2. A LOUISIANA MARSH FORMERLY CONSIDERED WORTHLESS, WHICH IS NOW
PRODUCING CROPS OF FUR BEARERS AND WATERFOWL WORTH MORE THAN
FARM CROPS ON ADJACENT DRY LANDS
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Walker PLATE 3

Photo by United States Forest Service

1. THE ANNUAL HARVEST HERE OF TROUT, DEER, BEARS, BEAVERS, LAND OTTERS,
MINKS, AND MARTENS OR FISHERS, MIGHT EQUAL THE ANNUAL INCREASE IN
VALUE OF THE TIMBER. OREGON

2. MOOSE, DEER, BEARS, WATERFOWL, AND BEAVERS CAN BE PAYING CROPS ON
SUCH AREAS MONTANA
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Walker PLATE 4

Photo by United States Forest Service
TROUT, MINKS, MARTENS, SOME BEAVERS, DEER, ELKS, BEARS, MOUNTAIN

LIONS, FOXES, AND GROUSE CAN BE PRODUCED HERE IN ADDITION TO THE
TIMBER. MONTANA
THE NESTING HABITS OF WAGLER’S OROPENDOLA ON
BARRO COLORADO ISLAND *

By FrRanK M. CHAPMAN

[With 8 Plates]
INTRODUCTION

The field studies on which this paper is based were made at the
station of the Institute for Research in Tropical America, on Barro
Colorado Island, Canal Zone, Panama. They cover the greater part
of three nesting seasons, and the period immediately preceding them,
as follows: (1) December 27, 1925, to February 20, 1926; (2) De-
cember 22, 1926, to April 2, 1927; (3) December 22, 1927, to April 1,
1928. During the first season, only part of my time was given to
this work; the second and third seasons it was my chief occupation.

The colony of birds under investigation nested in a sand-box tree
(Hura crepitans) growing about 100 feet from the northerly corner
of the institute’s main building; a situation favorable for continuous
observation of the birds from the time of their first appearance in
the morning until they retired in the evening. On the other hand,
the nature of the nesting sites prohibited examination of the contents
of the nests zm sitw and the only specimens of nests, eggs, or young
obtained were the few that fell through the accidental breaking of
the limbs to which the nests were attached. These gave a limited
amount of data with which to check conclusions based on observations
made from a distance.

In 1924, when the institute’s station was established on Barro Colo-
rado, a colony of oropendolas occupied a tree about 100 feet from the
one now used. On June 26, 1925, possibly because it was deprived of
the protection of the trees that had grown near it, this tree fell before
the wind. It contained 57 nests. The following nesting season the
birds selected the tree now used. The present tree, therefore, was
apparently chosen because of its proximity to the one which fell,
rather than for its special fitness in affording suitable nesting sites.
It is a sand-box tree 132 feet in height, growing from near the bottom
of a steep slope about 30 feet below the level on which the laboratory

1 Reprinted by permission from the Bulletin of the American Museum of Natural
History, Vol. LVIII.
347
348 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

stands. The lowest nests were about 100 feet above the base of the
tree, the highest about 20 feet below its top. The nearest nests to
our viewpoint at the laboratory level were distant about 80 feet.
This statement is of interest chiefly from the standpoint of the pho-
tographer. With an elaborate equipment, including lenses up to 23
inches in focal length, the distance, a background of leaves, the com-
paratively small size and dark colors of the birds, prevented me from
securing adequate photographs of them.

The conditions under which the birds were watched were far more
satisfactory. My observation post was the open space beneath my
house situated 15 feet higher than the laboratory, and about 100 yards
from the tree in which the oropendolas nested. Seated in a camp
chair with a desk board across its arms, and using a 24-power binocu-
lar mounted on a tripod, the birds, wholly unaware of my presence,
seemed to be within reach of my hand. Every detail of their move-
ments, even to the motion of the tongue when calling, could be seen
clearly and with such ease that I could observe and record their
actions for hours at a sitting without fatigue. I did not acquire this
high-power glass until the second season. Its lack in 1925-26, when
an 8-power glass was used from the laboratory level, greatly detracted
from the value of that season’s work.

Diagrams were made showing the relative position of the nests.
Each one was numbered and its history, as far as possible, carefully
recorded. When last observed, the colony of 1926 contained 39
nests; that of 1927, 29 nests. In 1928, 16 nests were built, but for
various reasons, as recounted beyond, all were deserted apparently
before eggs were laid, and the colony was abandoned.

It is a significant comment on our lack of knowledge of the
habits of tropical American birds that, although by size, voice, and
nests the oropendolas and caciques are among the best known birds
of that region, their life histories are as yet unwritten. One finds
short descriptions of their loud notes and the postures of the male
when calling, of the appearance and, in some few cases, structure
and contents of their nests. There are also several records of
parasitism by Cassidia oryzivora, but all the statements made are
based on casual or brief observations and no definite, continuous
study of any member of the group has apparently been made,

The oropendolas offer, however, an exceptionally interesting sub-
ject for the field student. If the nature of the nesting site prohibits
close examination of the nest in situ, it at least gives an admirable
view of the colony as a unit and hence of the group activities of
its members. The movements of the individual may also be closely
followed and the colonial habits of the species enable one to observe
a number of birds at the same time and under similar conditions,
——

NESTING HABITS OF OROPENDOLA—CHAPMAN 349

Thus, one can more readily distinguish normal from exceptional
habits. While I hope that my observations have covered a long
enough period to reveal the more fundamental facts in the home
life of Zarhynchus, it must be remembered that they relate to but
one colony of these birds. They should be regarded, therefore,
merely as the starting point for a further study of this species and
of other members of the oropendola-cacique group.

RELATIONSHIPS

Zarhynchus wagleri is a member of the group? of icterine birds
known as oropendolas.* With the caciques* they are placed by
Sclater in a subfamily, Cassicinae, of the family Icteridae, a dis-
tinction not currently recognized.®

So far as the records and my own experience © go, all these birds
nest in colonies, build pensile nests, and nest during the dry season.
The great age of these groups is indicated by the marked structural
differences existing between certain of the genera which compose
them, and we may assume at least a corresponding age for those
nesting habits which they possess in common.

Zarhynchus wagleri inhabits the humid tropical zone from southern
Mexico to western Ecuador. In Colombia it is known only in the
Colombian-Pacific fauna. Specimens from the northern part of this
range (Guatemala and probably northern Honduras northward)
average slightly smaller and are somewhat darker. They represent
the race known as Zarhynchus wagleri mexicanus. Combining char-
acters of the most unlike members of the group, it is difficult to say
to which Zarhynchus is most closely related. As with Clypeicterus
and Ocyalus the maxilla is expanded into a broad frontal shield cov-
ering the forehead; the wings are even more pointed, the outer pri-
maries more incised than in the latter; it differs from both these
genera and agrees with the remaining members of the group in pos-
sessing occipital plumes, which are as highly developed as in Ostinops
decumanus. In general color it is also nearest to that species and
this resemblance, in connection with the fact that the ranges of the
two species meet only in northwestern Colombia and in Panama, may
possess some significance.

2 Genera: Zarhynchus, Ocyalus Clypeicterus, Ostinops and Gymnostinopa.

* This is the Spanish name for the Old World oriole (Ortolus oriolus), which, like the
English name “ oriole,’’ has been applied to a New World bird. It is based on the
European bird’s golden color and habit of building a pendulous nest, but, so far as the
color of the plumage is concerned, is not strictly descriptive of any New World species to
which it is applied.

*Genera: Cacicus and Cassiculus.

®Cf. Ridgway, 1902, Bull. U.S.N.M., vol. 50, pt. II, p. 172.

* Cacicus cela and Ostinops decumanus in Trinidad and Colombia; Ostinops salmon in
Colombia ; Gymnostinops montezumae in Mexico.
350 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

In view of the fact that the subtropical and hence, presumably,
more recently evolved oropendolas’ have a yellow band or marks at
the base of the maxilla, it is noteworthy that two young Zarhynchus
taken from fallen nests on Barro Colorado, June 26, 1925, and April
1, 1927, respectively, and a young female with half-grown tail taken
in eastern Panama, May 27, all have well-marked yellow, supraloral
marks.

Chiefly for the purpose of affording a basis for comparison of the
sexes I append a brief description of Zarhynchus.

Male.—Head, neck all around, throat and upper breast seal-brown; upper back
and wings glossy black; lower back and rump and upper tail-coverts chestnut ;
tail bright yellow, the two central feathers and outer webs of the outer pair
black ; sides seal-brown shading through the flanks and ventral region to chest-
nut lower tail-coverts. Feathers at the base of the frontal shield elongate, those
in the center of the occiput reaching an average length of 50 mm. and with a
basal width of about 2 mm.; two outer primaries incised or narrowed near their
ends; bill large, heavy, and sharply pointed, the maxilla expanded over the en-
tire forehead as a broad, rounded elevated shield. Length (skin), 350; wing,
215; tail, 130; culmen, 68; greatest width of frontal shield, 21 mm.

Female.—Differs from the male chiefly in her smaller size. The black of the
body is less extensive and less glossy but this difference is too slight to be notice-
able in life. The bill is much smaller, its frontal development less pronounced,
the frontal crest shorter and of fewer feathers; and the primaries are only
slightly incised. In flight, the radiation of the ends of the primaries is less pro-
nounced and this character, the absence of sound when flying, and smaller size
are the characters which in life distinguish the female from the male. Length
(skin), 268; wing, 153; tail, 102; culmen, 51; greatest width of frontal shield,
16 mm.

SEASONAL MOVEMENTS

In a broad sense Zarhynchus waglert is a resident, nonmigratory
species. Studied locally and intensively, on Barro Colorado, at
least, it is nonresident and migratory. It appears at its breeding
station with remarkable regularity and at the conclusion of the nest-
ing season leaves it. While breeding, all its wants are supplied in
the forest near its home; at this time it probably rarely goes more
than 400 yards from its nest tree. The extent of its wanderings at
other times of the year is unknown, but its appearance within the
nesting territory during the nonbreeding season is purely casual.

While Zarhynchus breeds during the dry season, the date when it
begins to nest is not closely dependent on the cessation of rain. There
has been much variation in the date on which the wet season may be
said to have ended and the dry begun on Barro Colorado during the
three years the oropendolas have been under observation, as the ap-
pended data from the laboratory rain-gage show.

As for temperature, it varies so little during the year that it prob-
ably plays no part in determining the season when birds nest.

7 Ostinops alfredi, O. atrocastaneus, O. sincipitalis.
351

Possibly this is one of the reasons, perhaps the chief reason, why birds
in the tropics nest throughout the year. The mean temperature for
July in Panama is 81.1°; for February, 80.8°; a difference of only
three-tenths of a degree. Comparison of the mean temperatures on
Barro Colorado for December and January of the three years covered
by my studies of Zarhynchus shows a slight decrease in the second
month the first year, a negligible increase in the remaining two. The
data follow:

NESTING HABITS OF OROPENDOLA—-CHAPMAN

Mean Temperature for December and January 1925-1928

Month Dembee Month Temper
° °
0 a fe eee Se et 6 Bll ATNOT SNe aos wns, wate 80.5
eyelet baer ee . 5 DOR eel Fe cock Sans ee ee 80. 2
| Lei ae FE eae eS 80. 1 A, SESS Se ee EE P28 80. 6

Table of rainfall, in inches, on Barro Colorado Island during December and
early January, 1925-1928

DECEMBER

Day of month 1925 1926 1927 | Day of month 1925 1926 1927

eae, Lind lila ilar 0.05} 0.81 “19 | Oe Geese, hie ap peered 0 T, 0

, a Pap Sere .22 .13 eT | Ce ee BERS} | 0 7, 0
| awn abe ale 1.67 22 “1 gg] HE ahd pol aR igh beg Sle .02} 0 .10
OS ae ae 1.76 -25 ital het tian tanta ge ected i 0 7. 1.40
el Rt hie J apeteedilifaaes 1 .47 y SA eee, ee ee Re. 45 1.50
aR SES hel ee ee .13| 3.06 Derg RMB od, sxricknsded~-delbitend Lead . 62 . 40
leet ls “ppl embalabah 0 1.36 0 7 a Fpl Fred | 0 18 . 03

MOS. Fo eee ae Tt 0 T, 1 AC aR, PORES See SMR | 0 0 0
oo tia pegeeiiel aged 0 . 04 SS6' | ee ee ee | oO 0 . 08
“TT ay ee eee 0 1.02 BT ah EE TI, ES | 7 0 .83

eee eee 0 .34 Bie ESS SL I SBP aE 0 .32 0

ODE EAT LE 0 89 0) all Mike dey srerivre 0 . 04 0

Riveter al LE 0 1.05 Ce a0 ee ees Yo 0 0

0 85 0 | SER | OOS: | 0 . 08 0
0 ‘u} 0 Mota se te. tis 4.32| 12.22] 6.76

0 . 33 0 | |
JANUARY
cia it Dil te

Day of month 1926 | 1927 1928 | Day of month 1926 | 1927 | 1928
Me EAS A ee ee ee ee eee ee ee
SARS U7 E8S Lely Ge Pees whee 0 0.41 0 AOU iit ae Agta 0.40} 0.96 0.17

, SO aa 0 ; 10 rt SPO SER ee Veet hE 0 . 08 0
CRIS ih ee rere 0 0 0 yb COMPO E ae ee we 0 48 .10

“PLR a ae 0 0 GERD RE 0 0 0

_ TES ES REO 0 19! 0 tal. Jysis cae. Ac ee | : 0

$ ae ee 0 r 12 0 eee e Sera eee 0 .18 0
ae 1, 25 0 OE. oc ktotcaces .76| 2.81 34

“SET aaa vey he .07 |

1 Zarhynchus began to build nests.

The end of the wet season, therefore, varied from December 6 in

1925 to at least January 12, in 1927. That this variation was not
reflected in the dates when the oropendolas began to nest will be seen
from the following data:
352 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

Dates at which Zarhynchus wagleri began to nest at Barro Colo-
rado Laboratory, 1926-1928 :§
1926 Nesting began January 8
1927 Nesting began January 8
1928 Nesting began January 2

This remarkable periodicity indicates the regularity of the annual
physiological cycle of the species. While in the main coincident
with the dry season the birds’ exact nesting period does not appear to
be affected by the annual fluctuations in the date when the wet season
ends, but rather is governed by those sexual changes which mark the
approach of the season of reproduction. They prompt the birds to
go, we may say to migrate, to the nesting tree. The extent of the
migration we do not know. The birds may spend their lives within
a radius of not more than a mile or two from the place of their birth.
The significant fact is that the journey to their nesting range is
begun in response to a periodically recurring physiological condition,
that it is made regularly to a definite place, presumably before
visited, and that as such it is fundamentally as true an example of
migration as though it were made from the South Temperate to the
North Temperate Zone.

The case is paralleled by the return of tropical sea birds to their
nesting grounds situated within the limits of their winter wander-
ings, to which I long ago called attention in a paper® designed to
show that primarily bird migration was, and is, induced by those
developments in the sexual organs which precede the season of re-
production. Hence it follows that if because of sterility or im-
maturity this development does not occur, the bird in which it is
lacking may remain in its winter quarters throughout the nesting
season.?°

The members of the laboratory colony do not all begin nesting at
the same time. Just as with migrants to the Temperate Zone, there
are late arrivals. Thus in 1926 new nests were begun as late as
February 11, in 1927 on February 13, and 1928 on February 7.

Short visits are paid to the nest tree some days before nest building
actually begins. In the season of 1926 I made no record of such visits.
The following year I reached the island on December 22, 1926, and
the appended observations were recorded before January 8, 1927,
when nest building began.

8 Compare also the nesting dates given beyond for the black-throated hummingbird
(Anthracothorasz nigricollis).

©1894, ‘““Remarks on the Origin of Bird Migration,’ The Auk, vol. XI, p. 12.

In mid-July, 1922, I took specimens of both sexes of the following Arctic-breeding
shore-birds in southern Ecuador: Squatarola squatarola, Numenius hudsonicus, Limno-
dromus griseus scolopaccus. None had the sexual organs enlarged. See “ Distribution of
Bird-Life in Ecuador,” 1926, Bull. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., vol. LV, pp. 192, 194.
——

NESTING HABITS OF OROPENDOLA—CHAPMAN 353

SEASON OF 1926-27

December 23. Two males call in the tree in the early morning and then soon
depart.

December 24. No birds seen in the tree; one heard in the distance.

December 29. Three reported but sex not stated.

December 30. A male calls at 7.15 a. m. and later one female visits the tree.

December 31. A male calls in the early morning and several females come
for a short time later.

January 1, 1927. One male and one female came.

January 2. One bird heard in the distance.

January 3—5. Observer absent.

January 6. Zarhynchus shows a group interest in the nest tree. First came a
male with 4 females, then 2 males with 8 females. The first group left with
the male, in the second, the 2 males went off together while, later, the 8 females
flew off in another direction. Nothing is decided and no actual construction
has begun. The birds are site hunting and follow each other closely. When
1 female goes to inspect a new limb all the others follow her. There was one
combat between 2 of them; at 9 a. m. all the birds had left the tree for
the day.

January 7. At 8 a. m. 2 males and 3 females came to the nest tree for a
short stay, the females following each other about. At 8.30, 2 males flew over
alone ; they lit in the forest and called. Three males in the tree call; no females
come. A little later there were 8 females and 1 male in the tree. The females
examined renrains of old nests and soon left together.

January 8. Nest building began.

SEASON OF 1927-28

In the nesting season of 1927-28, I reached the island on Decem-
ber 22, 1927, and my notes, until the birds began to build, are as
follows:

December 22-25, 1927. No oropendolas seen.

December 26. At 8.30 a. m. a male calls a few times and leaves.

December 27. No birds seen in nest tree; one heard in the distance.

December 28. Male visits tree and calls at 6.20 and 8.20 a. m. Heard later
in the distance but not seen in the tree again.

December 29. At 7.30 a. m. 2 males call in the tree. Later 3 females, act-
ing as a unit, fly from place to place prospecting. Grapple and whirl while
fighting, once. A male in the tree but, as usual, they ignore him.

December 30. Two females prospect together. A male calls, definitely ad-
dressing them and thus beginning his prolonged courtship.

December 31. Observer absent.

January 1, 1928. Two females worked on an old foundation, and a male
ealled vigorously.

January 2. Nest building began.

It will thus be seen that preliminary visits are paid the nest tree

some days before nesting actually begins.

THE QUESTION OF A SECOND BROOD

The nesting season of Zarhynchus is so closely associated with the
dry season that it is difficult to believe that they nest also in the
wet season. Nevertheless, the facts indicate that at least some birds
354 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

breed after the rains begin, though whether their activities repre-
sent an actual second breeding season or are individual I am unable
to say. I, myself, have not been on Barro Colorado between April 2
and December 22 and for the following observations, made during
this period, I am indebted chiefly to Dr. J. Van Tyne of the
University of Michigan.

Dr. Van Tyne writes that only one of the 57 nests in the tree
that fell on June 26, 1925, contained anything. This nest held
two nestlings nearly ready to fly. A male collected on this date
had testes measuring 17 millimeters in length.

On July 8, 1925, 43 nests were counted in the oropendola colony
situated about 400 yards from the laboratory; 8 or 10 birds were
present and at least 3 or 4 nests were in use. A male collected at
this colony on July 9 had testes measuring 19 millimeters in length.

In 1927, after my departure on April 2, Dr. Van Tyne reports
that on April 5 he saw young fed for the last time in nests that
had been begun on January 8 and adds the following observations:

April 5. Noticed two females fighting over what seems to be a prospective
nest site somewhat to the right of any of the present nests.

April 9. Returning this afternoon from Panama City (Pearl Island trip)
I find a whole group (I count a dozen) of new nests being started. The
group is situated immediately to the right of and somewhat lower than the
old right-hand group of nests. One nest is well along (one-third length) and
the rest merely started. I have seen no bird yet using any of the five marked
(old) nests. I suppose they are empty by now. Are not the new nests being
built for second broods?

April 11. The nest building is progressing rapidly. There are now 19 nests
under construction and more apparently being started. The males have been
much more noisy since this new nest building began. Also the false-alarm
business (i.e., cackle and dive for safety) has been much more frequent.
Legatus and Cacicus are much in evidence. Legatus looks into some of the
old nests but does not enter. Cacicws merely sits around and sings.

April 12. I can now count 22 new nests. Only about four of the old nests
seem to be still occupied. The females that are building are continually
stealing nesting material from each other and from old nests.

April 14. There are 10 of the nests which are now completed as far as
the outside is concerned—they continue to work inside. All of these nests
are strikingly shorter than the first brood nest. Most of them are barely a
foot long.

April 19. At 6 a. m. (8 minutes before sunrise) the oropendolas were nearly
all at their nests about to begin work. 6.30 p. m. none of the females are roost-
ing in the nests yet. But there are several of the old nests still in use.

April 21. Only 18 of the new group of nests appear to be under active con-
struction, Others seem to have stopped entirely and are probably discarded.
To-day 6 new nests were started in a separate group about half-way between the
two old groups of nests and some 10 feet lower. All are close together on the
same branch. Why do they do things by groups like this? What is this
smaller group within a nesting colony?

On April 26 the wet season began—3.78 inches rain. Rain continued—averag-
ing nearly an inch a day. This seems to have stopped the oropendolas. They
a

NESTING HABITS OF OROPENDOLA—CHAPMAN 355

continued to hang around for nearly a week but finally gave up and left
entirely. Legatus is still hanging around (May 11) as ineffectual as ever.
Cacicus makes rare visits to the abandoned colony but the oropendolas
(Zarhynchus) almost never.

In July, 1928, Mr. Zetek reported to me the presence of 11 oropen-
dola nests in a large outstanding tree near the observatory on the
summit of the island. These nests had not been built when I left the
island on April 2, nor were the birds known to nest in these trees at
any previous time. Mr. Jay A. Weber, who was on Barro Colorado
from July 22 to August 10, 1928, at my request, made repeated ob-
servations of these nests and he reports that no oropendolas were seen
near them or indeed on the island during his stay.

Possibly these nests were built in April before the rainy season
began, by the birds that had been prevented from nesting in the
sand-box tree at the laboratory. On the other hand, taken in con-
nection with Dr. Van Tyne’s observations, recorded above, this late
building may indicate a regular attempt at the production of a
second brood.

VOICE

The notes of Zarhynchus are loud, varied and frequently uttered.
Those uttered by both sexes are (1) the characteristic blackbird
“chuck ” or “ chut,” which is apparently a location call or conversa-
tional note, and its varying tone doubtless conveys varying mean-
ings; (2) a “cack-cack” development of the call note which ex-
presses suspicion and alarm. This is given by the male more fre-
quently than by the female whose voice joins that of the male in the
presence of actual or suspected danger, as described beyond. The
call is then louder, uttered more rapidly and resembles the sound
produced by a small watchman’s rattle, or “ matraca ”; (3) a whin-
ing call which seems to be a note of combat, real or threatened.
This is given by the males when two or more at close quarters are
courting the same female, and by the females when in the contest for
a nest site they grapple and whirl downwards. The females also
sometimes whine just after entering the nest, but the significance
of the note is then not apparent.

The notes peculiar to each sex are the female’s gasping “ wee-
ehuck-chuck-chuck,” a low husky gurgle which one bird addresses to
another in disputes over the nesting site, and the male’s announce-
ment of presence and his song. I distinguish between these two
calls of the male, but lack of experience with the species in the non-
breeding season makes the distinction an arbitrary one.

I at once confess my inability to transcribe the male’s calls either
by notation or syllabification, and faith in my power to convey even
an approximate idea of them is weakened by the fact that, for the
356 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

greater part, descriptions written one year mean little or nothing the
next! What I have termed the announcement of presence call is
uttered before courtship begins, when, for example, the male is alone
in the nest tree. I write it as “agua” or “ waco” or “chap-pa-
qua”; “hope you choke.”** The tone is loud, deep, liquid, and
gurgling and the call is usually interspersed with “chucks.” The
courtship, or “crash” call, which I consider the male’s real song,
begins with the one just described and adds a sputtering crackle
ending in an explosive crash. In my notes I have also termed this
remarkable production a sputtering, masticatory ejaculation. The
polysyllables help convey some idea of its character. This call, as
described under courtship, is given with obvious muscular effort.
It can, indeed, be seen coming as the bird’s body begins to swell
from below upward and, rising on tiptoe, he delivers his vocal
appeal, then sinks back deflated. Of all these themes there are
endless variations and combinations and as the season advances
changes occur which, while evident to the ear, are too subtle to be
put on paper.

WING “ NOTES ”

The fiight of the female is essentially noiseless, but the flight of
the male is often accompanied by a sound, evidently produced by
the passage of the widely radiating, emarginate outer primaries
through the air. This sound varies in rhythm in response to the
character of the bird’s flight. It is apparently under the bird’s
control and may be withheld, when the flight of the male is as noise-
less as that of the female. It probably has some sexual significance.
As a rule it marks the time of the bird’s wingbeat as with a loud
“fluff, fluff, fluff,’ he flies steadily with even strokes or passes on
deep, swinging loops. When the male pursues the female in court-
ship-flight it is a loud startling, rushing roar, such as might be
produced by the sudden violent tearing of some textile. On sev-
eral occasions it accompanied a peculiar flight as the bird pointed
its bill toward the ground and, with short, jerky wingbeats, pro-
duced a staccato “ plop, plop, plop.” This may have been some
form of sexual display.

THE QUESTION OF TERRITORY

The question of territorial rights while nesting apparently does not
enter into the location of an oropendola colony. On Barro Colorado
three nesting colonies of these birds are known. One is 400 yards
from the laobratory colony, the other nearly two miles from it in the

u The latter phrase is the only one that has held in my notes for two years and for this
reason I give it.
NESTING HABITS OF OROPENDOLA—CHAPMAN 357

opposite direction. Birds apparently en route to the nearer colony
sometimes stop in the laboratory tree and mingle with the local birds
without their presence being questioned.

Nor do groups within the colony appear to be concerned by the
question of boundaries. The first bird to arrive selects its group loca-
tion from the unoccupied field, the choice being made by the females.
Each year of my observations the first group to arrive has selected a
different location. Always, however, a situation was chosen that had
been used before. Here the point of attachment, which is usually all
that is left of the preceding year’s nest, offered an attractive place
for the beginning of a new nest.

The nests are always built on the southerly and westerly, which is
the leeward, side of the tree during the period of trade winds that pre-
vail in the dry season. Here the nests receive some protection from
the windward side of the tree, and it is probable that the birds can
enter them more readily flying upwind than they could when flying
down wind.

The tree is large enough to afford sufficient space for subsequent
groups without arousing the enmity of those already located, and I
have seen no ill-feeling displayed between the members of different
groups as such, Size is, indeed, to be desired in a colony, and the
larger its population the more protection do its component individuals
receive from their common enemies.

It was soon evident that the birds were not monogamous, but it was
by no means clear whether they were polygamous or promiscuous.
The relationships of the males to one another were also to be deter-
mined. No reference to these subjects has been found in the literature
concerning oropendolas and caciques.

COURTSHIP AND SEXUAL RELATIONS

To determine the sexual or marital relations of the members of an
oropendola colony is one of the most interesting and at the same time
most difficult problems connected with the study_of these birds. At
the time of my departure the colony of 1926 contained about 6 or 7
males and 39 females; that of 1927, 5 or 6 males and 29 females; that
of 1928 was never fully organized. In each case the number of
females given was determined by the number of nests. Unattached
females may have visited the nest tree, but they did not function as
members of the colony.

The opening of the nesting season is announced by the location call
of the male, given from the nest tree, on numbers of occasions, some
days before nesting actually begins. Females may or may not be
present at such times; however, should there be any in the tree the
male pays no attention to them. It is not until they begin to build

28095—31——24
358 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

that his prolonged courtship actively begins. He then takes a post
usually above the working females and addresses the group collec-
tively; or he focuses his attention on a single bird (but not always the
same bird). Generally he perches on the nest branch above her and
repeatedly utters the courtship or “crash” call. As the season
advances and the period of egg deposition approaches he presses his
suit with greater energy, and at its maximum his demonstration is
thus described in my records of February 18, 1927:

The usual position of the male when addressing the female is above her,
often on the limb to which her nest is attached or, should she be inside, at its
entrance. From this point of vantage he leans down toward her, his blue eyes
glare as though they would pop from their orbits, his crest feathers are elevated
and expanded laterally, his wing tips are crossed above his tail, and the fluffy
feathers of the lower back are spread out over the edges of the inner wing
quills. This attitude is invariably accompanied by the “crash” or courtship
call—indeed, is assumed for the purpose of uttering this call. In the delivery
of it the bird rises on his toes, aS it were, nervously flits, while slightly spread-
ing the tail, raises the dorsal feathers, and fluffs out the body feathers chiefly
of the flanks. The movement of the body feathers may be caused by the
muscular exertion incident to the delivery of his notes, but the spreading of
the back feathers seems a part of the display. When not specifically directed
toward a female but addressed generally to a group, the bird’s attitude is more
erect, like the normal perching position, the tail is not flitted and the perform-
ance is less tense, less excited.

This muscular and vocal demonstration evokes no response from
the female who, acting as though wholly unaware of the male’s
presence, continues without interruption her nest building and her
journeys to and from the forest. The male may accompany her on
these journeys or he may turn his attention to another female.

It is not apparent that a male has any group relations or group
rights. As many as six males have been seen courting in one group
at the same time and they fly from group to group. At an unex-
pectedly early date the male pursues the female in what appears to
be a mating flight, though I have never seen it lead to mating. In
1927 this act was first observed on January 12, four days after nest
building began. In 1928 it occurred within the first week of building.
On these occasions the male with a rush and a roar of wings pursues
the female at full speed while she twists and turns and apparently
spares no effort to evade him. Usually the birds are lost to sight
in the forest but in every case where the flight has been watched to
its conclusion the female alights in a tree, the male perches near her
and the incident is closed. Frequently the pursuing male is joined
by a second and even by a third when the affair becomes a thrilling
exhibition of flight power not without its dramatic appeal. As the
nesting season advanced it was observed that each male concentrated
his attention on a certain female which he accompanied to and from
NESTING HABITS OF OROPENDOLA—CHAPMAN 359

the nest and that his rights appeared to be recognized by other males
none of which disputed his claims. The male at this time did not
rush after the female but went with her quietly, as though he were
her accepted mate. My entry of February 26, 1927, in regard to the
owner of nest No. 5, group 1, who is later referred to in connection
with the loss of her nest, illustrates this habit; it reads:

Male accompanies female with great regularity to and from the nest waiting
immediately above while she is inside and leaving just after she does. She
always leads both going and coming. Their flight is normal, there is no rush
of pursuit, and no other male interferes.

While waiting for the female to come out of the nest the male may
now be silent or he may call a rather automatic call without any of
the action and vocal energy of the courtship period. On February 28
and March 1 a male with a black-tipped bill was recorded regularly
accompanying the female of nest No. 17, group 2, in the manner
above described. This nest was begun February 7 and it is probable
that the female was about to lay.

Further evidence indicative of an understanding between the sexes
is supplied by observations in which the female not only acknowl-
edged the presence of the male, but apparently caressed him. ‘Thus
on January 27, 1926, and February 10, 11, and 22, 1927, a female
perched by the side of a male, away from the nest but in the nest
tree, was seen to pick at or stroke the male’s plumage. The record
of February 11 reads: “A female picks at the head of a male gently
(a caress?) several times. He apparently is conscious of the atten-
tion and welcomes it.” Quoting again from the entry for February
11: “A female perched near the place where one was observed
yesterday runs her bill through the male’s neck feathers, while he,
with bowed head and half-open bill, seems to enjoy the proceeding.”
Again, on February 22: “A female, in the body of the tree, caresses
amale. Two other males come, but the female pays no attention to
them and continues picking at the feathers of the first male. She
then flies off with him leaving the other males.”

Since this attention on the part of the female was not restricted to
the immediate vicinity of the nest, where it could be readily observed,
it may have been indulged in far more frequently than my records
show. Together with the regular association of a male and a female
for a short time it leads to the conclusion that at least during the
period when the ova require fertilization a male and a female asso-
ciate as a pair.

After incubation begins the male shows no further interest in the
female. In this connection my entry for February 22, 1927, reads:
“No. 5, group 1, is the only bird of the seven in the group that
attracts a male, from which I conclude that the other six have laid.”
360 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

And on February 28, I find this: “No males in group 1 to-day.
Their attention is devoted to the builders in group 2.” February 28
I quote further: “No males have been seen in group 1 since I can
remember.”

Although the males are such ardent and persistent wooers, they
exhibit no really pronounced sexual jealousy. Possibly its absence is
due to the excess in the numbers of females over males. But in the
small colony of 1928, when there were probably half as many males
as females and the competition for a mate should have been keener
than in the preceding years, no change was observed in the relations
of the males to one another. When several males (I have seen four)
court the same female simultaneously the situation is apparently
threatening. ‘The birds whine excitedly and an attack seems im-
minent but at the worst it results in a pursuit in which one bird
retreats slowly before another, flying from limb to limb but not
usually leaving the nest tree. No notes are uttered—the whine seems
to be the only battle cry—there is no resistance and hence no fighting,
and the whole affair is quiet and dignified. On one occasion (Janu-
ary 26, 1927) one male drove a second from perch to perch and finally
out of the nest tree, then out of three other trees, and finally into the
forest where they were lost to view, but it was done quietly and
slowly. It is only the females that fight.

THE SITH

In the tree now occupied by the laboratory colony, the nest site
is a single terminal, “dripping” or downward pointing branch or
twig about the thickness of a lead pencil. Nests preserved from
the tree that fell show that its terminal branches had an upward
curve, creating, therefore, a short horizontal section at the turn
which offered a more favorable place of attachment for the nest
than is given by the branches of the tree now occupied. In any
event, the site should permit the nest to swing free without danger
of entanglements with near-by limbs even when, as sometimes hap-
pens, it is blown to an almost horizontal position.

If the birds of a group arrive and work together they usually
build nests as near to one another as the available sites permit. The
selection of a site may be made at once and peacefully, it may cause
the display of some animosity accompanied by actual fighting, or
it may be the occasion of a remarkable performance extending over
several days. In the first instance, nest building proceeds at once
without friction and it is possible that these birds have been asso-
ciated before. In the second instance the birds grapple claw to
claw and, fighting with their bills, whirl downward like a single
bird with set wings extended. When within 10 to 20 feet of the
NESTING HABITS OF OROPENDOLA—CHAPMAN 361

earth they separate, fly to the nearest perch and sit there quietly for
a few seconds side by side. Then they usually return to the nest
site. These conflicts may be repeated from time to time but cease
when nest building is under way and right to the possession of a
site is acknowledged.

An extreme illustration of the desire for close companionship
while nesting occurred in the season of 1928. On January 31 two
females began to build nests Nos. 3 and 4 of group 2. ° The birds
were on friendly terms, selected sites not more than a foot apart,
and proceeded quietly with their work. On February 3, when the
nests were well started, they were joined by two more females who
insisted on aiding them in the construction of their nests. I quote
from my journal:

Nest No. 3 is the more advanced and the newcomer confines her efforts to
the upper or attachment portion where she is permitted to work by the owner.
No. 4 has room for only one worker and every attempt on the part of the
volunteer to assist is at once resented by the owner. The birds then lock grips
and whirl downward fighting and squealing as they fall. An occasional float-
ing feather shows that these aerial combats are not mere matters of form.
For the greater part of the time the two birds sit motionless, with bills half
open glaring fixedly into space; No. 4 on her nest, the would-be helper on a
branch distant only a few inches. For at least 10 minutes they hold this
pose then spring at each other and, grappling, whirl downward.

The first-named volunteer finally built a complete nest, using the
attachment of No. 3 for her foundation, while the one who for some
time persisted in her efforts to assist the builder of No. 4, finally
built a nest of her own from an immediately adjoining branch.

In some cases, however, the matter of site ownership is not so
quickly settled, when the actions of the builder of nest No. 4 and her
rejected assistant developed the singular performance to which I have
before referred. The most pronounced and prolonged dispute of this
nature was made by two females in group 2, of the 1927 nesting sea-
son. These birds were first observed at 7.35 on the morning of Janu-
ary 19, facing one another on terminal site twigs about 1 foot apart.
One went through the motions of the male’s “ crash ” call repeatedly.
I could see its bill moved but could hear no sound. ‘The other, with
head bowed, listened. Finally they grappled and fell fighting. The
struggle thus begun lasted for five days before each bird was recon-
ciled to the presence of the other, and at the end of this time each
began building on its own site. Sometimes one, sometimes the other,
“held the floor,” but they never both called together and the bird
addressed, apparently oblivious of all else, gave her entire attention
to the speaker. Seen at such times, one would assume that the calling
bird was a courting male, the silent one a receptive female, but this
illusion would be destroyed when the listening bird would claim the
privileges of the floor and speak as vigorously as her protagonist,
362 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

the argument often ending in a grapple and fight as they whirled
downward. I quote from my journal records of illustrative observa-
tions:

January 20, 7.55 a. m. Two females face each other, bills about 3 inches
apart and eall alternately; crests erect.

January 21, 9.44 a.m. Nos. 1 and 2, group 2, at same sites as yesterday. No.
2 assumes a downcast (listening) pose, No. 1 addresses her. Both now facing
each other only 8 inches apart; a laughable performance, crests arising as
they speak. (This was continued until 10 a. m. when both picked at old
nesting material.)

January 22. No. 1, perched above No. 2, who is on her site, calls frequently,
addressing No. 2 below, who, with her head bowed in the usual pose, eyes half-
closed, bill sometimes partly open, apparently listens intently to the notes No.
1 is practically pouring into her ear. A male alights on the limb above, and
shakes it so that Nos. 1 and 2 lose their balance. No. 1 falls on No. 2, they
grapple and whirl downward, but return at once and assume their former poses
and actions.

January 24, 7.20 a. m. Nos. 1 and 2 still at it; the form of approach this
morning being the statement and counter statement. They never call together
but one follows the other and I can hear the husky gurgle of both.

On this date the discussion closed, and although there had been
some attempt at nest building, it was not until January 25 that work
was definitely begun. It then appeared, as will be shown later, that
both these birds were inexperienced builders. Possibly they were
building their first nest and hence had been selecting their first site.
Several other couples in group 2, 1927, acted as did Nos. 1 and 2, but
in no other instance was the dispute so prolonged. This group was
not definitely organized and seemed to be composed largely of indi-
viduals who had not before been associated.

NEST BUILDING

When the nest building instincts are fully developed the birds work
regularly and persistently giving the greater part of each day to their
task. During the building season there is a variation of only about
five minutes in the time of the sunrise (6.35-6.40) and correspond-
ingly little variation in the birds’ working hours. In January, with
clock-like regularity, one or more males call from the nest tree at
from 6.30 to 6.35 a. m. and 20 to 30 minutes later the females arrive
and begin their day’s labors. For the succeeding four hours they are
steadily employed in gathering material and using it. They receive
no aid whatever from the male either in securing material or build-
ing. He, however, is almost constantly with them, both while they
collect building material and while in the nest tree, and his unremit-
ting attentions and frequently uttered calls may prove a source of
encouragement.

Toward midday the birds usually retire to the forest and the nest
tree is deserted. In the early afternoon work is resumed and con-
NESTING HABITS OF OROPENDOLA—CHAPMAN 363

tinued until about half-past five o’clock when the birds in a body go
to the forest, generally taking the same direction, perhaps to a
regularly frequented roost. From this schedule there is, of course,
more or less variation, and as the season advances the birds retire
later.

Comparatively few nests survive the rainy season and those that
do remain are frayed and ragged. A new nest, therefore, is built
each year. On one occasion, after a rain, a bird was seen to use
some wet, and hence weavable, material from an old nest in the con-
struction of its home, but, as a rule, only the attachment of the pre-
ceding year’s nest enters into the building of the new one.

Strong but pliable material is required by the weaver. A green
tendril 8 to 10 inches long is much used, particularly in the early
stages of the work. This, like twine, can be wrapped about a limb
many times, forming, in effect, the foundation of the nest bag. Air
rootlets, fine strips of bark, filamentous blossoms, plant fibers, string-
like strips from the stem of Monstera torn off by the strong, service-
able bill of the bird, what resemble weed stalks (but no twigs) form
the greater part of the nest bags examined. I use the term “ nest
bag,” for the pensile structures seen hanging from the nest tree are
merely the receptacles for the nest proper. This is composed of
nearly a hatful of fragments of soft leaves and bark and short pieces
of fiber loosely placed, not packed or woven, at the bulbous bottom
of the woven bag. In the old, as well as freshly fallen, nests that
I have examined this material is not definitely shaped into a circular
nest with a depressed center and surrounding walls, but is a formless
bed probably designed to prevent the eggs from rolling about and
breaking when the nest bag is violently blown about by the strong
trade winds of the dry season.

All the nesting material, except that which may be stolen from a
neighboring nest, is secured in the immediately adjoining forest,
usually within sight of the nest tree.

In well-organized colonies in which the community spirit is de-
veloped, the females, when building, usually leave the nest tree to
collect material, in a body, and they may be seen gathering it to-
gether in the same tree. Material dropped when building is not
abandoned, but by a graceful swoop is caught in the air, the

retriever returning with it to the nest.
_ Building birds often take material from another bird’s nest either
in their own or an adjoining group. Some birds, indeed, are chronic
robbers and steal a large part of their material. Slovenly builders
are more apt to be robbed than those that leave no loose and tempting
ends about their structure. A poor builder is often, therefore,
heavily handicapped, for a day’s work may be undone in a short
time by her thieving neighbors. Birds that do not work continuously
364 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

and which consequently leave their nests unprotected are frequently
robbed. There is a limit, however, beyond which it does not pay
to try to secure material from another bird’s nest. Only the looser,
partly woven ends may be easily taken. After that the robber may
tug and pull, adding her weight to her strength but she gets little
or nothing for her labor.

On one occasion a long fiber streaming from the bill of a returning
female was grasped by three other females and, becoming entangled
in a limb, was lost to all of them. Thoroughly to understand the
method by which a nest is constructed would require closer inspec-
tion, and from every side, than I have been able to give, even with
the aid of a high-power glass. The foundation of the nest is laid
by wrapping long rootlets, tendrils, or fiber about the supporting
limb until it is well covered. To this is woven additional material
forming a flat piece or apron, 10 or 12 inches in length, its extent
depending in part on the nature of the attachment. When the sup-
porting limb is more or less horizontal the apron takes shape more
readily than when it is perpendicular. Four nests preserved from
the tree that was occupied when the laboratory was established, and
that subsequently fell, are attached to horizontal limbs and have broad
bases or aprons. But the nest tree now occupied, as I have before
remarked, offers, as a rule, perpendicular limbs from which an apron
is less easily woven. Apparently, therefore, the present tree is less
adapted to the needs of Zarhynchus than the one that fell, its prox-
imity to the former site having induced the birds to occupy it in
spite of its unsuitability. Possibly for this reason the colony does
not grow and in time the tree may be abandoned.

Under the normal method of procedure when the apron or base
of the nest is finished an opening or hole three or four inches in
diameter is made in its lower part and the base of the ring or loop
thus formed becomes the lip of the entrance to the nest. This is
on one side and usually extends from the lip or rim of the opening
to the top, or place of the nest’s attachment. The formation of
this opening is evidently the most difficult part of nest construction.
Its base is usually strengthened by the use of additional material and
closer weaving.

In this loop or ring the bird stands working first above and then
below. From this stage downward she works inside the lengthening
bag which is evidently formed about her body as a mold, until the
lower part of the nest is reached when the outline bulges in response
to the increased diameter needed for the reception of the true nest.
The weaving here is a little closer and the walls of the nest thicker.

Even when the long sack is nearly completed, but is still open be-
low, the builder leaves and enters the nest by way of the door.
Entrance is made on the wing with, as the nest is approached, a
NESTING HABITS OF OROPENDOLA—OHAPMAN 365

slight downward dip followed by an abrupt upward turn which
serves to check the speed of the bird’s flight. The bird thus flies
into its nest without pausing on the threshold. The regularity with
which this procedure is followed is an indication of its importance.
With its back exposed and head concealed a bird, perched at the
nest opening and looking in, would evidently be at the mercy of a
foe from without, and this point of exposure is, therefore, passed
as quickly as possible. When leaving the nest, however, the posi-
tion and the conditions are reversed and the bird often perches in
its doorway and leisurely surveys the surroundings.

The use of the nest opening from the day it is available trains
the bird’s sense of location. I have never knowingly seen a bird
make the mistake of entering the wrong nest, even when, as is often
the case, several are near together. Under normal conditions it is,
indeed, rare for a bird to exhibit the slightest hesitation in finding
her own doorway. Changes, however, may occur which for a mo-
ment tend to confuse it. For example, when the nests swing widely
in a high wind not only are they in motion but the actual position
of the opening is altered and both factors cause the returning bird
to hover for a second or two before slipping into the nest.

A more pronounced case of this nature occurred through the
breaking of one of the limbs to which nest No. 5, group 1, 1927,
was attached. The nest now half turned around and then spun
back, the entrance, therefore, being first on one side then on the
other. The owner was at first confused but soon adapted herself
to the new situation though she was usually forced to discover
the exact position of the nest opening on each return.

Once the bird begins to work inside, little can be seen of her while
building until she begins to close the nest at the bottom. Then her
bill may be observed actively thrusting and pulling as she hangs
head downward within.

There is wide variation in the nest-building ability of different
birds. This is probably in part individual, but it is doubtless also a
measure of the extent to which their instinct has been developed by
experience. Some birds evidently know exactly what they want to
do and work rapidly and effectively ; others show but little interest in
their work and seem at a loss to know how to use the material they
have collected.

The members of groups 1 and 2, of the season of 1927, illustrated,
respectively, these extremes. The first, as has before been stated,
were apparently an organized group of birds that had been associ-
ated before, and hence, presumably were more or less experienced.
The second group was composed of birds that had not established
communal relations and some of which, at least, seemed to be build-
ing their first nest.
366 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

Group 1 began building on January 8, and for that day my record
reads:

Seven females came back from the forest together bringing green tendrils.
Some work at old, some at new sites. The first tendril is attached to the limb
skillfully and rapidly. It is put over and under, pulled here and poked there.
They work feverishly but definitely. Their heads go over a limb with a tendril
and then reach under it to get the end and pull it through. No needleworker
could proceed with less hesitation.

These birds further showed their energy and earnestness by work-
ing in the rain.
On January 9, my journal reads:

A thoroughly rainy morning, with showers and thunder; the whole sky over-
cast. I see 12 females and 1 male in the field of my 24-power glass. The fe-
males are using some fiber and all work furiously, about one half on old sites,
the rest on new. There is very little confusion and each bird “sticks to its
own knitting.” * * * They thrust over and pull under without apparent
study and without waiting. Everyone seems to know exactly what she wants
to do and goes at it like a master workman absorbed in her task.

The same concentration and effectiveness was shown by this group

throughout the period of construction. On January 22, the entry
reads :

These birds work whole-heartedly with strict attention to business, rarely
coming into contact with one another. Sometimes a head appears through a
nest bottom pulling vigorously at a fiber here or poking in a loose end there.
Postion is a matter of indifference. They work upside down or right side up;
nor do feathers of wings or tail impede their movements. The tail may be
bent any way, the wings closed or half-spread. They are intent on only one
thing and are not concerned with appearances.

Compare with these extracts the following, describing the nest-
building efforts of birds Nos. 1 and 2 of group 2. We have already
seen that these birds devoted five days to discussion of the nest
location before work actually began. I quote from my notes:

January 24, 7.53 a. m. No. 1 returns with short brown fiber but doesn’t seem
to know what to do with it. After a half-dazed moment she weaves it into
foundation * * *; 9.05, No. 2 returns with a bill full of green tendrils but
loses three-fourths of them. No. 1 comes with a bill full of the same kind of
material; they fight and she loses all of it.

January 25, 8.14 a. m. No. 1 sits with a straw in her bill, motionless until
8.23 when she uses it.

January 29, 8.05 a. m. No. 2 is still trying to form an opening—the doorway—
but it will not take shape. She pokes and pulls and weaves but apparently
lacks sufficient experience to succeed. She can weave but she doesn’t seem to
know what to weave.

January 30, 8.30. No nest in group 2 has a completed opening, and only No. 2
has attempted to make one. All the facts observed suggest that these are
young birds making their first attempt at nest building, in which case their
instinct must develop slowly with experience.

February 7. No. 1 has broken the bottom of her ring and works with wide-
spread feet grasping each end of it. No. 2 has deepened her saucer but has not
yet a doorway.
NESTING HABITS OF OROPENDOLA—CHAPMAN 367

February 10. No. 1 still struggling with her entrance. No. 2 has completed
hers and can now get inside the beginning of a bag.

February 14. No. 1 has brought the loose ends of her doorway together and
is almost concealed when at work,

In view of these facts it is obvious that the time required to build
a nest depends, at least in a measure, on the skill, energy, and
persistence of the builder. This statement would call for no qualifi-
cation if all nests were made to the same model. They vary, how-
ever, in length and in amount of lining. It is not impossible that
when an undue amount of time has been spent on the earlier stages
ofa nest it may be brought hastily to completion because of the
approaching needs of the female for a receptacle for the eggs.
When this need does not force a completion of the task, and conse-
quent closing of the nest bottom, the bag may be continued to the
maximum length.

In the absence of examination it is impossible to say exactly how
many days are required to finish a nest. One may note the time
when the weaving of the bag is finished and its lining begun, but it
is not improbable that while the female is laying, or even after she
has begun to incubate, she may add to the nest lining.

I have, therefore, accepted as evidence indicating the completion of
the nest its occupation at night. This is a definite, observable act and
obviously marks an important change in the attitude of the female
toward her home. Doubtless at or near this time the eggs are laid.

Throughout the period of building, the females, as before stated, at
the end of a day’s work accompany the males to the forest. They
usually go in a body, the males leading. But there comes a day when
the growing attachment of the female for her nest is stronger than
the impulse that induces her to follow the male to the roosting place.
The conquest of the old habit by the new one is recorded in my entry
for February 13, 1927:

To-night for the first time this year the females were seen to enter the nests
for the night. There was an unusual number of birds in the colony at 6.10.
At about 6.15 they all flew off but returned at 6.18. Again they took flight
leaving, however, three females who, after preening, entered nests Nos. 1, 2,
and 8 of group 1, respectively.

After this event is inaugurated the gathering in the nest tree of the
members of the colony becomes a nightly habit. Even the birds
whose nests are not ready for occupation stay in the tree until those
whose homes are apparently completed enter them. All sit about:
industriously preening their plumage in preparation for the night.
At about 6.15 the first female enters her nest. She is soon followed
by others and by 6.30 all who are to stay have gone to bed and the
remainder of the group fly to the forest.

In 1926 this habit was first observed on February 7; in 1927, on
February 13. The 1928 colony was too much disturbed to develop it
868 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

observably. Recalling that nest building was begun in both the first-
named years on January 8, it follows that in these groups of early
builders not less than 31 days were required to build the nest bag and
line it. I have suggested, however, that with the advance of the
season the increased development of the ovaries may induce the
builder to finish her work in a shorter time. For example, nest No.
17, of group 2, 1927, begun February 7, was believed to have been
completed in 23 days, and nest No. 13 of group 1, 1927, begun Febru-
ary 5, in 25 days.

Completed nests vary from 1 foot and 10 inches to 3 feet and 4
inches in length, but the greatest diameter of all (always in the bulb-
ous base) is 8 inches. Length, as we have seen, may depend on the
proximity of the egg-laying period and hence is variable, but the
diameter of that part of the bag containing the true nest is fixed by
the size of the sitting bird and, therefore, is always essentially the
same.

THE EGGS

The terminal branch to which nest No. 5, of group 1, 1927, was
attached was broken, presumably by a strong wind, on the morning
of March 7, and the nest fell. It contained two eggs which
apparently constitute a full set for the species. One of the eggs
was broken, the other measured 33 by 22 millimeters. In color it
ts pale blue with numerous irregularly shaped brownish-black marks
varying in size from a pin point to a currant and clustering most
thickly about the larger end. Both eggs contained embryos which
I estimated to be about 12 or 18 days old. My records give the
following history for this nest: It was begun January 8 and was first
slept in February 13. On February 21 the female entered and left
the nest 14 times between 8.33 and 9.25 a.m. February 22 she en-
tered and left six times between 8.17 and 9.04.. On both days she was
accompanied by a male on every journey to and from the nest. The
record for the 22d reads: “No. 5 is the only bird of the seven in
group 1 who attracts a male, from which I conclude that the other
six have laid.” February 23 she left the nest only once between
8.17 and 9.04 a. m. and was not accompanied by a male. This evi-
dence suggests that she began to incubate February 23, or 12 days
before the nest fell. I shall have something to say about the
subsequent activities of No. 5, the owner of this fallen nest.

Incubation in group 1, 1927, was believed to begin on February 18,
when the owner of nest No. 2 left her nest at 9.54 and returned at
9.59; these being her only movements during an hour’s observation,
On March 7, she carried food to the nest. On the basis of these obser-
vations the period of incubation in this instance was 17 days. On
March 11, this bird was seen removing excreta from the nest.
NESTING HABITS OF OROPENDOLA—CHAPMAN 369

THE YOUNG

Long before the eggs hatch the male loses interest in the female
and when the young appear they are cared for only by the female.
In 1927 young were first noted on March 2 in nest No, 2 of group 1.
On March 22 the young in this nest were first heard to call as they
were being fed. On the 31st the female fed them by reaching down
from the opening without entering the nest, and on April 1 they were
seen at the doorway. My observations ended April 2, but it is not
probable that the young of this nest took flight before April 5-8.”
On this assumption the dates of the more important events in the
history of this nest are as follows: Nest begun January 8. Female
first sleeps in nest February 13 (assumed date of the completion of
the nest). Young first noted, March 2. Probable date of flight
of young, April 5-8 or 87-90 days from the beginning of the nest,

The period of nearly three months between the beginning of the
nest and flight of the young is of course shortened when less time
is given to the construction of the nest. For example, nest No, 18,
group 1, 1927, which, as stated above, is believed to have been built
in 25 days, fell on April 1. It contained one well-grown young
which would doubtless have flown in not more than a week or 63
days after the nest was begun.

NOTES ON THE ACTIONS OF A BIRD THAT LOST HER NEST

As stated above, nest No. 5, group 1, 1927, containing two eggs
about 12 days advanced, fell on the morning of March 7. The subse-
quent behavior of the owner of this nest seems worthy of record.
The branch to which the nest was attached broke between 7.30 and
8.30 a. m. when I was in the forest. My observations began at 8.45
when, to quote from my record:

The female was seen fluttering about the vacancy left by the fall of her
home and alighting on the neighboring nests Nos. 4 and 7. Two males and a
female joined her and after a few minutes she flew west. At 9.30 she was
again looking for her nest but soon departed and did not return for at least
an hour, after which I was absent until evening. Between 6.10 and 6.30 p. m.
she made four attempts to find her nest, perching on the branch to which it
had been attached and examining the entrances to near-by nests; then she
flew east to the forest with three other oropendolas,

March 8. A female, after looking about the former postion of nest No. 5,
flew to a perch about 20 feet below. Later a female brought new green tendrils
to this perch and began to weave. Still later a female perched on the remain-
ing attachment of the fallen No. 5, then at various places above and below and on
each side, then flew down and weaved a little where the nest had just been
started 20 feet below. This action was interpreted as indicating that the new
nest had been started by the bird that had lost her nest and eggs the day before.

March 9. The female believed to be the owner of nest No. 5 worked a little at
the nest started yesterday then started a second one on the right fork of the
same branch; net result about two square inches on No, 1.

42 The observations of Dr. Van Tyne indicate that the earlier date is the correct one.
370 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

March 11 (absent March 10). No 5 works casually and ineffectively but at
three places, all within a few feet of one another.

March 12. No. 5 was not seen.

March 13. No. 5 not seen by me but reported by Mr. W. E. Hastings to have
done some work.

March 14. No. 5 not observed.

I find no further reference to this bird in my journal until March
17 when there is the following entry: “ No. 5 works at position No. 3
for a few minutes, then disappears. She had made practically no
progress since the first day or two.” The next and last entry is
March 28 when Mr. Hastings reported that a female attended by two
males came to the limb on which the new nests had been started and
did a few strokes of work.

If I am correct in identifying the bird that began these nests with
the one that had lost her nest 20 feet above the new position, and the
record of March 8 seems to justify this belief, it appears that after
devoting 36 days to nest building and approximately 12 to incuba-
tion she could, after one day’s manifestation of interest in the lost
nest, return to that part of her annual cycle, which in the normal
process of development had been reached when she first began to
nest, 58 days prior to her loss. Its promptings, however, were not
sufficiently strong and definite to enable her to complete a new nest.

ENEMIES

Aside from the parasitic blackbird, Cassidix, and flycatcher, Lega-
tus, two other birds were found to attack the oropendola colony on
Barro Colorado. Only one of these is diurnal, nevertheless the males
are constantly on guard. It is, indeed, their duty to act as watch-
men of the colony. While building, the females’ attention is of
necessity concentrated on their work and until they begin to weave
inside the structure they are exposed to attack from birds of prey.
The males, however, in spite of their almost constant wooing, are
ever on guard and when a hawk is seen they are the first to utter the
rapid, cackling alarm note, the females joining them in calling on
certain occasions. This is a signal for the whole colony to dive
precipitately into the lower growth of the adjoining forest.

Turkey buzzards do not, as a rule, evoke this call and generally
the white snake-eating hawk (Leucopternis ghiesbrechti), a pair of
which lived near the laboratory, was permitted to pass unchallenged.
But at times even the appearance of these birds, more particularly
the latter, was the occasion for an outcry and the accompanying
downward rush to cover. Rarely a low-flying airplane created
alarm. Often the warning cry is given without apparent reason
but its cause may have been clear to the birds if unseen by me.
Possibly also it may have shades of meaning to which human ears
are deaf.
NESTING HABITS OF OROPENDOLA—CHAPMAN 371

The response of the oropendolas to this note is variable. At times
they act as one bird and plunge from their nests or perches into the
forest. I have even seen a bird when flying toward her nest dodge
abruptly downward in the air when hearing the alarm. On the
other hand, while it evidently puts the birds on their guard, they
may not move when hearing it.

The significance of this call is understood not only by oropendolas
but obviously by other species. On February 8, 1926, five toucans
(three Pteroglossus, two Rhamphastos piscivorus) and two caciques
(Cacicus vitellinus) that were in the nest tree dived with the oropen-
dolas when the alarm was given. On the following day it induced
even a trespassing Cassidix to seek safety with her intended victims
from a supposed common enemy.

The need for a lookout and for prompt obedience to this danger
signal was tragically illustrated on February 12, 1927. At noon on
that day Mr. Maunsell S. Crosby, who was standing near the nest
(ree watching the oropendolas at work, saw an eagle hawk (Spizas-
tur melanoleucus) drop from the sky, strike an oropendola that was
working on her nest and bear her to a neighboring branch. The
hawk, which was identified by Mr. Ludlow Griscom, was still stand-
ing on its victim when a few moments later, attracted by the unusual
outery, I reached the tree. It soon flew off with its prey to the forest.
This event caused tremendous excitement among the oropendolas,
their united cries of alarm producing the effect of a loud chorus.
They all left the tree and for the remainder of the day the colony
was completely disorganized.

The following day the effects of this catastrophe were still evident
in the nervousness of the birds and the frequency with which the
alarm call was uttered. Normally this call may be heard three or
four times during a morning, but during two hours on the morning
of February 13 it was given at 8.50, 8.51, 8.55, 9.04, 9.07, 9.10, 9.12,
9.22, 9.40, 10.12, 10.15, 10.26, 10.44, and 10.50, a total of 14 times in
two hours. Beyond two buzzards that flew over at 9.10 and 10.44,
respectively, no cause for alarm was seen by me during this period.
The first seven times the alarm was sounded all the birds responded
promptly, diving to the protection of the lower growth. Later their
reaction was not so keen and on three out of seven signals they did
not respond.

The incident illustrates the exposure to attack by a predatory bird
of an oropendola working outside her nest, the need for a guard, the
importance of prompt obedience to his warning, of the quickening
of reactions through experience, and of their decline after frequent
call has been made upon them.

It might be imagined that the birds in their long nest bags swing-
ing from the tips of slender branches were immune from attack.
372 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

They can doubtless be reached by tree snakes, though I have no
evidence of their being preyed on by these, or by other reptiles.
Possibly marmosets may be able to approach them, but we have
never known them to do so. Furthermore, any diurnal enemy
would doubtless be subjected to attack from the sharp, strong bill
of the female, and perhaps also of the male Zarhynchus. It is,
however, a nocturnal winged foe that proves to be one of the most
serious enemies of the oropendola. This statement is based on
observations made on group 1, 1928, and recorded in my journal for
January 25, as follows:

Seven-thirty a. m. Some mishap has befallen group 1 (containing 8 nests)
during the night. Nest No. 3 is hanging upwind across the lower part of
No. 4, and has a large, round hole in its bottom, evidently made from without.
No. 5 has a similar opening. Nos. 2 and 4 each have a small round hole in
the side near the bottom. I showed these nests to Donato, who at once said:
“1 buho” (local name for Pulsatrix perspicillata) and added that early one
morning in the preceding year he had seen an owl fly from its perch in the
dead tree adjoining the sand box tree and pick at the oropendola nests. Cer-
tainly whatever did this work had wings.

The owl named is seen or heard about the clearing nightly.
Donato, our resident factotum, is a careful observer, and it is prob-
able that his identification of the marauder is correct. All the nests
mentioned were begun on January 2 and it is possible may have
contained eggs though I had no record of the birds’ sleeping in their
homes. The owners of Nos. 2 and 5 returned to their homes and
were evidently incubating as late as February 3.

Apparently the attack of the owl or owls created a condition
which made the remaining birds in the group more susceptible to
persecution by ZLegatus and eventually the whole group site was
abandoned. On former occasions I had seen holes an inch and a
half in diameter at the side of the nest bag about on a level with the
nest and supposed that they were made by the owner; but if they
are made by the foot of an owl reaching in while clinging to the
nest, it is evident that the home of Zarhynchus is far from
impregnable.

PARASITIC BIRDS

Zarhynchus, while nesting, is parasitized by two other birds, one
of which, in effect a large cowbird (Cassidiz), visits the colony from
time to time to deposit its eggs, while the other, a flycatcher
(Legatus), is a permanent resident who in seeking to gain possession
of an oropendola nest for its own uses becomes a community affliction
of the first magnitude.

Cassidiz oryzivora—tIt has long been known that Cassidix
oryzivora is parasitic on certain members of the oropendola-cacique
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Chapman PLATE 1

“Re
iM x

Che sand-box tree with nests of Zarhynchus from near the bottom of the slope below the laboratory
The tree was 132 feet in height; note the figure of a man at its base
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Chapman PLATE 2

1. The Zarhynchus colony in the sand-box tree, from the point at which, with the aid of a 24-power
binocular, most of the observations on which this paper is based were made. The roof of the main
laboratory building appears in the right foreground. Photographed with a 14-inch lens. 2. Eight
females of Zarhynchus beginning to build their nests in the sand-box tree. Group 1 of the colony of
1927, January 8. An old nest hangs at the left of those under construction. (See p. 438.) Photo-
graphed with a 14-inch lens, from the laboratory level
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Chapman PLATE 3

THE COURTSHIP OF ZARHYNCHUS

The male (upper figure), with dorsal feathers displayed, tail partly opened, flank feathers slightly raised
and crown plumes spread laterally, is addressing the female. She ignores his presence ind proceeds
with the building of her nest which has reached the loop stage. From a drawing by F. L. Jaques.
(About one-fourth natural size.)
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Chapman PLATE 4

Nests of Zarhynchus showing openings and method of attachment to site. The nest at the left is from
the tree that fell shortly after the laboratory clearing was made; the one at the right is from the
sand-box tree. The former is believed to have been better adapted to the builders’ needs
Smithsonian Report, 1930. Chapman

>

1, Zarhynchus nest in the e arly stage of construction at which the loop is made. (See also pl. 3); 2,
A portion of the Zarhynchus colony of 1927 in the sand-box tree. Note the pair of Legatus albicollis
it each side of the central] group of nests. These birds appeared and h irried the nest owners per-
sistently during the remainder of the nesting season See pl, 8 Photographed with a 23-inch

lens from the labor itory level
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Chapman PLATE 6

1. Zarhynchus nest bags in the sand-box tree swaying in a fresh breeze.

for the soft nesting material at the bottom of the bag forming the true nest.
tory level, with a 14-inch lens. 2.

ling it contained, nearly ready to fly. Note the light (yellow) marks on the forehead at each side of the base
of the bill. April 1, 1927

Their motion illustrates the necessity

Photographed from the labora-
Fallen nest of Zarhynchus cut open at the bottom to show the single nest-
7
/

PLATE

Chapman

Smithsonian Report, 1930.

by the owl, Pulsatriz

rently,

ipp

show opening at the nest level, made,

Nest bag of Zarhynchus to

verspicillata, to secure the contents of the nest
persy
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Chapman PLATE 8

Legatus albicollis inspecting a nest of Zarhynchus wagleri, with a view to occupancy. The figure of
Legatus was drawn by F. L. Jaques on a photograph of the nest of Zarhynchus. (Slightly less than
one-half natural size)
7 NESTING HABITS OF OROPENDOLA—CHAPMAN 373

group.’® Possibly, since their ranges are conterminous, it may
prove to be parasitic upon all of them. Whether it also parasitizes
other species does not appear to be known.

To our scanty knowledge of the relations between this species and
its hosts 1 append a summary of my observations on Barro
Colorado.

In 1926, Cassidiw was first observed on January 28; in 1927, on
January 19, and in 1928, on January 11, or respectively 20, 11 and 9
days after the beginning of nest building. In 1926 earlier visits to
the oropendola colony may have been overlooked for my attention
was not then focused on these birds. From the dates mentioned
until that time in each year when my observations ended, Cassidix
was frequently seen in the Zarhynchus nest tree. For some periods
my records show daily visits and at times several visits each day.

A female is first recorded as entering a nest in 1926 on February
4; in 1927, in spite of frequent attempts, one was not seen to succeed
until February 25; and in 1928, on January 18. Since on the last-
named date the nest entered was not completed, the bird was evi-
dently making a reconnaissance. As most of my observations were
made in the morning the greater number of my records of the pres-
ence of Cassidiz in the oropendola tree were made before noon.
The earliest is at 7.40 a. m. but the species was seen in the colony as
late as 6.30 p. m.

The birds seemed to come from a distance and usually alighted at
or near the top of the sand-box tree. Here they would remain for
several minutes and then pass from limb to limb and along the
limbs toward the Zarhynchus nests selecting, as a rule, those fin-
ished or most nearly completed. The earlier visits of Cassidix ap-
peared to be for inspection and when attacked by Zarhynchus they
quickly retreated and soon took flight. Later, when their needs
were doubtless more pressing, they persisted in their attempts to
enter the oropendola nests sometimes succeeding in spite of the
combined efforts of several oropendolas and the resident pair of
Legatus to prevent them. On leaving the tree they usually started
on an extended flight, sometimes over the lake, that soon carried
them out of sight.

Visits from single birds or twos was the rule, more rarely three
were observed together and on February 8, 1927, five females, the
greatest number seen together, perched in the tree top. Several at-

42 The recorded species and localities are as follows:

Ostinops decumanus.—Southern Brazil, Goruipr, 1894, “Aves do Brazil,’ p. 284; 1897,
Ibis, p. 364. British Guiana, 1896, LLoyp, Timebri, N. 8., X, p. 37.

Gymnostinops montezumae.—Costa Rica, CRANDALL, 1914, Zoologica, I, pp. 339, 341.

Zarhynchus wagleri wagleri.—Costa Rica, CRANDALL, 1914, Zoologica, pp. 338, 342.

Cacicus cela.—Para, Brazil, KusHe., 1896, Ibis, p. 585; 1897, J. F. O., p. 168. Gortpt,

1897, Ibis, p. 264. British Guiana, Luoyp, 1897, Timebri, N. S., XI, p. 5.
Cacicus haemorrhous.—British Guiana, Lioyp, 1897, Timebri, N. $, XI, p. &

28095—31——25
374 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

tempts were made by single birds of this group to enter nests but
they were prevented by Zarhynchus. Finally all left together in
the usual long flight.

The male Cassidix was recorded on only three occasions, January
19, 1927, February 10 and 19, 1928. On the first-named date a male
was accompanied by three females before which he slightly expanded
his ruff. On February 10 there were also three females with a single
male. On February 19 there was only one female with a single male.
The actions of these birds seemed to indicate that more than a pass-
ing relation existed between them and I quote my description of it:

Seven-thirty a.m. A male and female Cassidiz in the top of the sand-box
tree. The male’s plumage glistens brightly and he is conspicuously the larger
of the two. Some minutes after I discovered them the female started alone,
circled the tree twice in a rising spiral flight, then headed east. The male
continued preening. In about three-quarters of a minute a female alighted
near the male and half a minute later started due east. He followed. Assum-
ing that there was only one female, did she circle on her first flight while
awaiting for the male to follow? Did she return because he did not?

Cassidix is obviously recognized as a common enemy not only
when she seeks to enter a nest, but when, early in the nesting season,
she enters the nest tree. Not alone the bird whose nest 1s threatened
but other birds in the same group, and also from other groups, join
in attacking her; while Legatus assails at times with more zeal than
Zarhynchus. An incident illustrating these facts is recorded in my
journal for February 7, 1926:

At 4 p. m. a female Cassidiz tried to enter several nests but so clumsily that
before she discovered the combination she was driven off by a combined attack
of several female oropendolas. Evidently, they recognized her as an enemy
and united in communal defence without regard to the nest threatened. I
saw a female from group 1 fly to the protection of a nest in group 3. Cassidiar
retreated to another part of the tree where she was not molested. Within 10
minutes she made another attempt but was again defeated. Even two Legatus
seemed to recognize this visitor as undesirable and with fluttering wings flew
excitedly about her. At last she left the tree, a solitary outcast, followed by
half a dozen oropendolas to the boundary of their territory.

Several entries describe the aggressiveness of Cassidix. Thus,
February 15, 1926, at 10.37 a. m.: “ Cassidix tries to enter a nest
in group 2 but is mobbed and driven off; she fights back” and at
10.50 the entry reads: “ Cassidix tries to enter group 3, is driven off
by Zarhynchus, fights them in the air; Zegatus joins in the attack
as Cassidia is routed.” And on February 25, 1927, at noon: “ Cas-
sidiz enters two nests, staying 15 to 30 seconds in each. Two Zar-
hynchus, and both Legatus drive her off repeatedly, but she fights
them as though she were defending her own nest.”

A curious performance is recorded at 8.34 a. m. on February 13,
1927, when my notes read: “A female Cassidix displays before or
addresses a female Zarhynchus on a new nest at the left of No. 5,
NESTING HABITS OF OROPENDOLA—CHAPMAN 375

group 2. She draws herself up to full height, slightly expands her
ruffs, with bill down then curls head downward until bill touches
lower breast. Zarhynchus meanwhile concerned and whines slightly.
The performance is repeated.” Less marked was the action of two
females who, on February 18, 1928, posed on a limb in the sand-
box tree with their bills pointed upward, like boat-tail grackles.

The probability that Cassidix is aware of the conditions existing
in a Zarhynchus colony is indicated by the fact that after the nest-
ing colony of 1928 was abandoned Cassidiz was not seen in it. On
February 26 my journal reads: “Apparently not an oropendola left
in the tree.” On the following date this entry appears: “ Cassidia
in group 2 examines and enters nearly every nest, its longest stay
being three seconds. It was opposed only by male and female
Legatus. No Zarhynchus in the tree.” This is my last record of
Cassidix for the season, though observations were continued until
April 1.

In these observations the long flights, the visits of inspection and
the forced entrance into nests are of interest. If Casstdixz is para-
sitic only on species of the oropendola-cacique group it must cover
comparatively great distances in its search for a host. In my ex-
perience the nesting places of colonial birds of the same species
are not close together. On Barro Colorado, for example, as we have
seen, only three colonies of Zarhynchus are known, Cassidix, there-
fore, must not only cover much territory but presumably she must
be aware of the stage of the nesting season which has been reached
by her prospective hosts. It would be useless to deposit eggs in
the nests of birds not prepared to incubate them. Unless, therefore,
Cassidiz can control the development of her ovaries she must either
waste eggs or know where to place them to advantage.

Legatus albicollis—An unexpected result of my studies of Zarhyn-
chus is the discovery that it is parasitized by Legatus albicollis. In
each of the three nesting seasons devoted to the oropendolas a pair of
these flycatchers made their home in the nest tree and constantly
harried the oropendolas for the purpose of gaining possession of one
or more of their nests. Zegatus was also found in the two other
known nesting colonies of Zarhynchus on Barro Colorado, and its
association with Zarhynchus, at least on this island, appears therefore
to be habitual. It will be interesting to learn whether it parasitizes
other oropendolas. It arrives at about the time or even before the
oropendola nests are completed and remains throughout their nesting
season. In the morning it appears in the nest tree within a minute
or two after the first Zarhynchus call is heard and it remains there
until evening. It was never seen to feed from or near the nest tree
but at intervals of an hour or more it darted to the adjoining forest
evidently for food, but was rarely absent more than three minutes.
376 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

Not less than 90 per cent of its time during the day was devoted
to calling. No bird I have ever heard approaches Legatus in the con-
tinuity with which its notes are uttered. Morning, noon, or after-
noon it was the exception, when consciously listening, not to hear the
voice of Legatus. Both sexes call, but the male seems to be the more
vociferous and, when incubating, the female is apparently silent.

Their usual note is “ pee-ee” with a suggestion of the phoebe’s
(Sayornis phoebe) tons. To this is often added “ teedle-dee-dee.”
There is also a “ twee-twee-twee-twee,” etc., uttered continuously, with
closed bill, for as much as a minute. ‘The female frequently uttered
this note while the male called “ pee-ee, teedle-dee-dee.” During
attacks on Zarhynchus both sexes utter an excited, reedy twittering
and chattering.

Legatus evidently considers itself a member of the Zarhynchus
colony and, although its motives are unworthy, it often attacks Cas-
sidiz more zealously than does the owner of the nest which that bird
seeks to enter.

Since it is evident that Legatus plays an important part in the
nest life of Zarhynchus J give the more significant of my observations
concerning it as a contribution to our knowledge of their relation-
ships, which, as will be seen, are as yet by no means clearly under-
stood. In 1926 Legatus was first noted in the nest tree on January
29, 21 days after nest building began, but it was not until February 9
that I realized the object of its presence. I quote from my records of
that date:

It is evident that Legatus is interested in the Zarhynchus nests. Two of these
birds have attached a claim to two detached nests at the left side of the tree
and fiercely attack their owners, often driving them from their own doorstep.
The poor oropendola sits humbly in the protection of the leaves waiting for a
chance to enter her own home and in spite of the swinging onslaughts of Legatus
finally succeeds by a dash. I have not seen Legatus enter either nest but they
examine the opening and perch at the point to which the nest is woven with an
unmistakable air of proprietorship. What is their object?

These birds were under observation until February 20 when I
Jeft the island for the season. They eventually focused their atten-
tion on one of the two nests, called in my notes No. 1. On February
17 for the first time one entered this nest remaining three seconds,
to which Zarhynchus still asserted ownership by also entering for
the night, both Zegatus then going to the forest. On the 19th at
12.05, after Zarhynchus left the nest, one Zegatus entered and re-
mained for five or six seconds. Both the flycatchers were about the
nest the greater part of the day; at 3.25 Zarhynchus tried to enter
it but was driven off and at 5.20 Legatus came from the forest and
with almost no hesitation flew directly into the nest, remaining for
10 or 12 seconds. At 4.40 the flycatcher was in the nest for 15 seconds
NESTING HABITS OF OROPENDOLA—CHAPMAN 377

and Zarhynchus had not appeared. On February 20 at 7.35 a. m.
Legatus entered the nest and remained for 25 seconds. Three minutes
later Zarhynchus entered the second nest without protest, but at
7.45 when a Zarhynchus came to No. 1 it was driven away by Le-
gatus. Thereafter, during the day, Zegatus entered nest No. 1 fre-
quently and my notes say, “It seems apparent that they now have
possession of No. 1.” Here, as above stated, my observations ended
but I left a note asking Dr. J. Van Tyne, who reached the island
February 28, to continue them. He reports that the activities of
Legatus did not, apparently, lead to definite results.

In 1927 Zegatus was first noted January 31 (23 days after nest
building began). For the first few days the bird perched in the
top of the tree frequently uttering its “ pee-ee” note. I was now
absent for three days, returning February 6 when there were two
birds present. One of them dove at nests 1 and 3 of group 1, and
attacked one of their owners. From that date until the end of my
observations on April 1, there were few moments during the day
when these birds were not present in the nest tree. Their notes
were heard almost constantly and the greater part of their time was
devoted to attacks on Zarhynchus and to examining its nests. These
attentions were distributed throughout the colony, and were not con-
centrated on any one nest or bird. At the end of the period of ob-
servation the birds seemed to be no further advanced toward ac-
quiring a home than they were at the opening of the season. Dr.
J. Van Tyne, who reached the island February 24 and remained
until August 21, was good enough to keep these birds under observa-
tion. His notes in full are given on page 354. They show that
Legatus was present until April 26 (when apparently because of
heavy rains the oropendolas abandoned the colony) but that it was
as “ineffectual as ever.”

Several entries in my journal for 1927 may be quoted:

February 26. Legatus attacks any bird entering group 1, but seems still to
prefer No. 1. Both go to the entrance, drop and partly spread their wings,
lower their heads and turn half right then half left with a queer little bow; a
singular, self-conscious kind of performance.

March 11. Legatus shows no decrease in energy or interest. It is now chiefly
in the west end of group 2, calling and fluttering excitedly at nest entrances.

March 24. Legatus seems to be more aggressive and active. They attack
almost any Zarhynchus and swing from group 1 to group 2 and back. No, 12
receives most of their attention but no choice has been made. There are two
deserted nests in group 1 but they probably contain eggs. But doubtless those
in group 2 do also.

As a rule Zarhynchus avoids Legatus, as already described, but
when the small bird’s attacks exasperate it beyond the limit of en-
durance it assumes the aggressive. The record for March 6, 1927,
reads: “A female Zarhynchus pursues Legatus around and around
378 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

the tree and is herself pursued by the other Legatus.” On March
12 and 15 similar incidents were noticed, and from the record of
March 22 I quote:

While Legatus was perched at the entrance to a Zarhynchus nest the owner
popped out and pursued her persistently, following her at least 10 times
around through the tree and on two wide circles over the forest. Meanwhile
the other Legatus pursued the attacker.

In 1928 a single Legatus, presumably a male, was heard calling
from the nest tree at 6.30 on the morning of January 16 (14 days
after the nest building began). After calling for about two hours
from the upper part of the tree (not near the nests) he disappeared.
At 5 p. m. he called again for a few times and departed. Probably
the same bird was present on the 17th and 19th. On the latter date
my entry reads:

Only one Legatus seen. He sits in the top of the oropendola tree calling,
perhaps for a mate; but already shows a sense of proprietorship by chasing
Cassidiz.

On January 20 a second bird, probably a female, appeared. Three
days later I wrote:

Legatus is now in full swing in group 1. Both birds attack every Zarhynchus,
indiscriminately, males as well as females. The males are not even permitted
to court but are driven from their perches by the wasp-like attack of these two
relentless little birds, who one after the other dart at them and swing upward
to dart again. The females are similarly annoyed both when they enter and
leave the nest and also in the air, as they approach it. Often they are prevented
from entering and take refuge among nearby leaves to await an opportunity
to slip in unnoticed. The life of the whole group is being disorganized by the
persistent and constant annoyance of these two irritating flycatchers. They
have apparently chosen No. 6 for their especial victim but they by no means
restrict their attention to her.

On January 28 one ZLegatus was seen sitting at the entrance to
nest No. 5, which, although it had been attacked by an owl on the
night of January 25, as before described, was still occupied by its
owner. On February 1, No. 5 was entered by Cassidiz. The bird
remained for four seconds, Legatus alone protesting.

Between February 1 and 7 the record for Legatus is summed up in
the entry for the 4th which reads: “Zegatus continues its endless
peedle-dee-deeing but seems to get nowhere.” Occasionally it chased
a Zarhynchus. On the last-named date I record:

Legatus now worries the owners of Nos. 1 and 2, group 1. The latter chased
one of the flyeatchers out of the tree this morning. If they want a nest why do
they not take either No. 3 or No. 4 which are deserted but look in good con-
dition? This afternoon the Legatus which I believe to be the female entered
No. 1 and remained for 18 seconds.

There were no further developments until February 11. My record
for that day is as follows:

It looks as though the Legatus puzzle had finally solved itself. At 12.45 I
chanced to see Legatus enter No. 5, group 1. On emerging, after four or five
NESTING HABITS OF OROPENDOLA—-CHAPMAN 379

seconds, she left the tree and at the end of about two minutes returned and
entered No. 5 again. Having my glass now turned on the nest I saw that she
carried something in her bill. Moving with my 24-power glass to the end of
the laboratory I saw, when some two minutes later she reéntered the nest, that
she carried what appeared to be a small bit of a brown leaf. She entered the
nest so quickly, however, that I could not be sure of the exact nature of her
burden, but two visits later she brought an entire leaf perhaps three-fourths of
an inch long. It seemed evident, therefore that she was building a nest. I say
“she” for the one that remained outside, perching within a few inches of the
nest opening, called constantly and greeted the builder with vociferous, excited
twitterings on her return. During the succeeding 20 minutes 10 visits were
made by the female, each time with building material. Only twice during the
succeeding four hours did Zarhynchus appear. Once a female swept down as
the female Legatus was about to enter, and at 3.55, while the female Legatus
was in the nest and the male at its door, a Zarhynchus came with the apparent
intention of entering but she retreated quickly before the fury of the Legatus
attack. Half a minute later the female flycatcher continued her work.

Thereafter Zegatus was left in undisturbed possession of this nest.
It may be noted that my records now showed this nest to have been
visited by Cassidix, attacked by owls and claimed by Legatus.

For the succeeding seven days Legatus continued peacefully to
occupy, or at least frequent, this nest No. 5 of group 1, but February
19, to my surprise, both birds were seen fiercely attacking nests Nos.
1 and 2 in group 2, fully 40 feet above No. 5 of group 1. They
perched at the entrance to the nest, fluttered excitedly and peered
within just as though they were prospecting for ahome. At 6 p.m. one
was seen sitting within No. 5, its head only showing at the entrance.

The combined attacks of Legatus, and of what I believe to be
Pulsatrix, finally resulted in the complete disorganization and aban-
donment of the Zarhynchus colony, and on February 26 I write
“apparently not an oropendola left in the tree. Legatus having no
fresh fields to conquer may now devote herself to her own affairs.”

From February 19 to March 4 Zegatus was heard calling with un-
diminished energy, but I saw only what I believe to be the male bird
and assumed that his mate was sitting and would at any day produce
a brood in nest No. 5. On March 4 the female was seen preening
near the male but I did not succeed in tracing her to a nest, and on
March 5 it appeared that they were interested in nest No. 2 of group
2, and apparently had deserted No. 5 of group 1, in which they had
built a nest. No evidences of building in No. 2 were observed but
the evidence indicated that on March 12 she was incubating in that
nest. My record follows:

8 a.m. Female Legatus perches near the entrance to No. 2, group 2, the male
nearby. She preens her plumage disclosing a wide parting from sternum to
vent, which bespeaks the sitting bird, then enters the nest.

March 15, I record:

7.30 a.m. A male Zarhynchus alights on nest next to that of Legatus.
They both attack with frenzy and finally drive him off. Then the male Legatus
380 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

looks in the nest fluttering and calling excitedly and after he repeats this per-
formance she enters. 5.15 p. m. Both Legatus sit near nest preening. She
flies in and remains. He continues to call. Have not heard her call since she
began to nest.

From this date until March 24, the life of the two flycatchers
centered about this nest which the female was seen to enter almost
daily.

On the night of the 23d the twig to which nest No. 1 of group 2
was attached broke and the nest fell. It was found to have the
round hole in the side at the inner nest level that I associate with
nocturnal attack and, since there was not sufficient wind to account
for the fall of the nest, I attribute the mishap to the weight and
movements of the marauding visitor. There was nothing in the nest
when, early on the morning of the 24th, I picked it up beneath the
tree.

This nest hung with, and almost touched, No. 2 occupied by
Legatus. The latter nest was also seen to be penetrated by a hole
similar to that in No. 1. My records for the day read in part:

7.30-S a.m. Legatus, male, sits above nest calling as vigorously as in Jan-
uary. The female appears, and preens showing the abdominal parting. The
male flutters excitedly at the mouth of the nest but does not enter. He re-
turns to a calling perch and the female enters the nest. All perfectly regular
but where are the young?

Later in the forenoon I wrote:

Male and female Legatus perched near nest. Both call “ tweet-tweet,” etc.
This is the first time I had seen her call since she began incubating. ... Fe-
male Legatus again near nest preening. She is off the nest more to-day than
at any previous time during incubation. Twice the male has attacked her
standing over her with fluttering wings while she with belly up hangs below
him. I saw no blow struck but the attitudes were those of offense and defense.
After a few seconds both flew off.

At 11 a. m. the female entered the nest. March 25 Legatus called
as usual. At 4 p. m. a male Zarhynchus alighted on their nest.
Legatus attacked vigorously but for the first time under this threat
no female appeared.

Legatus continued to call loudly and persistently on the 25th and
26th but no female was seen. On the 28th, however, one appeared.
My record reads:

Legatus has not called in vain. A female of his species was present this
morning and the evidence indicates that she was not the bird that occupied and
was apparently nesting in No. 2. He chases her and is, I think, trying to show
her one of the group of four nests in group 2. She seems to be in fresher, less
worn plumage than the supposedly missing female, and when preening, which
she does only occasionally, the feathers do not part widely in the center of
the abdomen. She perched for a moment on No. 2 but she did not enter.

March 29, 30, 31, Legatus called with all the vigor of the early sea-
son but no female appeared. At this point my record for the season
ends,
NESTING HABITS OF OROPENDOLA—CHAPMAN 381

I can present only a theoretical interpretation of the actions of
this pair of birds. To me they indicate that the contents of their
nest (No. 2, Group 2) having been destroyed by night attack, the
female deserted. The male then attracted the attention of another
female but did not succeed in winning her as a mate.

ASSOCIATED SPECIES

The sand-box tree in which the oropendolas nest forms an attrac-
tive and advantageous perch, particularly for birds that cross the
clearing. During the period covered by these observations I have
seen slightly over 50 species of birds in it. Four of these species, in
addition to Zarhynchus and Legatus, nest in the tree; they are the
violet-throated humming bird (Anthracothoraz violaceicollis), the
Colombian flycatcher (Mvyiozetetes tewensis columbianus), Natterer’s
cotinga (Cotinga nattereri), and the blue tanager (Z'hraupis cana).
Of all the birds seen in the tree, only six appear to have direct asso-
ciation with Zarhynchus. 'They are a cowbird (Cassidix oryzivora),
a flycatcher (Legatus albicollis), a hawk (Spizastwr melanoleucus),
an owl (Pulsatrix perspicillata), a cacique (Cacicus vitellinus) and
a humming bird (Anthracothorax nigricollis).

The first two are parasitic, the second two, predaceous. Their
observed relations to Zarhynchus have already been described under
the section devoted to the enemies of Zarhynchus. ‘he relations of
the remaining two I will speak of here.

Cacicus vitellinus—From the beginning to the end of the nesting
season, as I have observed it, usually one cacique is present in the
nest tree acting as though it were a member of the colony. Rarely
two males were seen, and on February 16 two males and two females
were in the tree at the same time. One male, however, is the normal
Cacicus representative. This bird often arrives as soon as the first
Zarhynchus, and it, or another, may be in the tree the greater part
of the day. It makes no attempt to associate closely with Zarhynchus
and does not perch very near the nests, its chief activity being the
delivery of its calls. While bearing a general resemblance to those
of Zarhynchus the notes of Cacicus are more varied, more musical
and louder, and they are uttered more continuously and more insist-
ently, at times for an hour or more without ceasing. In view of the
fact that no other individual of its own species is in the tree or ap-
parently near, and that the bird addresses only a general and un-
responsive audience, its energy and persistence are inexplicable.
At its maximum the delivery of its notes is accompanied by an in-
teresting display in which the wing tips are crossed beneath the tail
and behind the feet, the yellow rump feathers fluffed and expanded,
while the wings and tail are violently trembled. This continues for
several minutes as the bird calls loudly. Occasionally a male
382 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

Zarhynchus drives the too willing performer from his perch but be-
yond this no attention is paid to him. According to Jewell, as re-
ported by Stone,'* Cacicus nests in the Canal Zone in March. One
might imagine, therefore, that the male or males that devote them-
selves so earnestly to the Zarhynchus colony might find more
appreciative listeners in the females of their own species.

Anthracothorax nigricollis—Nesting in the sand-box tree eyvi-
dently gives the black-throated hummer a sense of proprietorship
which leads it to attack nearly every trespassing species including
Zarhynchus and its enemy Cassidiz. ‘The bird, therefore, plays some
part in the nest life of the oropendola while the regularity of its
return to the nest tree affords additional evidenc eof marked perio-
dicity and localization in tropical birds.

On January 16, 1926, a black-throated humming bird was dis-
covered on the eastern side of the sand-box tree building its nest near
the tip of an absolutely bare limb at least 25 feet from the nearest leaf.
There was not a more expose site in the tree. From this point it
attacked birds trespassing within its territory with a dash and
courage which promptly put them to flight. Oropendolas were
frequently followed to their nesting quarters and sometimes driven
from the tree. So effective and persistent were the bird’s assaults
it seemed not improbable that if they had been made before the
oropendolas had begun to build they might have prevented them
from settling in the tree.

On only one occasion did the bird retreat before a trespassing
species, this was a white snake-hawk (Leucopternis ghiesbrechti)
which in one instance perched within a few feet of the hummer which ~
promptly took flight. On the other hand a bucco (Lucco subtectus)
was permitted to sit for some time near the hummer’s nest without
molestation. The nest was apparently completed about January 20,
and the bird began to sit some time between January 21 and 25. It
was believed to contain young on February 9, and on the 11th the
parent was definitely seen to feed the young. On February 19 the
bills of both young could be seen above the rim of the nest. On this
date observation ceased.

In 1927 a humming bird of the same species built a nest on the
nearest available site to the one occupied in 1927, the limb on which
that nest was placed having meanwhile fallen. When discovered
on January 19 the bird appeared to be incubating. On the morning
of January 30 this nest and bird were missing.

On January 11, 1928, a female violet-throated humming bird was
discovered building a nest at or very near the site occupied by this
species in 1927. She apparently began to sit about January 15.

41918, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., p. 280.
NESTING HABITS OF OROPENDOLA—-CHAPMAN 383

The date of hatching was not ascertained but on February 3, during
the process of feeding, the bills of the young could be seen above
the rim of the nest. One of these young left the nest on February
20, the other on February 22. On March 12 a female, presumably
the mother of the first brood, was seen on the nest, which had been
renovated, apparently laying. On March 14 she began to sit and
she was still incubating when last I saw her on March 24.

Cotinga nattereri.°—On March 24, 1927, I discovered a nest of
Natterer’s cotinga in the sand-box tree. So far as I am aware it
is not only the first recorded nest of the species but of any member
of the group of blue cotingas. It was about 90 feet above the ground,
halfway between the trunk and the terminal twigs in the angle
formed by an orchid growing from the side of a nearly horizontal
limb about 5 inches in diameter. It was occupied by a female brood-
ing two young that were covered, apparently, with snowy white
down. .

On March 31 the young were missing and on April 2 the nest was
partly pulled to pieces by the female. During this period no male
cotinga was seen.

On February 8, 1928, a female cotinga was seen building a nest
in exactly the same place occupied by this species the preceding
year. February 16 the female was on the nest, evidently laying,
and from this date she was seen sitting on the nest until March 12.
On March 13 she was missing and no cotinga was seen until March
20 when a female was observed perched in the top of the sand-box
tree for about 30 minutes. She was not seen to visit the deserted
nest. Four days later a female was seen in the sand-box tree with
a rootlet in her bill and on March 28 a female began to build a nest
on the north side of the tree, slightly above and about 50 feet
from the abandoned nest.

It seems not improbable that the owner of the first nest, having
been robbed of her eggs, had started a new nest. However that
may be, I give these facts for the additional proof they afford that
tropical birds may return to the same nest site and nest at approxi-
mately the same date in successive years. If the nest of 1928 had
not been disturbed, the dates given indicate that the young would
have hatched shortly, when on March 24, the nest would have
contained young of approximately the same age as those discovered
in the same nest site the preceding year.

On two occasions a female Cotinga nattereri was observed on the
sand-box tree in 1926, but, as I have before remarked, the tree was
not then under close observation and no nest was discovered though
it is by no means unlikely that one existed.

%*T include certain of my notes on this species for the bearing they have on localization,
periodicity and sexual relation in Zarhynchus.
384 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

On only three occasions during the three seasons I have passed on
Barro Colorado have I seen a male Cotinga nattereri near the labora-
tory. None of these was in the sand-box tree. Two perched for a
few moments at the top of a dead tree about 100 feet from the sand-
box tree. They were alone. The third was at the border of the
forest, 120 yards from the sand-box tree. A few minutes after he
flew back into the forest a female cotinga left the forest from nearly
the same place and flew to the nest in the sand-box tree. This was
on February 14, 1928, when my observations indicate that the female
was laying. It is not improbable, therefore, that the sexes were
associated on this occasion.

Thraupis cana.—A. pair of blue tanagers nested in the oropendola
tree in the season of 1927 and 1928. They selected for their site a
large mass of parasitic plants (the lower side of which was occupied
by a colony of stingless bees) where it was not possible to watch
them closely and I have no notes on the progress of their nesting.

An iguana (/guana iguana), between four and five feet in length,
was usually present in the sand-box tree and on occasions two smaller
ones were observed. They would le motionless for hours stretched
out on the larger, upper limbs, apparently sunning themselves.
Rarely they ate the leaves of the tree. None of the birds that fre-
quented the tree were seen to notice them, nor were the iguanas con-
cerned with the birds.

SUMMARY OF OBSERVATIONS ON A NESTING COLONY OF ORO-
PENDOLAS (ZARHYNCHUS WAGLERI) ON BARRO COLORADO
ISLAND, CANAL ZONE

The tree occupied by the oropendolas, when, in 1924, the laboratory
was established, having fallen in June of that year, the present site
was selected the following year. The new tree, which is believed
to have been chosen chiefly because of its proximity to the former
home, does not apparently offer the advantages of the fallen one and
the colony appears to be decreasing in numbers.

The birds exhibit much regularity in the date at which they begin
to nest. In 1926 and 1927 nest building began on January 8, in
1928, on January 2. A humming bird (Anthracothorax nigri-
collis) and a cotinga (Cotinga nattereri) that nested in the oropen-
dola tree showed a similar regularity in site and date. While the
nesting season coincides roughly with the dry season, the exact time
of its inauguration does not appear to be closely dependent on the
rainfall. Temperature apparently presents too little variation to be
a controlling factor. The return of these birds to the same place year
after year illustrates the homing instinct, while the seasonal regu-
larity of their visit is in evident response to those annual prompt-
NESTING HABITS OF OROPENDOLA—-CHAPMAN 385

ings of the reproductive system which are believed to have been the
fundamental motivating factors in the origin of bird migration.

Data on a second or supplementary nesting season are not con-
clusive.

The females outnumber the males about six to one. If this dis-
parity of the sexes is an actual characteristic of the species it may
be the cause of the colonial association that permits one male to mate
with several females. The males show no marked sexual jealousy.
Courtship begins with nest building. A male may woo several
females but he apparently has but one mate at a time; the length
of this association covering only the period when the ova are ready
for fertilization. A similar type of sexual relation appears to exist
in the humming bird and cotinga that nest in the oropendola tree.

The males take no part in the selection of the site, gathering of
building material, construction of the nest, incubation of the eggs
or care of the young. They are, however, in constant attendance on
the females either as wooers or accepted mates until the eggs are
laid. As watchmen of the colony they play an important part in
the protection of the females, particularly in the early stages of nest
construction.

Only two other colonies of Zarhynchus being known on the island
there is no question of colonial territorial rights; but there is often
pronounced competition among the females for possession of a nest
site.

A new nest is built each year, about one month being required for
the completion of the bag and its contained nest. The females
then begin to sleep in the nest, leaving the males, who never enter
the nest, to return unaccompanied to their roost in the forest.

Two eggs are laid. The period of incubation is approximately
17 days. The young leave the nest about one month after hatching.

The terminal twigs of the nest tree are brittle and in a strong wind
sometimes break. Nests that fell from this cause contained both eggs
and young but were not found to be infested by parasites. The only
ascertained enemies of the oropendolas were other birds. ‘They are
parasitized by a cowbird (Cassidiz), and a flycatcher (Legatus), no
larger than a phoebe (Sayornis phoebe) , constantly harries them with
the evident purpose of securing possession of one of their nests for
its own uses. The building female is at times susceptible to attack
by hawks, from which it appears to be the duty of the male to guard
her. In response to his alarm call the entire colony dives hastily into
the lower forest growth. An owl (Pu/satriz) makes an opening in
the lower part of the nest bag and the oropendolas appear to be
at the mercy of this foe. The inaccessibility of the nest site, and
impregnability of the pendant, strongly woven nest bag are, there-
fore, more apparent than real. Furthermore, the conspicuousness
386 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

of their homes offsets the advantages of colonial nesting with its
implied absence of marked sexual and territorial jealousy and in-
creased protection through the community interests that make the
enemy of one the enemy of all.

Zarhynchus can not lay the slightest claim to the possession of a
protectively hued plumage. Im color, size, and habit, during the
most critical period of its annual cycle, it is highly self-advertising.
Its safety depends on that constant vigilance which keeps it ever
on the alert and on the instant, unquestioned obedience to the alarm
note that prompts it to dive headlong into the dense vegetation
from which it is never far distant.

POSTSCRIPT

The day that this paper was completed I received word from Mr. James
Zetek, resident custodian of Barro Colorado, that the sand-box tree in which
the oropendolas nested was blown down by a severe windstorm on August 28,
1928. Evidently, like its predecessor, this tree, as a member of a forest com-
munity, had not developed sufficient hold upon the ground to stand alone.

I had hoped that this contribution to our knowledge of the nesting habits
of Zarhynchus would form the opening chapters of a history that would in-
crease in interest as added data enabled us to view the present in the light of
the past. But so far as the sand-box colony is concerned I can now write only
finis.

SECOND POSTSCRIPT

On March 8, 1930, what for various reasons we believe to be the laboratory
colony of oropendolas was found in a large almendro (Cowmarouna panamensis )
situated about a mile from the laboratory near No. 14 on the Shannon Trail.

On January 8, 1931, 17 oropendolas, including 4 males, were observed in this
tree. They had evidently begun to build on January 6 or 7. These dates are
so near those records for the laboratory colony (Jan. 8; Jan. 8; Jan. 2; antea,
p. 352) that they further emphasize the seasonal regularity of the breeding of
these birds on Barro Colorado and, at the same time, confirm our belief that
the laboratory colony moved to the almendro.
THE RISE OF APPLIED ENTOMOLOGY IN THE UNITED
STATES?

By L. O. Howarp

At the tenth annual meeting of the Agricultural History Society,
held September 13, 1927, my highly esteemed friend, Dr. B. 'T. Gallo-
way, presented a review of the development of plant pathology in
the United States; and his introductory paragraphs apply so well to
insect damage that they might well be used for the present paper,
simply substituting the words “ agricultural entomology ” for “ plant
pathology.”

It is true that economic entomology is an older applied science, and
hence it is true that for many years the entomologists looked upon
the plant pathologists in the somewhat patronizing way that an elder
brother looks upon a much younger one. In fact, as the years went
by a certain amount of good-natured chaff was heard between the
men of these different kinds of work. The entomologist was apt to
say, “ There is nothing of a practical character in plant pathology
except the recommended use of the Bordeaux mixture under all con-
ditions.” I recall that I made that remark once to Doctor Galloway
and that he countered immediately by saying “ There is, after all,
nothing to economic entomology but the application of arsenicals for
chewing insects and of dilute kerosene emulsion for sucking insects.”

All that, however, is quite aside from my present purpose.

I have just returned from a long trip across the country. I have
seen at Riverside and Berkeley, at Seattle, and at Minneapolis, at
Madison and at Urbana, large classes of earnest young men and
women studying applied entomology; and at five of these places I
have seen large corps of teachers, admirably equipped, all good re-
search men, engaged in this teaching work. I have seen that the
popular estimate of the entomologist has become very high. I have
asked some of these teachers whether they felt, on account of their
occupation, the faintest indications of an inferiority complex. All
replied at once that they were proud of their work, that they were
convinced of its great importance, and that they considered them-
selves among the most useful members of their respective faculties.

1 Paper read at the twelfth annual meeting of the Agricultural History Society, Wash-
ington, D. C., Apr. 29,1929, Reprinted by permission from Agricultural History, Vol. Ill,
No. 38, July, 1929.

387
388 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

Moreover, I have seen, contrary to the old ideas, that the fear of
insects is increasing; that people realize that they are causing in-
creasing damage to humanity in an increasing number of ways.

Last Friday the United States House of Representatives, after a
10-minute discussion, passed a joint resolution appropriating
$4,250,000 to be expended in an effort to exterminate the Mediterra-
nean fruit fly in Florida. This morning the Senate, without discussion,
passed the same resolution. Two years ago the Congress appropri-
ated the very great sum of $10,000,000 to be spent in an effort to
retard the westward march of the European corn borer. Fifty-three
years ago, after the Rocky Mountain locust, or western grasshopper,
had devastated large portions of four of our Western States, not
only causing enormous financial loss, but bringing starvation and
disease to very many people, a bill was introduced before Congress
to appropriate $25,000 for a commission of entomologists to investi-
gate locusts and to try to find means to prevent future damage of
the sort. The Congress, after long consideration, reduced the amount
from $25,000 to $18,000, and a bill for the latter amount was passed.

Now what has caused the change between the conditions as I have
described them as of the present and the condition that existed
only a little more than 50 years ago? ‘That is the story that I am
trying to tell elsewhere in some detail, and I will brief its salient
points in this paper.

Let us assume that the territory now covered by the United States
of America was in a condition of at least temporary stable equi-
librium in regard to its animal and plant life at the period when
settlement by the white race began. For a great many years the
increase in the white population was slow. Agriculture was of
small extent and spread out slowly into the forests and plains.
There was very slow communication with other countries and none
at all with any but those of Europe. There was practically no
chance for the accidental importation of insect pests. The crops
that were cultivated were in large part of the sorts that were new to
the country. Native insects at first did not damage them seriously,
and down to the peried of the War of the Revolution there were
few complaints of insect damage.

After the revolution, however, from time to time the scarce news-
papers that paid attention to agriculture would record the unusual
abundance of some pest; but on the whole no attention was paid
to the subject that would warrant mention in a brief paper like this.
The only great crop pests that had come to us from Europe prior
to the revolution were the codling moth and the Hessian fly.

Prior to 1800, the only writer on the subject we need mention here
was William Dandridge Peck (1763-1822), who was professor of
natural history in Harvard College and who wrote in 1795 about
APPLIED ENTOMOLOGY—HOWARD 389

the cankerworm. He followed, in the early years of the nineteenth
century, with several papers on various injurious insects.

In 1841, Dr. Thaddeus William Harris, librarian of Harvard
College, published a report on “ Insects injurious to vegetation in
Massachusetts.” It was a scholarly work, and it treated of many
plant-feeding forms. There was no mention of any critical danger,
and the remedies suggested were little more than of the old Scotch
gardener type.

A few years later (1853) Townend Glover received an appoint-
ment in the Bureau of Agriculture of the United States Patent
Office. One of his numerous duties was “ to collect information on
insects.”

The next year, Dr. Asa Fitch of New York was authorized by
the New York State Legislature to examine insects, “ especially
those injurious to vegetation,” and thus became practically the
first State entomologist. He published a series of reports from that
time until 1872. They were full and careful reports, and in them
he described the life histories of many important species but brought
out nothing striking in regard to methods of control.

Benjamin Dann Walsh, a trenchant writer on entomological
subjects, was acting State entomologist of Illinois in the year 1867.
He was a man of high culture, broad: views, and a prophetic mind.
He was especially and harshly critical of many of the remedial
measures then in vogue, and was particularly keen in his criticisms
of the fake remedies that were then being foisted on the public and
us a matter of fact are still being advertised from time to time.
Referring to such so-called remedies, one of his phrases sticks in
my mind: “ Long live King Humbug! He still feeds fools on flap-
doodle!” He published but one report, although he had previously
been an associate editor of a journal, published in Philadelphia,
called “ The Practical Entomologist,” and later was associate editor,
with C, V. Riley, of The American Entomologist, a journal devoted
largely to practical matters in entomology.

In 1878 Glover was retired from the position of entomologist
to the United States Department of Agriculture, and Charles Val-
entine Riley was made his successor. Riley served until 1894, with
the exception of the years 1879 and 1880, during which period John
Henry Comstock (before and afterwards professor of entomology
at Cornell University) held the position.

The work done by Riley and Comstock in the Department of Agri-
culture was of the highest type. Riley had previously served as
State entomologist of Missouri from 1869 until 1876 and had pub-
lished nine reports, admirably illustrated and very sound, which
did much to show the importance of careful work. These Missouri
reports are full of notable things and from the practical point of

28095—31——_26
390 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

view one of the most striking is the effective work that he did in
the investigation of the grapevine Phylloxera and in the subsequent
selection of resistant vine stocks from the United States for shipment
to Europe for grafting purposes. He thus played an important
part in the saving of the wine industry.

During the two years that ‘Comstock served at Washington he
accomplished a number of important things. One of them was the
preparation of a large volume on cotton insects, but still more im-
portant was his study of the scale insects. He worked out the clas-
sification and life histories of very many of the injurious scale in-
sects of the United States, an accomplishment that proved to be
of the greatest value, since in the ensuing years many scale insects
proved to be extremely injurious.

During Riley’s final term of office (1881-1894) progress was great.
Many important investigations were begun. The entomological
service was made a division, and the funds for research were slowly
increased by Congress. Aside from the rather elaborate annual
reports, many bulletins and circulars as well as a few special reports
were published. Seven volumes of an important illustrated periodi-
cal bulletin called “ Insect Life ” were also published and very widely
circulated. ‘The achievement of Riley’s administration, however,
that attracted the widest popylar and scientific interest was the bril-
liantly successful introduction of the Coccinellid, Vedalia (Novius)
cardinalis from Australia to destroy the cottony cushion scale in
California. This scale was causing the citrus growers of that State
the greatest alarm. The very existence of citrus culture in Califor-
nia was threatened. Some orchards actually went down under the
ax. But in a very few months after the introduction of the little
beetle all fears were gone. So rapid was the multiplication of the in-
troduced insect and so great was its voracity, that the scale insect
soon ceased to be feared. This was the first large demonstration of
the possible value of the introduction from one country to another of
the natural enemies of an introduced insect pest.

In 1876, as indicated in a previous paragraph, the Federal Con-
gress appropriated $18,000 to be spent by a commission of three
men to investigate the Rocky Mountain locust. This action was the
first national legislation of any importance of this kind. It was
largely brought about by hard and intelligent work on the part of
Professor Riley. It is interesting to note that while the bill making
this appropriation was under discussion in the House, The Nation,
considered at the time to be possibly the leading journal representing
the best public opinion, published in its issue for March 16 the fol-
lowing satirical note:

The Republicans in the Senate, not to be beaten at investigations, have
passed a bill to investigate insects injurious to vegetation—the locust, the
APPLIED ENTOMOLOGY—HOWARD 391

chinch bug, the army worm, the Hessian fly, and the potato bug. The bill pro-
vides for an investigator in chief at a salary of $4,000 a year, the Herculean
labors of the head of the Agricultural Bureau preventing that official from
giving the necessary time to it. The act, should it pass the House—which
seems doubtful—will be a new application of the great principle of division of
labor, for in future the Agricultural Commissioner will scatter the seed broad-
east over the land, while the national entomologist will follow closely on his
trail and exterminate the various bugs that may attack the ripening grain.
We only want now another commissioner to harvest the crops, and another to
see that they get to deep water, and the husbandman will be entirely relieved
from grinding toil.

It was ideas of that sort and public opinion of that kind that
Riley and his colleagues had to combat in those days; and the prog-
ress made in the face of ignorance and apathy is extraordinary.

When Riley left Missouri his place as entomologist of that State
was not filled. Illinois appointed Dr. William LeBaron as suc-
cessor to Walsh, and he in turn was succeeded by the Rey. Cyrus
Thomas, who was followed by Dr. S. A. Forbes.

With the passage of the Hatch Act in 1888 and the starting of
State agricultural experiment stations, a very considerable impulse
was given to work in entomology; and the creation of positions,
enabled by this act, turned the attention of a number of good young
men in this direction. It seemed for the first time that there might
be a career in economic entomology. As a result also, the teaching
of economic entomology received a great impetus. New departments
of this kind were established in the agricultural colleges and State
universities. The demand for teachers at first was so great as to
exceed the supply of trained men, and the early publications of the
agricultural colleges and experiment stations were for the most part
compilations from the writings of Fitch, Riley, Walsh, LeBaron,
Thomas, Packard, and A. J. Cook. A. S. Packard, jr., by the way,
had served for two years as State entomologist of Massachusetts, and
Prof. A. J. Cook had been lecturing on insects for a number of years
at the Michigan State Agricultural College.

Soon after the starting of the experiment stations under the
Hatch Act, the Association of Economic Entomologists was formed,
and this association has come to be a very powerful factor in the
development of applied entomology and in the correlation of the
work of the many people engaged.

The closing decade of the last century, however, witnessed four
striking events that focused the attention of very many people and
of very many countries on the subject of insect damage. The gipsy
moth and the brown-tail moth were found in Massachusetts; the
cotton boll weevil crossed the Rio Grande from Mexico; the San
Jose scale was found in the East, and insects were discovered to
carry certain diseases of man and of domestic animals.
392 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

The great struggle against the gipsy moth, that has continued
down to the present day, has had far-reaching results in several
directions. It has hastened the discovery of effective insecticides;
it has very largely improved high-power spraying machinery; it
has resulted in a very large-scale and long-continued experiment
looking toward natural control by the importation into the United
States from Europe and Japan of the parasites and other natural
enemies of the destructive species.

The advent of the cotton boll weevil has demonstrated in a start-
ling way the possibilities of insect damage. Entering the United
States in the vicinity of Brownsville, Tex., it spread year after
year until in about 25 years it covered the whole Cotton Belt. - It
brought about immense money loss; it caused the financial faiiure
of many planters and of many banks; it complicated the labor
situation and caused suicides among planters, bankers, and specu-
lators. It called striking attention, however, to the weakness of
the 1-crop system, and will prove in the long run to have been bene-
ficial to the Southern States.

The advent of the San Jose scale in the East caused great alarm
for a number of years. It was the cause of quarantines against
American fruits by most of the countries of the world.

The discovery that insects may carry certain diseases to man and
to domestic animals has proved of enormous benefit and has created
a new branch of preventive medicine. Work following this dis-
covery has eliminated yellow fever from the United States and
from most other parts of the world and has greatly reduced mortal-
ity and suffering from malaria and from many tropical diseases.
In fact, investigations of this kind have opened up the possible
habitation of tropical countries by the white race and the bringing
of such countries into the greatly needed food-producing assets of
the world.

As time has gone on, since the beginning of the present century,
we have seen, partly as the result of these striking events of the
preceding 10 years, a rapidly-growing activity in the fight against
insects. A very notable event was the passage of the law creating
the Federal Horticultural Board administered by the Secretary
of Agriculture. By the means of this act the country has been
able measurably to protect itself against the importation of new
pests from abroad, and the change of this board into the present
Plant Quarantine and Control Administration has placed the work
of this branch of the public service upon a strong base and will
result in a more efficient protection of the country.

In spite of the rapidly-growing activity in the fight against
insects, however, there has come strongly to our attention the fact
that under present conditions, notwithstanding the increased num-
APPLIED ENTOMOLOGY—HOWARD~. 393

ber of workers, damage by insects is increasing rather than diminish-
ing; and it has also become apparent that this increase is due almost
entirely to our own methods in agriculture.

The population of the country is growing rapidly. Without
counting immigration, we are now increasing at the rate of 1,000,000
per year, and that rate itself is increasing. Every year we must
feed very many more people than the year before. We must be
growing more food constantly. Naturally, all these years we have
adopted the quickest, the most economical and the most convenient
ways of growing these foods. There have been enormous plantings
of single and of allied crops. Often there has been very little
rotation. In our haste to feed our increasing millions, we have
overlooked the fact that we are feeding increasing billions of insects.
By our very methods we are giving certain species of insects the
most unprecedented chance to multiply. This will force us in many
eases to change our methods—to vary our growing and our crop-
ping systems. We must realize this at once.

It is true that more than half our principal crop pests have been
introduced accidentally in the course of commerce. With the
passage of the plant quarantine act in 1912, we placed a barrier
against this danger; but that it still exists is evident from the
Florida experience of the last few weeks. And this Mediterranean
fruit fly, the pink bollworm, the Japanese beetle, and the Asiatic
bettle, while still more or less local, will probably spread and will
utilize to the full the fairly riotous living spread out on all sides.
So that, after all, we not only welcome the hundreds of young
men who are joining the ranks of the economic entomologists, but
we beg for the assistance and cooperation of the farm organiza-
tions and the farm leaders and especially the agronomists and the
agricultural engineers, and also of the chemists, the physicists,
and the plant physiologists. The trained entomologist can follow
the life history of a given species. He can study it in all its
aspects. He can work out its general ecology. He can find its
weak point if it has any. He can find the reasons why it is in-
creasing and spreading. Often he can point out how the greatest
damage can be avoided by different farming methods. It is then
the agronomist who must advise. The farm planners, the farm
organizations, the farm leaders must then take hold.

This is shown very well, I think, in the case of the European
corn borer. The great danger from this pest would be nonexistent
if it were not for the corn-growing system in a large part of the
corn belt. The entomologists have shown that for seven months
in the year the borer is helpless at the base of the cornstalks. Is it
not obviously the duty of some other than the entomologist to
find out the most economical and easiest way of getting rid of the
cornstalks at some time during that long rest of seven months?
ae wa

7 “a
es 1h)

Pa rel UM me
i tnzl > were
- § Gz
MAN AND INSECTS?

By L. O. Howarp

An article for the Journal of the Maryland Academy of Sciences
should necessarily be thoroughly sound scientifically. It should
not be written in a sensational way. It should deal with facts and
should reason logically from these facts.

I am inclined to think that the best way of stating the case I
wish to present will be in a series of limited and definitely stated
paragraphs. ;

1. The insect type is very many millions of years older than
the vertebrate type, of which the human species is the latest de-
velopment.

2. The insect type has, therefore, been tried out very thoroughly
under world conditions, while the human species is comparatively
in its merest infancy.

3. Many forms of life have been tried, have been found wanting,
and have disappeared in the course of the ages, but the insect type
has persisted in spite of all cataclysms.

4. The human type may be one of nature’s experiments that
will fail. It has not been in existence long enough to have been
thoroughly tried out.

5. The human species, in spite of its physical disadvantages,
has jumped to the fore with unexampled speed owing principally
to the evolution of the quality known as intelligence. Through this
intelligence it has either destroyed or controlled or converted to
its own use nearly all other forms of life.

6. In its very rapid increase and spread, however, the human
species has so disturbed the balance of. nature as to favor the in-
crease and spread of disease-bearing miscroorganisms and as to
encourage enormously the multiplication and spread of injurious
insects. In its efforts to feed its increasing millions, it has fed
increasing billions of insects.

7. Prophets of evil tell us that human overpopulation of the world
is approaching, and approaching rapidly; that mass starvation is
sure to come; that birth control is necessary if greater production
of plant food can not be stimulated or if new foods can not be
invented.

1Reprinted by permission from The Journal of the Maryland Academy of Sciences,
Vol. I, No. 2, April, 1930.

395
396 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

8. There is a third way of postponing the coming of the starvation
era, and that is by the stopping of all waste.

9. Probably the greatest of these wastes is the tremendous but
unnecessary tribute that we pay to insects. In the United States
alone, the labor of 1,000,000 men each year is lost through insect
damage to crops and to our other vital interests. And this damage
is increasing. ‘The problem is very much greater than it was even
20 years ago. In order to get the quickest and most abundant food
supplies, we are growing our crops in many instances in exactly the
way to favor best the increase of crop pests. The cotton boll weevil,
for example, might never have been heard of as a serious crop pest
if it had not been brought by accident across the Rio Grande and
found itself in a whole great State largely devoted to the growing of
its favorite food and growing it m just the way to favor the beetle’s
multiplication to the extreme. The Kuropean corn borer, to take
another example, would do little harm if we did not farm our corn-
lands just as we do.

10. It is necessary that we should understand present conditions—
that we should understand that insects are our dangerous rivals for
the food supplies of the world, and that they are our important rivals
and enemies in many other ways. Then it will come about that
many men will turn their attention to insect problems. Many men
of sound training will study, every aspect of insect life. Competent
chemists, physicists, botanists, agricultural engineers, and agrono-
mists will take the findings of the increasing number of entomologists,
and upon them will base measures for the relief of humanity. The
time can not come too soon. Teachers of biology should at once
begin to learn and to teach entomology.

Having thus stated briefly and rather definitely what appears to
me to be the situation and the general course that should be pursued,
I think that it may be of interest to elaborate some of the points.

In the paragraph numbered 5, we have referred to the physical
disadvantages of the human species as compared with insects. From
the engineering point of view the hmb of a vertebrate, with the
skeleton inside, other things being equal, is three times weaker than
the insect limb having its skeleton on the outside. This outer
skeleton of the insect is composed of chitin, an albuminoid that is
attacked neither by alkaline solutions nor by dilute acid. It does
not grow brittle with age like the bones of vertebrates. The muscles
that are exposed in human beings to the slightest injury and are
attached to the inner bones, are, in insects, covered and protected by
the chitin, and they function better from their numerous attach-
ments to ridges on the inner side of the covering. ‘The insect skeleton
is composed of waste material, while the bony skeleton of man is
composed jiargely of proteins and inorganic materials, chiefly lime
MAN AND INSECTS—-HOWARD 397

and phosphorus. The starches and other substances that make the
skeleton of insects, abound in nature; while the diet of man must be
selected carefully to include the substances needed for the growth of
bone. The blood of insects penetrates to every part of the body,
just as it does with us, but the air that purifies the blood also
penetrates to every part of the body instead of being confined to the
lungs. When insects are born, there is no long period of helpless
infancy; they take care of themselves from the start. There is no
feeble old age with insects; when their work is done they die before
their faculties or their structure have begun to degenerate. ‘There
are no bones to grow brittle with age; chitin seems to grow stronger
with age.

Together with the advantages already pointed out comes the
tremendous advantage of rapidity of multiplication and rapidity
of growth and the consequent rapidity of the accommodation of a
species to a changed environment. Insects, for example, have all
the way from 1 to 20 generations a year, nature trying slowly to
make each generation more fit than its predecessor. Place the
number at five per annum, as is the case with the cotton boll weevil.
Then, in the 35 years this insect has lived in the territory of the
United States, it has had 175 generations. An equal number of
generations for the human species would fill more than 3,000 years,
The advantage in the slow process of evolution and accommodation
to changed conditions is evidently enormous.

As to rapidity of multiplication (which differs very greatly with
the different forms of insect life) two rather striking examples may
be cited. I have shown that, with the common house fly, a single
overwintering female may have, between April 15 and September 10,
5,598,720,000,000 descendants. ‘This seems almost incredible, but,
given larval food, it is possible. It is not, however, great as are the
figures, as startling as the estimate made by Prof. G. W. Herrick of
Cornell, of the ponderable mass of the descendants of a single cab-
bage aphis in Central New York in less than a year. Although a
single aphis weighs little more than a milligram, the ponderable
mass of its descendants in less than a year would be more than 822,-
000,000 tons! In pounds, this would be 1,644,000,000,000. Esti-
mating the human population of the world at 2,000,000,000 and the
average weight at the exaggerated figure of 150 pounds, the total
human weight would be 300,000,000,000 pounds. In other words, the
plant-lice descended from one individual of one species in a single
season would weigh more than five times as much as all the people
of the world. Of course, in this estimate we must grant the existence
of food enough for this mass, which of course is impossible.

I have spent the larger part of my time during the past two years
in writing a history of applied entomology, and it is interesting to
398 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

note how little attention has been paid in the past to the insect prob-
lem, except for occasional great emergencies like swarms of migra-
tory grasshoppers, and at the same time how the problem has been
growing. Undoubtedly, wherever a center of human civilization had
its beginnings, just as soon as food began to be grown on a sufficient
scale to feed many people, certain injurious insects began to increase
in number. New opportunities for their increase were being offered
to them—their increase was really being encouraged. If we had the
records of lost civilizations, no doubt these losses by insects would
appear; and it is quite within the bounds of possibility that insects
have aided in the destruction of past civilizations—such, for ex-
ample, as those that existed in Central America. Little attention
was paid to insects, however, except when great outbreaks occurred,
until within the last 170 years; and then for more than 100 years
insects were studied by a few men here and there simply as a part
of the animal kingdom. They were brought into collections, and
classified and named. Their study, however, was considered a trivial
pursuit. Within the past 70 years, however, a new type of entomol-
ogist has appeared—the economic entomologist, and there has grown
up rapidly an increased appreciation of the importance of the study
of insects; and the economic entomologists have been increasing
rapidly in number, particularly during the present century. The
United States has led in this work, and perhaps still leads in the
number of persons engaged in entomological research with its eco-
nomic applications distinctly in view. But other countries are
rapidly coming to the front. Entomological problems have seemed
more important in the newer countries. The dominions and colonies
of the great British Empire have, therefore, felt a greater need for
entomological research than most other parts of the globe, with the
exception of the United States, and there has been built up in the
British Empire many strong research bodies centered in an Imperial
Bureau in London.

But possibly it is not the dramatic outbreaks of a comparatively
few spectacularly injurious species that bring about the greatest loss.
Take agriculture in Europe, for example, where, on account of the
small holdings and close methods of cultivation, these great out-
breaks rarely get a start. It has become the custom to estimate a
normal crop for a certain piece of land. But it seems to the writer
that the so-called normal crop would be greatly enhanced if all un-
noticed insect damage were eliminated. There are undoubtedly min-
ute unnoticed insects that are constantly lowering productiveness;
there are millions of tiny jaws and beaks gaining nourishment from
cultivated plants. There must be some way of destroying these crea-
tures and of thus minimizing this damage.
MAN AND INSECTS—HOWARD 399

Moreover, there are bacterial diseases of plants and diseases
caused by other microorganisms. Upon such diseases there has been
built up a great branch of applied science known in this country as
phytopathology.? But it is beginning to be realized that possibly the
majority of these plant diseases are carried and spread by insects, and
therefore the control of insects becomes doubly important.

We have not attempted so far to particularize the broad nature ot
the harm done by insects to the human species. Not only do they
consume from 10 to 20 per cent of everything that we try to grow,
but they feed upon practically all the stored foods and upon an
infinite number of materials that are of use to us. They also affect
seriously the health of man and of all domestic animals; and by the
carriage of disease, not only to man but to plants, they intensify
greatly the problem as it appeared to us only a few years ago.

There is no doubt in my mind that the human species, with its
intelligence, will eventually meet this great problem, and that it will
bring insect life under control, but down to the present time the
problem has comparatively been ignored. In future, not only must
the minds of scientific men turn in this direction, but many more men
must be educatéd in such a way as to enable them to conduct profit-
able research; and, what is more, we must face the fact that we must
study our present ways of doing things and particularly our present
ways of growing food, and that we must make radical changes in
order to bring about the best results.

Intelligence will win out in the long run; but the human species
must turn aside in its race and concentrate a great deal of its “ God-
given ” intelligence on its strongest rival, the insects.

*In Europe, the term phytopathology is applied to damage done by insects as well as
by parasitic microorganisms and viruses.
any ve {sto ne

eyes

i gone r

a

: pre: eats
“Baroda rf oil, it ‘Ulaoit: »
OF) Pe ao br ah aliadinc, to "14
£8 ANGIE te ciiged

sy sud sp fn os eho, m0 ng es

Pree 1a.

Paimid Pace ne dais
ce
vos is ve i dail, ae 18 idbacy dng: ( sey Sait. al ONES
“edt onuid Sugary 4 qld, of arroh dud, lesan’: ols, ott
te Uk Viner don aan | al», boone need. xlovi: arent

Op ASAE AION! URE, jad .noiinotth eihty ie ris, aon oiliag .
U “Sheng Jogbs09, Od nn ata drug ot 28. View h th UA AEE, sanuira4 od
he ti semana
Vi: tS SE 9a tac $55 ub, 361 LS OT. Jaret oar Mont 5 ms dauye, bx
€

ah ase STG : 10, vite Lusidene be is, mrrbehd, Sih to 2 ae Antge
Bh oes sfi9, Isgibat bal nen i joucet SF daskt fhevgs. ‘hoot
A 1 dulee did ihe ea das ad. oil, dod 1
if Aili tel ie HEE Meat ai} sit ded Vy res Livre
cal de FEY Mh OIL ($9OTO2 | Dia, BOY: wii. x “i ebie

-aigovirt oft Asie dat roe, 200 20, au 19133 gill

we ee eg em ee tte ae om mae mo ga nn

thy Waunabs at  tidtigas ef 4 saan: “ one oar

a rib 18s) ahi ge P38
Avs
>, * tr
re
¢ +e ' a 4
5 oF
Poke es #
ieee ;
:
ME
'
ay.
.
j
.
’
AG rad
fen f
THE USE OF FISH POISONS IN SOUTH AMERICA

By EtiswortH P. Kiri, United States National Museum, and Apert C,
Ssuru, New York Botanical Garden

[With 5 plates]

The Indians who live along the Amazon River and its numerous
tributaries have many ways of capturing fish, one of their staple
foods. Some of these are ancient methods, handed down from gen-
eration to generation; others have come from recent contacts with
civilization. There is still-fishing, the natives fashioning hooks
from the thorns of plants and from bones, or when the white man’s
products have reached them, using manufactured steel hooks. Nets
of various kinds are much employed, some 1-man circular affairs that
require great dexterity to cast, others rectangular nets drawn through
the water by several men. Some times the fish are shot with arrows
or are speared. Along the lower Amazon, where the tide reaches
up from the Atlantic, enclosures are constructed of palm stems,
within which the fish are stranded as the tide ebbs. A most modern
method is used in regions lying in close contact with the commerce
of the world; dynamite is hurled into quiet pools, the natives then
diving after the stunned fish or retrieving them downstream by
forming a human barricade at a shallow stretch.

But perhaps the most interesting type of fishing is the old native
custom of throwing portions of plants into the water to stupefy
the fish, a procedure practiced since earliest times by primitive
people throughout the world and often mentioned by early explorers
of the Americas. With the spread of civilization, the area of this
usage is becoming more and more limited. So great is the destruc-
tion of fish, small as well as large, that decrees prohibiting the
“ poisoning ” of streams have been promulgated, and where the ad-
ministrative authority has been sufficiently strong this method has
been abandoned. Therefore, to observe this curious method of fish-
ing with plants, to see the plants actually being cultivated for this
purpose, and to make a thorough study of these materials, one must
penetrate into the more remote parts of the world.

Ample opportunity was had to carry on such investigations by
members of a botanical expedition recentlyl sent by the Smithsonian
Institution to northeastern Peru and Amazonian Brazil. Reports
on the general botanical work accomplished on the trip have been

401
402 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

published * by the writers; in the present paper we propose to deal
exclusively with our investigations of fish-poison plants.

The principal object of the expedition was the making of botanical
collections in the low-lying forested parts of eastern and northeast-
ern Peru, known as the montaia. Little botanical exploration had
been done in that region; the small amount that has been carried on
has mainly been that of European botanists, as Spruce, Poeppig,
Ule, and Tessmann, and their collections have been deposited in
European institutions. The party consisted of Mr. William J.
Dennis, of the University of Iowa, and the writers, and the general
route taken was as follows: Brief stops were made along the Pacific
coast of Peru, at Talara and Salaverry, the port of Trujillo, and at
Lima. From Lima we ascended the cordillera, and proceeded south
along this to Huancayo and Huanta. A three weeks’ trip took the
party over to the Apurimac River, in the montana, and back to
Huanta. Reaching the Chanchamayo Valley by way of Tarma, we
then worked slowly over the Pichis Trail, and down the Pichis,
Pachitea, and Ucayali Rivers to Iquitos, a city on the Amazon in
the extreme northeastern part of Peru. Here the party separated
temporarily, Mr. Dennis ascending the Maranon River as far as
the rapids of Manseriche, the writers going up the Huallaga River
to Yurimaguas and working from there west to Balsapuerto, at the
base of the Andes. The return trip from Iquitos was by way of the
Amazon River and the Atlantic, with short stops at the Brazilian
towns of Manaos, Para, and Gurupa. This circuitous trip from
Lima to Para, covering nearly 6,000 miles, gave us a fine opportunity
not only to study fish-poison plants but also to discover how little
really was known about them outside of the region in which they
were actually used.

This method of fishing does not seem to be employed in western
Peru, perhaps because of the enforcement of prohibitory laws, per-
haps because of the absence of small lakes or slow-moving streams
suited to its use. All we learned at Talara and Trujillo was that
Indians in the interior used plant roots for fishing. In Lima there
was a surprising lack of information about this means of fishing
and about the plants so used. At the University of San Marcos
there were a few roots on exhibition labeled cube and said to be a
fish poison of the interior. Dr. August Weberbauer, the eminent
botanist of Lima, told us that along the Perene River the Indians
used Z'ephrosia toxicaria in fishing. This is a plant of rather wide
distribution in the Tropics of the New World, and its use as a fish
poison was well known. We felt, however, that it was not the true
cube of which we had heard.

1Explorations and field-work of the Smithsonian Inst. in 1929, pp. 119-128, 1930;
Journ. N. Y. Bot. Gard., vol. 31, pp. 81-93, 1930.
FISH POISONS—KILLIP AND SMITH 403

At Huancayo, a city situated in the Mantaro Valley at an elevation
of about 11,000 feet, cube roots were on sale in many shops. They
were brought to Huancayo by natives from the montana, and no
stems with leaves or flowers were present with the roots to permit
identification of the plant. We learned that water treated with cube
was sometimes used as a sheep dip in this region. Another plant
used both as an insecticide and as a fish poison in the Mantaro
Valley was tallhue, Lupinus mutabilis Sweet (L. eruckshanksii A.
Gray), plantings of which were seen near Huancayo. The seeds,
poisonous when uncooked, were made edible by boiling, the water
then being used in cattle-delousing or in fishing.

At Aina, several days of travel southeast of Huancayo and our
first stop in the montafa, we were shown a plant in cultivation
called cube. It was clearly Zephrosia towicaria, and after much
questioning we were told that farther inland there was another much
more potent fish poison, cute de almidon (starch cube). ‘The plant
at Aina was known as mutuy cube, from its resemblance to the well-
known dye plant, /ndigofera suffruticosa, locally called mutuy.

The trail we were following ended at Kimpitiriki, a small mission
on the Apurimac River, and here for the first time we found the true
cube plant. Near the mission lived a half-breed farmer, who culti-
vated a small amount of cube for his own use. The plantation con-
sisted of about 100 plants, placed in irregular rows, with 10 feet or
more between plants. Here the plants were slender erect trees,
8 to 12 feet in height, with some of the upper branches scandent.
These were said to be 2 or 3 years old, and the roots were used at the
end of the fourth year (the roots only in this case, although some-
times the stems also are used).

The region is populated by scattered families of Campos Indians,
and at the time some of the men had gone on an expedition up the
Apurimac to obtain more cube root for a forthcoming fishing party.
We could not ascertain whether they were seeking wild cube or
whether they knew of other plantations upriver.

As our plans called for covering a large area in the brief space
of seven months, we were unable to explore further this immediate
region. How much farther south this particular plant is cultivated
we do not know. From reports we judge that it is found all along
the Apurimac River until that stream has attained an elevation of
3,000 feet above sea level. At the higher altitudes in the Department
of Apurimac this cube gives way to other fish poisons. Reports also
indicate that it is unquestionably the same as the plant grown along
the lower Apurimac and the Ene, the region from which roots are
brought to Huancayo.

Although the plants at Kimpitiriki were neither in flower nor in
fruit, they were at once recognized as representing a species of the
404 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

tribe Dalbergieae, of the Fabaceae (Pea) family. Subsequent
studies established its identity as Lonehocarpus nicow (Aubl.) DC.?

The Chanchamayo Valley, which was next visited, lies east of
Lima and across the Andes. So interesting was the vegetation here
that a full month was spent in general collecting at La Merced and
the Perene Colony, two important settlements in this valley, though
only a single plantation of Lonchocarpus nicou was seen here. A
family of Indians from the interior had taken over a chacra, as the
small farms are called, and had set out a few branches of cube,
brought with them from their earlier home. From these some 50
thriving plants had developed. Of special note is the fact that these
plants were growing at about 4,100 feet, a higher altitude than
observed elsewhere on the trip.

The common fish poison of this region, however, was Tephrosia
towcaria,; indeed, along that part of the Perene River the Indians
apparently use that plant exclusively. At the colony we obtained our
first and only information of the use of Sapindaceae as fish poisons.
An Austrian immigrant, who had lived many years among the
Cashivi Indians to the northward, told of their using various species
of a vine known by them as verap, and he showed us three different
species growing wild in the thickets near his house. These plants
proved to be Serjania glabrata Kunth, Serjania rubicaulis Benth.,
and Serjania rufa Radlk. Along the Pichis mule trail, which begins
at the Perene Colony, crosses a range at 6,000 feet altitude, and ter-
minates at the Pichis River, Zephrosia towicaria alone among fish
poisons was found, with the exception of a single plant of Loncho-
carpus nicou at Santa Rosa, near the end of the trail. Along the
Pichis, Pachitea, and Ucayali Rivers both of these and a third plant,
Clibadium strigillosum Blake, called guaco, were seen in cultivation,
though in no case were the plantings extensive. Apparently the use
of fish poisons is being given up along this main route of travel be-
tween Lima and the Amazon, possibly from a more rigid enforcement
of the laws, but more probably from an increasing use of dynamite.
Usually in this region Lonchocarpus nicow was referred to as conapt.

Iquitos, the capital of the Department of Loreto, 2,400 miles from
the mouth of the Amazon and yet with an altitude of only about
325 feet, proved to be the center of the cultivation of Lonchocarpus
nicou. From here westward as far as the rapids of Manseriche and
Balsapuerto this appeared to be one of the commonest of cultivated
plants; indeed, with the exception of bananas, plantains, and ywca,
it was probably the most commonly cultivated plant. In this region,
and in fact at all points north of the Chanchamayo, the name cube
was never used. Larbasco, the general word for fish-poison plants in

2See Killip and Smith, The Identity of the South American Fish Poisons cube ang
timbé, Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 20, pp. 74-81, 1930.
FISH POISONS—KILLIP AND SMITH 405

Spanish-speaking countries, was applied to all fish poisons, though
Lonchocarpus nicou was sometimes spoken of as barbasco legitimo.
The word darbasco is said to be derived from Verbascum, a genus of
- Scrophulariaceous plants used formerly in Spain and other European
countries as fish poisons. From this we have also embarbascar, to
fish with poisonous plants, and barbasca/, a plantation upon which
fish poisons are grown.

The barbascales of Lonchocarpus nicou vary greatly in size from
small clearings of 25 to 100 plants, intended to meet the wants of
a single Indian and his family, to large plantings of as many as
10,000 trees, the source of supply for a whole neighborhood. This
species grows best in fairly open, well-drained, sandy soil, and is
propagated by means of cuttings, a piece of the stem about a foot
long being placed horizontally a few inches below the surface. ‘The
cuttings grow rapidly, and at the end of the fourth year the plants
may be as much as 15 feet high. In general appearance they greatly
resemble coffee plants, the individual leaflets, indeed, having much
the shape of the leaves of Coffaea arabica. There is a central main
stem or trunk, which in the young stages of growth is erect. Later,
if there is a tree trunk available for support, the upper part of the
stem may bend toward it and climb upward to a height of 50 feet
or more. This accounts for the varying descriptions of eube given
during the early part of our trip as a tree and a vine. The roots
are usually dug at the end of the second, third, or fourth year.
The root system of a single individual is very large; one froin a
plant 2 years old weighed 3 pounds when fresh and 114 pounds
when dry.

In spite of prohibitions concerning it, barbasco is used by both
aborigines and Spanish-Peruvians. It was our good fortune to
attend a fishing party which took place on one of the streams empty-
ing into the Huallaga. Such an affair is an occasion for gayety
and excitement. An arm of the stream or a small lagoon where
the current is not swift is chosen and on the appointed morning
two or three hundred people assemble. Some come from consid-
erable distance, afoot or by canoe. The canoes are substantial
craft made of a single tree trunk capable of carrying several
people.

Some participants bring large baskets of barbasco roots, others
who are less provident come empty-handed to enjoy the fun or to
get an undeserved share of fish. Many families make temporary
camps along the shore, and everyone is in good humor. The barbasco
is chopped into small pieces with a machete and several basketfuls
are emptied into each canoe. It is then covered with water until
the canoe is about a quarter full. The men and boys tread this

28095—31——27
406 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

mixture with their feet until it becomes grayish white in color.
Evidently it has no effect on external abrasions; in fact, it is some-
times taken internally in small amounts as medicine.

When all is ready the canoes are distributed over the proposed
area and at a signal each participant empties his mixture into
the lagoon with a calabash. The barbasco left in the bottom of
the canoe can be mixed with more water and a second somewhat
weaker solution formed. Gradually the quiet water takes on a milky
tinge.

After a few minutes, small fish appear on the surface, struggling
in an inebriated manner. These are neglected by the fishers and
soon float quietly in death; this careless slaughter of innumerable
young fish is the chief objection to the use of poisons. Soon the
larger fish are affected; the dying struggles of these cause con-
siderable excitement and rivalry. Canoes are propelled to and fro
across the agitated lagoon, each with one or more spearsmen in the
bow. The spears, equipped with two or three metal prongs, are
jabbed into the fish, which are dextrously flipped into the canoe
one after another. Shouts of laughter and encouragement fill the
air; both paddlers and spearsmen enter into the competition, and
many prizes are stolen from beneath the spear of a friendly
rival. Along the shores, children emulate their elders by jabbing
the neglected small fry.

After a few tense minutes the lagoon is “cleaned out”; only the
very large and wary fish are left, the poison having become too diluted
to do further damage. The precise effect of the poison is not known,
but it is apparently external. In some way the gills cease to func-
tion, and the fish act as though paralyzed. Some observers have
noted a dilation of the eyes. A fish which is only partly paralyzed,
upon being placed in fresh water, will often recover.

Gradually the assemblage disperses, with the prospect of a few
hearty meals in the near future. It is said that fish thus obtained
can not be kept as long as those otherwise caught, but they are
unharmed for immediate consumption. Usually the catch is too
large, and the ensuing waste is another score against this method.

By far the greater part of Lonchocarpus nicou seen was in culti-
vation. Only a few scattered plants which we took to be this spe-
cies were found truly wild in the forests. This wild plant is called
sacha barbasco by the natives, and there was a difference of opinion as
to its effectiveness as a fish poison. Some stated that it was never
used; others that it was sometimes used but was much less powerful
than the cultivated plant. Perhaps the wild plants represent a
species closely related to Lonchocarpus nicou, the true plant not
being native in Peru; or perhaps the cultivated plant is a selected
strain in which the poison content of the roots is particularly strong.

66
FISH POISONS—-KILLIP AND SMITH 407

Curiously not a single plant, cultivated or wild, was found in flower
or fruit. That this was not due to our trip having been made out
of season is evidenced by the universal testimony of owners of plan-
tations, whose powers of observation are remarkably keen, that the
plant “ did not have flowers.” We can only suggest certain explana-
tions for this condition. Possibly the plant does not flower until
after several years of growth when it has become a high-climbing
liana. As the trees in actual cultivation are dug at the end of the
third or fourth year, the great majority of the plants that we saw
or that were seen by natives with whom we came in contact were
not old enough to produce flowers. Or possibly during centuries
of cultivation it has been found that the poison content is more po-
tent in nonflowering individuals.

Other plants cultivated as fish poisons in the Iquitos region and
along the lower Huallaga River are 7'ephrosia towicaria, here some-
times called tirano barbasco, and Clibadium sylvestre and C. hetero-
trichum, both known as guaco or huaca.

Our trip across Brazil was unfortunately a hurried one, and we
made no thorough study of fish poisons. Questioning of the natives
who live along the banks of the Amazon brought little information
about the practice. It was only after painstaking search during stops
at Manaos, Para, and Gurupa that we were able to see the plants
growing. A few scattered plants of Z. nicow were found near these
settlements. Near Manaos there was a planting of over a thousand
shrubs of another species of Lonchocarpus, L. floribundus Benth.,
the roots of which were said to be very effective as a fish poison.
These plants were in fine flower and fruit. At Gurupa on the lower
Amazon, there was a third species, Lonchocarpus urucu Killip and
Smith, which was considered to be even more powerful than Loncho-
carpus nicou. Other fish poisons cultivated about Para were 7'e-
phrosia towicaria, Tephrosia emarginata*® and Clibadium sylvestre.
On our entire Amazon trip we learned nothing of the many other
plants mentioned by Martius and Radlkofer as being used to obtain
fish. Here, as in many other places, this mode of fishing is being
abandoned because of prohibitory laws. At Manaos all agreed
that the Indians of the upper Rio Negro and the Rio Branco used
plants almost exclusively in fishing.

In Amazonian Brazil the prevailing name for fish poisons was
timbé, modifications of this being used for the different plants, as
timbé legitime for Lonchocarpus nicou, timbé uruci for L. urucu,
timbé cururi for L. rariflorus, a common plant though apparently
not used as a fish poison, and timbé de Cayenne for Tephrosia
towicaria.

3In our previous paper we referred to this plant as Oracca nitens (Tephrosia nitens),

the name commonly used for this close relative of 7. towicaria in the lower Amazon
region. True Tephrosia nitens apparently is distinct.
408 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

On this trip across Peru and Brazil we saw therefore 11 different
kinds of plants that were said to be used in fishing. These consti-
tute only a small part of the total number of species reported as
South American fish poisons, though we believe that Lonchocarpus
nicow and perhaps Zephrosia toxicaria are among the most com-
monly used ones, at least in the northern half of the continent. Far-
ther south in Brazil the prevailing fish poisons belong to Serjania
and Paullinia, of the family Sapindaceae.

Several lists of fish poisons have been compiled, the earliest being
that of the distinguished Venezuelan botanist Ernst,‘ who included
26 species from South America. Papers by Radlkofer,’ Greshoff,°
and Howes’ brought the total known from South America to about
100.

There has been a revival of interest in this ancient custom due to
the discovery that many fish poisons contain substances that may
prove of high value in the manufacture of insecticides. So great
is the damage wrought upon cattle and crops by the hordes of in-
sect pests that chemists are ever on the lookout for effective weapons
to fight them. When experiments are concluded it may be found
that the roots used by primitive peoples to obtain an important
element of their diet are the means of conserving the food supply
of the more highly civilized races.

* Memoria botanica sobre el embarbascar 6 sea la pesca por media de plantas venenosas,
Caracas 1881; reprinted in Anales Acad. Cienc., Habana 18: 135-147, 1881.

5 Ueber fischergiftende Pflanzen, in Akad. Wiss. Miinchen 16: 379-416, 1886.

® Beschrijving der giftige en bedwelmende Planten bij de Vischangst in Bebruik. Medel.
‘Slands Plant. Batavia, pt. 1, 18938; pt. 2, 1900; pt. 3, 19138.

7™Kew Bull. Misc. Inf. 1980: pp. 129-153, 1930.
Smithsonian Report, 1930. Killip and Smith

PLATE 1

aS
~

1 FISHERMEN ASSEMBLE WwW

ITH THEIR SUPPLIES OF BARBASCO ROOTS

2. THE Roots ARE CHOPPED

INTO SMALL PIECES

WITH MACHETES

Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Killip and Smith PLATE 2

1. WATER IS POURED OVER THE ROOTS

2. THE NATIVES TREAD THIS MIXTURE UNTIL IT HAS BECOME GRAYISH WHITE
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Killip and Smith PLATE 3

1. AT A GIVEN SIGNAL THE ‘‘POISONED’’ WATER IS EMPTIED INTO THE LAGOON

2. THE PARALYZED FISH ARE READILY CAUGHT WITH SPEAR OR NET
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Killip and Smith PLATE 4

1. QUANTITIES OF FISH FLOAT DOWNSTREAM, STRUGGLING FEEBLY NEAR
THE SURFACE OF THE WATER

2. A PLANTATION OF ‘‘CUBE"’ OR ‘‘BARBASCO’’
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Killip and Smith PLATE 5

1. SOMETIMES DYNAMITE IS USED FOR FISHING

2. THE NATIVES DIVE FOR THE STUNNED FISH AND SOON HAVE A MESS FOR THE
COMING MEAL
A RARE PARASITIC FOOD PLANT OF THE SOUTHWEST

By FRANK A, THACKERY
Senior Agriculturist, United States Department of Agriculture

and

M. FRENCH GILMAN
Collaborator, United States Department of Agriculture

[With 9 plates]

The rare and interesting plant Ammobroma sonorae Torr. is found
only in the sand dunes of the southwestern United States and north-
ern Sonora and Lower California, Mexico, where the rainfall
averages only about 2 to 5 inches per annum and where there are
sometimes periods as long as three years with practically no rain,

Apparently, when plenty of moisture is made available by winter
or spring rains the plant grows very rapidly and is able, by stealing
from its host and by means of its own roots, to store sufficient moisture
in its long, fleshy, succulent stalk to mature and reproduce seed in
its chosen home in the sand dunes. In dry seasons this parasite is
extremely rare in the sand dunes of Imperial County, Calif., but if
the winter months have plenty of rain it is likely to be plentiful
there during the months of March, April, May, and June. The
larger and better specimens were collected by us in late May and
early June following a wet winter season.

Just how this parasitic plant makes its contact with the host root,
usually from 2 to 5 feet below the surface, forms a most interesting
subject which we are now attempting to solve.

The word Ammobroma is derived from two Greek words, ammo
(sand), bromos (food). The Papago Indians, who have used this
plant for food from time immemorial, call it biatatk (dia—sand or
sand hills—and tatk—root).

It is a root parasite and belongs to the family Lennoaceae which
is usually placed next to the Lricaceae, or Heath family. There are
only two genera of this family represented in the United States,
Pholisma and Ammobroma, and only one species in each genus,
Pholisma arenium Nutt., and Ammobroma sonorae Torr. In appear-
ance, Pholisma and Ammobroma are quite different, the former

409
410 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

having its flowers in a spike (as a flowering head), while the flower
head of the latter is a flat or saucer-shaped disk. ‘The calyx of
Pholisma is smooth, whereas that of Ammobroma is quite hairy and
the two parasites appear to have different host plants.

Ammobroma is found in the sand dunes between Imperial Valley,
Calif., and Yuma, Ariz., and although fairly numerous in spots,
appeared not to be widely distributed, even though much apparently
suitable territory was explored. Our first examination of this plant
was on April 1, 1928, following a wet winter, and thereafter visits
to the locality were made at frequent intervals up to July 31, 1929.
The plant was found growing in almost pure sand of a pale buffy
color, and in the case of the best specimens the roots were found to be
in moist sand. Where the sand was dry at the point of contact with
the host root the stalks of the parasite were flabby and wilted. They
were found more abundant and in better condition in the depressions
between the sand dunes or at other points where it was evident that
more moisture was available.

The flower heads were fiat on the ground, and their similarity in
color to the sand caused them to be easily overlooked by a casual
observer. There were usually four to eight heads from a single con-
tact on the host root. These heads frequently appear on the surface
several feet from the host plant, but they are sometimes closer and
occasionally even partially under the brgnches of the host.

Ammobroma was not reported from California until recently al-
though it was collected in Sonora, Mexico, in 1854 by Col. A. B.
Gray and again either in Arizona or in Lower California, Mexico, in
1858 by Carl Schuchard. In May, 1903, T. S. Brandegee reported
Ammobroma from California (collected by Alfred Stockton near the
Colorado River).

It was reported again in April, 1925, by W. L. Jepson from the
Colorado desert in California (Ogilby near Hedges Mine).

Through the interest of Mr. D. S. Hunt (known locally as “ Peg-
leg ”), this rare plant, growing in the sand dunes of Imperial County,
Calif., was brought to the attention of Dr. O. F. Cook a few years
ago, and in March, 1928, was shown to Mr. Carl S. Scofield. Mr.
Scofield collected specimens of young flowering heads and showed
them to Dr. Walter T. Swingle at the United States Date Garden,
Indio, Calif., in the latter part of March, 1928. Doctor Swingle de-
tailed us to make a thorough study of the plant and in particular to
ascertain its host plant.

Before maturity, the heads are like a flat disk with a slight depres-
sion in the center, but as they grow older the top becomes more
convex, or saucer shaped, and some even approach a funnel shape.
When young, the disk appears entire, but may later form folds, or
lobes, and in some cases may even split into several parts, radiating
A PARASITIC PLANT—-THACKERY AND GILMAN 411

from the center and again dividing as the circumference is ap-
proached. This formation seems to take place as the seed vessels
develop and may come from pressure of the growing capsules. The
edges of the flower head are curled under, and at maturity each ray,
in cases where the split occurs, resembles a scape with the persistent
flowers on the upper side. The first flowers open near the center, the
later ones toward the outside, until the last ones appear near the outer
edge. The rays into which the inflorescence splits vary in width ac-
cording to the size of the disk or the number of the divisions.

The flower heads, or disks, were from 1% to 5 inches in diameter
and about an inch or a little less in thickness. We found one head,
however, which measured 8 inches in diameter. The flowers form
a scattered circle around the center and in later openings, as stated,
approach the outside, thus forming successive irregular circles of
flowers. The flower is tubular in shape with a spread of about
one-eighth of an inch, and is about three-eighths of an inch in
length. The corolla lobes are from six to nine, or occasionally even
more, although 6, 7, and 8 seem the most common numbers. The
flower is amparo purple and the throat a hortense violet color
(Ridgeway’s Color Manual), and the margin is white. The filiform
sepals are light purple in color with numerous plumose silvery hairs
on the upper side which tend to mass or felt at the surface of the
flower head, making a soft, velvety surface.

The capsule is shaped like a tiny flat onion, slightly larger than
an ordinary pinhead. When mature, it splits horizontally around
the equatorial circumference, disclosing a circle of tiny seeds,
usually 16 in number. These seeds are shaped like a segment of
a tangerine orange and are brown in color, with a rough or pitted
surface. As far as could be determined from an examination of our
specimens, seed matured from less than half of the flowers. The
base, or foundation of the disk, which might be called the receptacle,
was light purple and faded to a brown as the plant matured. By
soaking this colored substance in water, it appeared to us brown,
instead of the expected purple color.

Much difficulty was encountered in digging the plants because
fresh sand, which was dry most of the way down, kept sliding back
into the hole almost as fast as it could be thrown out, so that in each
instance when the work was finally done, we had a funnel-shaped
hole, several feet across and usually from 3 to 5 feet in depth. To
add to the difficulty, the long fleshy stalks of the best specimens of
Ammobroma, usually from 1 to 114 inches in diameter, were so
tender and brittle that they had to be supported by one man while
the other did the digging. The stalks were whitish in color, sparsely
clothed with scales about an inch long and an eighth of an inch
wide, but as the stalks mature the scales take on a tan color. The
412 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

scales increase in number and decrease in size from the root attach-
ment to the top of the plant, changing from a brown color under-
ground to a light purple as the head, or disk, is reached. The number
of stalks branching from a single contact on the host root varied from
one or two to as many as 25, but the usual number was from four to
eight.

Rarely did the stalks ascend perpendicularly from the contact
point with host root, usually curving horizontally and then upward
at various angles. The heads were sometimes close together at the
surface, but usually as much as 38 or 4 feet apart.’ In some in-
stances we found the stalk only part way to the surface and then,
instead of a head, it had a sharp point for penetrating the sand. In
one instance this sharp point had grown entirely through another
Ammobroma stalk at right angles to it.

The young, tender stalks were slightly enlarged soon after leav-
ing the host root, and some of them showed an enlargement just
below the surface of the sand. Many of the stalks had thrown out
a few roots at the base, or point of contact with the host root, thus
indicating an attempt to depart from pure parasitism. In a few
cases, as shown by the photographs, there were many Ammobroma
roots. When the stalks were in their prime they were very succu-
lent, plump, and very tender and brittle, but as the moisture disap-
peared and the heads matured, the stalks wilted, decreased in diam-
eter, and became flabby. Apparently the head forms just before it
reaches the surface of the sand and then pushes its way up to the
surface in a manner similar to the growth of a puffball or toadstool.

When moisture is available under the conditions prevailing in the
sand dunes of Imperial County, Calif., this parasite is able to store
sufficient moisture and nutriment in its stalk to continue flowering
well into the rainless summer months. We collected our largest and
best heads on April 26, 1928, at a time when no moisture could be
detected in the sand at the point of contact with the host and the
roots of the parasite appeared to be dead. The Ammobroma stalks
were wilted, indicating that the heads had continued to grow and
mature seed from the storage in the stalks.

The disproportion between the small nonsucculent Coldenia host
and the heavy, fleshy and succulent parasite is very noticeable, the
parasite often being many times the weight of the host. This is
possible because the Ammobroma has its own root system, enabling
it rapidly to absorb water when available in the sand of the dunes.

The host plants of Ammobroma were not identified by Col. A. B.
Gray, who discovered it near Adair Bay, Sonora, Mexico, on May
17, 1854, nor by Carl Schuchard, who in May, 1858, between Pilot
Knob and Cook’s Well, collected the specimens which were studied
so carefully by Count Solms-Laubach.
A PARASITIC PLANT—-THACKERY AND GILMAN 413

In 1890, Dr. Edward Palmer collected Ammobroma near Lerdo,
Sonora, Mexico, not far from the Arizona boundary, and reported
it parasitic on Franseria dumosa (Compositae) Gray and Dalea (or
Parosela) emoryi (Leguminoseae) Gray. The account of the col-
lecting of the plant by Doctor Palmer is found in the Contributions
from the United States National Herbarium, No. 1, June 30, 1890.,
p. 27:

Ammobroma sonorae, Torr. This was first discovered in 1854 by Col. A. B.
Gray, in charge of a railroad exploring party, at the head of the Gulf of Cali-
fornia. At this time a short notice of the discovery was published by Col.
A. B. Gray in Memoirs of the American Academy of Science, but it was not
until 1867 that a description of the genus was published by Dr, John Torrey
in the Annals of Lye. Nat. Hist. N. Y. Vol. VIII, p. 51, together with a good
figure. So far as we can learn the plant was not collected again until Sehu-
chard got it in Arizona. And now Doctor Palmer collected it in large quan-
tities at Lerdo, Mexico. Until the present season its host plant has been
unknown but Doctor Palmer has carefully examined into this, and collected
two common plants of this arid region upon which it grows. These are Fran-
seria dumosa and Dalea emoryi. Doctor Palmer wrote that the plant grows
in deep sand, the deeper the sand the larger and juicier the plants. The Cocopa
Indians gather them for food, which they relish under all circumstances, They
eat it raw, boiled, or roasted. The plant is full of moisture, and whites and
Indians alike resort to it in traveling, as a valuable substitute for water. It
has a pleasant taste, much resembling the sweet potato. The stems are 2%4
feet long and 1 to 4 inches in diameter, but almost buried, only the peculiar
white tops appearing above the sand. The Cocopa Indians e¢all it ‘ Oyutch,”
Colonel Gray gave much the same report of this plant. He says the Papago
Indians dry the stems and grind them with the mesquite beans, forming what
they call “ pinole.”

In this same publication, under the heading “ Head of the Gulf of
California,” also on page 27, appears the following:

Three days were spent at Lerdo, Mexico. This is 60 miles south-southwest
from Yuma, latitude 31° 46’ 10’’, and longitude 114° 43’ 30’’,

The most interesting plant found here was Ammobroma, which for the first
time has been collected in good quantity.

Since Doctor Palmer’s time, no further information has been
forthcoming as to the hosts of this parasitic plant, which in the
meantime had been reported from Ogilby, Calif., near Hedges Mine,
by W. L. Jepson in his book “A Manual of the Flowering Plants of
California,” page 735, published April 14, 1925.

In the sand dunes east of Holtville in Imperial County, Calif., we
found Ammobroma parasitic on Coldenia plicata; (Torr.) Cov. and
Coldenia palmeri Torr. (Boraginaceae) and more rarely on /'riogo-
num deserticolum Wats. (Polygonaceae). We did not see any

+An unfortunate confusion has occurred in the names of these two common species of
Coldenia. What is commonly called Coldenia palmeri Wats. is, according to Ivan M.
Johnston (Proc. California Acad. Sci., vol. 4, no. 12, 1143 N. 30, May 31, 1924) not that
species but Coldenia plicata, (Torr.) Cov., while the true Coldenta palmeri Torr. is the
species commonly called Coldenia brevicalyw Wats. The names are used here in their
Original sense as determined by Johnston and not in their current application.
414 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

Franseria species growing where the Ammobroma was found but we
did find a considerable number of Dalea (Parosela) emoryi, none,
however, showing it as host to Ammobroma.

In number of plants harboring the root parasite, Coldenia palmeri
easily led with about 80 per cent of those found. Coldenia plicata
came next with about 19 per cent, and Lriogonum deserticolum sup-
ported the parasite in only three instances of the many examined
by us. Coldenia palmeri was more numerous than Coldenia plicata
but not in as great a percentage as the relative infestation would
indicate.

The two species of Coldenia mentioned herein are quite common
in the arid and sandy portions of the Southwestern United States.
Under favorable growing conditions, Coldenia palmeri Torr. often
appears semispherical, sometimes spreading as much as 214 feet
and reaching a height of 1 foot. In dry seasons it presents a very
ragged appearance and makes little, if any, growth, depending upon
the amount of moisture available. Its roots are very dark in color
and extend comparatively long distances into the sandy soil. When
the sand of the dunes of Imperial County contained moisture, we
noticed frequent enlargements of the Coldenia roots, indicating a
tendency to store moisture when available. It shows much better
growth where richer soil is available than that to be found in the
sand dunes, but apparently Ammobroma prefers almost pure sand.

Eriogonum deserticolum Wats. was quite numerous but seemingly
not a suitable host. One contact found on Eriogonum was notable
in that 25 Ammobroma stalks were growing from a single contact
on one root of the host, the largest number found from one plant.
However, the stalks were small and wilted and the heads were also
small and not well developed. The depth was less than the average,
being only a little over 2 feet, while the average for Ammobroma
on Coldenia was between 21% to 4 feet, one extreme depth being 5
feet. This particular case was impressed upon us by the labor
entailed in digging it out in the hot desert sunshine with the tempera-
ture at about 105°. A careful search failed to reveal any other
plants utilized as host, although representatives of other genera
were fairly abundant in the immediate locality, among which may
be mentioned: Covillea glutinosa Rydb., Ephedra trifurca Torr.,
Abronia villosa Wats., Var. aurita Jepson, Mentzellia multiflora
Gray, Stillingia annua Muell., Palafoxia linearis Lag., Parosela
emoryt Gray, Petalonyx thurbert Gray, Oenothera trichocalyx
Nutt., Oenothera scapoidea T. & G., and Dicoria canescens T. & G.

The Papago and other Indians of the southwestern United States
regard this plant very highly as food. Where Ammobroma was
found, we noted many pieces of broken Indian pottery, some of it
worn very thin by blown sand. Ammobroma was discovered by Col.
: A PARASITIC PLANT—-THACKERY AND GILMAN 415

A. B. Gray near Adair Bay, or Pinacate Mountain, in the State of
Sonora, Mexico, in May, 1854. On this occasion he had with him a
Papago Indian chief, who gathered some of this plant and roasted it
on the coals of his camp fire. In describing its food value, Colonel
Gray says:

We encamped for the night in the sand hills, and the chief, Instead of sup-
ping with us as usual, made a fire and roasted his roots or plants on the hot
coals (which took about 20 minutes), and commenced eating them. None of
the party seemed inclined to taste, but out of curiosity I moved over to the
chief’s fire, and he handed me one. At first I ate but little and slowly, but
in a few minutes so luscious was it that I forgot my own mess and ate
heartily of it; next morning each of the party “ followed suit,” and after-
wards there was scarcely enough gathered to satisfy us. The taste, though
peculiar, was not unlike the sweet potato, but more delicate.

We liked it better raw than cooked; however, we did not try it
roasted on coals as described by Colonel Gray. We found it quite
palatable and apparently nutritious. Gray, Palmer, and Lumholtz
agree that when roasted on the coals Indian fashion it resembles
the sweet potato in taste.

Mr. Carl Lumholtz, who many years later found this same plant
at about the same locality, says of it:

I sampled one of them and found it to be a succulent and excellent food.
It is more tender than a radish, as well as much more juicy, and the whole root
ean be eaten. It has a sweetish and agreeable flavor all its own. The Indians
usually toast these plants on the coals, when they resemble sweet potatoes
in taste, but I prefer to eat them raw. They are an especially delicious
relish to a thirsty man, and they also quickly appease hunger; in fact, of all
the many kinds of edible roots that I have tried in their uncooked state, used
among natives in different parts of the earth, I know of none which can com-
pare with this one in refreshing and palatable qualities.

On the occasion of Colonel Gray’s discovery of this plant, May 17,
1854, he says:

No rain had fallen there for six months, it being the dry season.

Mr. Lumholtz visited this same locality in March, 1910, and he
says:
I had heard much of this plant for even the Mexicans relish the camote of

the medanos, as they call it, but the past rainless winter had held out little
hope that my desire to see it would be realized.

From this it would appear that both Gray and Lumholtz found
considerable numbers of this plant following very dry seasons. Mr.
Lumholtz further indicates that the plant in the Pinacate region is
available to the Indians as food through the whole year for in speak-
ing of the “Sand-dune Papago Indians” he says:

They found good edible plant food in the dunes, especially Ammobroma
sonorae, the wonderful camotes which the Indians knew how to gather all

the year round, though after May that part of the plant which is aboye ground
withers away.
416 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

The experience of the authors, resulting from frequent examina-
tions of this plant from April 1, 1928, to July 31, 1929, as it grows
in the sand dunes of Imperial County, Calif., indicates that the
Ammobroma of that locality dries up during the dry seasons; in fact,
but two single specimens were found in the spring of 1929 and both
of these were attached to Hriogonuwm deserticolum Wats., a much
larger and more drought-resistant shrub than either of the Coldenias,
which to Ammobroma appear preferable as host plants.

During the dry season (March to June, 1929) we traced many dry
stalks of the Ammobroma of the previous season down through the
sand to the contact with the root of the host plant and in only two
cases did we find any life in the Ammobroma and then only a very
little within 1 or 2 inches of the point of contact. However, the
difference in our experience and that of Gray and Lumholtz may be
due to the fact that the Ammobroma of the Pinacate region of
Sonora has a different host plant which may be better able to support
Ammobroma through the dry seasons, or there may be more moisture
in the sand where they found it.

During the 1928-29 season the most common host plants for the
Ammobroma of the Imperial County, Calif., sand dunes, the two
species of Coldenia herein mentioned, made little if any growth; in
fact, the tops of most of them appeared to be practically dead.

We have procured seed of the Ammobroma and scattered it near
the Coldenia of the sand dunes in Riverside County (Coachella
Valley), but so far no germinations have been noted.

LITERATURE CITED

1. BranpEGEE, T. 8S. Vegetation of the Colorado Desert in Zoe 5, p. 154, No. 9,
May, 1908.

2. Gray, Cot. AnpREW B. Original report in letter addressed to Dr. John
Torrey, dated at New York, October 20, 1854, on Ammobroma sonorae.
Proceedings of the American Association for the Advancement of Science,
9th meeting, held at Providence, R. I., in August, 1855, pp. 283 to 236.

3. JEPSON, W. L. A Manual of the Flowering Plants of California, p. 735,
April 14, 1925.

4. JOHNSTON, IvAN M. Proceedings of the California Academy of Science, (4)
12, 1148. N. 80. May 31, 1924.

5. PALMER, Dr. Epwarp. Contributions from the United States National
Herbarium, vol. 1, No. 1, p. 27, June 30, 1890.

6. VASSEY, GrorcH and Ross, J. N. List of Plants Collected by Dr. Edward
Palmer in 1890 at Head of the Gulf of California. Contributions from
the United States National Herbarium, vol. 1, No. 1, p. 27, June 30, 1890.

7. SOLMS-LAUBACH, CoUNT HERMANN. Die Familie der Lennoaceen in Abhand-
lungen der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft zu Halle 11, pp. 119 to 178, pls.
1 to 3. (Heft 2, 1870.)

8. Torrey, Dr. JoHN. Original description of Ammobroma. Annals of the
Lyceum of Natural History of New York, vol. 8, pp. 51 to 56, June 27,
1864.

9. LUMHOLTz, CaRL. New Trails in Mexico, pp. 318, 319, 330 and $81.
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Thackery and Gilman

1. ELEVEN STALKS OF ‘‘AMMOBROMA"’ FROM A SINGLE CONTACT ON ROOT OF
THE COLDENIA PALMERI; THE LATTERIS SHOWN IN CENTER OF PICTURE. APRIL
1, 1928

2. SHOWING 19 STALKS OF *‘AMMOBROMA"’ FROM SINGLE CONTACT ON ROOT
OF COLDENIA PALMERI. APRIL 1, 1928

Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Thackery and Gilman PLATE 2

1. ‘“‘AMMOBROMA"’ ON COLDENIA PLICATA, WHICH MAY BE SEEN JUST TO THE
PEER OF HHE HAT. APRIE, 1928

2. SAMPLES OF ‘‘AMMOBROMA"’ AS PULLED FROM THE GROUND WITHOUT DIG-
GING AWAY THE SAND. APRIL 15, 1928
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Thackery and Gilman PLATE 3

SHOWING BOTH HOST AND PARASITE APRIL 1, 1928
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Thackery and Gilman PLATE 4

SHOWING ‘‘AMMOBROMA"’ ROOTS AT POINT OF CONTACT ON ROOT OF COL-
DENIA PALMERI. APRIL 15, 1928
8761 ‘1 WddvV 8261 ‘SL Tlddy “ANNOY SMOVA
LOOM SLI OL GSHOVLLY ..WWNOYNSOWWY,, SO WIVLS NI LNNH ‘S‘°Q ‘“l8dS3W1Wvd VINSGQI0D 40 LOOY NO Lov.

JIONIS HLIM AGNNONSOSHYOSH NI IWAW1VWd VINSAGIOD ‘Zz “NOD SO LNIOd LY SLOOY ,,.VWWOYNSOWWY,, SONIMOHS °*|

\

ueuyir) pue Asay ey L O¢6l *‘yuoday ueruosyyiWig
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Thackery and Gilman PLATE 6

FORMATION OF FOLDS OR LOBES AND SPLITS AS HEADS OF ‘‘AMMOBROMA’’
MATURE

The large head is 8 inches in diameter. April 25, 1928.
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Thackery and Gilman PLATE 7

SHOWING CONTACT OF ‘‘AMMOBROMA"’ ON ERIOGONUM DESERTICOLUM.
APRIL 1, 1928
PLATE 8

Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Thackery and Gilman

SHOWING CONTACT ON ROOT OF ERIOGONUM DESERTICOLUM AS FOUND BY THE AUTHORS IN THE LATE SUMMER

OF 1928
6261 ‘Zl HOYUVW
NO SHYOHINY SHL HLIM S31833d “H “YY AB ANNOY Sv¥ WNIODILYSS3sa OSOINy 3JO LOOY NO LOVLNOD ON!

§ ALV1d uvUIt) pu AsaxOeY | —"QEG| ‘Oday URTUOSY {TUG
THE MECHANISM OF ORGANIC EVOLUTION *

By CHARLES B, DAVENPORT
Department cf Genetics, Carnegie Institution of Washington

[With 1 plate]

As we look over the world to-day we see, as the ancients did,
the marvelous phenomenon of a world populated not only by humans
but also by many hundred thousand so-called species of animals
and plants existing in uncountable individuals whose numbers can
no more be expressed by the ordinary system of numbering than
astronomical distances can be readily expressed in miles. A cubic
millimeter of the blood of a leucaemic mouse may contain over a
million white corpuscles, and there may well be 1,000 such cubic
millimeters of blood in a mouse. This gives us a billion white cor-
puscles in one mouse not to consider the other cells of the mouse’s
body. These white corpuscles are essentially organisms, with powers
of food gathering, assimilation, excretion, locomotion, sensation,
etc. And this is but one mouse. Even if we assume so few as 21%
house mice to a human being on the earth (and mice are ubiquitous),
and that each has only 10 million leucocytes, we shall have 50 mil-
lion billion white blood corpuscles in house mice alone.

I have sometimes speculated on the number of organisms visible
to the low power of the microscope that are in our inner harbor ?
at the end of August, when it has a creamy, souplike consistency.
Assuming one per cubic millimeter, which is certainly far too small,
there would be a quadrillion individuals in this space, which would
occupy only a square millimeter in the one-millionth map of the
world, which has over half a billion square millimeters.

Pardon me for wearying you with figures. I have wanted to put
you in a position to grant my first point that the number of ingli-
vidual organisms on the globe is essentially infinite, though the num-
ber of kinds that naturalists have been able to count and describe in
the past 150 years is still finite.

Next, I would call to your attention that most of these individuals
have a short life and are quickly replaced by others, even if we leave

1 Presented before the two hundred thirty-third meeting of the Washington Academy of
Sciences, as one of the series of papers on Origin and Evolution. Reprinted by permission
from the Journal of The Washington Academy of Sciences, vol. 20, No. 14, Aug. 19, 1930.

?Cold Spring Harbor, Long Island Sound.

417
418 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

out of account the unicellular organisms which retain their individu-
ality only for the few hours or minutes necessary to reorganize and
divide again. Even if we assume that the average length of life of
an individual is a year—and it is probably not over a day—then we
have to consider the remarkable phenomenon of an annual wiping
off of the slate, as it were, of this infinitude of individuals each
year and their re-formation the next year. This is possible owing to
the immense reproductive capacity of certain species. ‘Thus one
oyster may lay 50,000,000 eggs during a few days in the summer and
one sea urchin 20,000,000 eggs. These are samples, merely, of repro-
ductive capacity of individuals. Perhaps now we have gained some
conception of the number of individuals that have been produced
each year on the earth, during we do not know how many millions
of years.

If now you are willing to admit that the problem of organic evo-
lution is that of the evolution of an organic mass consisting of an
infinitude of individuals reproduced during an infinitude of genera-
tions, that may serve as a starting point to our inquiry as to the
mechanism of organic evolution.

Now, each individual has a certain recognizable form and acquires
it through a certain course of development, be it more or less com-
plex. The center of control of this form is largely, if not chiefly, in
the chromosomes of the organic cells—in its genes, to be more pre-
cise. In fact the soma of organisms, what we see, is just an index
of the form producing and maintaining factors of the genes—al-
ways, of course, recognizing that the end result is a sort of re-
action between gene and environment. Now if the world of organ-
isms is composed of an infinitude of kinds it is because the germ
plasm is of an infinitude of kinds. The course of organic evolution _
has been and is what it is because the germ plasm has undergone
and is undergoing the changes that it has undergone and is under-
going. This change of the germ plasm is called mutation. Muta-
tion is one of the great factors in organic evolution.

Now what do we know about mutation? First, we know that it
is widespread. This knowledge has first become precise as organ-
isfis have been studied in successive generations, under controlled
conditions. Such mutations have long been known among domesti-
cated organisms like potatoes, poultry, guinea pigs, and dogs. Muta-
tions have been so long known among domesticated organisms that
it was natural for Darwin to discuss “ Variation under Domestica-
tion” and for him and others to consider what quality of domesti-
cation it is that induces mutation. During the past 25 years in
several species of animals taken from the wild, many generations
have been followed. And in consequence we now know that muta-
tion has no necessary relations to domestication; but only that

ORGANIC EVOLUTION—DAVENPORT 419

domestication enables us to see and perhaps preserve such muta-
tions. Rather, I should say, the product of such mutation, for the
mutation has occurred in the germ plasm before it has become visible
in the soma of the organism that develops under the control of the
mutated germ plasm.

Let us now consider some of the facts of mutation that experi-
mental study has revealed.

First, mutation is probably universally occurring in all germ
plasms. Thus, in various mammals that have been reared so that
they can be observed, mutation has occurred in all visible parts, in
internal organs, and in resistance to disease. In man, which is the
mammal that has been most thoroughly studied, we have mutations
in hairiness, pigmentation, skin growths, appendages and digits,
teeth, sense organs, form of internal organs, like the iliocecal valve,
size and functioning of the endocrines, structure and functioning of
the nervous system, of the blood and of the reproductive system.
Finally, we have mutations in disease resistance, due to obscurer
morphological or biochemical idiosyncracies.

Among pigeons, mutations in color, form of beak, nervous be-
havior have arisen in the Whitman-Riddle series. In poultry, I
have in the course of 10 years got apparently new mutations in toes,
wings, and nervous reactions. And any poultry fancier knows of
the mutations that have occurred in the past 75 years in color and
pattern, in comb, in cerebral hernia and crest, in feet, wings and beak,
and in egg-laying capacity.

In the insects which have been bred for rapidity of generations
mutation has been repeatedly found. In Drosophila, Muller computes
that among 500 factors in the X-chromosome of Drosophila each,
in the average, mutates at the rate of one mutation in four years.
This would seem to mean that, if you followed a single chromosome
and when it divided considered one of the daughter chromosomes and
so proceeded through the generations, then at the end of four years
the expectation is that in this line of chromosomes some one gene will
have mutated and at the end of four more years that gene, or some
other in the chromosome line we are following, will have mutated
again. But there is an infinitude of chromosomes in the totality of
all Drosophila melanogasters. The number in a single gonad is vast;
the number of gonads in the world of Drosophilas that swarm in the
autumn over every mass of decaying fruit in a million of orchards as
elsewhere is practically infinite. One sees that just Drosophila me-
lanogaster is producing an infinitude of mutations each season, and it
has been producing this infinitude annually for a long time; but time
does not count for much, for infinity times a finite number remains
infinity. Drosophila throws upon the world each year, a vast num-
ber of kinds of mutations in inconceivably great numbers.
420 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

And Drosophila is not exceptional. Let us take a small water crus-
tacean, one of the Daphnids. Banta has reared lines of these in
captivity and examined the progeny daily: In one line of Moina
macrocopa, carried parthenogenetically, a dominant mutation has
occurred, on the average, at least once in 50 generations, but many
more recessive mutations have occurred and been phaenotypically un-
expressed. Now the number of Daphnids, which crowd any suitable
pond in both hemispheres during each spring and autumn, is beyond
conception. For a single circular pond a hundred feet in diameter
may well contain during the season many million Daphnids, if one is
allowed to the cubic centimeter. The total of mutations that occur
in one year in Moina macrocopa must be inconceivably great.

Certain of the lower forms are mutating even more strikingly. At
least such would seem to be the case if the remarkable variations
shown by Leonian in the fungus, Yusartwm, may be regarded (as
seems most probable) as mutations. Here scores of strains arise, in
but a few years, even in a uniform culture medium, and perpetuate
themselves. The strains vary in their rate of growth, pigment forma-
tion, type of fruiting, kind of spores, and reactions toward tempera-
ture, acids, dyes, and toxic substances. Apparently such mutation is
going on all the time in nature.

As we consider these best known cases of mutation and realize
that all of the countless chromosomes and genes are undergoing
occasional change we are appalled by the universality of mutation
and are caused to wonder how any species remains constant in nature
to the extent that it 1s possible for a second naturalist, 50 years later,
to identify in nature the species already described; we are less sur-
prised that the reviser of a genus a generation or two later will find
twice as many species as his predecessor. We gain a lot of sympathy
for the much abused species splitter who, observing nature without
the restriction of tradition, finds vastly more species than had been
previously described by his predecessors.

Organisms seem to be producing mutations at an inconceivably
rapid rate, in infinite quantity ‘The wonder is that there are such
things as species. One is led to inquire if, in describing species, tax-
onomists are not merely inventing transient, evanescent categories.

Such a conclusion is unjustified. Every taxonomist will tell you
that the things he describes and others have described before him are
real entities. If I am studying thrips and wish to secure a species
described 50 years ago as living in a certain composite plant in eastern
Russia, then if I go to the designated locality and look in the desig-
nated species of flower I will find the species with all the characters
described 50 or 100 thrips generations ago. How is such an experi-
ence in constancy to be harmonized with universal mutation? This
is perhaps the heart of the problem of evolution.
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Davenport PLATE 1

PHOTOGRAPH OF NORTH SIDE OF SAND SPIT, NEAR THE WESTERN END, AT
LOW TIDE. COLD SPRING HARBOR

In the central foreground is the high-tide line, marked by a mass of débris. On the left is the gravelly
lower beach; the middle beach and storm bluff are at the right.
ORGANIC EVOLUTION—DAVENPORT 421

In considering the fixity of some species it must first of all be
recognized that a species is a complex of morphological and physio-
logical characters that can not exist alone but is absolutely dependent
upon the external world for its existence. The organism must live in
a medium of such and such physical qualities, at such a temperature,
in the midst of such radiant energy, with access to such and such
foodstuffs which it is capable. of taking in and utilizing for its
metabolism. Every organism is extraordinarily closely fitted to its
environment. And that environment may be very complex.

I will illustrate this principle by reference to the almost micro-
scopic Collembola that live on the beach at Cold Spring Harbor.

mm Soumbogs ats saprerred ow feet and shou Ube
APs af wus tow oetie.

ae wv ee
Figure 1.—Map of Cold Spring Harbor, showing spit
(Cold Spring Beach)

(Fig. 1.) They live in an area of apparently washed sand and peb-
bles in a region that is covered twice a day several feet 'deep by sea
water and then exposed to the air; in a region swept by strong winds,
overlaid by ice in winter, and exposed to the hot sun’s rays in
summer. (Pl. 1.) A region where the sandy substratum is caused
to shift by the action of waves, and its pebbles to roll. The region
looks unpropitious for any organism, yet of one species of Col-
lembola in an area a kilometer long and 5 to 8 meters broad there
are probably in the middle of summer a hundred million individuals.
And they are meeting successfully the difficult and complex condi-
tions imposed by that particular habitat. If the habitat be compared
28095—31——28
422 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

to a most intricate lock, the organism is a most intricate key that
fits that lock completely. How has this key come to fit this lock?

First of all, it is to be said that the Collembola in question is the
only larger organism that is found in any huge numbers on and in
the great portion of the beach. Worms there are that live in the sand
of the beach; crustacea and insects there are that feed on the débris
that is thrown up by the sea at the high tide line; but it is only
the Collembola that swarm over the beach. (Fig. 2.)

Why are the Collembola the
only organisms that make such
use of the beach? The answer
seems to be that they are the

only group that holds a key
approximating the needs of
the beach lock. Two other
species of Collembola live on
the edge of the beach, in rela-
tively small numbers. But
one, /sotoma berselsii, has the
combination of small size,
slender form, and greater ca-
pacity for jumping that are
demanded for successful life
on the beach. Another species
which has a chunkier form
and is less successful as a
===: jumper is found on the beach
Drawn by EBD. but is much less numerous than
Ficure 2.—Drawings of three species of the first. Now the Podurid
Cy atk age ee)? (eis end =~ Collembola. have, am peneral, a
(3), with some details of their structure ; ’ 5 ’
(11) shows the relative frequency of  gtructure and reactions that
Feat That nce tens Te abeissae tepre- ead them to live in situations
sent distances from the beach line on top
of the beach; the ordinates, the pro- not so very different from
portional frequency of occurrence those occupied by Isotoma.
They are found on water or in humid earth or in moist caves, or in
crevices of moist walls. If anything is to survive in the sand of the
sea beach it must come out of a group with instincts and structure
that make it possible and preferable to live in such places. However,
the interstices of the sand of the beach are especially fine and the
period of exposure to the air is so brief that the insect must have
movements and responsiveness of such sort as will ensure adequate
exercise and oxygenation of the tissues during the brief time that
it is exposed to the air. Collembola, in general, have the right form
of key; Zsotoma berselsti has precisely the appropriate notches to fit
the precise lock of the beach.

ORGANIC EVOLUTION-——DAVENPORT 423

I have dwelt at length on the Collembola of the beach because they
may serve to illustrate the principle that mutations become the char-
acters of species and play a part in evolution provided they meet
some demand of the environment; or, the other way round, a new
mutation persists as a species character if it can find an environment
to which it is suited.

This general principle is of wide application. In Banta’s
Daphnids there appeared a female whose young died on a cool day
in the autumn. It was found that subsequent broods could be kept
alive in an incubator at a higher temperature than that of the
room. In short, an investigation of the temperature relations of
these cold-sensitive young and their equally cold-sensitive descend-
ants showed that there had arisen by mutation a thermal clone, a
parthenogenetically reproducing strain, whose optimum temperature
was about 10° C. higher than that of the ordinary Daphnids. This
mutation was fatal at the ordinary room temperature; it had im-
portant survival value for the environment of an incubator; it would
have had an important evolutionary value had there been a warm
spring near by into which the strain could have been transplanted.
This experience, indeed, shows the probable method by which
aquatic animals have come to inhabit hot springs. It is not by
gradual change wrought on the germ plasm by the direct action of
the high temperature of the water, but rather the fine opportunity
for survival afforded by the high temperature to any chance
thermal mutant.

Again, as has long been known, many of the animals that live in
caves are blind and much speculation has been offered to account for
this blindness. The old idea was that, through disuse and the parsi-
mony of nature that would prevent it from continuing to form useless
organs, the useless organs were no longer formed. On the other hand,
Eigenmann, through his extensive knowledge of fishes, was able to
point out that the blind fish of caves belonged to just one family of
fishes, a family that had mutated in the direction of blindness in
various parts of the continent. Now, some of these mutations in the
direction of blindness have survived even where there are no caves,
but where there are waters running through densely wooded swamps
and characterized by dark holes where poor sight is no handicap to
the fish. When a blind mutation arose in that family of fishes living
in the region of limestone caves of Indiana and Kentucky, that muta-
tion was no handicap to its possessor. For the possessor had other
sense organs sufficient to secure its prey. The waters of the cave,
indeed, removed competition, and in other ways afforded an extra-
ordinarily favorable environment for this genus of fish.

Another illustration may be afforded by still another group of ani-
mals. As you know there are vast numbers of mollusks living in the
424 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

sea and in fresh waters; clams, oysters, periwinkles, cuttle fishes,
squids are familiar marine mollusks. But there isa group of mollusks
that has a history quite as striking as that of the cave fish. This group
lives on the land, and sometimes, in very dry situations, even semi-
deserts. In this situation the mollusks breathe by lungs instead of
gills. How have the land mollusks, the pulmonates, including the
snails and slugs, come to live on the land? One explanation that has
been offered is that some marine ancestors gradually moved into
streams and higher up into ponds which dry up periodically and
there became gradually modified to breathe air. The matter is not
quite so simple. The river mussels live in streams and ponds that
occasionally go dry; they perish under these circumstances by the
million; and yet they have never become adapted to land life—the
appropriate mutations have never been afforder. Our land snails are
the end result of a long series of mutations that have permitted life
on the land. The first mutations in this
direction occurred in certain marine snails
with a gill chamber whose opening is so
small that it can readily be closed to pre-
vent the ingress or egress of water. Any
mutation in this direction would enable its
possessor to enter into the between-tides
zone.

Actually, there live on our shores shore-
snails, belonging to the family of Lit-
torinidae, inhabiting a level where they
are exposed to air for 12 to 20 hours of
the day. Indeed, among the Littorinas
one finds species that differ greatly in
their emancipation from the sea. During the recession of the tides
the Littorina keeps the opening to its mantel chamber closed; so its
gills are held in a medium saturated air. (Fig. 3.)

Now, it is out of this general group to which the Littorinas belong
that the land snails have arisen. Any continued mutation in the
direction of gill reduction or enclosure of the mantle cavity would
have been in the direction that would have permitted the possessor
to pass to dryer parts of the shore line and, incidentally, to escape
from its enemies. The point is that not just any group of marine
snails was able to adjust itself to land life, but only a group in which
favorable mutations arose. The land crabs and the lung fishes rep-
resent the end stages of a similar evolutionary history to that of the
land snails.

While it appears from these considerations probable that adjust-
ment to extreme conditions of hfe has been rendered possible by

FIGURE 3.—Littorina litorea
ORGANIC EVOLUTION——DAVENPORT 425

favorable mutations, it still remains to consider what light modern
genetical studies throw upon the details of this process.

We have seen that reproduction is unlimited and that mutation
is constantly occurring; not, to be sure, in infinite amount in all
directions equally but abundantly in certain genes; more rarely in
others. We have now to consider in turn what induces mutations;
what gives direction to mutations; how are the adaptations in nature
brought about?

First, the causes of mutation are clearly determined, in part, by
the unstable nature of the gene itself. The genes are very complex
molecules, or rather groups of molecules. Now, many complex
molecules are known in chemistry that are so labile that they break
down almost spontaneously. How many compounds have to be
kept in the dark, at a low temperature, undisturbed in order that
they may “keep” at all. In time they “spoil,” even under the best
of conditions. The rate of change may be accelerated by heat, light,
and irradiation. The genes are not exceptions to the rule of change
in labile substances. While the nature of the process of mutation
in the genes has shown itself little influenced by external agents the
velocity of spontaneous change is readily altered. Thus Muller,
Hanson, and others find the speed of mutation accelerated by in-
crease of temperature, and by X rays. No new mutations have been
brought forth by the X rays, but mutation occurs more rapidly. The
X rays do not direct evolution, or even mutation, qualitatively, but
afford opportunity for more rapid evolution by providing, in larger
amount, one of the factors—mutation—necessary to evolution.

The fact that X rays may accelerate the process of gene mutation
has led some to the conclusion that all mutation is due to radiations.
No doubt conditions compatible with the life of the soma may be
found that will not permit of mutation, but it does not seem prob-
able that this will ever be the case. Just the conditions essential
to life probably provide the conditions for gene mutation.

Second, what gives direction to mutations? It is obvious that the
organic world is far from being the infinitely diverse collection of
haphazard and meaningless variants that we might expect were
mutation entirely uncontrolled. It seems probable that, under ordi-
nary conditions, genes break down or disintegrate in orderly fashion
dependent on the nature of the gene. An illustration, which may be
more than a mere illustration, is afforded in the rare earths where
uranium breaks down into radium and radium into lead. Each
stage, in turn, is determined by the immediately preceding stage.

So, in organisms, the mutations are usually of a recessive nature,
which seems generally to imply that they are produced by a loss of
something from the parental gene. In the different species of one
426 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

genus the same kind of mutations occur. Thus between Drosophila
melanogaster, D. simulans, and D, virilis quite parallel mutations
occur and are identified in many cases with genes occupying com-
parable loci in the chromosomes. Among mammals, with which we
are naturally best acquainted, certain mutations occur again and
again. Thus albinism, coat-color pattern, hairlessness, elongated
hair, reversed hair, taillessness, abnormal hands and feet, particu-
larly digits, horns or hornlessness, achondroplasia. The recurrence
of these mutations in various species of mammals, as tabulated by
Osborn (1912), indicates that mutations are far from haphazard
in origin, but probably depend upon the same genes with the same
structure and capacity for change.

Finally, the mutations with which we are familiar constitute only
a fraction of those that occur. Every student of intrauterine stages
of mammalian development is familiar with the phenomenon of in-
trauterine deaths. So far as our observations go, it appears that in
mammals more young die im utero than are born. Every student of
development of sea urchins and other marine organisms knows that
a large proportion of those that start to develop do not proceed far.
We see that early developmental stages are those in which great
selection takes place; probably because the embryos carry non-
viable mutations. From this point of view the individuals that
reach maturity constitute the fraction that have undergone no
lethal mutation.

The fact of lethal mutations (for they have been demonstrated in
many cases) helps us to understand the other fact that in the midst
of the world of mutations the organisms that come through are more
or less well fitted to survive; they are not always the best, but they
are good enough to pass the censorship of environment.

And this brings us to a consideration of the phenomenon which
Darwin stressed, namely, of adaptation to environment. We have
already seen that such adaptation is partly brought about through the
selection by the organism of an environment that is adapted to it.
We may now consider the case of selection by the environment of
organisms that are adapted to it. In general, the organism must be
able to play properly its part in the flow, in and out, of the chemical
agents, water and foodstuffs, upon which its life and activity de-
pend. It must be capable of meeting emergencies of climate and
organic enemies. It must pass the censor at every stage or be
squelched.

A little experience of my own, which I published some years
ago, will serve to show how strict is this censor. I reared a large
number of chickens to the 1-pound stage and had about 300 running
over a grassy plot on about the tenth of May, at a time when crows
are feeding their nestlings and hunting especially meat for them.

ORGANIC EVOLUTION—DAVEN PORT 427

About 40 per cent of the birds had a white plumage, 40 per cent a
black (or nearly black) plumage, and 20 per cent a plumage in pen-
ciled or striped markings, more or less like that of the ordinary
game or the jungle fowl. Of these the crows killed 24. Expecta-
tion, on the basis of random attack on the birds, was that about 9.6
would be white, 9.6 black, and 5 penciled. Actually there were
killed 10 white, 18 black or prevailingly so, and 1 coarsely mottled
gray and buff. No truly penciled bird was killed. This observation
tends to illustrate the principle that the self-colors in wild birds
tend to be eliminated because conspicuous to their enemies; birds
with mixed pattern are relatively immune from attack because rela-
tively inconspicuous.

Now, though it has not been experimentally proven, yet the hy-
pothesis may be entertained, that the presence of light-colored mice
in limestone regions and of dark-colored mice on lava beds may result
from an elimination of mutations that are in disharmony with the
background. To nocturnal predaceous animals, like the owls which
catch mice, a white or light-yellow mouse on a black lava bed would
be seen and captured before a black one.

One further fact must be taken into account in considering the ad-
justment of organisms to their environment, and that is that change
of environment may well cause and apparently has in the past often
caused the elimination of species over the whole extent of their area
of destruction.

Consider how widespread must have been the consequences on the
fauna of the Northern Hemisphere as far south as Long Island and
even further south of the great ice sheets that covered the circum-
polar territory in glacial epochs. Many poorly clad species of mam-
mals must have found the icy conditions insupportable; just as the
mastodon and mammoth did. The change in environment may be
of a more subtle sort. Thus the great size and herd instincts of the
bison enabled it to develop enormously on the extensive plains of
North America and rendered it more than a match for the Amerinds
living in a stone age. Just this size and number wholly unfitted
these mammals for the new environment of the aggressive agricul-
turally inclined white man armed with a rifle. Agriculture and free-
ranging bisons could not coexist, and the rifle eliminated the
mammals. So to-day the great size and aggressiveness of the large
mammals of Africa are a challenge to the sportsman, and the future
seems to spell extinction for them. Here we have to do with elimin-
ation resulting from what may be called a cultural evolutionary
“ mutation ”—the rifle.

But man’s part in evolution is not merely in the elimination of his
large enemies, which he has all too thoroughly mastered, but in his
struggle with the small and innumerable insects that threaten his
428 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

agriculture as it becomes more intense. The more successful and pro-
lific an insect injurious to agriculture is the more certainly will it
arouse man’s destructive energies and the greater the certainty that
the all too favorable mutation that is the cause of its success will be
the cause of its elimination in whole, or part.

But mutations of a still more dangerous sort are threatening man-
kind, mutations in the world of organisms that live as parasites on
the human protoplasm. With the more conspicuous of these para-
sites, external and internal, man has learned to cope. One by one the
pathogenic bacterial diseases are being eliminated or reduced in fre-
quency. But now we face still smaller parasitic particles, the filtra-
ble viruses which are, at present, practically inaccessible to man.
There seems to be reason to conclude that they are mutating also,
and perhaps rapidly. The waves of influenza epidemics that pass
round the world in periodic fashion assume slightly different aspects,
show somewhat different symptoms, in successive visits. Those who
are resistant to the one visitation may show slight resistance to the
next. The selections of the past have left the stocks of the more
crowded continental areas a hardy resistant people, far more so than
the peoples of distant oceanic islands that had not undergone selec-
tion for resistance to the ultra microscopic parasites. When one con-
templates the high mortality of the influenza epidemic of 1918 one
realizes that notwithstanding this high resistance it is quite within
the range of possibility that at some future time a mutation shall
arise in these viruses such that no human protoplasm is protected
against it or can protect itself against it. Then our boasted sky-
scrapers might become inhabited by bats and the safe deposit vaults
of our cities become the caves of wild animals.

Whether or not this will occur in the future, the possibility brings
home a realization of the fact that man is not merely looking on the
process of evolution taking place around him but, as an organism,
he is a part of that evolution; he is acting upon other organisms and
being acted upon by them as well as by the inorganic world in which
he lives. He is attempting a mastery of that world; and, indeed,
upon such mastery his fate may depend. His ability to master that
world depends upon his superior gifts of intelligence to see relations
and to idealize new ones. How much farther man can go in this
direction depends upon the capacity for development of the intelli-
gence. There are those who warn us that we are approaching the
limit and must sometime in the future wait for further human evolu-
tion to make further fundamental progress. To wait until nature
affords the desired mutation may mean indefinite postponement. Can
not man himself control his evolution? Two methods are open; one
the production of new and better combinations of traits by appropri-
ate matings. This is the method of the apphed geneticist interested

ORGANIC EVOLUTION—DAVENPORT 429

in creating new and improved varieties. This is the method that is

open to man also, if only some change in the social order may make
it feasible to apply our knowledge to the improvement of the geneti-
eal combinations in mankind.

But still another way may be opened in the future; that is the
acceleration of mutation by irradiation. The method is fraught with
tremendous difficulties. The commonest effect of irradiation of the
gonads is the production of defective, often happily nonviable, indi-
viduals. Whether the production of scores of defective strains to
secure one line with a superior mutation is justified will have to be
considered. But if man is to evolve he must not decline to use nature’s
tools of mutation, cross-mating, selective elimination while he seeks
to become fitted to meet the requirements of an ever changing and
ever more-demanding environment.

To sum up, then; the mechanism of organic evolution, as I see it,
consists of the following processes:

1. Infinite capacity of the germinal material for reproduction.

2. Infinite capacity for mutation.

3. A finitude ? of kinds of environments.

4, Extensive opportunities for dissemination of the mutant indi-
viduals over earth, permitting some of them to find an environment
for which they are especially fitted.

5. As for the rest of the infinitude of individuals, nonmutant and
mutant (beyond the number required for replacement )—elimination.

In a sentence, nature’s mechanism of evolution includes the ele-
ments of: A finitude of kinds of environment, infinite reproduction,
infinite mutation, infinite opportunity for new mutants to find appro-
priate environments, and elimination of all of the infinitude of other
individuals that are not required for replacement.

Homo sapiens is only a natural species with a highly evolved hand
and brain. This species has reached its lofty position in evolution
by the processes described. It is proud of its control of nature in
certain directions. Let it beware lest it think it can evolve further
by a man-made formula that may suit its perverted desires but must
eventually fail of permanent progress if opposed to the formula of
nature.

? Through a lapsus calami this was printed in The Journal of The Washington Academy
of Sciences as “infinitude.” It is the limitation of environmental set-ups compatible with
life that makes the number of successful “ species,” though large, still limited.
#1] ere
ha ont Riad.

Site isnt A gare
sey "afinats at hodlancoart
adh ‘to notsih eat,
“thai, soldat, Li che oh or eb
‘OL palate aTioetny fH PAI08 De. amped wood 0) ely
‘odd 03 “Sead ftw bobitac. AL, Pek a ae, aabgoai 8 fldiye, anil ao
. outed opt ot pitit: ab You Jaa. ad seloxs, ogi sams Di de&ht beael
viose ait nlidar " motinerimnile, “pUlvokoe wat hast, ra, aot
Doe nee, a rh 40. aan ipo, sahh Joo ee gies om
ace quns, HUOROOT ne paihepngh ood
Fis ane. ney nroetaly 7), nhai0 Ao sei igloo, sil. 2 Sears eee
heaws ee ge netiwollokad) Kosar
Jaaeuh 0, era lairs dat Loniervas ail} to srtinege. ovina;
AN a gat oak ie Saree

j ahs
i PeAURESS ES Wi

< uleugstd iff

eo ‘a
LODO |

(on A pipe foil

Jeont001 17 MA "orth Og cuach Sing AL OH, TEE iddignrvog igs bape
| be boii “li pinedes, te iraddy oid |

hit. jaiprraitor Ete InGyifai to »| eh ai Rive act Y. J29F oult 4.40%; aeatd 24
anisaatmnio-Ciqsomesirer qat. hextayes andre at, bacwed)- deat
-ala off] aa yiiiorce ya tar pent te raalisdoons 2 antpity poreltnes 2 al
ittnid bith Let me OLE der MAEMO ALY 69 ho elrpial 51 ehudiont bx shpat
SIGGh regi it ot alialuon "WOM ok Kou titi rogge. ay fli forbear 8 tei!

gorio to Prana oe ‘i fla to ot bomtntile burn ibe asngrtiy 19 of
tac alee at; be {litpa alee 55 8 jnddi alanbirit

bred bevloyo ati rif a i BQbSay [ 2 Lets aft Rt i Hid
‘aprile TS the fu ete a VatoL 2s% Hodaset.: aRc BEM ae adh, thin he
birora 97, MS. hodjapdobes ROLE of)
Tt 97iets sap } aniGi 4 Ioal.excazod Fr. jot eto pa tehs Rite Sarg
fiicot tid raieab, padwariad ef, trom ease font ae ohnnieaen
te ale nro ait ‘OF baecagn a mast She eee oles

ni atittent oe foarte tive eh to

> oe 7 Te omeeegm - BT we 4 mete a = ~ 4 aN ee ay ee Dik ar tae
yth fies & itor aed yAat Te Tx! fh Ponte «i A aSegag, & aw z 1itf Veet Visaot’ w etd a
fhtive oft oh ena ise TadMpancret yee Gael astmtt, Adi eb oF Tatar El Last ne Naa debe

feitoai fate erat dapogt Tlsioare. ilateontte. a anda <a amt

Ate. Aa pede t

one

Ey EP PROG Lee das ha

Whi ¢. . eeveo, seepbaa ous Bie Sab “we
~ M if
‘ "7 > ae? een <8 HS.
' Cae
“ od genni 4 ae
°.
EXTRA CHROMOSOMES, A SOURCE OF VARIATIONS IN
THE JIMSON WEED

By Apert I*, BLAKESLEE

Carnegie Institution of Washington, Department of Genetics, Cold Spring
Harbor, N. Y.

[With 13 plates]

Variations in plants and animals are the building stones out of
which the present wide range of agricultural and horticultural forms
have been developed. Experimental study of the origin of these
variations has been concerned chiefly with changes in the ultimate
hereditary unit factors. The present paper, however, discusses
variations which are brought about by changes in relatively large
groups of factors contained in chromosomes. In this summary of
the types that have been discovered in the Jimson weed (Datura
stramonium), text and illustrations from earlier publications * have
been freely drawn upon, but much is presented here for the first time.

What chromosomes are may be better understood from Figure 1,
which is a diagram intended to represent a plant of the Jimson
weed (Datura stramonium) with a single enlarged flower. It need
hardly be pointed out to most readers that all parts of the plant—
root, stem, leaves, and flowers—are made up of microscope units,
called cells, roughly analogous to the building bricks of an archi-
tectural structure, and that in each cell there is a definite number
of still smaller rod-shaped bodies called chromosomes. The name
chromosome means merely “colored body,” and was given to these
protoplasmic rods because they became strongly colored when acted
upon by certain dyes. At the right of the diagram in Figure 1 are
shown three cells with chromosomes and in Plate 5 are shown
chromosomes as they actually appear under the microscope. The
student of heredity is interested in chromosomes because they are
the bearers of the ultimate hereditary factors which are transmitted
from parent to offspring.

The diagram might have been improved if, instead of rods, we
had used narrow medicine vials and had filled each vial with a row

1 Figures 1, 2, 3, and 4 and Plates 4, 5, 7, 8, 10, and 13, Fig. 2, are taken, mostly with
modifications, from the Journal of Heredity, vols. 15 and 20.
Plates 6, 9, 12, and 13, Fig. 1, are taken, with some modifications, from Annals of the
New York Academy of Sciences, vol. 30.
431
432 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

of different kinds of pills. The pills with different potencies might
represent the ultimate hereditary factors, and the vials which held
them might represent the chromosomes. The comparison is far from
perfect, but at any rate the chromosomes are believed to contain each
a single row of unit factors arranged like beads on a string. Although
these factors are ultramicroscopic in size, their relative position in the
chromosome may be determined indirectly by a number of methods.

Throughout the vegetative parts of the plant, there are two of
each kind of chromosomes as shown diagrammatically at the right

Haploid
(1n)

FIGURE 1.—Diagram of reproductive cycle in the Jimson weed. There are 12 kinds
of chromosomes which are rod-shaped bodies carrying the hereditary factors. In
cells of the vegetative (2n) part of the plant, each chromosome is present twice.
In the male (@%) and female (2) sex cells (1n), found in the pollen grains and
ovules, each chromosome is present only once

of the bracket. Since there are two chromosomes in each of the 12
sets, this part of the plant is called the 2n or diploid stage. At
every division of a cell in the 2n stage, each chromosome divides
longitudinally into two bodies like itself, until the divisions preced-
ing the formation of the sex cells.

Just before the production of the egg cells within the ovary and
the pollen grains within the stamens, the chromosomes fail to
undergo the usual process of division and one entire chromosome
from each pair goes to each of the two daughter cells, thus reducing
the number of chromosomes by one-half. In this “ reduced,” hap-

EXTRA CHROMOSOMES—BLAKESLEE 433

loid, or 1n stage there is only a single chromosome in each set, as
shown in the diagram. According to the conventional use, a circle
represents the female sex cell and a square the male sex cell. After
pollination, when the pollen tubes have grown down to the ovary and
have let out the male sex cells, fertilization takes place by the union
of the latter with the egg cells. The result of fertilization is a seed
in which the number of chromosomes is doubled. We come again,
therefore, to the 2n or diploid stage.

All the higher plants and animals show this distinction between
a 2n stage, in which there are two chromosomes in each set; and
a 1n stage, including the sex cells, in which there is only one chromo-
some in each set. The number of sets, however, varies widely among
the different species, although constant for any given form. Thus
in the fruit fly there are 4 chromosomal sets, in man 24 sets, in the
nightshade 36 sets, and in the Jimson weed 12 sets. In many spe-
cies there is no visible difference between the individual chromo-
somes, although the breeding evidence may prove that they carry
different factors. In the Jimson weed, however, size classes can
be distinguished, as shown diagrammatically in the figures. Some
of the chromosomes are further distinguished by presence of humps.
It should be pointed out that, although the diagrams show roughly
the relative sizes of the chromosomes, the arrangement is purely
diagrammatic. The point to be emphasized is the grouping of the
chromosomes into 12 separate sets although their association into
such sets can be seen only in the cells immediately preceding
the reduction division.

ABNORMAL ARRANGEMENT OF CHROMOSOMES

While no change in the number of 12 chromosomal sets is known
to have taken place in the Jimson weed, a considerable variation in
the number of chromosomes within the sets may occur. Some of the
chromosomal types that have been identified are shown diagram-
matically in Figure 2. Since these diagrams represent the condition
in the adult plant, only the diploid (2n) condition is normal. ‘The
plants are classified into balanced and unbalanced types according
to whether or not all the sets have the same number of chromosomes.

BALANCED CHROMOSOMAL TYPES

Balanced types may be still further divided into even-balanced or
stable, and odd-balanced or unstable types. The former have an
even number of chromosomes in each set, form sex cells with half the
number of chromosomes, and hence breed essentially true. The
latter have an odd number in a set, and are, therefore, unable to
form sex cells with an equal division of chromosomes, and hence can
not breed true.
434 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

Mature plants of In, 2n, and 4n types are shown in Plates 1, 2,
and 3.

Flowers, floral parts, and capsules of the balanced types are shown
in Plate 4. An increase in size of cells and organs of the plant is
the rule in going from In to 4n forms, as is seen in the flowers in
the photograph. In comparison with normals (2n), the leaves of 1n
plants are very narrow while those of 4n plants are very broad. The

Unbalanced [ypes

Balanced ]ype

Triploid
We

.

4 as A un

S| GOS IGS

| Ala, | SA,

2 Gre) f | Gnsd 7 | Gna f

Fieurn 2.—Diagrams of some chromosomal types found in the Jimson weed

4n capsule is broader and more nearly spherical than the 2n capsule.
It will be noted that the odd-balanced 1n and 8n capsules are much
reduced in size, probably because of the small number of seeds which
they contain.

Because 1n and 8n plants produce such a scanty yield of capsules
and seeds, they continue blossoming long after the normal (2n) and

EXTRA CHROMOSOMES—-BLAKESLEE 435

the 4n plants have become set up with capsules and ceased flowering.
The In and 8n types, therefore, are of floricultural value in species
in which it is possible to have a continuation of flowering by re-
ducing seed production. Since such unstable balanced types can not
breed true it would be necessary to propagate them by vegetative
methods such as by grafts, cuttings, bulbs, ete.

Tetraploids (4n) are of horticultural value from the large size of
their flowers. To the plant breeder they are of value as the means
of obtaining triploids (3n). The cross 4n x 2n produces 3n or tri-
ploid individuals. From the latter may be obtained a wide range
of types with extra chromosomes as will be shown later.

UNBALANCED CHROMOSOMAL TYPES

In the unbalanced chromosomal types not all the chromosomal
sets have the same number of chromosomes. Some of the types are
shown in the diagrams in Figure 2. The simplest type is a modified
diploid or 2n plant with an extra chromosome in one of the 12 sets.
For comparison, diagrams of the chromosomes of a normal 2n plant
from our standard line 1 are shown in Figure 3. All except two are
in outline only. We will center our discussion upon these two
chromosomes. The largest (Z) for convenience may be called the
white chromosome, and the small, medium one without the hump
(m), which is stippled in the diagram, will be called the stippled
chromosome. One half of each of these chromosomes has been
shaded to distinguish it from the other half. The outer ends of each
half are marked by a black dot. Models of the same chromosomes
are shown in Plate 5.

The ends of all the chromosomes in the Jimson weed have also
been designated by numbers 1 to 24. Thus the white chromosome,
which is the largest of the 12, is numbered 1-2. Similarly the
stippled chromosome is represented by the numbers 17-18. In all
eases the odd number corresponds to the shaded half of the models.

PRIMARY, SECONDARY, AND TERTIARY (2N+1) TYPES

If to the set of two white chromosomes, an extra member (1-2)
like the other two is added as shown by the models (pl. 5 A), we have
a (2n+1) type of distinct appearance represented by our “ Rolled ”
mutant. From the peculiarities of this type we may learn some-
thing about the aggregate of factors contained in the white chro-
mosomes. A type, named “ Sugarloaf,” is known in which the
chromosome added to the white set consists of two unshaded halves
(2-2) joined together as shown in Plate 5 B. The characters of the
mutant type which results tell us something about the factors in the
unshaded (or 2-2) half of the white chromosome. A type, named
“Polycarpic,” complementary to that just discussed, has the extra
436 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

chromosome made up of two shaded halves (1-1) (pl. 5 @). This
type gives us information regarding the factors in the shaded (or
1:1) half of the white chromosome.

A type with the extra chromosome like the other two in the set is
called a primary type in distinction from secondary types, in which

OTANDARD LINE 1.

FIGURE 38.—Diagram of chromosomes in standard line 1

the extra chromosomes have been formed apparently by a breaking
into two of a normal chromosome and a joining together of like
halves. In the models we have not shown how the chromosomes in
the trisome, or set of three, are attached together in the reduction
divisions. Plate 5 A, B, C shows the appearance under the micro-
scope of the chromosomes of the primary and the two secondaries of

1

PLATE

Blakeslee

Smithsonian Report, 1930,

DATURA

(1N)

A HAPLOID
VHNLVG (NZ) GlOldIqd IWWHYON V

@ 31V1d 92|s94e|q— 061 *qaodayy URIuOsy WIG
VHNnLvgd (NP) AlOldVvVYyLSL VY

p

€ 3ALv1d

dad bade al | 2 | ‘Ot6l “‘yuoday UBuosy Ug
PEATE 4

Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Blakeslee

FLOWERS AND FRUITS OF BALANCED CHROMOSOMAL TYPES

Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Blakeslee

y
g
Y
4

PLATE

c
2)

Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Blakeslee PLATE 6

MATURE PLANTS, CAPSULES, AND SEEDLINGS

A, The primary (2n+1) type ‘‘Rolled’’; B, its secondary ‘‘Sugarleaf’”’; C, its secondary “Polycarpic.”’
PLATE 7

Smithsonian Report, 1930.— Blakeslee

18 18 12

aie

17 17 17

1. MATURE PLANT, CAPSULE AND CHROMOSOME MODELS OF THE PRIMARY (2N-
TYPE ‘‘POINSETTIA"’

y
g
Y
4

S OF DWARF,'’ A SEC-

2. MATURE PLANT, CAPSULE AND CHROMOSOME MODEL
N ABOVE

ONDARY OF THE PRIMARY ‘‘POINSETTIA’’ SHOW
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Blakeslee PLATE 8

Poinsett;a * Cocklebur

Rolled Peeduced

E£chinus

Microcarpr¢ Elonga Te

CAPSULES OF THE 12 PRIMARY (2N+1) TYPES IN THE JIMSON WEED WITH A
CAPSULE OF A NORMAL PLANT ABOVE
6 3ALlvw1d

B1j}XO [ZU
dB13987 9%
JOT UO *MOTOET

S3adAL

plojdojpay

SB UIA €

gOS, ,

XIS AO SAINSdVD

ry) OY) Ul SOULOSE
B1]x9 OM] Pu
projdry ‘(az) propdiy

22/99 92/F—"OE61 “HOday Uwruosy ang

Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Blakeslee

PBRAASSAY

1. CAPSULE AND CHROMOSOMAL [MODELS OF ‘

PLATE 10

“DWARF SUGARLOAF,’’ TERTIARY

(2N+1) TYPE WITi#4 THE 17-2 CHROMOSOME EXTRA

2. MATURE PLANT, CAPSULE AND CHROMOSOME MODELS OF ‘‘WIRY,’’ A TERTI-
ARY (2N+1) TYPE WITH THE 1-18 CHROMOSOME EXTRA

Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Blakeslee

Diploid
“ \| ~
YY
SH 4
Nf

2/7

Ilex -Globe

ae AN
“iN,
(Znelel) f

2n +1Ix + 1Gl

Capsule of normal diploid (2n) absve; capsule of *‘Tlex”’

PLATE 11

eS

(2n+1 Ix) at left; capsule cf ‘*Globe”’

(2n+1 G)) at right and capsule of double type ‘“Ilex-Globe"’ (2n+1 Ix+1 G1) below. Below

each capsule is given its chromosomal diagram
“SUNN IOO SaTcenerar Ou Jo spue au? "7 DOISTT Serecrrtt garjoedser m4 oud ur SoUOSOUIOTYD BI]X0 on} 04 Suipuodso109 syas ‘{UOIOYIp ur somosont0 Ito BIYXO omy
sey yorys jo yove sadAy (T+1+UZ) e[qnop Jo sernsd¥o ureyu0d sMor jeuoserqy ‘“sedA4 (1 +uz) Areuitid Z] 84 JO TT Jo seynsdvo sureqzu0d MOI [eyUOZTIOY IaMO'T

SLNAYVd (NE) GlOldIy | JO ONI4dSAAO SHL NI SAdAL IWNOSOWOYHD S3IEGNOG GNV AYVWIYd

PN SOs eee ems od

ee oto o a

Zl ALV1d 92/89 421G#—‘0¢61 ‘yaoday ueluosyyIWig
Zuldsyo oy} ul paonpoid soedAq [BUIOSOMIOIYO B1}xX9 01 JUIOd SMOIIY “OW pue ‘Ty ‘Yq SeleUd oY

pus (377) ,,espey,, pusw (qq) ,, peyourd,, ‘sedA} Arey190) YITM 10999030} (QN) ,,UIqqnN,, odAj Zulesueduiod jo sarnsdey *T

a

Ane
NG

NAAANAANSY 4

All

LL gt gt

€l 31vV1d 22/82 4U/G]—"OCH] ‘Oday uvruosyync
EXTRA CHROMOSOMES—BLAKESLEB 437

the white set. Those of Rolled and Sugarloaf are taken from Bell-
ing’s figures, those of Polycarpic were drawn by Doctor Bergner.
Since only like ends may become attached, the trisome of secondaries
may form a closed ring of three, but the chromosomes of a primary
never can form such a closed configuration,

Plate 6 A, B, and C shows mature plants, capsules, and seedlings,
of the three (2n+1) types under discussion.

If we compare the primary Rolled with its two complementary
secondaries, Sugarloaf and Polycarpic—all three the result of single
extra chromosomes in the white set—we will note that each secondary
is extreme in certain characters while the primary is intermediate.
Thus, in Sugarloaf the capsule is large, a peculiarity due to the un-
balance brought about by two extra unshaded halves of the white
chromosome. In Polycarpic, the other secondary, the capsule is
small, a fact resulting from the presence of two extra shaded halves.
The primary Rolled, having extra both the shaded and the unshaded
half of this same white chromosome, is intermediate in capsule size
and shape.

Similarly from the habit photographs (pl. 6) it will be seen that
the secondary Polycarpic is erect and has very narrow leaves. The
complementary secondary Sugarloaf is spreading and has broader
leaves. The primary Rolled is intermediate in respect to both these
characters.

In a similar manner in the stippled set, we have a primary type
called “ Poinsettia ” (pl. 7, fig. 1) due to an extra stippled (17-18)
chromosome and a secondary type called “ Dwarf” (pl. 7, fig. 2) due
to the presence of an extra made up of two shaded halves (17-17) of
the stippled chromosomes. The secondary with an extra made up of
two unshaded halves of the stippled chromosome (18:18) has
not yet been discovered. Possibly it is not viable. From the char-
acters of the primary we know something of the factors in the whole
stippled chromosome and from the characters of the single second-
ary (17-17), we know something of the factors in the shaded half.
By subtraction we can gain some idea of what characters the miss-
ing secondary should show when discovered and hence of what the
factors are in the unshaded (18) half of the stippled chromosome.

Photographs of the capsules of the 12 primary (2n+1) types in
the Jimson weed are given in Plate 8 below that of a normal (2n)
capsule. It will be noted that all are different. Capsules of the
secondaries are distinct from those of their primaries as well as from
those of other secondaries. Extra chromosomes have similar effects
upon other parts of the plant. Extra chromosomal material thus
brings about distinct and specific changes in the appearance of the
plant in which it is present. This it does because of the genetic

28095—31——_29
438 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

factors which the extra material contains. It will be noted from our
previous illustration (pls. 5 and 6) that there must be a different
set of factors in the two halves of the 1-2 chromosome since the
secondary Sugarloaf, which has the 2-2 chromosome extra, does not
resemble the secondary Polycarpic, which has the 1-1 chromosome
extra. In no chromosome does there appear to be a greater similar-
ity between the groups of factors in the two halves than between the
groups of factors in two different normal chromosomes.

The unbalance which extra chromosomes exert over the normal
balanced condition may best be shown by capsules of the “‘ Globe ”
mutants. The Globe chromosome is next to the smallest of the 12,
but the changes which it brings about when present in excess are
very distinct. As shown in Plate 9, we have two diploid (2n)
Globes, or, more properly speaking, two diploids modified by extra
chromosomes in the Globe set. The (2n+1) Globe has one extra
chromosome in the Globe set giving an unbalance of one over the
normal complement of 24. The (2n+2) Globe, with two extra
chromosomes in the same set, has a greater unbalance (2 over 24)
and in consequence all Globe characters, such as depression of the
capsule, are heightened in expression. In similar manner starting
with the capsule of a tetraploid at the right, it will be seen that the
tetraploid Globes have their capsules relatively more depressed and
their spines relatively stouter as we pass from (4n+1 ) to (4n+2)
and (4n+3) Globes. A (4n+4) Globe has not yet appeared in our
cultures, but we might expect it, since the unbalance which its extra
chromosomes exert would be 4 over 48 which is the same un-
balance found in the (2n+2) Globe (2 over 24). Similarly we
might expect a haploid (1n+1) Globe with an unbalance of 1 over
12, but this unbalance, found as yet only in the rare (2n+2) Globes,
may be the limit of unbalance which a plant can endure, and may
be possible only in the diploid series. In the center of the picture
we have a (3n+1) Globe obtained by crossing a (4n+1) Globe with
a 2n pollen parent.

We have discussed primary or unmodified chromosomes and sec-
ondary chromosomes in which the two ends are alike. A (2n+1)
type appeared not infrequently in our cultures which was neither a
primary nor a secondary type. It always came from hybrids between
our standard line 1 and certain “B” races. From the attachment
of the extra chromosome to both the white (1-2) and the stippled
(17-18) chromosomes, Belling concluded that the extra chromosome
consisted of part of the white and part of the stippled chromosome.
From these findings he proposed the hypothesis of interchange be-
tween segments of these nonhomologous chromosomes to account
for the origin of “B” races from the standard type. The chromo-
EXTRA CHROMOSOMES—BLAKESLEE 439

somal diagram of such “ B” races is shown in Figure 4. It will be
noted that all except the white and the stippled chromosomes are the
same as those in our standard line 1 (Fig. 3). There is no necessary
difference between the two races, in respect to the factors which these

‘B’ RACE

Ficurs 4.—Diagram of chromosomes of the ““B” race. The
stippled chromosomal material is part in the L chromosome
and part in the m chromosome. In the standard line 1
(of figure 3), the stippled material is all in the m chromo-
some

two chromosomes contain. The grouping of these factors merely is
changed. If its Z chromosome were extra in a plant of the “B”
race, it would form a primary (2n+1) type of this race. It is con-
venient, however, to use our line 1 as a standard and to classify types
440 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

in reference to this single highly inbred line. The two interchanged
chromosomes, when added to line 1 diploids (2n), produce (2n+1)
tertiary forms. “ Wiry” (pl. 10, fig. 2) is a tertiary with the 1-18
chromosome extra and “ Dwarf Sugarloaf” (pl. 10, fig. 1) is a ter-
tiary with the 17-2 chromosome extra.

Three other types of races have been found in nature in which
two chromosomes differ from those in line 1 by interchange of seg-
ments. Each of these races should give two tertiary (2n+1) types
when properly combined with our standard line 1.

In Table 1 (p. 449) are summarized the (2n+1) types thus
far identified, together with the factors (genes) already located in
particular chromosomes. The chromosomes are recognized microsco-
pically first by size and designated by the initials of the adjectives
Large (very), large, Medium (+), medium (—), Small and small
(very). Special modifications (humps) serve secondarily to fur-
ther distinguish chromosomes of the same size.

In mutations called primary (col. 3) an extra chromosome is
added to 1 of the 12; this is like the other two of the group of three
(trisome) thus made. Its two ends are designated by numbers.
In mutations called secondary the extra chromosome is made up by
the doubling of only one-half, or terminal portion, of a chromosome.
In column 2, this half chromosome is indicated by the odd number
of the numbered ends of the primary chromosomes. Complementary
to this is the extra chromosome made up of the two even-numbered
ends. (Col. 4.)

In mutations called tertiary the extra chromosome is made up of
united end portions from two nonhomologous chromosomes. These
are listed in column 5; each one twice.

Secondaries have been discovered for all except the smallest two
chromosomes. For four chromosomes, both the primary and its
two complementary secondaries are known. (Cols. 2 and 4). The
tertiary chromosomes DS, Wy, and SE have been isolated from chro-
mosomal races found in nature, such as the “B” race discussed in
an earlier paragraph. They originated presumably through seg-
mental interchange, as also probably the tertiary chromosomes Mp,
ES, and X which were formed in cultures of our standard line 1.
The other named tertiaries have been induced by radiation treatment.
Of the tertiary chromosomes represented by figures in parentheses,
the ends are known, but their effects upon the plant, when present as
extras, have not been adequately studied. After a little practice the
primary, secondary, and tertiary (2n+1) types are easily recognized
without microscopic examination by the effects upon various parts
of the plant brought about by the presence of the extra chromosomes
or new combinations of fragments of chromosomes.
EXTRA CHROMOSOMES—BLAKESLEB 44]
DOUBLE (2n+1+1) TYPES

Tn addition to types with a single chromosome extra, combina-
tions of these types in double (2n+1+1) forms are known. The
sunmplest double type is a combination of two primaries. In Plate
11 is shown a capsule of the double type “ Ilex-Globe ” together with
capsules of the (2n+1) types “ Ilex ” and “ Globe ”, and of a normal
(2n) for comparison. The adjoining diagrams show the chromo-
somes. In Ilex the smallest chromosome is extra. Among other
effects, it reduces the size of the capsule and causes the spines to be
slender. In Globe, the next to the smallest chromosome is extra.
The extra Globe chromosome is responsible for a depressed capsule.
In Ilex-Globe, in which both the Ilex and the Globe chromosomes
are extra, the capsule has the globose shape due to the Globe chromo-
some and the fine spines and small size due to the Ilex chromosome.
The characters of the capsule and other parts of the plant in double
mutant types are the resultant of the interacting factors in the two
extra chromosomes.

Double (2n+1+1) types are occasionally found occurring spon-
taneously. They are found in large numbers in the offspring of
triploids (8n) along with the 12 primaries and normals (2n). Plate
12 shows capsules from primary and double chromosomal types
which appeared among 1,152 offspring of triploids (8n) grown in
1925. The double types which were recognized at that time by other
characters but which had no capsules suitable for the photograph
are indicated by a +. Other double types which have been found
in later cultures are indicated by a (+) in parentheses. The lower
horizontal row contains capsules of 11 of the 12 primary (2n+1)
types. The twelfth (Sp) is less common than the rest and was
omitted from the photograph. Each double type may be consid-
ered a combination between two primary (2n+1) types, since it has
two extra chromosomes in different sets corresponding to the extra
chromosomes in the two respective primaries listed at the ends of
the intersecting columns.

COMPENSATING TYPES

In compensating types there may be only a single extra chromo-
some, so far as the counts show, but two modified chromosomes are
actually present. The condition may be illustrated by the compen-
sating type “ Nubbin” (Nb). A capsule of Nb, together with cap-
sules of the types which it throws in its offspring, is shown in Plate
18, Figure 1. Bk, Rl, and Ec are primary (2n+1) types and need
not concern us here. Ph and Hg are tertiary (2n+1) types which
have as their extra chromosomes the modified chromosomes present in
Nb. The matter will be made clearer by the diagrams of the chromo-
somes of Nb shown in Figure 5. The Rolled (Rl) chromosome (1-2)
442

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

is our old friend the white chromosome. The chromosome 5:6 is
“ Buckling ” (Bk) and 9-10 is “ Echinus” (Ec). The chromosomes
5-6 and 9-10 are in pairs but there is only one normal 1-2 chromo-
some present. However, the “ Pinched” (Ph) chromosome (5-2)
furnishes the 2 half and the “ Hedge” (Hg) chromosome (1:9)
furnishes the 1 half of the missing 1-2 chromosome. The portions
1 and 2 in these two chromosomes are said to compensate to give the
equivalent of a normal 1-2 chromosome. There is left over as extra
chromosomal material, therefore, the 5
half and the 9 half chromosomes.
The 5-2 and 1-9 chromosomes are ter-
tiary chromosomes which, as extras in the
types Ph and Hg, are thrown by the
compensating type Nb. (PI. 18, fig. 1.)
The related chromosomes involved in
Nb may be given by the following for-
mula:
9-10—10-9—9- 1—1-2—2-5—5-6—6:-5.
The dashes indicate the connections of
the chromosomes at the reduction divi-
sions. The chromosomes of Nb, as of
other compensating types with two ter-
tiary chromosomes, form a chain of seven
attached members. In this as in the fol-

‘mi
s:
ei
a
%
s
8
re)
a

iy!
. | A ‘
aceassven:

FicgureE 5.—Models ot

the chro-
mosomes involved in the com-

pensating type ‘‘ Nubbin.” The
chromosomes 5:6 and 9-10
are in pairs but only a single
1:2 ehromosome is present.
However, the tertiary 5:2
chromosome furnishes the 2
half and the tertiary 1-9

chromosome furnishes the 1
half of the missing 1-2 chro-
mosome. Thess Oo) jana -o
parts are left over as extra
chromosomal material to bring

lowing cases the parts which compensate
are shown in italics and the parts which
remain as extra chromosomal material
are shown in boldface type.

about the peculiarities of Nb

MD is another compensating type
with the same chromosome (1-2) compensated. Its formula is:
- 9-10—10-9—9- /—1-2—2-17—17 -18—18 -17.

MD shows some resemblance to Nb because of the 9 half chromosome
which is in excess in both types. Its appearance, however, is affected
more strongly by the excess 17 half and in consequence its resem-

blance to Nb is not great.

The formula of another compensating type which is not yet named
is:

13 -14—14-13—13-11—11-12—12-17—17-18—18-17.

In this case the 11-12 chromosome is compensated and the extra
chromosomal material is 13 and 17. This type shows some resem-
blance to MD on account of the 17 half chromosome which is extra
in both types. Because the remaining extra chromosomal material
is not the same in the two types the two forms are not alike in ap-
pearance.
EXTRA CHROMOSOMES—BLAKESLEE 443

The three examples that have been given involve compensation
between two tertiary chromosomes. A tertiary and a secondary
chromosome may also compensate. An example is the compensating
type involving the white and the stippled chromosomes. Models of
the type are shown in Plate 13, Figure 2. Its formula is:

17-17—17-18—18-1—1-2—2-1.

Compensating types involving a secondary and a tertiary chromo-
some form a chain of five attached chromosomes at reduction
division.

Another compensating type, similar to the one just given but of
different appearance, has the following formula:

3-3—3 -4—4 -22—22 -21—21 - 22.

In addition to compensations between two tertiary chromosomes
and between a secondary and a tertiary chromosome, it should be
possible to obtain compensations between a fragment and a tertiary,
and between a fragment and a secondary chromosome. Such types
have not yet been obtained but crosses have been made from which
it will probably be possible to secure them.

With the examples given in mind, it will be possible to define a
compensating type as one in which parts of two different composite
chromosomes compensate to form the equivalent in chromosomal
material of a whole normal chromosome, leaving the remaining non-
compensating parts of the two composite chromosomes to bring about
changes in structure in the plant affected.

ORIGIN OF CHROMOSOMAL TYPES

Of the balanced types, the 1n or haploid comes from the develop-
ment of an unfertilized egg cell and hence has the same reduced num-
ber of chromosomes as the sex cells. Haploids have arisen spontan
eously over a hundred times in our cultures of the Jimson Weed, buu
what external stimulus if any is responsible for their occurrence is
not known. Haploids have been found in several other species.

Tetraploids (4n) have been relatively abundant in Datura. They
frequently appear first as a 4n branch on an otherwise 2n plant.
This fact and other evidence leads to the belief that the doubling of
chromosomes takes place after fertilization has occurred. High
temperature at time of seed germination seems to stimulate the pro-
duction of 4n individuals.

Triploids (3n), as earlier shown, are produced by crossing a 4n
individual with pollen from a 2n plant.

Of the (2n+1) types, the primaries arise spontaneously from time
to time in our cultures but can be obtained in great numbers among
the offspring of 3n parents.
444 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

Secondary (2n+1) types occur spontaneously, but much less fre-
quently than the primaries. There is no known method of obtain-
ing them in large numbers.

Tertiary (2n+1) types have been obtained by a number of dif-
ferent methods. (a) A few have occurred spontaneously in our
cultures. (6) They have been secured from eryptic chromosomal
races in nature, such as the “B” races. (Fig. 4.) By crossing
the “B” race, for example, onto a (2n+1) type in which the extra
chromosome is related to the modified chromosomes of the “ B ” race,
a (2n+1) tertiary may be secured in the next
generation. By this method we have secured
the tertiaries Wy (pl. 10, fig. 2) and DS. (pl.
10, fig. 1). (¢) Since it is known that other
species differ from our standard line 1 in the
arrangement of the parts of their chromosomes
more than does the “B” race, these other spe-
cies probably afford another rich source of ter-
tiary forms. Some success has already been
had in seeking tertiary forms from this source.
(dz) The most prolific method of obtaining ter-
tiary chromosomes, however, is treatment with
radium or X rays. Under this stimulus, non-
homologous chromosomes are broken and their
parts interchanged to produce tertiary chromo-
somes such as were described for the “ B ” race.

Ficure 6.—Models of the (Fig. 4.) In hybrids between “B” race and
circle of four attached :

chromosomes in hy. OUL Standard line 1 the chromosomes at the

brids between the reduction division are seen to be connected to-

ee a ere gether in a circle of four. (Fig. 6.) This con-
mosomal diagrams of figuration results because like ends of chromo-
pivii sieeaan tage **e somes are attached together at the reduction
division. In a similar manner circles of at-
tached chromosomes result when radiation has induced segmental
interchange between two nonhomologous chromosomes. ‘Thus fol-
lowing radiation treatment, the chromosomes 1-2 and 13-14 inter-
changed segments to form the tertiary chromosomes 1:14 and 2-18.
The following circle resulted:

1-2 —— 2-1

| |
1-14—14-13

The tertiary chromosomes are represented in bold-face type. An-
other configuration following radiation was a circle of four as
follows:

13-14—14-24

| |
13 -23— 23-24
EXTRA CHROMOSOMES—BLAKESLEE 445

By the proper breeding procedure these types, which are hybrid for
the modified chromosomes and therefore show circles of four, may
be purified so that the new tertiary chromosomes are in pairs. Such
purified races with modified chromosomes are called prime types.
By crossing such prime types onto the proper (2n+1) forms, it is
possible to get the modified chromosome as an extra and thus to form
(2n+1) tertiary forms. At the present time we have 40 different
prime types and about 90 types with circles or chains which we are
attempting to purify into prime types.

Translocations have been also induced by radiation. In a specific
ease the 1°2 chromosome was broken in two and the 2 half was
translocated and permanently attached to the 11 end of the 11:12
chromosome making a large compound chromosome 2°11°12. The
1 portion was left free as a fragment. We have gotten rid of the
1 fragment and obtained plants with one and others with two of
the 2-11°12 chromosome. The latter breed true and have given rise
to a distinct race very different in appearance from normal 2n plants
from which they arose.

Compensating types may be obtained in various ways such as by
crossing a prime type onto the appropriate secondary (2n+1) form
and obtaining the compensating type in the next generation. In the
offspring of a plant with a circle of six attached chromosomes, one
should expect from one to three compensating types according to the
manner in which the abnormal chromosomes have been modified.
Thus radiation treatment induced a circle of six with the following
composition :

11-12—12-17—17-18

| |
11-13—13-14—14-18

In the next generation a compensating type was obtained in which
the 11°13 and the 12° 17 tertiaries compensated for the 11° 12 normal
chromosome.

Circles of six and more chromosomes may be obtained as a source
of compensating types by crossing two appropriate prime types
together. Thus we have two prime types (a) and (b). The for-
mula for (a) is: 1°14, 2°18, 23:24. The formula for (b) is 1-2,
13°28, 14°24. When either is crossed with our standard line 1,
a circle of four results as shown in a preceding paragraph. When
(a) is crossed with () the hybrid which results has a circle of six.
The formula of this circle would be as follows:

1-2 — 2.13—13-23
|
1-14—14 2424-23

By crossing prime types together we have obtained circles composed
of as many as 10 chromosomes. The larger the number of chromo-
446 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

somes in a circle the greater the opportunity for the occurrence of
compensating types in the offspring.

SUMMARY OF CHROMOSOMAL TYPES IN DATURA

In the preceding section the manner of origin of the most impor-
tant chromosomal types in the Jimson Weed has been discussed. In
the present section a summary will be given of the types so far
identified in this species.

In Table 2 (p. 450) the main chromosomal types are listed together
with the number of different forms actually identified and the number
theoretically possible for each type. The calculations are based on
the assumption that the two parts into which a chromosome breaks
are always equal. This assumption is known to be contrary to fact
and in consequence the number of forms theoretically possible is
much larger than the calculated figures. Formulae are given in the
last column which enable one to apply the calculations to species
with different numbers of chromosomes. Primary, secondary, and
tertiary chromosomes are represented by the Roman numerals I, II,
and III. It should be pointed out that these three kinds of extra
chromosomes are defined in terms of our standard line 1. The class
numbers in the column at the left may be of convenience for refer-
ence.

Of the unmodified balanced types, In, 2n, 3n, and 4n forms are
the only ones so far obtained in Datura. Doubling of the 3n and of
the 4n types should give 6n and 8n forms but these theoretically
possible forms have not yet been found in Datura.

Class 5 are the primary (2n+1) types. Of these types, each with
an unmodified chromosome extra, there can be only as many as
there are different kinds of chromosomes. All the 12 possible to
Datura have been identified.

Class 6 are the secondary (2n+2/2) types in which the extra
chromosome consists of a doubled half chromosome. Since there
are 24 halves that can be doubled, there are 24 secondary types that
are theoretically possible. Of these, 14 have been identified and
kept under cultivation. Two of the primaries (El and Sp) have
very poor viability but each has a single secondary with good via-
bility. Since a primary is intermediate in character between its
two secondaries, it is likely that the missing secondaries of El and
Sp would have too poor viability to permit them to survive even if
they were actually formed. Others of the missing secondaries may
also be nonviable. For convenience in explanation, we have spoken
of the secondary chromosomes as having been formed by a doubling
of one-half of a normal chromosome. There is evidence, however,
that the parts into which a chromosome breaks in the formation of
a secondary are not always equal.
owe ~~

EXTRA CHROMOSOMES—BLAKESLEE 447

Class 7 are the tertiary (2n+1) types formed by segmental inter-
change between nonhomologous chromosomes. Their ends therefore
ure from different primary chromosomes. Judging from interchanges
involving three chromosomes, it appears probable that more than two
chromosomes may take part in the formation of a tertiary chromo-
some. Moreover, the fact that the interchange in several cases is
known not to involve exact halves of the two chromosomes involved
is further evidence that the number of tertiaries theoretically possible
is much larger than the 264 given in the table. A considerable num-
ber of chromosomes have been identified as tertiaries but the mor-
phological characters of eight (2n+1) tertiary forms have been
studied in cultivation.

Class 8 has two extra chromosomes but they are both in the same
set. The (2n+2 Gl) shown in Plate 9 is an example.

Class 9 also has two extra chromosomes in the same set but one
of these extras is a primary and the other a secondary.

Class 10 includes the double (2n+1+1) types which have two extra
primary chromosomes in different sets. Examples have been given
in Plates 11 and 12.

Class 11 comprises the double types which have extra chromo-
somes in different sets, one of the extras being a primary and the
other an unrelated secondary chromosome.

Class 12 comprises the double types in which one of the extras is
a primary and the other a tertiary chromosome.

Class 13 comprises the rare group in which there are three extra
chromosomes, each in a different set. One form of this type has
been surely identified by its chromosomes. It was too feeble in
growth to give offspring.

Class 14 comprises types in which one chromosome has been
dropped out. Such types would be expected only as abnormal
branches on otherwise normal plants. A number of deficiencies of
this kind have been found but so far as analyzed they have been
caused by a dropping out of one of two chromosomes (RI or Pn).
Apparently a sex cell (1n) can not live unless all the 12 different
chromosomes are present. Hence, deficiencies would not be expected
directly from sexual reproduction. .

Class 15 is similar to class 14 in that one branch is a chromosomal
deficiency. In class 15, however, the plant begins as a secondary
(2n+2/2) type and the chromosome that is eliminated is a pri-
mary related to the secondary chromosome. Thus a “ Dwarf ” type,
which has a 17-17 chromosome in addition to two 17-18 chromo-
somes, lost one of the 17-18 chromosomes in forming an abnormal
branch.

Class 16 includes the compensa\ ag types in which the compensa-
tion is between a secondary and a tertiary chromosome; while in
class 17 the compensation is between the two tertiaries.
448 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

Class 18 is a compensating type like those in class 17 which, in
addition to two tertiary chromosomes, contains an extra primary
chromosome.

Class 19 includes types with a single fragment of a chromosome
extra. By inbreeding, types may ,be obtained with two of some
of these fragments. These are included in class 20. Similarly an
attached (or translocated) fragment may be present once or twice
to form the types represented by classes 21 and 22. A considerable
number of primary and secondary (2n+1) types have been com-
bined with the fragment types of class 19 and with the translo-
cated type of class 21. These compound types are distinct but have
not been included in the tabulations.

The modified diploids (2n) listed in classes 5 to 22 are the most
distinct of the extra chromosomal types. As pointed out in the
discussion of the different ‘“* Globe ” types shown in Plate 9, the addi-
tion of an extra chromosome to a 8n or to a 4n type brings about
relatively little change in the appearance of the plant affected.
However, 4n types may be strongly modified by the addition of a
larger number of chromosomes than would be possible in the dip-
loid (2n) series. Furthermore, deficiencies may be transmitted by
the sex cells of 4n parents since the normal sex cells of 4n plants are
2n. A (2n—1) sex cell would be a deficiency but might be viable
since it would have at least one chromosome of each kind. The most
extreme modification of a 4n is that given in type 32. In two dif-
ferent sets, Doctor Belling found an extra chromosome and in
two other sets he found a single chromosome missing. The 3n and
4n types modified by deficiencies were determined by study of their
chromosomes. The plants were obviously abnormal but the ab-
normalities have not been connected up with the particular chromo-
somes which were missing. It is difficult to evaluate the unbalance
due to the addition or loss of single chromosomes in the 3n and 4n
series.

By means of extra chromosomes and parts of chromosomes it has
been found possible to secure a wide range of variations in Datura
affecting the structure and physiology of all parts of the plant
that have been studied. In fact, chromosomal variations in this
species have been much more frequent than apparent changes in
the ultimate factors or genes, as may be seen by comparing the
genes listed in Table 1 with the chromosomal types in Tables 1
and 2.

It is not believed that Datura is an exception among plants in
that it is capable of producing visible variations in large numbers
by means of major changes in amount of chromosomal material.
EXTRA CHROMOSOMES—BLAKESLEE 449

Probably any other plant equally well adapted to breeding experi-
ments would give similar results when sufficiently investigated.
Evidence has been accumulating that select horticultural varieties,
which have been kept true to type by vegetative propagation, are
frequently characterized by extra chromosomes. Pending detailed
analysis of such forms, it is logical to attribute their desirable char-
acters as much to the extra chromosomes which they possess as to
any individual factors in respect to which they may differ from
the average.

Extra chromosomes in unbalanced types are transmitted to only
part of the offspring. Such types, however, can be multiplied by
cuttings, grafts, and other vegetative methods of reproduction. By
such means horticulturists in the past have unwittingly propagated
chromosomal types which were only later recognized as such when
their chromosomes were studied. It is our belief that in the future
extra chromosomes will be consciously utilized as a source of de-
sirable variations in plants of economic importance.

TABLE 1.—List of primaries, secondaries, and tertiaries arranged by size of
chromosomes in the trisomic set

{Ends of chromosomes are designated by numbers 1 to 24]

1 2 3 4 5 6
Ghrome Secondary | Primary Secondary Tertiary
orien chromosomes | chromosomes chromosomes chromosomes Genes located in par-
size class and (2n+2/2) and (2n+1) and (2n+2/2) and (2n+1) ticular chromosome
type type type type
Sa Py! (i-1)o. - 2. Nib: (oye ae LV) eee DBe217 5 ae pin Wy.
' j Wy=1-18.
ES=2-9
| Ph=2-5.
| Hg=1-9.
| trSg=12-11-2.

Lisiossd-¢ | Sm (3-3).--..- Os (Pieri secst iswssnuss hh Mp=4-6.......- fw, Bzin4 half. QSin
vant Gs, half not yet de-
| 4-22). termined.

ane St (5-5)....... BK (5-6)...._.. BtMOG) oor te as Mp=4-6_........
| Ph=2-5,

a tT yy) eee 1g) EL) eee Hep BE) Aes Saree =e) (es Oe nS

ees | Mt (9-9)....-- | Ec (910°) .._.. } ‘T'B (10°-10°).----_- a Seneae MS in either Ec or Sp.
| | (10-19
ES=2-9
| } Hg=1-9.

ee i Ke Ero) ER De) “aro bb RE je en ee a trSg=12-11-2____| in, tf, e, sky, in 12 half.

(11-21).
| ef

i eee Ne pauned Mc (13-14)._.-| Not named (14-14)_| X=18-13___...--) al.
| *13). |

_ ee Sc (15-15)... ON eee Se ee ee ee ee en ee te in 16 half.

«Sess eat ce ¢ WOME Hy yc aaa oa age aati At peo 1 Sa c, wt in 17 half; p in 18

Wy=1-18. half.
X= 18-13.
ae ye Ot) eee eS ee a | SE=9-20°......._| sh. MS in either Sp or
| (10-19). Ec.
trix = (20-19-23) _-

ns ea eae eeeesaiorey (OE i tc) ele jeep a ciel se RL (O20) 5 tooo fen sc, bb, pl.

om.

| (11-21).

| (12-22).
(ela, ate Pleteesatte Ix (23-24)_...-- [ovceccsceeeeseeees trIx = (20-19-23) ..| sw.

The ends 10°, 12°, 20°, and 21° are characterized by terminal humps,
450 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

TABLE 2.—Chromosomal types in Datura Stramonium

[The number of forms actually identified and the number theoretically possible are shown for each type.
Caleulations are based on the assumption that the two parts into which a chromosome breaks are always
equal. Since this is known not to be the case, the figures given form a minimum. The Roman Figure I
indicates an unmodified or primary chromosome; II a secondary chromosome (with two like ends); III
a tertiary chromosome (with ends from two different primaries)

Number
Class Number | of forms
N Chromosomal types of forms | theoreti- Formulae
0. identified| cally
possible
4 4
12 12/n
14 24 | 2n.
8 264 | 2n (n—1).
2 12 | n.
1 24 | 2n (Land II related)
47 66 n G-):
9 264 | 2n (n—1) (I and II
unrelated).
194 Qn. <7 ew recs ECS See 2 3,168 | 2n? (n—1).
Gn ree pee tee a ee ee Ae ee el 1 220 nian) an)
145) Qe eos eb 5 ae oe ee a 2 12
5))! 2 TS erie Le eR SSE ESS oe soe sie. 1 2 | 2n (I and II re-
lated).
16 '|, Qn —T--00-E Ts eS Sa eee ek 4 1264 | 2n (n—1).
17] Qn — T-tree ee fe oe Ue eh ee 3 1264 | 2n (n—1)
185|\Von—T- PTE Pls ee ee Le ee ae 2 3,168 | 2n?2(n—1).
19 | 2n--] freefragment o_o 5s oo ee ee 7 2n.
20" "Sit ZN rOR iT aRINONUS eon e co toce te se eee eet eos ee 4 24 | 2n.
21 | 2n+1 translocated fragment__-...........-_-__-_------_- 1 224 | 2n.
22\\| 2n-}-2 translocated fragments= 22220 222el ote ie eee 1 224 | 2n.
3 | SD-F i ucaoss. oo oa tht sot Steed ee er xe Bete ie fees cern 1 12] n:
Wa) Br T rie as) S335 ds St thee sos 2c Sos ee 1 12 | n.
Sy er a a eee ee pa Se = 8 12 / n.
26);)|' 420i foe Et ee a Se eae ee ee eS 1 12 | n.
VGH CTE 2 <j RR TR ES Ue, a ee a ee oe ee 1 12 | n.
28iu| 4s ee ee a ee 5 12 |. n.
20d) da eT! nopiel? | pamaangumda_|..” perrnangurla |. 1 66 | 2 ecb
51) bt Ce ct (a) eae a ae me ad Al BEES Se a me "Re 1 132 | n (n—1),
ait (pie ey Re calories «sitet aileron 1 66 | BAAD
ge) ene ee BO fon can 2-2 (0) BP 1| 2,970 AX —V@ ___4)

1 264 morphological types, but 528 different chromosomal types, if the parts of chromosomes which have
interchanged are considered.

224 morphological types, but 576 different chromosomal types if ends to which fragments are translo-
cated are considered.

———————

THE AGE OF THE HUMAN RACE IN THE LIGHT OF
GEOLOGY *

By StTepHeN Ricwarz, 8. V. D.
St. Mary’s College and Seminary, Techny, Ill.

[With 38 plates]

There is perhaps no problem upon which we find more divergence
of opinion than upon this one of the age of the human race. Between
those who still adhere to an age of 6,000 or 8,000 years, as was assumed
by the older Biblical exegesis, and those who are exceedingly liberal
even with millions, we find all possible shades of opinion. Thus it is
impossible for a nonspecialist to find his way through this tohu
vabohu and to form a clear judgment. In consequence many have
only ridicule for all endeavors to give even approximate figures. The
disagreement even amongst the greatest authorities seems to them to
show that we can accomplish nothing toward the solution of this
problem. However, the situation is not so bad as that, and although
there are many uncertainties which prevent the determination of
exact figures and which are the cause of the discrepancies among
scientists, at least a minimum age can be assigned to mankind. In
the following pages an attempt has been made to derive such a mini-
mum from the geologic facts and to show that the age of mankind
can not be less than a certain number of millenniums, although it
may of course be higher.

MAN IN THE GEOLOGIC TIME SCALE

It is impossible to express the age of mankind in the usual measure
of years, unless we know the position of man in the geologic time
scale; that is, the relative age of the human race must be found out
in terms familiar to geologists. In what geologic period did man
arrive on earth? To be more exact: In what geologic period do we
find the first unmistakable indications of man’s presence ?

It is, first, an established fact that man was witness of the glacia-
tion in northern and central Europe. His tools and weapons and his

Reprinted by permission, with author’s revision, from publications of the Catholic
Anthropological Conference, vol. 1, No. 2, March, 1929.
452 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

skeletal remains are found in association with the remains of animals
and plants of this cold epoch, in such a way as to demonstrate that
man was a contemporary of these animals and plants, as, e. g., the
woolly mammoth, the woolly rhinoceros, the reindeer as far south as
northern Spain. Man utilized the ivory of the mammoth and the
antlers of the reindeer for the manufacture of his implements. He
painted these animals on the walls of his caves and engraved them on
his tools. Plants of the arctic tundra are found in the deposits of the
habitations of man, and shells of clams belonging to the arctic zone—
Pecten islandicus and Cyprina islandica—show that the ocean and the
fresh water basins were cooled down to arctic temperature, even on the
northern coast of Spain. Almost innumerable finds illustrate these
facts and they have been studied with painstaking care by a number
of specialists all over Europe.

Secondly, there is unanimous agreement that man was in Europe
even before the last period of severe cold. In the Somme Valley,
France, primitive stone implements of man occur in association with
animals quite different from those mentioned above. The arctic
forms are wanting—no reindeer, no mammoth, no animals of the
tundra. A southern elephant was living there instead of the mam-
moth, and the hippopotamus, an animal which can not live in waters
that freeze over, was found in the rivers of France and England. In
the same rivers a bivalve, Corbicula fluminalis, was common which
is now limited to Asia and Africa. All these facts exclude a glacial
climate at this period. Moreover, from the Seine Valley calcareous
tufas have been described, containing plants which require an aver-
age temperature 4° to 5° higher than is the temperature to-day at
the same place. Prehistorians designate this stage of human culture
as Chellean. Now, the following Acheulian stage, whose implements
of a finer make rest immediately upon those of the Chellean, con-
tains plant remains of a colder climate and the bones of mammoth
and reindeer, thus demonstrating that the cold with a new glaciation
was approaching.

Hence it is proven beyond any reasonable doubt that man was in
Europe during a rather genial climate preceding the last glaciation,
and that he witnessed this process of glaciation from its beginning
to the complete disappearance of the ice. ‘This conclusion is not based
on a few stone implements, nor on a few bones of man found some-
where. It has been reached by the conscientious study of numerous
prehistoric stations of man throughout central and southern Europe.
These studies were carried out by well-trained scientists, amongst
whom a number of Catholic priests, such as Prof. Hugo Obermaier,
the Abbé Henri Breuil, the Abbés A. and J. Bouyssonie, Prof. F.
Birkner, are leading authorities. Owing to these researches a great
number of skeletal remains of man of the glacial period have been
i a ee
tl

AGE OF HUMAN RACE—RICHARZ 453

unearthed. Man of the Neanderthal race, living in the first portion
of the Old Stone Age, in the cultural stages of the Acheulian and
Mousterian, is represented at least by 11 skeletons, of which 7 are in
good preservation, and by fragmental remains of 19 individuals.
Neanderthal man was succeeded by quite a different human race which
lived in the last part of the Old Stone Age and the glacial period.
Fifty-two skeletons of this race are extant and portions of other
skeletons representing about 30 individuals.

AN ABSOLUTE CHRONOLOGY FOR LATE GLACIAL AND POSTGLACIAL
TIME

Are there reliable methods for dating back these geologic events
and for expressing in millenniums the time elapsed since their occur-
rence? Many attempts have been made in the past to determine this
time. Most of them did not go beyond rough estimates, leaving much
to subjective feeling and fancy. ‘The cutting of the Niagara gorge
below the falls is supposed to furnish a good measure of the time
elapsed since the recession of the ice, for these falls could not begin
their work before the ice sheet covering North America beyond New
York City retreated to a place north of the present falls. But there
are so many uncertainties in the determination of this time that the
figures given differ all the way from 7,000 to 39,000 years. Besides,
the connection of this event with the appearance of man in Europe
is still very problematical. Even more open to exception are calcula-
tions based on the thickness of deposits left in lakes after the
recession of the ice.

The study of such deposits in lakes, however, was developed by
Prof. Gerard Baron de Geer, of Stockholm, into a new method
which is recognized as the best and most reliable one for measuring
the millenniums since the definite recession of the ice from a given
locality. Professor de Geer reported on this method and its results
to the Eleventh International Geologic Congress sitting in Stock-
holm in 1910.? Since then it has been applied to numerous localities
both in Europe and in America by De Geer and his students and co-
workers, and it has found unreserved approval and acceptance from
geologists.

To illustrate De Geer’s procedure we may take an example of a
recent glacier. ‘The melting waters of the Victoria Glacier in the
Canadian Rockies (Alberta), after a course of about 1 mile, are
poured into Lake Louise, a mountain lake 114 miles long and one-half
to three-eighths mile wide and 5,760 feet above sea level. During the
summer months the melting waters of the glacier are turbid and milky
from the detritus carried away from the melting ice. In the lake

*A geochronology of the last 12,000 years, Congres géol. intern. x1. Compte rendu,
Stockholm, 1912, p. 241 ss.

28095—31——30
454 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

the coarser material soon settles, while the finer clay remains sus-
pended and falls down very slowly in late fall or winter, when Lake
Louise is frozen all over with an ice cover about 40 inches thick.
The deposits at the lake bottom are, therefore, found to consist of
coarse layers of silt and sand alternating with fine layers of clay;
the coarse sediments being laid down during the melting period, the
fine clays during the winter when there is no, or else very little,
melting of the glacier. There is also a difference in the color of
these two layers, the winter layer being, as a rule, of a darker hue.®

The same conditions as observed at present in Lake Louise occurred
very frequently during the melting of the enormous ice sheets which
covered the northern part of Europe and North America during the
glacial period. At many places the drainage of a district was blocked
by the deposits made by the melting ice sheet, when the front of this
ice sheet stood for a considerable time at the same spot. As a con-
sequence when the ice front later receded the dammed-up melting
waters gathered in lakes, forming coarse layers in summer and finer
and darker ones in late fall and winter, thus giving origin to banded
clays. One pair of these bands (or varves, after the Swedish word)
forms in one year, just as an annual growth ring in trees forms
during one year. (PI. 1.)

Such “ varved ” clays occur on a large scale in southern and central
Sweden, where the rivers of the late glacial ice sheets, carrying the
detritus of the ice, poured their water into such lakes. Here De Geer
began his studies and counted with his students the varves from the
Scania Peninsula in southern Sweden to Jimtland in central Sweden,
over a distance of 800 kms. (500 miles). He found 5,000 pairs
of layers requiring 5,000 years for their formation. ‘Thus the retreat
of the ice front from Scania to central Sweden occupied 5,000 years.
This retreat was accomplished slowly in Scania, about 75 m. (250
feet) a year; farther north it increased to 100 m. (328 feet). Later,
the melting set in rapidly and the yearly recession was from 100 to
300 m. (328 to almost 1,000 feet).

At the end of these 5,000 years the shrinking ice was bisected and
retreated into the Scandinavian mountains. That was the end of the
glacial period and the beginning of postglacial conditions. The dura-
tion of postglacial time was in a similar way determined by counting
the varves laid down in the postglacial lake Ragunda and in the
former fjord of Angermaniilven. The result was about 8,700 years
with an uncertainty of 100 to 200 years; i. e., postglacial time lasted
8,500 to 8,700 years from its beginning until 1900 A. D. Therefore,
southern Scania was freed from ice 8,700+5,000=13,700 years, or,
using the lower figure, at least 18,500 years before 1900 A. D. (In

3,W. A. Johnson, Sedimentation in Lake Louise, Alberta, Canada, Amer. Journ. Sci., 5th
series, vol. 4 (1922), p. 376 ss.
AGE OF HUMAN RACE—RICHARZ 455

the publication cited above* De Geer had calculated 12,000 years,
based on studies in Ragunda Lake; these studies were regarded as
preliminary only; the higher figure is based on more exact work of a
later date.)°

De Geer’s method was readily accepted and approved on the part
of geologists, even when he first reported it to an international au-
dience and showed characteristic varved clays in Sweden to the mem-
bers of the Geologic Congress. Since then this approval has become
universal amongst geologists and prehistorians. On the occasion of
the Twelfth International Geologic Congress at Toronto in 1913, the
Canadian authority on glacial geology, A. P. Coleman, said: “ Prob-
ably the most accurate chronology is that worked out skillfully and
patiently by Baron de Geer and his assistants.”*® The French pale-
ontologist Boule calls De Geer’s method “la plus ingénieuse et la plus
suffisante.”* Prof. James W. Goldthwait, of Dartmouth College,
writes in his introduction to Antevs’s publication reporting on the
application of De Geer’s method to America: “An investigation so
precise in method and execution and so suggestive will give fresh
impulse to our studies of Pleistocene glaciation.” * Robert W. Sayles,
geologist of the Harvard University Museum, after a careful exami-
nation of all the factors which might influence the deposition of the
clays in question, reaches the conclusion: “I feel convinced that the
seasonal theory is in a very strong position and that the danger of
its being abandoned is very slight.”® The late Prof. Eduard
Briickner, of Vienna University, one of the leading authorities on
the glacial geology of the Alps, accepts unreservedly De Geer’s
method.°

Indeed, all modern geologists take it for granted that the chro-
nology based on clay varves is reliable. There exists no serious
adverse criticism of the method. Absolute chronologies based on
clay deposits were regarded with skepticism and mistrust, as long
as the thickness of the deposits was taken as the measure of time.
Climatic conditions are so variable and their influence on the amount
of clay carried along by rivers is so unaccountable that they can
never afford precise measurement. This disturbing factor does not
enter into the new method. Variations in temperature and precipi-
tation certainly influence the thickness of the clay layers, but these

*Cf. note 1.

5R. Lidén, Om isavsmiiltningen och den postglaciala landhéjningen i Angermanland,
Geol. Féren. Férhandl., Stockholm, 1911, vol. 33, pp. 271-280; G. de Geer, On the solar
curve, as dating the Ice Age, the New York Moraine and Niagara Falls through the
Swedish time scale, Geografiska annaler, 1926, vol. 8, pp. 274-284.

*Congrés géol. intern. XII., Compte rendu, Toronto, 1913, p. 435.

™Marcelin Boule, Les hommes fossiles, Paris, 1921, p. 60.

8 Ernst Antevs, The recession of the last ice sheet in New England, Amer. Geogr. Soc.,
Research series no. 11, New York, 1921, p. IX.

* Museum of Comp. Zoology, Memoirs, Cambridge, Mass., 1919, vol. 47, p. 61.

» Zeitschrift fiir Gletscherkunde, 1921, Bd. XII, p. 55,
456 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

variations are no longer unknown quantities; they are plainly legible
in the varves themselves. In a year with a warm summer the coarse
portion of the varve will be thick; in a colder year the varves may
shrink to small lamellae. Exceptionally rainy seasons and periods
of excessive heat and drought will undoubtedly modify the deposi-
tions in lakes at the ice front. But such irregularities can always
be distinguished from the seasonal varves if the latter are studied
with due care over large areas.

De Geer’s method has also been applied to varved clays in North
America during the last decade. Antevs started this work in the
Connecticut Valley. Warves were counted from Hartford, Conn.,
to northern Vermont, over a distance of 185 miles. Later, a number
of varved clay deposits were studied in Canada, in Wisconsin and
Minnesota, and recently by Chester A. Reeds in New Jersey and in
the Hudson Valley, New York.

The researches have even been extended to Argentina in the
Southern Hemisphere and to the Himalaya region. It has not been
possible in these cases to construct a continuous time scale as in
Scandinavia. But the method itself has been firmly established and
has stood the test by many independent workers in widely separated
areas.

EXTENSION OF THE CHRONOLOGY BACKWARDS

The duration of late glacial and postglacial time in Scandinavia
has been firmly established by De Geer and his colleagues. In round
numbers, 13,500 years have passed since central Scania was freed
from ice. How can this fact be used toward solving the problem of
the age of the human race? This age is certainly higher than the
above figure. In the first place, it must be taken into account that
the ice border halted a considerable time before it melted away,
forming moraines—that is to say, long stretched hills—composed of
the detritus brought by the ice. Recently the duration of this stop-
page, just before its final recession, has been determined by studying
varved clays laid down by the melting waters of the ice in lakes of
southwestern Scania and in the Danish islands Sjelland and Fyen.
(See De Geer, citation 4 above.) This halt of the ice lasted almost
2,000 years, which, therefore, must be added to the above figure
13,500.

Furthermore, it is well known that the ice before this time covered
the northernmost part of Germany, halting there again for a con-
siderable time, as is seen from the formation of the very extensive
elevations, the moraines of the Baltic Ridge, in which lakes and lake-
lets are abundantly developed, as in the moraines of Wisconsin and
Minnesota. The duration of this stoppage and the time required for
the retreat from northern Germany to southern Scania have not. yet
m=

AGE OF HUMAN RACE—RICHARZ 457

been determined by exact methods. The latter can only be estimated
from the rate of recession found in Sweden, while the duration of the
stoppage must be derived approximately from the moraines deposited
by the ice during the halt or the oscillations of its border. De Geer
assumes 2,500 years; adding these to 13,500+2,000 found before, his
final figure is 18,000 years; that is to say, 18,000 years ago the German
Provinces of East and West Prussia, Pomerania, Mecklenburg-Streh-
litz, and the eastern part of Schleswig-Holstein were still covered
with mighty ice sheets. (Fig. 1.)

At a still earlier period the ice sheet reached farther south into the
southern part of the Province of Brandenburg and south of Poznan
in Poland. No data are at hand to determine the recession of the ice
from this area until it reached the Baltic Ridge. An estimate of 1,000
years would, however, be in fair agreement with the observations
made farther north. Thus, in all, the ice began its retreat from
northern Germany about 19,000 years ago. It must be borne in mind
that of this figure a little more than 15,000 years are the result of
precise measurement. The remainder is a conservative estimate. It
might well be that the ice stood a considerably longer time in north-
ern Germany, its border alternately receding and readvancing. Thus
Ernst Antevs arrives at essentially higher figures in his recent pub-
lication: “In all , the uncovering of the belt between the Great Baltic,
or the Pomeranian moraine, and northeastern Scania must have
taken many thousand years, probably 10,000 to 15,000.” Evidently
such assumptions can not be defimite, because they are not based on
the counting of clay varves. Therefore the lower figures are here
preferred, in order to avoid all statements which can not be proven,
although the higher figures may be true or may approach the truth.

It will be recalled that man during this last glaciation was in
Europe, struggling with the cold in southern France and northern
Spain, and as companion of the arctic animals and plants. Further-
more, it was shown that man was in Europe before this severe cold
arrived, since he was living with animals and plants requiring
a much warmer climate not only in southern countries but as far
north as Weimar in Germany. It is, of course, impossible to recon-
cile such a mild climate in central Europe with a glaciation and a
large ice sheet in northern Germany. We must, therefore, conclude
that at that period northern Europe was as much free from ice as it
it at present, or even more so, if the indications of a higher tempera-
ture than to-day are reliable. With a new deterioration of the
climate, then, the ice again took possession of central Europe, moving
slowly from Scandinavia to central Germany.

1 Ernst Antevs, The last glaciation, Amer. Geogr. Soc., Research serles No. 17, New
York, 1928, p. 160.
458 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

mum Ice edge 13,500 years ag
cheabak ~ ~ about ito00 yr
means “ a! Py (a See)
cemmanes onan Lieb ry 19,000 1»

(Maxipaucn f last
Glaciation)

Figur 1.—The extension and recession of the last ice sheet in northern Europe

When this last glaciation was at its maximum, man was already living in central and
southern Europe.
AGE OF HUMAN RACE—RICHARZ 459
THE DURATION OF THE ADVANCE OF THE ICE

To determine the time needed for such a readvance no exact
methods are at hand. We meet here with many uncertainties and
unknown quantities which prevent an exact measurement. More-
over, we do not know how long the ice front stopped at the greatest
extension of the inland ice, and how long man was in Europe before
the ice started its readvance. Only an estimate of the readvance of
the ice will be attempted in the following paragraphs.

The average motion of recent glaciers and ice fields is fairly well
known. The Alpine glaciers move at a daily rate of 12 to 20 inches.
There are examples of more rapid motion; this happens where a
glacier is pushed with high pressure into a narrow valley or where
the ice slides over a steep slope. Such conditions are, for example,
responsible for the exceptional velocities of glaciers at the western
edge of the large ice sheet of Greenland, where daily motions of
33 to 66 or even of 105 feet are recorded. It would be wrong to
attribute such a speed to the whole body of the inland ice. The
late Prof. Thomas C. Chamberlin long ago warned against such
a procedure: “There is a widespread misapprehension as to the
average rate of movement of the ice fields of Greenland. * * *
In certain fiords, that lead out from great basins into which broad
fields discharge their ice and their surface waters, and thus furnish
the conditions for an extraordinary rate of movement, the rate of
motion, at least during the summer, is unusually high, and these
exceptional cases have been taken as representative of the movement
of the border of the inland ice. This is very far from being true.
The average movement for the whole border of the ice field is quite
certainly less than 1 foot per day, and it is more likely less than 1
foot per week.” ** Others speak of a forward motion of only a few
meters annually. If it were more, the ice would soon cover those
parts of Greenland which for centuries have been free from ice, the
wastage of the ice being exceedingly small on account of the short
melting season.

The Pleistocene ice sheets were of enormous thickness, and they
advanced, as a rule, over a flat country, spreading out over a very
large area. The surface slope, which is of the greatest importance
for the rate of movement, has been found to be very slight, as far
as can be ascertained. All this points to a slow motion of the
clumsy ice masses, although an exact rate can not be given. The
southernmost portions of the ice may have moved faster than the
Greenland ice because, reaching into an area of milder climate, the

greater part of the ice was not far from its melting point. Conse-

ee Lehre era Per ib ass Meets
4 T. C. Chamberlain and R, D. Salisbury, Geology, 2d ed., 1907, Vol. III, p. 430.
460 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

quently, the flow of the ice became easier and the rate of movement
increased, as is observed in Alpine glaciers far below the snow line.
Even under these conditions a motion of 1 foot per day must be
considered as high. However, assuming such a rate, it would take
about 11,000 years for the ice to travel the distance of 750 miles
from its origin in Scandinavia to northern Germany.

This figure gives an idea of the length of time required fer an
ice sheet to move over great distances. It does not, however, give a
measure of the advance of the ice border. It is well known that the
ice in moving forward melts. The amount of melting is in some
cases so considerable that the ice front recedes, although the ice as
a whole pushes steadily forward. Thus the front or tongue of the
majority of the Alpine glaciers is retreating. The melting process
was undoubtedly also active in Pleistocene time; during the advance
of the ice its edge was melting. This wastage may have been small,
compared with the motion of the ice, especially when the cold was
at its climax; it may have been considerable when the climate was
as yet less severe. In any case, on account of this melting, the
above figure must be increased by an uncertain amount. To simplify
the problem, this factor may be neglected, bearing always in mind
that the figure is rather below the real value than above it.

As the final result of the preceding deductions it can be stated:
Thirty thousand years ago man was certainly in Europe, living in a
rather warm period preceding the last glaciation. This figure seems
to be well established, and no scientist will raise serious objection
to it so long as it is regarded as a minimum.

WHY DO GEOLOGISTS ASSIGN A STILL HIGHER AGE TO MANKIND?

However, the great majority of geologists and prehistorians as-
sume considerably higher figures for the age of the human race.
Some reasons for such an assumption have already been alluded to.
The rate of movement of the advancing ice seems in all probability
to have been less than that assumed in the present paper, and there-
fore the time of advance longer. Moreover, the melting of the ice
during its advance was neglected. Furthermore, how long was man
living in a genial climate before the temperature dropped to such a
level that the ice started its advance to the south? There are good
geological reasons for concluding that the interglacial period pre-
ceding the last glaciation lasted much longer than the postglacial
period, which latter had a duration of at least 18,000 years for
northern Germany. (Pl. 3.) If man was already in Europe at the
beginning of the last interglacial, then many thousands of years must
be added to the above figure.

Finally, we have to take into account another possibility. The
cradle of mankind was hardly in Europe. Even from the purely
AGE OF HUMAN RACE—RICHARZ 461

scientific viewpoint one has to look elsewhere for man’s birthplace.
The question then arises: How long did man live in his place of
origin before he migrated into Europe? And even in Europe man
may have appeared much earlier than during the last interglacial
period. For his presence during this period we have conclusive
proofs confirmed by numerous observations and by the unanimous
agreement of scientists. There are, however, strong indications that
man was in Europe in the second last interglacial period. The
human jawbone found at Mauer near Heidelberg in association
with mammals of a more ancient type is ascribed by Dr. Hugo
Obermaier to this second last interglacial. Likewise, some prehis-
toric sites containing stone implements together with the same
ancient animals (Abbeville, France) are placed in the same period,
the pre-Chellean, by Father Obermaier.*® Many other geologists
place even the Chellean in this second last interglacial period. If
these views be correct, the age of mankind would exceed the above
figure by many millenniums, because another recession and another
advance of the ice must be added and also the unknown duration of
the second last interglacial period.

Even so, the possibilities are not yet exhausted. The problem of
Tertiary man has been very warmly discussed ever since the Abbé
Bourgeois first advanced such a thesis in 1863. As skeletal remains
of man are to date lacking in deposits of this period, the whole dis-
cussion has centered around flints of peculiar shape, the eoliths. Ac-
cording to some, these indicate manufacture by an intelligent being,
while others consider them the products of mere natural processes.
The best experts in paleolithic industry rejected the hypothesis of the
human origin of eoliths, and thus the problem of Tertiary man
seemed to be settled in the negative. However, about a decade ago
flints were found in East England, near Ipswich, Suffolk, which re-
vived the old controversy. These flints, evidently of great age, are
considered by the great majority of experts as genuine human imple-
ments, although some specialists still reserve judgment. ‘These im-
plements are found in two horizons: At the base of the red crag and
in its upper portion. The red crag is a marine deposit of the upper
Pliocene (end of Tertiary time). The shells occurring in this crag,
especially in its upper part, are partly arctic, announcing the ap-
proach of the glacial period. The Abbé H. Breuil, one of the ablest
and most critical students of paleolithic stone implements, regards
the flints found in the upper horizon of the red crag as intentionally
made by an intelligent being. Of a number of the peculiar flints
occurring at the base of the red crag, he says it is “ absolutely impos-
sible to distinguish them from the classical implements” (that is, im-

4 See: M. Ebert, Reallexikon der Vorgeschichte, Vol. X, pp. 241 and 242, “ Préchelléen,”
by Obermaier.
462 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

plements of later periods which are universally recognized as made
by man). “The traces of fire are undeniable, whatever may be their
origin.” +* Li. Capitan, another expert, is even stronger in his verdict
on certain implements of the same place: “If one would deny the
genuineness of this piece, he must reject the greatest part of scrapers
of the Mousterian. * * * These are flints purposely shaped by a
rather skillful hand.”

Those who accept the opinion of these specialists date man as far
back as the end of Tertiary time, or, what is more to the point, the
beginning of the glacial period, when the inland ice was for the
first time advancing toward central Europe. No wonder that they
figure upon a very high age for the human race. If man was wit-
ness of three or four advances of the ice, if he was existing during
two or three interglacial periods each of them of much longer dura-
tion than postglacial time, figures as high as several hundred thou-
sands of years do not surprise us.

The time has not yet come to decide definitely for or against such
assumptions. Until the skeletal remains of assumed preglacial man
are discovered, some doubt is possible. It may also be, as Obermaier
suggests, that the red crag, in which the supposed implements occur,
belongs to the first glaciation in England (cold climate). If this be
the case, man living during this period was not Tertiary man,
although he must have appeared very soon after the close of the
Tertiary.

In recent years a number of skeletal remains of a primitive man
have been unearthed in China. Geological and paleontological
evidence seems to point to a very high age of this man. Father
Teilhard de Chardin, S. J., geologist of the Tientsin University,
gives a succinct report of the discovery in a recent issue of “ Primi-
tive man.”** According to him Sinanthropus Pekinensis belongs
to the Lower Quaternary, while Neanderthal man was living in the
Middle Quaternary. That would raise the figures for the absolute age
of mankind considerably.

Up to the present the exceedingly high figures for the age of
mankind have been derived from those theories which take it for
granted that Europe was repeatedly glaciated, either three or four
times. There are still geologists who do not accept long inter-
glacial periods. They assume that the ice never entirely left the
glaciated area during the whole Ice Age. The interglacial periods
of others are to them only minor oscillations of the ice front. An
advocate of such an opinion was Nils O. Holst, a Swedish geolo-

4 Revue anthropologique, vol. 32, 1922, p. 228.

% Tbidem, p. 131.

#Teilhard de Chardin, Sinanthropus Pekinensis, Primitive Man (Publication of the
Catholic Anthropological Conference, Washington), Vol. III, 1930, pp. 46-48.
Pee Re ee ee ee eee tt, SOs Pe ”

AGH OF HUMAN RACE—RICHARZ 463

gist, who estimated the duration of the entire Ice Age as 17,000
years and who ascribed to mankind an age of 30,000 years. There
are still a few such monoglacialists left, but their number is fast
dwindling away. Indeed, it is very difficult to invalidate the
weighty evidence for repeated advances and recessions of the ice
sheets. A warm climate, as is known from deposits lying between
those of two glaciations, is certainly not reconcilable with big ice
masses at no great distance. If, for instance, in what are evidently
interglacial beds near Toronto, Canada, remains are found of such
plants as grow at present in southern Pennsylvania, or if close to
Hudson Bay in similar deposits tree trunks occur of 18 inches thick-
ness, the climate must have been at that time even milder than to-day
and the country must have been free of ice far to the north.

However, it is still disputed how many times such changes took
place. The number of glaciations usually is given as three in north-
ern Europe and as four in the Alps. ‘The overwhelming majority
of geologists agree that the assumption of at least two independent
glaciations with a long warmer interval is imperative. Recently an
anthropologist of Vienna, J. Bayer, drops the first glaciation in the
Alps as unproven, and contracts the last and second last glaciation
into a single one, only separated by a minor oscillation of the ice
front. Thus two large glacial periods remain with one interglacial
period of long duration, in which latter man was present.’* Accord-
ingly, the duration of the entire Ice Age is considerably diminished,
although even Bayer speaks of about 200,000 years. On account,
however, of the strong opposition of experts, this chronology can
not be taken as a standard.

CONCLUSION

It is evident from what has been said that there are many uncer-
tainties which block any attempt to assign a definite figure for the
age of mankind. On the other hand, it would be unreasonable and
unscientific to reject all figures as uncertain and unreliable. There
are facts which are obvious and which are accepted unanimously by
all geologists, and these facts warrant the conclusion that man was
undoubtedly in Europe 30,000 years ago. Of this number of millen-
niums the first half is determined by exact methods, as set forth in
this paper; the other half is based partly on an estimate of the reces-
sion of the ice where this recession can not yet be measured directly,
partly on a very conservative estimate of the time required for the
advance of the ice front from northern to central Europe. Future
development of these methods as well as new discoveries may raise

this minimum figure considerably and may place on a more solid

17J. Bayer, Der Mensch im Eiszeitalter, Wien, 1927.
464 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

basis the theories of those who stand for a much higher age of man-
kind. However, it seems impossible that the figure of 30,000 years
will ever turn out to be too high as a reasonable estimate of the
minimum age of the human race. In any case, the present essay
clearly points out that it is impossible to reconcile the well-known
facts of human antiquity with such figures as 6,000 to 8,000 years.
No theological problem is involved, it may be added in conclusion.
Theologians, even the more conservative, acknowledge full liberty
to deviate from the figures of the older exegesis and declare that the
problem of the age of mankind is, like that of the age of the earth
and of the universe, one which has to be solved by secular science.
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Richarz PLATE 1

VARVED GLACIAL CLAY, SANDY FALLS, 6 MILES WEST-NORTHWEST OF
TIMMINS, ONTARIO

From Memoir 146, Canada Geological Survey, Plate II, A. Ernst Antevs, Retreat of the last
ice sheet in Eastern Canada. (Reproduced by courtesy of Geological Survey of Canada.)
Smithsonian Report, 1930.-—Richarz PLATE 2

Annual Aepoasit-Vatve

VARVED GLACIAL CLAY FROM UPPER PART OF SECTION AT ESPANOLA, ONTARIO

Actual length 18 inches, laid down in 17 years. (Ibid., Pl. I, e.) (Reproduced 'by_ courtesy of Geological
Survey of Canada.)

Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Richarz PLATE 3

FARM CREEK EXPOSURE, 7 MILES EAST OF PEORIA, ILL.

3, Bowlder clay, deposited from the melting ice sheet of the last glaciation, fresh
on the bottom, weathered on top. Overlain by gravel brought by the melting
waters of the receding ice; 2, loess, an eolian deposit during an interglacial
period; la and 1), bowlder clay of an earlier ice sheet. 1b is its weathered por-
tion, at least 15 feet thick (down to the dark band in the photograph); la is a
fresh blue bowlder clay. The photograph illustrates a feature common to such
deposits of the Ice Age, both in America and in Europe. The earlier glacial
bowlder clay (1) is weathered to a much greater depth than the upper one (3),
although the latter, at the locality of the picture, became exposed to the influ-
ence of the atmosphere about 20,000 years ago. Moreover, the decomposition
of the older glacial deposit must have been completed before the region was
covered by the last ice sheet, because later this ice sheet and its deposits pro-
tected the older bowlder clays against decomposition. Therefore, a much
longer time was needed for the interglacial period than the postglacial 19,000
to 20,000 years. (Photo by Rev. Henry Retzek,
BKLEMENTS OF THE CULTURE OF THE CIRCUMPOLAR
ZONE!

By W. G. Bogoras

The Polar, or to put it more correctly, the Circumpolar Zone,
forms a compact ring of dry land encircling the terrestrial sphere,
which is broken only at two points, the first being Bering Strait,
the second an opening of sea of much wider stretch along the line
Greenland-Iceland-Norway. ‘This second opening forms a passage
from the Polar Ocean into the Atlantic just as Bering Strait forms
a passage from the Polar into the Pacific.

On the whole, the Circumpolar Zone in its complete extent is
subject to similar conditions and so represents an excellent field for
the comparative study of a culture, perhaps unique in the world.
I may add that the culture of the Polar Zone changes very slowly,
being preserved in a very primitive state in the ice and the snows
of the North as if it were frozen on purpose for such preservation.
On the other hand, that culture is more or less uniform even in
its variation. Severe conditions of the climate make tribes even
of different origin assume the same inventions and appliances in
the struggle for life. Thus we find here uniformity of culture and
of general ways of adaptation to the natural conditions of the
land.

The Circumpolar Zone is divided by the Polar Circle into two
unequal parts: Northward from the Polar Circle extends the tundra,
and southward from the Polar Circle lies the forest border, that is,
a belt of undersized trees no more than a hundred kilometers in
breadth. This belt, from an ethnographical point of view, belongs
to the Polar Zone and forms a unit with the tundra. The inhabi-
tants of the tundra, the reindeer, wild and domesticated, and also
human hunters and reindeer breeders, leave the tundra for the
winter and go to the protection of the forests.

Still farther to the south, from 65° to 60° of northern latitude, ex-
tends a zone of dense forest which must be considered as subpolar

1 Introduction to a university course on the culture of the Arctic and sub-Arctie zones.
Reprinted by permission from the American Anthropologist, N. 8., vol. 81, No. 4, October—
December, 1929,

465
466 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

or subarctic, the natural conditions of which form the transition
from the polar to the more temperate climate.

Northward from the tundra extends the ocean, which forms a
special zone; we may call it, perhaps, ultrapolar. In America the
Polar Ocean, filled with a quantity of large islands and archipelagoes,
presents a special cultural zone inhabited by the Eskimo. This zone
has as a typical culture of human groups the hunting of sea mam-
mals, of larger and smaller kinds. The tundra, or as it is called in
America, the “barren grounds,” is actually barren and the scanty
human groups inhabiting “barren grounds” have only a very
precarious existence.

In Eurasia the relative importance of sea and land is wholly dif-
ferent. The Polar Sea is actually important for man only in the
far northeast, where the coast line is clearly cut out and sea game
come close to the coast so that the hunting of seal and walrus is
very well developed. Farther to the west the sea becomes shallow
and the coast low and swampy, so it is mostly left uninhabited and
only in certain points, more or less distant and isolated, do we find
the northern populations coming to the sea for hunting. Thus on
the northern part of the peninsula of Yamal in Siberia and on
White Island, adjacent to the shore, there lives a branch of the
Samoyed, walrus hunters and bear hunters, almost wholly unknown,
which could not be included even in the last census of 1926. No
scientist has visited these Samoyed. Professor Shitkoff in 1910 spent
a week among them in the middle of August, but he had no time to
go over to the northern shore of White Island, where the hunting of
sea mammals actually takes place. According to some not very re-
liable information, the Samoyed must have skin canoes and even
larger boats made of planks hewn of driftwood. This summer we
sent there an expedition of three young scientists—Mr. V. N. Cher-
nezov, Mr. S. M. Ratner, and Miss N. P. Kotovschikova. They
were taken there by the state steamer and left for a year with ample
provisions and scientific appliances. So, eventually, they will make
a detailed description of this branch of the Samoyed.?

Still farther to the west hunting of sea mammals is performed in
midocean, also on Spitzbergen and on Nova Zembla, but this hunting
is undertaken mostly by the Scandinavians, English, and Russians,
with larger ships and with the expenditure of considerable capital.

2The expedition came back in 1930. N. P. Kotovschikova died while staying alone
on the seashore with all the collections of the expedition, in expectation of the steamer
from the west. The expedition brought back valuable material, and reported the finding
by V. N. Chernezov of several ruins of half-underground houses of a tribe now extinct,
which the Samoyed call “ Sirchi.’ These Sirchi once lived in various parts of the
Samoyed territory but have been extinct for a long time. They were a maritime tribe
and lived exclusively by hunting the sea-mammoth. Chernezov made some preliminary
excavations among the ruins, the results of which will be published in the Memoirs of
the Academy of Sciences. It is planned to send another expedition to Yamal in 1931.
CULTURE OF CIRCUMPOLAR ZONE—BOGORAS 467

On the other hand, the land part of the Circumpolar Zone of
Eurasia is developed more than in America and it is covered by a
culture more ancient and more productive. The surface of land in
the Polar Zone of Eurasia is larger than that of America (not in-
cluding islands) and represents about three-fifths of the whole
surface of the zone.

The Antarctic zone, which represents for geographers a certain
important unit, presents very little interest for the ethnographer,
since it never had any population and up to the present time remains
outside the range of human culture.

The whole stretch of the Circumpolar zone, from North Cape to
Bering Strait and from Bering Strait to Greenland, presents similar
natural conditions. These conditions may be divided into five groups
which are mutually connected but nevertheless represent five different
points of view. They are: First, cosmographical or astronomical;
second, meteorological; third, geographical (geological); fourth,
floral; fifth, faunal. The mutual interaction of these five groups
forms the natural base upon which the culture of the far north is
constructed. I will try to give brief characteristics of these groups,
one after another,

1. Cosmographical or astronomical conditions of the Polar zone
are connected with the position of the earth on the ecliptic. Accord-
ing to this position, the north polar circle forms the southern border
of the area which has in midsummer the continuous day and in mid-
winter the continuous night. And so, for instance, on 68°-70° of
north latitude we have in the Polar zone three or four weeks of con-
tinuous night in the winter and as many weeks of continuous sunshine
inthe summer. Therefore the transition from night to day in spring
and the growth of the daytime in the Polar zone is much more rapid
and striking. Since the equinox is the same for all cosmographical
zones, the growing of the daytime from zero to 24 hours must go
with much greater rapidity than in the south. In this way, after
the 20th of March, the day grows as it were by leaps and in the middle
of April the glow of the dawn shines throughout the night, and one
may work and read or write even at midnight. The snow, how-
ever, is not melted as yet and the frost in the night is sharp enough.
These conditions produce in the north the so-called white spring,
which is the first half of the spring, and lasts much longer than the
second half, the so-called green spring. Daytime lasts 16, 18, 20,
22 hours; the night, all ruddy from the glowing sky, 8, 6, 4, 2 hours.
The snow melts in the midday sun, but the currents of the water freeze
again at midnight. The difference of the temperature is often
+20° C. —20° C. These daily changes in temperature work on
the psychology of animals and men like a special tonic, awakening
468 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

and irritating. Only after the awakening of the spring the living
beings are ready for the surplus work and intensive sexual and
emotional hfe of summer.

The second half of the spring, the “ green spring,” begins sud-
denly with the breaking of ice in the rivers in June and, in 69°—70°
of north latitude, in July. It is accomplished in three days. Birds
of passage come in masses; shoals of fish from the ocean enter the
rivers; trees and bushes are budding and sprouting; and everything
is green. So nature, the vegetable and animal life, passes from the
white spring with its night frosts almost immediately into full sum-
mer. Summer comes like a sudden leap, like a favorable storm, like
a yearly mutational period, or some natural revolution.

2. Meteorological conditions are no less remarkable. While the
cosmological conditions refer to degrees of northern latitude, to the
continuous day in summer and night in winter, meteorology deals
with questions of the degree of frost, of the intensity of wind and
winter storms, and also of the thickness of the ice sheet and the snow
layer in the winter. The underground layer of the soil is on the
whole always frozen, and large areas of this ever-frozen ground
spread far southward even into the Temperate Zone. In the summer
the ground thaws out, but, even in the southern part of the Yakutsk
Province, only for three-quarters of a meter, and close to the Polar
Sea for half a meter or even less.

On the other hand, the ice sheet on the lakes and on the rivers
is 2 meters thick or even more. When you want to pierce the ice
that thick, for setting nets or simply for taking water, you have to
cut with an ice pick a round funnel 3 meters in diameter. The
person working will gradually sink down and then completely go
under the surface of the ice; only the upper portion of his ice pick
will be seen; and still he will have no water and the ice under his
feet will be absolutely dry. Even when cut through, the water hole
must be cleaned up and pierced anew twice a day, morning and
evening, or else the ice sheet will close again and the hole will shut
together at least for 2 feet in thickness.

Then, again, on account of the ever-frozen ground, the rivers begin
to freeze not only from above but also from beneath. Very soon
the water flows as if encased in a round tube of ever-frozen material.
The surface sheet of the ice is formed of small tablets, thin and
brittle as the thinnest glass, but on the very bottom in the water
begins to form the bottom ice, the so-called salo, which has the shape
and the consistency of half-dissolved snow. In this double manner
the river freezes with the utmost rapidity. Shallow currents in
the mountains in more quiet places freeze to the bottom. Then
the water flows on the surface of the sheet, forming the so-called
nalhed (ice surface water). This water is immediately covered
CULTURE OF CIRCUMPOLAR ZONE—BOGORAS 469

with a new sheet of ice, bright and smooth as polished glass. So
in January one may very well break down through this newly formed
ice into the coldest water up to the waist and further.

The frost in January is sometimes 70° C. When a person spits
on the ground, the spittle falls down upon the snow like an arrow
of ice. Breath comes out of the mouth with a peculiar rasping
sound from the smallest particles of vapor freezing into sleet. A
horse is surrounded with a thick cloud of its own breathing. A
man’s face, fingers, and toes are frost bitten quite unawares. This
happens 20 times in a single day after you have succeeded in rub-
bing them again into warmth.

The breaking of the ice on the large northern rivers has also
some peculiar features. Quite suddenly, the ice sheet breaks into
huge blocks obstructing the current. The water rises immediately.
Blocked ice in all streams cuts away great pieces of the steeper
banks, producing genuine excavations. Stretches of surface
ground cave in, trees and all. So the breaking of the ice with
subsequent blockings and risings of the water develops on a scale
truly majestic and gigantic. River shores, from the upper currents
down to the very mouth, are covered with masses of floating ice
drifted ashore. Since rivers of northern Eurasia flow chiefly from
the south northward, their shores down to the 70° of north
latitude and even to the very ocean are covered with large sup-
plies of driftwood, good for fuel and lumber. Practically speaking,
the lower parts of the greater Siberian rivers, even in the middle
of the tundra, are surrounded by the artificial protection of the
forests.

Joint interaction of astronomical and meteorological agents
bring forth a marked influence on various sides of human culture.

For instance, in the spring, during long, almost endless days,
the upper surface of the snow thawing under the mid-day sun
and freezing again in the night, gradually turns into a hard crust,
the so-called nast in the local Russian dialect. This snow crust is
of the highest importance for the conditions of spring hunting, of
the so-called meat-bringing character: Dog, man, and wolf may
easily run upon the surface of the snow, especially man support-
ing himself upon skis. But heavier wild reindeer and elk break
through into the inner, soft snow, cutting their legs against the
sharp edges of the broken crust, and so they become helpless
against their pursuers. The Tungus and Yukaghir in the north,
the Gold and the Samaghir in the Amur country, provide the
better part of their food lasting for a full quarter of a year by just
this spring hunting of elk and reindeer on the hard snow crust.

3. Geographical and geological conditions refer to the configuration
of the surface of the land and to the character of the ground. The

28095—31——31
470 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

northern part of the Polar zone presents the tundra, as indicated
above. Most of the tundra is quite flat and damp, soaked with water
like a very sponge, and having a covering of vegetation, chiefly of
reindeer moss, which is a kind of lichen. Still there are other vari-
eties of tundra covering the lower hills and even a part of the moun-
tains. These hilly tundras are much drier than the flat country.
The tundra stretches are interrupted in some places with rugged
mountains, quite naked and desolate, which at certain points, come
into the sea, forming huge capes. These capes serve as landmarks
over the long extent of low, slimy seashore. Such are, for instance,
in Eurasia, North Cape and Cape Taimir, East Cape, Indian
Point, etc.

Still, I should mention that all varieties of tundra and of barren
mountains do not belong to special localities in the west or in the
east. They are interchanging through the whole extent of the
Polar circle, appearing again and again in Europe, in Asia, and
in America, and some cultural phenomena appear in the same
way spot wise on the whole stretch of the Polar area; for instance,
snow goggles and a special ring for protecting the hand against the
bowstring, etc., have various forms, but each of these forms appears
again and again in localities separated from each other by hundreds
and thousands of miles.

The influence of these geographical conditions on human culture is
also very important. Let us take the question of communication.
In winter, throughout the north, communication is carried on with
sledges; in summer, the southern hilly part of the zone presents diffi-
culties of communication almost insurmountable. The inhabitants
chiefly various branches of Tungus, may wander around only on rein-
deer back or even afoot.

In the northern part of the country, quite flat and covered with
a maze of rivers and lakes, all having connection, walking on foot is
quite impossible. The usual means of communication is the canoe of
varying make, a dugout or a combination of three thin planks, less
frequently a birch-bark affair—all these are propelled either by pad-
dling or by special poles thrust into the bottom of the stream, which
is usually shallow. The breaks between the waterways are narrow
and damp, so the paddler is able simply to push along the wet grass
from one watercourse into another. In this way it is possible to pass
over from one fluvial system into another even without leaving one’s
canoe for a single moment. If you were to look on such tundra
country in the summer from an airplane, it would appear to be cov-
ered with an endless net of blue veins filled with water and combined
into one system. You could perhaps make a journey from the Obi
River to the Kolyma having on your feet only the so-called dry-land
boots, which are utterly unfit for walking in the water, and you would
CULTURE OF CIRCUMPOLAR ZONE—BOGORAS 471

not spoil your dry-land boots, because for overnight stopping you
could pick out some convenient dry little place. In extra cases you
could take off your boots and wade through the damp grass barefoot.

4. If we take up now the botanical conditions, we find them also
exhibiting several variations. The tundra has a flora of its own.
The forest border is of course very different, and the sub-Arctic
dense forest is different from both. These three variations extena
throughout the whole Polar zone. The tundra has chiefly the lichens
and the genuine mosses, some tough sedge grass and patches of
undersized shrubs so rough that they can burn and serve as fuel
without any drying. The forest border has more bushes and even
a kind of scrub. Undersized trees with crooked trunks and boughs
out of shape form islands which on the south join gradually without
interruption. Of black wood species there are the birch, the alder,
the aspen, the poplar, and several kinds of willow. Birch and
willow, and of the conifers the cedar, assume a creeping form. The
birch and willow have also some drooping forms with branches
hanging down.

Of the conifers there are the larch and the pine, the spruce, and
less frequently, the Siberian fir. The larch tree in the forest border
quite frequently gets a crooked trunk bent into a kind of spiral, the
so-called, in local Russian, Kpenb (kren). The outer layer of that
“kren ” has a much harder consistency and may therefore be applied
for various products.

The sub-Arctic forest has all the species mentioned above, but
they are more stately and the forest much more dense than on the
northern edge.

As to the animal species, the reindeer feeds on lichen, which is
also called reindeer moss. The elk lives on the birch and the alder
groves, feeding on leaves and bark. The squirrel requires conifers,
since it feeds upon their cones. Even in the growths of the creep-
ing cedar, which in English is called stone pine, squirrel and sable
fare quite well, the squirrel feeding on cedar cones and the sable
on squirrel,

For man, the botanical conditions are of direct importance as
to construction materials for huts and the fuel for heating them.
The forest even on its border represents the best protection against
the snow tempests raging in winter. The flat tundra is open to
every winter tempest and travellers often are buried under the
snow, in the literal sense of the word, as I had occasion personally
to experience over and over again. We were buried in drifted snow
for 24 and even 36 hours, after which we had to cut our way out-
ward through the snow hardened by the wind like some solid marble.
Dense forest of the more southern belt gives cover against the fiercest
storm, and the snow in the forest lies soft and downy like a feather-
472 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

bed. Therefore, the skis in the forest region are made of thin wooden
planks, broad enough not to sink through the snow. Skis of this
type are not good for the tundra. The hardened, uneven snow
surface of the tundra requires a special shape of ski plaited of cord,
the so-called “ raven claws.” The natives say that skis of this shape
leave on the snow traces like the tracks of raven claws, but more
probably this name is connected with some variation of the raven
myth so important in the folk lore of the Bering region.

5. Zoological conditions of the north are as follows: Since the
natural resources of the north from the human point of view are
mostly of zoological character and the people live on an animal diet,
we must discuss, one after another, first, sea game, mammals, and
fishes; second, land animals, wild and domesticated; and third, birds.

The northern zone is almost wholly unfit for agriculture, even
for the gardening and raising of vegetables. The principal form
of the culture is either the hunting of wild animals or the raising
of domesticated ones. Both forms of economics are based on faunal
considerations. One deals with wild animals and the other with
domesticated. The difference from a general point of view is not
very important, and the raising of animals is only a result and
development of hunting of them. The breeding and the growth of
unimal life in the north, as eisewhere, is based first and last on
the abundance of food. The northern zone is not very rich in the
number and variety of species, but all the richer in the number of
individuals of the same species and in the celerity of breeding and
increasing of animal life. The abundance of animal life in the
north in some cases is almost beyond imagination, surpassing the
chances of the more southern latitudes. From the economic point
of view the animal supphes of the north are quite sufficient not
only for the support of its inhabitants but also for export to southern
regions more densely populated than the north.

What is the reason for the faunal abundance of the north? As

yet we hardly know any answer to that question. In regard to the
sea fauna, it is known that the Arctic seas abound with plankton,
which forms the base and the staple food for all fishes not strictly
carnivorous. The studies of Russian scientists in the White Sea
and in the nearest part of the Arctic Ocean try to establish that
part of the northern sea is far better supplied with plankton than
the seas of more southern latitudes. In connection with this, fish
are more abundant in the north. Moreover, innumerable sorts
of fishes living in temperate and warm zones come over to the north
and enter northern rivers in order to spawn and propagate. As far
as I know, the great rivers of the South, the Amazon, Rio de la
Plata, and Mississippi, having their own fish population, have not
such masses of wandering fish entering their mouths from the ocean.
CULTURE OF CIRCUMPOLAR ZONE—BOGORAS 473

The same refers to the birds of passage. Numberless flocks of
waterfowl of all species come to the north even from the hemi-
sphere across the Equator. According to the conditions of the
climate, they may spend only four months in the north against
eight months in the south. Nevertheless the north is their usual
breeding place. Here they have their mating and nesting periods,
and the short summer time suffices even’ for the growing up of the
young who, after that, depart along with the older generation to-
ward the south, which is wholly unknown to them. To be sure, all
the northern land is covered with bogs and watercourses and there
is room enough for the breeding of the young. Nevertheless this
instinct of migration is very remarkable in the birds of passage.
One must presume that the migration of birds, with all instincts and
exertions referring thereto, is not exceedingly ancient. It could have
originated only in the Quaternary period when the configuration of
the mountains and the larger areas of land, also the distinctions of
the climates, already existed on the same plan as at present. In the
Tertiary period the birds of that time probably had no need to
migrate northward. ‘The climate of the terrestrial globe was more
uniform, and especially in the north it was moderate and even warm.

1. Most abundant of all sections of animal life in the north is the
class of fishes. Sweetwater fishes also abound in the north. Such
are for instance the pike and the burbot. Burbot are caught in such
masses on the Kolyma and the Indighirka Rivers in the time of early
spring that the burbot livers cut out and frozen together form big
loads carried across the country with dog teams and pack horses. I
have seen caravans of pack horses each carrying frozen burbot liver in
two rectangular blocks of 50 kilograms. But maritime species, namely,
the salmon, are still more abundant. The migratory salmon of the
north may be divided into two large groups: Salmon of the genus
Coregonus belong to the Polar Ocean, and enter the rivers such as
the Kolyma, the Indighirka, the Yana, the Lena, the Yenissei, the
Obi. Salmon of the genus Oncorrhyncus belong to the North Pa-
cific Ocean and enter the rivers beginning from the Anadyr down
to the Amur. It is curious to note that Kolyma and Anadyr, the
two great rivers of the northeast, which belong to the same ethnical
and cultural area and the sources and headwaters of which meet
together in the mountains, have fishes of essentially different genera.
Kolyma has Coregonus species entering from the ocean, and some
sweetwater species of Oncorrhyncus. Anadyr, on the other hand,
has Oncorrhyncus entering from the ocean and some species of Core-
gonus of the sweetwater branch. The species of Coregonus have
white flesh, those of Oncorrhyncus, pink flesh. Both groups in the
whole period of spawning do not care for any food and even do not
474 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

care much for their own life. But Oncorrhyncus is much more reck-
less. In ascending the rivers upstream the fishes of these species per-
form feats truly acrobatic, since they leap in the more shallow places
from stone to stone, wriggle on through damp grass, and in other
places mount the waterfalls. Most of their shoals do not return to
the ocean and they perish in the river soon after spawning.

White salmon of the Arctic Ocean as a rule preserve their life
after spawning and descend the stream back to the ocean, though
quite exhausted after the exertions of their sexual life.

According to these points of difference, the pink salmon of the
Pacific must be more numerous than the white salmon of the
North, and also much easier to catch. Their greater number
makes for the great annual loss of life that forms one of the neces-
sary links of their breeding process. After the spawning the
pink salmon species, for instance the dog salmon, changes so much
that it is difficult to recognize it as the same kind of fish. Not
only does its flesh become lean and tasteless, but its whole shape
changes. Its jaws become crooked, forming a kind of beak, and
the back assumes a form of hump, like the hunch salmon.

This fall salmon is very poor eating, even for the dogs. On the
other hand, dogs in the Pacific region as well as foxes, wolves, and
even sables and ermines, try to catch salmon directly in the water,
when it passes on mad with the desire of spawning. Anadyr dogs,
when sold to Kolyma people, in their first polar summer would
wade into the water, trying all the time to catch some salmon.
They would usually snatch some smaller piece of wood and then
desist. It shows very clearly the difference in the way of catching
pink salmon in the Pacific and white salmon in the Arctic. North-
ern salmon are not so abundant nor so reckless as to be caught
out of the water by the very first dog.

On the other hand, on the rivers entering the Pacific thousands of
pink salmon, dead from exhaustion, are carried by the wind
directly to the river banks, where they form ultimately strata of dead
fish, which are covered by the early snow of October. From these
natural storehouses bears and foxes feed throughout the year, and
men take food for their dogs.

Whole tribes and settlements on the shores of the larger rivers
of Siberia live exclusively by fishing. This way of living makes
the village and the house permanent and the people sedentary.
On the other hand, the culture of these tribes is primitive, and
psychically the people are passive. The struggle for life is not
very fierce. Food is always extant. It is caught in a manner more
or less primitive, for instance with fishing weirs, when large creels
of willow are choked full with the best fish, or with long nets drawn
across the river, which also regularly are white with fish caught
CULTURE OF CIRCUMPOLAR ZONE—BOGORAS 475

in every mesh of the tressed bark or linen thread. Some Chuckchee
and Koryak on the Pacific shore do their fishing with a short
net pushed into the water by means of a long pole 10 m. in length.
Since such long poles are but seldom met with, shorter pieces of wood
are spliced into one single pole with much ingenuity and even with
art. The net when being thrust into the water catches immediately
about 10 fat fishes 5 to 7 pounds in weight. The fisherman draws
the net back, takes the catch, and thrusts the net into its former
position. In this manner he can get in 24 hours, without a boat,
and standing on the shore, some 200 or 250 fishes—500-700 kilograms.
This fishing work, of course, is quite exhausting and it is carried
on only by the poorest of the natives. The method of such fishing
is truly paleolithic, inasmuch as it presents almost a simple gath-
ering of the natural supply of food.

A very important detail of the economic and political life in the
north is represented by the fact that the Russian Cossacks, hunters
and traders, a counterpart to the Spanish conquistadores, since they
also have conquered these immense lands in an almost incredibly
short time, soon after that settled in the North just like fisher-
men. The first condition of life for them was an immovable house
with a regular couch and regular heating. They were averse to
wandering around the tundra with the herd of reindeer just as
they have objected to the constant wandering of cattle-breeding
nomads. So the Cossacks intermingled with the fishermen, took
wives from among them, and assumed from the beginning their
way of supporting life on fishing and hunting. Still, psychologically
the hardy conquerors were wholly different from the passive and
indolent northern fishermen. But since the women in the new
settlements of these Russian creoles and halfbreeds and Russified
natives were of local origin, the economic and psychical ways of
the natives were soon prevalent and the fierce energy of the Russian
invaders was soon gone. If we compare the earlier reports of the
Cossacks with the Siberian Voyevody (governors) for instance from
the fifties of the seventeenth century, with the reports of their
immediate successors half a century ago, we find a very marked
change. Early reports relate:

We were 17, we descended the river looking for some source of fame and
advantage to His Majesty the Czar, and then we found the native post. It
was large and strongly fortified, full of armed men. We fought against them
from morning to evening. And God gave us luck; we conquered. We have
killed all the warriors and burned down the fort. We took captive women
and children and took a multitude of costly furs and ready-made clothes.

In the later reports of the beginning of the eighteenth century,
we read on the other hand:

Our boats are small and the sails are weak. And we do not know how to
build large ships, such as were constructed by our fathers.
476 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

The change in the psychology of the Russian settlers under
the influence of the Russianized native fishermen is the real cause
why the Russian parties of Cossacks and soldiers in the eighteenth
century could not subdue the fierce Chuckchee tribe. The party of
Major Parlatsay in 1747 was utterly defeated and he was taken
captive and tortured to death simply because the ancient warlike
ardor was not there.

Up to the present the mutual relationship between the Russianized
natives and the Chuckee reindeer breeders is quite peculiar. From
the economic point of view the Chukchee, as the animal breeders, are
of a higher stage than the fishermen of the Russian villages, while in
other things the Russian and Russianized natives are much higher
than the Chukchee. In this way the Russians who were and are the
domineering race, at. the same time were living like mendicants and
parasites on the boons from the wealthy reindeer breeders of the
tundra.

2. Hunting of sea mammals, in contrast to fishing, is practiced on
the sea, often even amidst the open water, or on the brink of the ice
fields about to break up, but never by hand from the shore. The psy-
chical character of the maritime hunters is quite different from that of
the fishermen. Northern hunters are mobile, always on the alert,
ready to go away into the open, given to wandering for many and
many miles. It has been the custom of the maritime Chukchee and
the Asiatic Eskimo to go over to America from very ancient times.
Even now they make quite long trips across the ocean. The Koryak
are much more passive, but they are fishermen rather than sea-
mammal hunters.

The difference between the fishermen and hunters of sea mammals
is expressed in the choice of the site even on the sea coast. The
settlements of fishermen are on the river shore, in the inner estuaries,
or on the inland side of some adjacent island. ‘The settlement of a
hunter of sea mammals is established on the outer capes or on the
windy side of an island where there is always a chance for the sudden
pursuit of a group of seals or a big walrus or even a whale.

The species of sea mammals are more or less alike throughout the
Polar ocean of EKurasia—whales of various kinds and sizes, one or
two with precious whalebone, others giving only meat and blubber,
white whale and killer whale, and two varieties of walrus: Of seals,
ground seal, Phoca barbata; ribbon seal, Phoca fasciata; and of
smaller seals, Phoca greenlandica, Phoca vitulina, Phoca phoetida,
and Phoca haspida. I could mention several names in Russian creole
and native languages, but the trouble is that these names change from
one district to another, being given at one time to one species, another
time to another. The white polar bear is also to be included among
the sea mammals. Of these the natives distinguish several varieties,
On SA

CULTURE OF CIRCUMPOLAR ZONE-—BOGORAS 477

one not very aggressive in meeting with man, another fierce and
bloodthirsty. Sea-mammal hunting is combined with reindeer breed-
ing among the Chukchee and with fishing among the Koryak and
Kamchadal.

Overland animals are hunted by a series of overland tribes among
which are the Tungus in 12 groups.

Overland hunting represents two branches, one for meat con-
sumption, referring to the herbivora, and another for the fur market,
referring to the carnivora, including the smaller kinds, such as sable,
ermine, etc. Before the advent of the Russians hunting for meat
prevailed; people did not know what to do with furs of these and
other species, while they had no other food except the meat of the
game.

The first place among the meat-supplying species belongs to the
reindeer, wild as well as domesticated. Wild reindeer are on the
constant decrease. The domesticated herds, notwithstanding the
losses of the last 10 years, still contain more than 2,500,000 animals.
The mutual attitude of wild and domesticated herds is more or less
exclusive to each other. This was demonstrated in the middle of
the nineteenth century, when the Chukchee, on the invitation of the
chief officer of the Kolyma, receiving at last assurance that no
harm should happen to them, moved with their herds westward even
across the Kolyma River to the western tundra, and the herds of wild
reindeer had to leave the pastures of that country and go elsewhere.
Some of them migrated to Anadyr. Most of them were dispersed
and destroyed.

As a result the Yukaghir and the Chuvantzy Tribes, who lived on
the eastern affiuents of the Kolyma and relied for their sustenance on
yearly hunts of the numerous herds of wild reindeer in the spring
und in the fall, were suddenly deprived of their means of existence
and perished by direct starvation. Some remnants of them emigrated
to the lower Kolyma River and took to fishing. ‘Those who stayed on
the spot in some cases were driven even to cannibalism.

The other meat-supplying species is the huge elk of Siberia, now
mostly exterminated. The last remnants of the former abundance
are to be found in the southern course of the Kolyma River and in the
valley of the Amur.

The brown bear in the forest land, the hare on the tundra, the
mountain sheep in mountainous regions, even squirrel, marmot, and
spermophillus, also serve for food. The Maritime Chukchee and the
Asiatic Eskimo consume the meat of the polar fox, and the Reindeer
Chukchee occasionally eat mice, but all these supplementary sources
are of small importance.

By the way, the hunting of sea mammals belongs to the first branch
of meat-producing character. Meat, oil, and blubber—these are the
A478 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

principal products of the hunting of sea mammals, Walrus hides and
sealskins are used chiefly for the needs of the hunting people. Only
the fur seal, the polar bear, and the very rare sea otter supply pelts
that are marketable.

The second branch of the overland hunting developed only since
the advent of Russian merchants and officers, or in the American
part of the Polar zone with the advent of English, American, and
Canadian traders.

Three hundred years ago the northern countries were teeming with
costly sable and ermine. Now the hunting of such fur-bearing ani-
mals is greatly reduced. Squirrels and polar foxes alone go on
breeding, thanks to their wide distribution and fecundity.

At all events, several groups of hunters in the north exist in a
peculiar way. They can not get enough meat from the meat-supply-
ing species, so they-live exclusively by hunting the fur bearers, chiefly
the squirrel. They sell the pelts, of whatever kind they succeed in
getting, and then buy some grain of the lowest quality which they
grind by hand grindstone and make into unleavened cakes. So these
hunters practically have passed from their natural economic state to
a condition in which exchange predominates. The Russian peasants
of the neighborhood live in a condition of natural economics, for
they consume the best part of their own harvest and sell only the
surplus of the product.

I have tried to indicate five groups of natural conditions, one after
another, and the human culture developed in these surroundings on
the basis of the conditions as enumerated. Man in the north
lives wholly under the power of nature, and if we take three groups
of cultural phenomena—the material, the spiritual, and the social
culture—we notice that all of them are influenced with great force
and strictness by several groups of conditions mentioned above.

I will cite two examples, referring, respectively, to the material
and the spiritual culture of the northern tribes.

The first is connected with the question of fuel. Fuel is scarce
on the tundra and the inhabitants had to work out a method of heat-
ing without any fuel at all. The Chukchee, the Koryak, and the
Asiatic Eskimo have their sleeping room heated chiefly by the accu-
mulation of human natural heat, which can even be regulated by
accepting new guests or, in case of excessive temperature, by trying
to send away some who constitute the surplus. The Eskimo construct
for heating purposes an underground house with an inner sleeping
room, the protective walls of the underground room being made of
earth and sod.

The Reindeer, and partly the Maritime Chukchee, construct their
huts and the inner sleeping rooms from the best reindeer skins.
This translation from one material into another reminds one of the

CULTURE OF CIRCUMPOLAR ZONE—BOGORAS 479

Chukchee language, which is also the transfer of the Eskimo
morphology into some unknown linguistic elements of ancient Asia.

The second example refers to the spiritual culture. It deals with
the folklore. Northern people of whatever race or culture stage,
having little else to do throughout the endless nights of winter, fill
their leisure with working out the elaborate schemes of stories
adorned with the finest embroidery of imagination. That accounts
for the development of folklore among the northern tribes and even
for the development of Scandinavian epics among the Norsemen
in Iceland in the twelfth and thirteenth centuries.

With the Maritime Chukchee and Asiatic Eskimo the folklore
develops in conditions of a different kind. These two tribes often
even in the midst of winter, being short of stored provisions, must
get their sustenance from the continuous search for seals. <A fierce
winter storm, keeping them at home sometimes for several days, may
put them on the brink of starvation and what is still worse, deprive
their lamps of the light-giving oil necessary for dispelling the
oppressive darkness. And sometimes the best hunters will come out
through the storm always in pairs, joined together with a long
thong in order to feel always sure of the mutual touch. The folk-
tales are full of such desperate attempts when the people begin
“to get lean in their marrow bones.” These stories are usually
repeated at night, when the inmates are pent up within the sleeping
room, and they are considered as the best incantations against the
storm. The close of the tales is also an incantation of its own,
“ Wah6o, yoochin tinmigan,” “ Oho, I killed the tempest!” By the
way, stories related during the winter storms must refer chiefly to
storms, to work against them the more efficiently. The connection
of meteorological conditions with the evolution of folklore is quite
clear.

Some of the old women know so many tales that they are able for
a month or more to present a new tale every day, intertwining to-
gether the subjects and plots with great art.

Out of these natural conditions the culture of the North has
developed. Though we call it primitive, we must not compare it with
the most primitive culture of some tropical tribes, such as the Boto-
cudo or the Bushmen. These last tribes go around quite naked, have
no house to speak of, and feed on anything that comes their way and
which they can gather without much effort in the wood or on the
prairie. Their economics belong to the earlier stage of the so-called
collector type. They store no provisions, and notwithstanding the
abundance and even the lavishness of natural supplies in the South,
they pass from one spell of hunger to another, interspread with a
much shorter period of reveling in plenty,
480 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

Now in the northern conditions, one can not go on without clothes,
house, and storage for the winter. Even primitive man must take
care of his future, otherwise he will die. This is why the culture of
the North is not only of a well-developed type, but even has a special
development.

The Eskimo culture, which represents the best developed variation
of the culture of the North, abounds in implements and accommoda-
tions of amazing fitness. Some of these were imitated not only by
their nearest neighbors to the south, but even by the civilized part of
humanity, such as the Russians and Americans. ‘The whaling har-
poon is an Eskimo creation, but it was imitated by almost all the
tribes which practice whaling.

In the classification of the cultural types of the North, we find some
types of local origin, such as fishing, hunting, reindeer breeding, and
other types of a higher culture, which came to the North in later
times brought over by immigrants from the South. I will start with
the classification of the indigenous cultures.

As for implements and weapons with some few exceptions, the
tools of the North are Neolithic. To be sure in the last hundred years
some metal work and the art of weaving has spread among the natives
in imitation of the Russians, and, in the far east, of the Chinese.
Still, even the shape of the tool or the weapon made of metal,
curiously imitates the form of the stone or bone implements. For
instance the Reindeer Chuckchee use instead of the axe a small
hatchet, an actual tool of the Neolithic period. The local blacksmiths
of Russian origin prepare such hatchets especially for Chukchee use.
Nevertheless, most of the northern tribes have even some blacksmiths
of their own, capable at least of mending the simplest iron imple-
ments. Some of these tribes still have an idea that the art of the
blacksmith requires skill and knowledge of no common kind. The
Chukchee, for instance, in some tales borrowed from Russians
describe a young prince, the son of the king, as having a face as
intelligent as a blacksmith’s.

According to the chief pursuit bringing the means of life, the
northern culture may be divided into several types. I must men-
tion that notwithstanding their primitive character, the northern
culture created two branches of animal breeding, the breeding of
domesticated reindeer and that of driving dogs, peculiar to the north-
ern zone. Within that zone, however, it is imitated from the native
tribes by the most civilized immigrants of later arrival. The Amer-
ican settlers in Alaska imitated Alaskan Eskimo dog driving and
Siberian reindeer breeding, which has prospered and increased at
such an amazing rate.

Also in fishing and hunting, the northern natives have created
various implements, afterwards imitated not only by later immi-
CULTURE OF CIRCUMPOLAR ZONE—BOGORAS 481

grants from the South, but also passed over to the neighboring
people of more southern latitudes. Such is for instance the small
Siberian trap for ermine and other small game, which has spread
through the whole temperate zone of eastern Eurasia down to the
Bashkir and the Kirgiz. The same is the case with the larger
striking trap for foxes, the deadfall for foxes and walrus, ete.

Moreover, we can see that in the economics of hunting the fur-
bearing animals the northern natives of the so-called primitive
tribes are the most circumspect in looking out for the future. While
the Russian invaders from the South ruthlessly destroy the best cedar
forests with their axes or careless fires, and exterminate the “ green ”
squirrel when the “ unripe ” peltry is not fit for selling, the Tungus
or Ostyak, when undisturbed by neighbors, will proceed with much
more forethought, trying to leave some of the foxes and squirrels for
his last days and even for his children.

I will only repeat one of the paragraphs of my memoir on the
“Conditions of Life of the Lesser Tribes of the North,” presented
in 1923 to the Central Executive Committee of the Soviets:

The principal riches and resources of the North are not represented by the
numberless shoals of fish, nor by the endless droves of wild geese and swans,
nor by herds of reindeer, wild and domesticated, and not even by the fields of
coal or veins of gold to be brought into the mining work; the real riches of
the Far North, the most important of all, are represented by the northern
people, who are the only means and agents to work out profitably all the
natural resources of the North and to bring them in touch with human culture.
Without the northern tribes, the riches of the North will be left without use
and without workers.

After these preliminary remarks, I will indicate the chief types of
the northern culture as the following:

1. Fishing.

2. Hunting, with two subdivisions: (a) Meat-providing branch;
(b) fur-providing branch.

The other subdivisions, according to areas of exploitation are:
(1) Overland hunting; (2) sea-mammal hunting.

Economic pursuits, as mentioned above, less frequently appear in
the exclusive form, but oftener as combinations of two or three types,
with one prevailing, or with two or three of equal importance.

So, for instance, the hunting of fur-bearing animals is combined
either with fishing, or with overland meat-providing hunting, or
with hunting sea mammals. Some tribes combine everything—fish-
ing, overland meat providing, hunting of fur-bearing animals, and
hunting of sea mammals. Such are the Maritime Koryak and the
Gilyak. The Maritime Chuckchee have very little fishing, since the
Chuckchee Peninsula has no rivers for the fish to enter for spawn-
ing, and salmon do not go this way; and, of course, the inland
Tungus or Yukaghir have no hunting of sea mammals.
482 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

3. The third type refers to the higher cultural stage, since it deals
with the breeding of domesticated animals, viz, reindeer.

Still the breeding of reindeer in all its ways and methods is so
primitive as to rank on a level with hunting and fishing.

Moreover, in several cases, the reindeer breeders, though economi-
cally better off, are in other respects even behind their fishing or
hunting neighbors, who for instance practice various handicrafts and
then exchange their artifacts for the produce of reindeer breeding.

Reindeer breeding also enters into combination with hunting and
fishing. In northern Eurasia, as a general rule, the tribes of hunters
do not wander afoot, but have some reindeer to supply the necessary
means of locomotion. The Tungus hunter can not very well do
without riding reindeer. Reindeer mounts supply the Tungus with
the means for wandering over immense areas, and only by means
of the riding reindeer could the Tungus spread over 10,000 kilometers
in extent from the eastern affluents of the Obi River down to Kam-
chatka and Saghalien, and from 70° of northern latitude in the
tundra down to the south, beyond the Chinese border. On the other
hand, extensive reindeer breeding does not come very well into com-
bination with fishing, because fishing presupposes a stay on the shores
of lakes and rivers, which have not sufficient lichen pastures and are
too much pestered by mosquitoes and reindeer flies. Extensive rein-
deer breeding presupposes continuous wandering with the reindeer,
while fishing is much more sedentary.

At the same time, the better half of the northern tribes include
both types of pursuit practiced side by side, reindeer breeding and
fishing, or, with the Chuckchee, hunting of sea mammals. Some
tribes are divided into two branches, the reindeer breeding, who
wander throughout the tundra, and the sedentary, dwelling close
to the water and out of the water. The ways of life of both these
branches are often not only different but even antagonistic, as with
the Chuckchee, where the driving dogs of the sedentary people rep-
resent the bitterest foe of the reindeer herds, and so the reindeer
breeders can not even come into the neighborhood of the Maritime
villages.

Still, both parts of the tribe are conscious of their natural tie and
consider themselves to be of the same tribe. They intermarry freely
and in case of need act as one unit. It is open to question whether
they represent one natural unit practicing two pursuits of life, or
two different units who have brought out two different ways of life
and then gradually blended.

donee
THE TELL EN-NASBEH EXCAVATIONS OF 1929
A PRELIMINARY REPORT *

By WILLIAM FREpDERIC BApe
Director of the Palestine Institute and the Tell en-Nashbeh Papedition

[With 8 plates]

INTRODUCTION

Tell en-Nasbeh is the modern Arabic name for a commanding hill
which lies 7 miles (13 kilometers) north of Jerusalem. The main
road of north-and-south travel between Jerusalem, Nablous (Sche-
chem), Nazareth, and Haifa, passes close to the eastern base of the
hill. But during Graeco-Roman times, and presumably throughout
earlier periods of Palestinian history, the main line of communica-
tion passed through the narrow valley which lies along the western
edge of the hill. The latter was ideally situated for the erection of
a fortress city commanding the southward approaches to Jerusalem.
A number of years before the inauguration of the present excava-
tions, in 1926, several close students of Palestinian geography, among
them R. P. L. H. Vincent, W. J. Phythian-Adams, and Prof. Gustav
Dalman, have expressed their conviction that the mound in question
covers the remains of Mizpah, which anciently belonged to the tribal
territory of Benjamin (Judg. 20:1; I Sam. 7:5; 10:17; I Kings
15: 16ff.). Three seasons of excavation since then have brought to
light much evidence which supports this identification. The city
was completely refortified about 900 B. C., a fact which agrees with
the notice in I Kings 15: 22, that Asa, King of Juda, fortified Mizpah
against the attacks of Baasha. There were uncovered, among other
things, the foundations of a sanctuary and a place of sacrifice such
as Mizpah must have possessed according to Biblical accounts. The
last reference to Mizpah in ancient records (I Mac. 3:46) states that
the place was used as a stronghold by the noted Jewish military
leader, Judas Maccabaeus. Extensive Maccabaean structures, dated
by coins, were found in 1929. The excavations are to be continued
in 1932.

1 Reprinted by permission, with author’s revision, from Quarterly Statement of the
Palestine Exploration Fund, January, 1930. 483
484 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

During the excavation seasons of 1926 and 1927 we had succeeded
in clearing a large portion of the southern end of Tell en-Nasbeh,
including the great outer city wall (Bronze Age) and a narrower and
still older inner wall. At one point we found unmistakable indica-
tions that a gate had pierced the Bronze Age wall, but so far up in
the masonry that its subsequent destruction carried away also the
remains of the gate. During the first phase of the Iron Age, when
the remains of the city wall lay buried in débris, a road led over
the top where the Bronze Age* gate had formerly been. ‘There are
good reasons why the road should have clung to this particular spot;
within, it was the approach to the sanctuary precinct; without, to the
spring.

THE NORTH END

In 1929 we laid our plans for an exploration of the Tell from the
north end. Contours revealed by the German airplane photograph
seemed to indicate the existence of a gate at that end. Operations
were begun on March 15 by cutting a wide trench through the extra-
mural débris along a line at right angles to the clearly marked edge
of the city wall. On reaching the outer face of the wall I found, to
my great surprise, that it was leaning outward at so sharp an angle
that it was impossible, even after shoring it up, to remove all the de-
bris without endangering the lives of the workmen. At one point the
talus of rock leaning against the wall showed unmistakably that
it had resulted from the outward collapse of an upper section of
the wall. Not far from its base were the remains of a retaining
wall and beyond it a moat excavated in the limestone bedrock. ‘This

*In his attempt to prove that Tell en-Nasbeh could not have been the Mizpah of Benja-
min, Probst H. W. Hertzberg (cf. ZAW, 1929, pp. 195-96) has fallen into strange errors.
He overlooks the fact that the gate found in 1927 at the south end of the Tell was in the
Bronze Age wall, and therefore can not be used for an argument about Israelite use
during the Early Iron Age. The Israelites had a well-marked road over the top of the
demolished Bronze Age wall at the point where the Bronze Age gate had formerly been.
The road made a direct approach to the sanctuary precinct.

Equally beside the facts is his assumption that the sanctuary found in 1927 did not
antedate the ninth century B. C. On p. 15 of my preliminary report, I have stated ex-
plicitly that both the first and the second phases of the Iron Age (1200-586 B. C.) were
well represented by house levels and cistern deposits, and the sanctuary was a part of
both of them. On p. 88 I also refer to evidence of the probable Maccabaean use of the
high place. Last summer’s excavation had made this a practical certainty, for extensive
Maccabaean levels were uncovered, which integrate with Maccabaean surface remains
found in and around the sanctuary in 1927. We have also good evidence to show that
the use of the high place reaches back into pre-Israelite times. In AL22 our general
map (cf. frontispiece of preliminary report) exhibits remains of what was doubtless an
earlier sanctuary, not under, but beside, the later one. MHertzberg’s reference for his
dating of the sanctuary into the ninth century was based on a quotation from a monthly
expeditionary news bulletin of June 1927, in which no attempt was made to fix a com-
prehensive date for the sanctuary, because the excavations were still in progress. In
short, his two main contentions, so far as the writer’s preliminary report is concerned,
are completely erroneous. For nothing is better established than that Tell en-Nasbeh was
an Israelite and Jewish city from 1200 B. C. to the beginning of the Christian era, so
that the sanctuary still remains der gewichtigste Grund against Hertzberg’s general
argument.

485

BADE

TELL EN-NASBEH EXCAVATIONS

on

bed

sorunbs Jajoul-OT JO py1a wo sy dea aqy,
[ Uf poJVaRoxe Sdinjon.3s eq} Jo jrud B Jo deu

-|

‘O “A OOS-O0ZI ‘eSVY UoAT ‘[9A9dT PUOdIS Vy} AYeTqo sMoys dea

Suymoys (yedayy) woqsen

|
|
|
i]

ud [fey JO 4319 pal[ear oq} JO pus YWWON—T gaudy

28095—31——-32
486 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

moat was subsequently found at two other widely separated points
where we made sections through the extramural débris, and must
be regarded as a well conceived part of the city’s defences.

In the course of the summer we cleared a crescent of more than
a hundred meters of the wall, with adjacent city areas, but no trace
of a gate was found at the north end. However, in view of the size
of the city, it seems certain that there must have been another gate
besides the one at the south end. Two stretches of city wall still
remain to be excavated, one on the west, the other on the east side
of the Tell. Since, anciently, the north-south road passed on the
west side of the Tell, the probabilities are in favor of a second gate
on the west side. This is a problem that still awaits solution. One
more season will enable us to complete the excavation of the entire
mound and so find the answer for this as for a number of other
questions.

NEW FEATURES OF THE CITY WALL

The attack upon the Tell from the north end has had the advan-
tage of revealing the fact that the city’s defenses have had a more
complicated history of construction than appeared from the earlier
excavations at the south end. For instance, the inner and older city
wall was not found at the north end, and hence no intramural area,
filled in its upper level with grain bins. The main wall itself showed
striking differences of construction. The builders had first exca-
vated a wide trench, carried to bedrock, and this they filled to a
height of 2 meters with loose rocks, mostly small. Upon this bed
of rock fill the wall was built with courses of large stones, laid with
clay mortar. The steady and increasing pressure of accumulating
(ébris against the inner face of the city wall had gradually pushed
it out so that, in spite of its great thickness, it began to lean outward
more and more. This action was facilitated by the loose founda-
tions and the absence of all counter pressure against the outer face
of the wall, which coincided with the edge of the sharply descending
rock slope of the hill. Ultimately it became necessary to save the
wall from total collapse by building a buttress wall along the outside.

The structural peculiarities of this north-end wall made it neces-
sary to ascertain, if possible, whether it was built at the same time
as the Bronze Age wall at the south end. I had two sections cut
through it, and the potsherds found in the masonry were carefully
collected in baskets and labeled according to the successive courses
of stones. There were numerous Early Bronze Age fragments, but
a considerable proportion of the potsherds belonged to the Iron Age,
a decisive indication that the wall, at the section points, could not
have been built earlier than the Iron Age. The lowest course of
the wall yielded only Early Bronze Age pottery, but this may have

—s

A
wee 2 f~=
TELL EN-NASBEH EXCAVATIONS—BADE 487

been accidental, for there was no structural difference between the
upper courses and the lowest. At the present stage of the excava-
tions it seems probable that during the Bronze Age only the southern
half of the Tell was inclosed by a wall, and that the northern end was
included during the Iron Age. In that case we should expect a
wall to bisect the Tell somewhere near the center,

SUBURBS

One of the interesting results brought to light by the progress of
this season’s excavations is the fact that the ancient city extended
considerably beyond the area included within the walls. There
were what one might call suburbs which covered the comparatively
broad, level terraces on the eastern and southern flanks of the Tell.
The existence of an Iron Age suburb on the southern slope had
been established during the excavations of previous years. During
the season of 1929 I decided to cut a trench 20 meters wide from a
point far outside the city wall directly up the eastern slope. Imme-
diately beneath the tilled surface of the ground we found house
foundations, silos, and cisterns with an abundance of first and second
Iron Age pottery which coincided in fabric and forms with that
found in the two upper levels on the Tell. Here there was evidence
of a populous and prosperous city which occupied not only the top
but also the flanks of the Tell during the Biblical period between
the Judges and the Exile. As the trench was pushed into the talus
of the final sharp slope of the Tell the workmen uncovered the
mouth of a large cave. (Pl. 5.) Above it was a retaining wall,
evidently of Israelite construction, for in its face were some squared
stones not made for the use they now served. They had done earlier
service somewhere in the upper courses of the main city wall. Be-
yond the rod-wide terrace of débris held in by the retaining wall,
rose the city wall itself, based on rock, 16 feet thick, and well con-
structed.

THE CAVE

When the cave was excavated its stratification furnished an epit-
ome of the human history of the Tell. Occupation and use of the
cave had ceased about 700 B. C., a period corresponding to the
invasion of Sennacherib. Thereafter, apparently, débris began to
accumulate over the opening. The upper layer of deposits, com-
paratively deep, contained all the characteristic forms of Iron Age
pottery. Beneath this was a Middle Bronze Age stratum, and the
lowest level, separated from the next above by a compact earthen
floor, contained numerous fragmentary human remains mingled
with Early Bronze Age pottery. There was no clearly recognizable
Late Bronze Age stratum. In this respect the occupation levels of
488 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

the cave coincide with the stratification on the Tell where charac-
teristic Late Bronze Age pottery is absent or represented sparingly.
There is enough to indicate that further excavations may bring to
light a Late Bronze Age occupation of the Tell.

In short, the evidence points to a first use of the cave by Early
Bronze Age inhabitants of Palestine as a place of burial. Remains
of 14 persons could be made out, but there may have been many
more before the cave was cleared for occupation as a dwelling-place
during the Middle Bronze Age. There is a suggestion of a sudden
tragedy for the Early Bronze Age people in our discovery of a small
kiln filled with pottery that had not been fired. It was at the
entrance of the cave, and the pottery, made of a greenish clay, may
have been intended for funerary purposes. Before the firing could
take place an evil fate overtook the living and probably the dead.
The Middle Bronze Age stratum of the cave contained many objects
of great interest, among them a terra-cotta couch of a unique design.

INTRAMURAL AREA

Above the cave, and within the city wall, our excavations con-
nected with those of 1926. Here again we struck the two city walls,
the outer and the inner, and in the space between them were numer-
ous circular grain bins, like those found during the previous year.
Along the inner wall ran a paved path over which purchasers and
vendors, camels, and donkeys, came and went when this part of the
city was a busy grain market. Thirty or forty meters farther north
the inner circuit wall gradually turned westward away from the
main wall, thus widening the intramural area. This wider space
was at this point occupied by a moderately large square building,
divided into four rooms, arranged exactly like those in the Israelite
sanctuary discovered on the west side of the Tell in 1927. One
room, about 8 by 30 feet, ran across the entire width of the building.
Three others ran at right angles to it, and the central one was the
largest. It contained a large circular-walled structure like a stor-
age bin, about 2 meters in diameter, a stone basin, and a kind of
table made of two flat stones. Among the objects found in the
rooms were a terra-cotta dove, the torso of an Astarte figurine, and
a small saucer lamp nested in the 3-branched fork of a tree, all in
terra cotta. The lamp had been covered with white slip and then
painted red, just like the Astarte figurines. Therefore it probably
had religious significance and was of a votive character. The dove, as
is well known, was a bird sacred to Astarte. So far as the evidence
warrants a conclusion, we are concerned here with a sanctuary of
Astarte, the “ Queen of Heaven” (Jer. 44,17). It may be added,
as a significant fact, that in the immediate neighborhood of this

Aisin Be
TELL EN-NASBEH EXCAVATIONS—BADE 489

structure, heads of Astarte figurines were especially numerous, and
a conical baetyl, or massebah, was also recovered in this vicinity.

NATURE OF THE CITY LEVELS

So far as the levels within the city walls are concerned, this year’s
excavations gave us certainty on many points that were previously
left in doubt. At the north end the uppermost level, not uniformly
preserved, was Hellenistic, chiefly Maccabaean. Next came a stratum
which yielded chiefly II, but also I, Iron Age pottery, especially
in areas near the’city wall. Sometimes there were two house levels
in this stratum, the lower level having been partly reused in the
upper. Sometimes this took the form of new floors within the same
house walls. The lower, or Early Iron Age, level was always the
best marked and indicated a long and continuous occupation of the
city during that period. A considerable amount of so-called “ Phil-
istine” ware was recovered from this level. The third stratum
must in the main be described as belonging to the Middle Bronze
Age. But it had a large admixture of Early Bronze Age pottery,
which may be regarded as intrusive. Remains of larger structures,
kilns, and silos, had more successfully survived the digging activities
of the Iron Age inhabitants. The final and lowest stratum, that of
the Early Bronze Age. was in contact with bedrock. It had been much
disturbed, and was found unmixed only in silos and natural cavities
in bedrock. Large quantities of ledge handles were found in all the
levels, but particularly in the lowest. So abundant in sheer bulk
in this Early Bronze Age ware on Tell en-Nasbeh that we must
assume for that period a long-continued and populous settlement on
the hilltop.

STUDY OF CERAMICS

During the season just closed we had an especially competent
staff of 14 members, and consequently were able to give close atten-
tion to a number of special problems. Four members, trained in the
study of Palestinian ceramics, gave particular attention to nearly
3,000 half-bushel baskets of potsherds that were brought down from
the Tell. One member gave his whole time to the accurate labelling
of the baskets, and the numbering of rooms, silos, cisterns, and other
structures. After being brought down to headquarters the pot-
sherds were washed, and examined in detail. Five by eight inch
cards were used to make notes on the contents of each basket, and
these were filed according to provenience for future reference or
further study. In addition, all unusual forms, objects, or decora-
tions were drawn to scale on 5 by 8 inch millimeter-ruled cards,
and these were filed with the basket cards. In this manner over
490 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

2,820 object drawings were added to our files, besides the 768 which
were recorded in our museum book.

STAMPED JAR HANDLES

It was probably in part due to this systematic scrutiny of pot-
sherds that we found during the past season a dozen or more jar
handle seal inscriptions and graffiti on pottery. Two bear the name
of the deity in the form of “ Yah” or “ Yahu.” One bears the con-
sonants MZH, probably referring to the feast of unleavened bread.
These three seal impressions resemble similar ones found by Sellin
and Watzinger at Jericho. Still another, very different from the
last mentioned, bears the consonants MZP, and is, therefore, a com-
panion piece of the MZP (Mizpah?) stamp found in 1927. There
are a number of jar handle stamps with a flying eagle and the well-
known legend “ For the King. Hebron.” On one impression which
bears the simple legend “ For the King ” (le-Melek), the tail feathers
are so clearly indicated that the stamp maker’s intention to represent
a bird and not a flying scroll can no longer be doubted. The graffiti
are of some epigraphical importance on account of the forms of the
Hebrew letters employed, but must be reserved for a separate dis-
cussion. Practically all the jar handle stamps were found in the
II and I Iron Age levels. Unless a closer study of our detailed
records of the ceramic context should oblige me to modify my present
conclusions, these jar handle inscriptions belong to the period between
900 and 600 B. C.

THE NECROPOLIS

The possible whereabouts of the Tell en-Nasbeh necropolis has for
the writer been a subject of considerable thought during the past
three years. There are numerous empty tombs in the rock terraces
on the slopes of the Tell, but all of them appear, judged by their
structure, to be isolated tombs of no great age. It seemed clear that
for so populous a city there must have been a general burial place
somewhere in the vicinity of the Tell. During the last month of the
1929 excavations I undertook a systematic search of the ridges and
slopes contiguous to our city mound, and with most gratifying
results. On the western slope of a ridge north of the Tell I ob-
served in the slightly exposed bedrock what seemed to be the remains
of a much weathered cutting. Removal of the accumulated débris
soon brought to light a shallow forecourt, chiseled out of the lme-
stone, and at its east end an upright doorstone was found still in
place, rabbeted into the stone frame of a tomb entrance. Close to it,
but on the north side of the sunken forecourt, was a smaller door-
stone, fitted like a lid into the frame of another opening. (PI. 6.)
TELL EN-NASBEH EXCAVATIONS—BADE 491

It was evident that this was a tomb of considerable age. On
removal of the larger doorstone the front of the tomb was found to be
solidly filled with black earth carried in by seepage of water through
ill-fitting joints in the doorway. When this earth had been removed
it was found to be a tomb with a double history. The first burial,
judging by the pottery, had been made about 700 B. C.; the second
belonged to the Hellenistic period, about 250 B. C., or later. Only a
part of the débris within the tomb, together with the skeletal remains,
had been removed for the second burial, so that both deposits of
funerary gifts were substantially preserved. The Hellenistic deposit
comprised a number of vases and jars which were clearly imitations of
Greek forms. One of them was an alabastron. There was also a small
globular vase of fine thin paste, which is a remarkably faithful repre-
sentation of a pomegranate. The prominent segmented calyx was
made to serve as the neck of the vase, and even the scar made by tear-
ing the fruit from the stem was faithfully imitated. A varied col-
lection of jewelry, including rings, fibulae, brooches, and ear-rings,
accompanied the ceramic deposit. (PI. 7.)

The second and older deposit, dated provisionally near the begin-
ning of the second phase of the Iron Age (800-586 B. C.), was repre-
sented by 30 pieces of pottery, among them 11 saucer lamps. Only
one of them had a slight foot, a fact which, by comparison with
lamps found in rooms and stratified deposits on the Tell, would tend
to push back the date of this deposit to the close of the Iron Age I
(1200-800 B. C.). The fact that only a few fragmentary human
remains were found in the tomb may, as already suggested, be most
plausibly explained by the supposition that at the time of the second
burial the skeletons of the first burial were removed. The contents
of the small tomb on the left side of the main entrance support this
view. It seems originally to have been intended for the burial of an
infant. Having been opened also at the time of the Hellenistic
burial, and being found too small, some large bones of adults from
the main tomb were thrust into it before it was closed again. In
any case there were found in this niche some large bones of an adult
lying on top of the very slight remains of a child burial. No other
objects furnished any clue to its purpose or past history.

More difficult is it to account for the almost complete absence of
skeletal remains in connection with the secondary Hellenistic burial,
more especially since the door-stones were still in place. Perhaps
the tomb was robbed a few years after burial. The smallness of the
funerary deposit could then be accounted for on the assumption that
the most valuable objects were removed together with the skeletons,
or perhaps an ossuary containing the bones. The recovery of a small
ornamental bronze handle of some receptacle which was no longer
in the tomb, favors this explanation.
492 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930
TOMB NUMBER V

Feeling sure that there were other tombs in the immediate neigh-
borhood, I had the thin cover of débris removed from the underly-
ing rock, and soon we found the opening of another tomb close to
the preceding. Its doorstone was gone. A flight of three stone steps
led down from the small square opening into a central oblong pit
flanked around the top by passages nearly a meter in width. At the
back was another room whose floor had been sunk to the same depth
as the pit in front. Both chambers were filled with earth to within
a foot of the ceiling. When cleared this tomb was found to contain
an astonishing amount of pottery of the Early Iron Age (1200-
800 B. C.) and is, therefore, contemporaneous with the earlier period
of Old Testament history. Two scarabs, found with the pottery,
will be submitted to expert Egyptologists, for they may furnish a
more definite date for the burial deposit.

The tomb has yielded 183 museum objects, besides much other
material for historical study. One curious terra-cotta bottle jar, so
far as known, is unique. It simulates, with incised spirals, a bee-
hive built up in a blunt cone by means of coiled ropes of straw. A
spirally incised bottle neck on the side makes the doorway for the
bees. Inside of the jar was found a waxlike deposit which, on chemi-
cal examination, may confirm the plausible supposition that it was
used to provide a food offering of honey for thedead. (Deut. 26:14.)

Another piece of pottery suggests a swan. The long curved
neck is surmounted by a pitcher mouth with laterally pinched lips
sunulating a mandible. On top, or in other words on the back, are
painted in red and black bands the outlines of wings. This object
may have come from Cyprus or may be a local imitation of Cypriote
art. Among the scores of other vessels are amphoras, bottle jugs,
pitchers, saucers, chalices, an incense burner, and other forms hard
to describe. There were scores of small black juglets which probably
contained oil or some other substance deemed important to the dead.
Equally numerous were the saucer lamps, and not one of them had
even the suggestion of a foot. Among 380,bowls of various sizes and
forms there were some that had been, pebble burnished over a deep
red slip.

After clearing these two tombs I once more examined the sur-
roundings on the slope where they were situated, and became fully
convinced that we had found the Tell en-Nasbeh necropolis, the city
of the dead. The only question on which we needed further light
was the length of the historical period during which burials had
been made here. ‘The two tombs already cleared covered the period
from the Early Iron Age to the Hellenistic period, 1200 to 250 B. C.
Was the slope also used for burials during the Bronze Age? Not

a ee ose tho are ee Es
Sane SE

TELL EN-NASBEH EXCAVATIONS—BADE 493

more than 40 feet away from the above-mentioned tombs I found on
the surface a fragment of a ledge handle which seemed to answer my
question affirmatively.

LAST HOUR DISCOVERIES

To gain, if possible, more certainty on this point, I directed an
Egyptian foreman and two local workmen to sink a shaft where the
telltale ledge handle fragment was found, and before long we had
other ledge handles and a basketful of Early Bronze Age ware of
the kind found in our deepest level on the Tell. The excavation
soon opened the broken-down remains of a typical Early Bronze Age
cave tomb, and a passage leading away from it into bedrock beyond,
may be the approach to one that is still undisturbed. But we were
too close to the date agreed upon with the department of antiquities
for the division of the season’s finds to risk the opening of another
tomb. Our whole staff, working at the utmost pressure, could
scarcely hope to complete, in the time remaining, the drawing,
photographing, and recording of the objects which already covered
all our tables and shelves at headquarters. So I reluctantly gave
directions to wall up the underground passage and fill up the shaft
in expectation of a time when we may return to delve still further
into the historical secrets of that rocky and weather-beaten hillside.

The same pressure for time and space compelled us to halt on
the brink of interesting revelations in the excavations on the Tell
itself. At the farthest edge of the last strip excavated, we opened
on the inner edge of the city wall a vaulted passage and a long flight
of stone steps leading down into—what? Around the entrance
were house foundations of the Maccabaean period, and house walls
running out upon the city wall during a long time after the last
walled city had ceased to exist. Two Hellenistic lamps and a coin
found in the descending passage suggest that the Maccabees were
its builders, and certainly the last who used it. When fully excavated
it was found to end in an underground cave or grotto. In the center
was the mouth of a rock-hewn cistern carefully covered with flat
stones, a bit of thoughtfulness which shows that those who did it
had no expectation of leaving it forever as they walked up the long
flight of steps 2,000 years ago.

A peep into the depths of the cistern showed a small cone of
loose débris rising above the washed-in sediment at the bottom.
Its connection with the Maccabaean level, and the fact of its being
underground, made me eager to excavate the cistern. A week might
have sufficed to extract and record the secrets of its past. But we
had no week to spare. So we had to content ourselves with photo-
graphs and drawings of the externals. Under my direction the
494 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

workmen then built a wall across the passage to the grotto and
spread a deep blanket of earth over the top.

A GRAECO-ROMAN TOMB

In conclusion, we must recur once more to what we shall now
call the North Cemetery. In the immediate vicinity of the Iron Age
Tombs III and V, I had observed partly collapsed and weathered-
out tombs, whose surface appearance indicated that they belonged
to the Hellenistic or even to a later period. One of these, the best
preserved, had a covered forecourt about 6 feet square, and not quite
6 feet high. It had been hewn from a ledge of limestone. The
whole of the west side was open to the weather. The smooth vertical
wall of the east end was pierced at the floor level by a small square
opening scarcely large enough to admit a man. Both the forecourt
and the entrance were choked with rocks and soil to such an extent
that no animal larger than a fox could have entered the tomb. After
this had been cleared away, it could be seen that the tomb itself was
filled with débris nearly to the top.

On consulting the Arab owner of the land on which the tomb
was located, he told me that it had been opened by an Arab purveyor
of antiquities just before the war, that he employed only one assist-
ant, and that he felt sure the tomb had not been entirely cleared. It
was, indeed, still largely filled with washed-in débris. Desiring to
ascertain, if possible, the age of the tomb, I directed one of our
Egyptian gang leaders to clear it and two women carriers to sift
the materials for small objects. We were not disappointed. Very
soon a coin of Herod Archelaus came to light. This Archelaus, who
ruled from 4 B. C. to 6 A. D., is the one mentioned in Matthew 2: 22.
He was a cruel ruler, and committed many outrages upon the Jews.
The latter denounced him so bitterly at Rome that he was cited by
the Emperor Augustus to appear before him. Unable to justify
himself, he was banished to Vienna in Gaul in the year 6 A. D. The
tomb, therefore, belongs approximately to the beginning of the
Christian era. Remains of beads, jewelry, seals, lamps, and other
objects recovered are also appropriate to this period, and are of
special historical interest, on account of their chronological coinci-
dence with the boyhood of Jesus of Nazareth.
6261 ‘(HOYUVYW ‘NOILVWAVOX9 3¥0s3qg HESESVN-N3a T1431 AO GNF HLYON

lL 31vV1d 2prgd—"0C6l *yaoday urruosyyg
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Badé PLATE 2

MASONRY OF CITY WALL AT THE SOUTH END, OUTER FACE; THICKNESS 20 FEET
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Badé PLATE 3

1. TOP OF CITY WALL EMERGING AT THE NORTH END

2. LEANING OUTER FACE OF NORTH WALL, PARTLY EXCAVATED
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Badé PLATE 4

1. CUTTING THE TRENCH UP THE EAST SLOPE. FIRST AND SECOND IRON AGE
HOUSE FOUNDATIONS IN THE FOREGROUND

2. TOP OF CITY WALL ABOVE THE TRENCH AND CAVE ON THE EASTERN SLOPE
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Badé

> we ae Lig * °

els ene fo Ex &

1. CAVE ON THE EAST SLOPE; ABOVE ISA SECTION OF IRON AGE RETAINING WALL
AND BEYOND IT THE MAIN WALL ITSELF

2. STRATIFICATION IN THE CAVE ON THE EAST SLOPE

€6v “d 3gaS “YSALNAD SHL NI
NYALSID V SO HLNOW SHL HLIM MDOYN TWYHNLYN SHL
ONINAdO 3yY¥OsSRgG ‘GNNOSY SV ‘€ GWOL “2 NI OLLOYDS V OL DNIGVAT 3DVSSVd GALINVA-1EESHOD *1

9 3ALV1d 2peq—0¢6| ‘oday urtuosyqIug
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Badé

1. COLLECTION OF SILVER AND BRONZE JEWELRY FROM TOMB 3

2. BEEHIVE JAR FROM TOMB 5

Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Badé PLATE 8

1. INTERIOR VIEW OF MAIN CHAMBER OF TOMB 5 WITH POTTERY IN SITU

De

EXCAVATING INTRAMURAL AREA UNDER GRAIN BIN LEVEL. STONE MARKED +
IS IN THE WALL OF THE ASTARTE SANCTUARY. SEE P. 488
RECENT PROGRESS IN THE FIELD OF OLD WORLD
PREHISTORY *

By Grorce Grant MacCurpy

[With 8 plates]

A little more than a year ago, geologists and glaciologists were
celebrating the one hundredth anniversary of the birth of glaciology
as a science. The year 1930 might well be chosen as the one
hundredth anniversary of the birth of prehistory as a science, since
it was in 1830 that Thomsen of Copenhagen applied his new system
of prehistoric chronology to the Danish National Museum collec-
tions. There is something back of the fact that these anniversaries
come so nearly coinciding. Progress in glaciology has meant much
toward progress in prehistory. Chronologically speaking, the Ice
Age falls within the limits of prehistoric time and the precision
of our knowledge concerning glacial and interglacial chronology
helps us to date many of the prehistoric relics inseparably linked
with Ice Age deposits and fauna. In the past few years, much
progress has been made in this field of research. In our summary
then of recent progress in Old World prehistory let us first see what
has been done in the way of correlating Ice Age with prehistoric
chronology.

Correlation of Ice Age and prehistoric chronology—F¥or years
the general consensus of opinion was that the last phase of Mous-
terian culture was coincident with the advance of the Wiirm or last
glaciation and that Upper Paleolithic (Aurignacian, Solutrean, and
Magdalenian) was coincident with a part of the maximum Wiirm
glaciation and the major part of its retreat. Until very recently
conservative prehistorians attempted to compress practically all of
the Lower Paleolithic into the last interglacial epoch (Riss-Wiirm).
In 1912, Commont had come to the conclusion that at least an early
phase of the Chellean (Pre-Chellean) should be placed in the next
to the last (Mindel-Riss) interglacial.

The recent progress in this direction is due largely to J. Reid
Moir and the Abbé H. Breuil. The main points in Breuil’s syn-

1 Reprinted by permission, with author's revision and addition of illustrations, from
Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society, vol. 69, No. 4, 1930.

495
496

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

chronism of European glaciations and European cultural epochs,
slightly modified, may be tabulated as follows:

Glacial and interglacial

Cultural stages

stages
Tardenoisian
Post-Wiirm Azilian
Final Magdalenian
Wirm II Lower Magdalenian

Laufen Retreat

Wiirm I

Riss-Wiirm Inter-

Levalloisian V

Levalloisian I1I-V

Solutrean

Aurignacian
Final Mousterian

Mousterian

Early Mousterian

glacial Micoquean Grimaldi phase
Weimar phase
Derived and worn
Riss specimens of

Mindel-Riss In-

earlier cultures

Upper Acheulian

Levalloisian IT

terglacial Middle Acheulian Levalloisian I
Lower Acheulian Micoquean Clactonian
Derived and worn
Mindel specimens of

Giinz-Mindel In-

earlier cultures

Chellean

Early Micoquean

Base of Clactonian

terglacial Pre-Chellean
Giinz Sub-Crag industry Eolithie of some
Pre-Giinz authors

Egypt.—A. fairly complete story of the Stone Age in Egypt is

slowly taking shape due to the researches of Miss G. Caton-Thomp-
son and Miss E. W. Gardner and more recently to those undertaken
by the Oriental Institute, University of Chicago, with K. 8. Sandford
and W. J. Arkell in charge.

The Study of Nile-Faiyum Divide during Pliocene and Pleisto-
cene Times by Sandford and Arkell appeared in 1929 as Volume X
of the Oriental Institute Publications.*

In Upper Egypt they have identified a series of four river terraces
in which Lower and Middle Paleolithic implements occur in situ
as follows:

Height above Nile Cultures
SMCLELSIEl OEE is = See a ase aie Cee mee eee, Maes eae. Mousterian.
OMIEGLOUSHBUIEEL) = onan e rnp ecmet mney si ee) |: Ra A EO A Rsae TARR ee Early Mousterian.

Lometerst(o0 feet) see eee ee ne ee ee Acheulian.
SU IMETCES) (LOO TCGi ee aro eats eg a ge ee ee ae Chellean.

2 Vol. I of Prehistoric Survey of Egypt and Western Asia.

OLD WORLD PREHISTORY—MacCURDY 497

These have been traced over some hunderds of miles on both sides
of the Nile and in adjoining deserts between Assuan and Assiut.

In Lower Egypt, between the Faiyum and Cairo, the series is not
so complete. Thus far no representative of the 30-meter terrace has
been discovered, but an old Nile channel at an elevation of 26-21
meters has yielded waterworn (derived) Chellean and fresh Acheu-
lian implements. The Mousterian terrace in Lower Egypt has been
traced through the Hawara Channel and into the Faiyum. The
evidence shows that in Mousterian times the Faiyum was occupied by
a vast lake fed by the Nile.

The Faiyum Basin is an integral part of the Nile system; not
a tributary system as once supposed, but an overflow reservoir into
which the Nile discharged its surplus water. In Paleolithic times
this Faiyum lake was full. The surface of the lake then stood at
34.2 m. (112 feet) above sea level. There was an annual flood and
annual low Nile in Paleolithic times as there is to-day. Now the
annual Nile flood reaches Cairo in late summer. Thus it may have
been the early autumnal gales that swept from the west across the
Faiyum Lake, then at high level, which produced the storm beach
some 10 feet (3.05 m.) high along the eastern shore of the lake.
Strong westerly autumnal gales still sweep across the Faiyum
Basin; but on the shores of the shrunken survivor of the old lake
now hidden far below sea level, they produce a storm beach barely
a foot high (30 cm.).

Along the eastern shore of the old Faiyum Lake a short distance
south of the Philadelphia ruins, there are important implement-
bearing deposits. The site is at Gebel er-Rus, the implements are
of Mousterian age and the elevation is 34 m. (115.5 feet) above sea
level. The richest site thus far discovered in the Faiyum is on the
beach at Kasr Basil near Tutun on the southern shore of the old
lake and at an elevation of 34.2 m. (112 feet). There is a basal
pebble bed with Mousterian implements on which is superposed a
silt deposit in turn covered by gravel, both containing Mousterian
implements. The cores or nuclei as well as the finished tools re-
semble those found in Mousterian stations of western Europe. The
cores vary from elongated to squarish (‘‘ double-ended”) and
discoid forms. The material employed was of flint or chert.

In the kitchen middens and the silts associated with them in the
Kom Ombo plain, between Edfu and Assuan, E. Vignard has found
an industry which seems to have evolved locally from the Mousterian,
but which in time ceased to be recognizable as Mousterian, owing to
an accumulation of modifications and the growth of new types. To
the modified indigenous industry Vignard has given the name Sebi-
lian. He divides it into three phases: Sebilian I, II, and III. The
Mousterian disk persists in Sebilian I. The microlithic flakes and
498 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

implements of geometric design in Sebilian III are comparable in
technique with the Tardenoisian industry and may be of the same
age,

Sandford and Arkell find that the Sebilian industry described
by Vignard is not confined to the Kom Ombo plain. They find it
on both sides of the Hawara Channel, especially at Kon Medinet,
Ghurab and Dimishkin, in silt and fine gravel. Within the Faiyum,
the gravel banks flanking the Hawara Channel spread out into a
second system of beaches, storm beaches and shoals closely resembling
those associated with the lake of Mousterian times. The water in
the lake during the Late Paleolithic or Sebilian times stood at 28 m.
(92 feet) above sea level, or 6.1 m. (20 feet) below its elevation in
Mousterian times. An exceptionally prolific Sebilian site was found
on the shore of this late Paleolithic lake near Philadelphia. The
beach of this old lake is a prominent feature in the great bay of
Philadelphia and the greater part of the Greco-Roman town was
built upon and just behind it. In an obscure corner of the Faiyum
Basin between Shakluf Bridge and Kasr Basil, Sandford and Arkell
were so fortunate as to find no less than 10 beaches left by the falling
lake as the climate became progressively more arid.

The industry of Late Paleolithic or Sebilian age found at the
28 m. (92 feet) beach level is of surprising uniformity. The cores
are miniatures of the Mousterian cores. The flakes fall into two
classes: (@) Miniatures of the Mousterian flake and (6) thin broad
flakes with straight parallel margins. Most of the microlithic
Sebilian types of Upper Egypt still remain to be discovered in Lower
Kgypt.

The field work of Sanford and Arkell terminated with the 22.5
m. (74 feet) level. However they agree with Miss G. Caton-Thomp-
son and Miss EK. W. Gardner that the 22.5 m. (74 feet) lake was suc-
ceeded by a Neolithic lake at a level of 17.4 m. (57 feet) ; that these
two successive lakes were separated by a long interval of time, dur-
ing which the Faiyum Basin was drained and the old lake deposits
were deeply eroded before the water rose again to the 17.4 m. (57
feet) level, decadent Neolithic industries being associated with it
down to 2.1 m. (7 feet) below sea level; that it has since continued to
sink until the present day, when its surface lies 44.8 m. (147 feet)
below sea level and only 5.5 m. (18 feet) above the bottom of the
deepest part; that the last stage of contraction has been accompanied
by a sudden increase in salinity, which has killed most of the fresh-
water fauna, two marine bivalves taking its place. Desert condi-
tions were apparently established in Upper Egypt as early as
Sebilian times, and at a later date as one proceeds northward, north
of the latitude of the Faiyum, they may not have become absolute
until post-Neolithic times.

OLD WORLD PREHISTORY—MacCURDY 499

Mesopotamia—There is every reason to believe that records sim-
ilar to those reported from the Upper Nile Valley will be found in
the upper stretches of the Euphrates and Tigris Valleys. In fact,
Passemard has reported the finding of a Chellean hand ax from the
gravels at the base of the 30-meter terrace, right bank of the Eu-
phrates between Rakka and Deir ez Zor, Syria. In type and patina
it is exactly like those found in the Thames Valley at Milton Street
and in the Somme Valley. Passemard also points out that in the
Euphrates Valley one finds a system of terraces at four levels—15,
30, 60, and 100 meters respectively—comparable with the four ter-
races to be found in the river valleys of western Europe.

France.—Even older than the Chellean of the 30-meter terraces
in the valleys of the Nile and the Euphrates are the crude artifacts
found by Peyrony only last summer in the basal deposits of the sta-
tion known as La Micoque, near Les Eyzies (Dordogne). ‘The site
has been known for at least 35 years, beginning with the excava-
tions of Chauvet and Riviere. Many prehistorians have since done
at least some work on this spot. All were agreed as to the rela-
tively great antiquity of the deposits, dating back at least to the
Acheulian Epoch. Each stopped at a thick sterile deposit supposed
to underlie the oldest relic-bearing level. It remained for Peyrony
to hazard a sounding deeper than all the others. He was rewarded
by finding a basal relic-bearing deposit far below the lowest hitherto
known. The artifacts are eolithic in type and are referred by Pey-
rony to the Pre-Chellean Epoch (Lower Pleistocene). Peyrony
has also just added another page to our knowledge of another site
in the Dordogne—the type station of Le Moustier. The oldest relic-
bearing level hitherto known at Le Moustier belongs to the Mous-
terian Epoch. Beneath this is a thick sterile deposit beneath which
Peyrony has found an additional relic-bearing deposit. But the
cultural remains are of a type similar to those in the level above.
Peyrony’s successful soundings at La Micoque and Le Moustier
should serve as a reminder to all excavators to be sure they are at
the bottom of a section as soon as possible after their work is begun.

By combining four rock shelters in the Dordogne—La Micoque,
Le Moustier, Laugerie-Haute, and Laugerie-Basse—it is now pos-
sible to build up a composite section representing the entire gamut
of Stone Age cultures from the pre-Chellean to the Neolithic,
inclusive.

Chou Kou Tien—The year 1929 will compare favorably with any
single year, in the past one hundred, in respect to prehistoric achieve-
ment. The discovery of an almost complete skull of an early type of
man at Chou Kou Tien southwest of Peiping (Peking), China, is per-
haps the outstanding event of the year (pls. 1-3). The first discovery
of hominid remains at Chou Kou Tien was some four years ago.
500 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

From 1923 to 1926 there were recovered two human teeth from
material that had been previously taken from the Chou Kou Tien
deposit—a right upper molar and a lower first premolar. In October
of the following year Doctor Bohlin found a left lower permanent
molar (probably the first) of a child.

During the season of 1928 there were found in the same deposit
(Locus A) the right horizontal ramus of an adult human lower
jaw with three molar teeth in situ and leaving the premolar, canine,
and distal half of the lateral incisor sockets preserved; a some-
what worn right upper molar (M 1 or M 2) showing definite evi-
dence of injury during life; the labial side of the crown and
portion of the root of a permanent upper median incisor and imma-
ture lower (?) permanent incisor; and lastly the labial half of the
crown and root of a worn lower median permanent incisor, post-
humously crushed and deformed. The specimens are deeply pig-
mented and mineralized in a manner characteristic of all fossils
recovered from locus A.

The fossils from Locus B of the same Chou Kou Tien deposit
are not deeply pigmented, most of them being quite white or of
light buff color. They are imbedded in a hard yellowish travertine.
Not much of the hominid material has as yet been disengaged from
the travertine matrix, enough, however, to prove that the hominid
material from both loci belong to the same genus and species, to
which Dr. Davidson Black has given the name Sinanthropus pekin-
ensis. ‘The specimens thus far disengaged include a score or more
of both deciduous and permanent teeth representing many phases of
wear and age, together with complete symphysis region of the lower
jaw of a very young individual; other specimens are already visible
in the matrix.

In December, 1929, while excavating a sheltered recess of the
main deposit at Chou Kou Tien, Mr. W. C. Pei discovered the
greater part of an adult hominid cranium in a good state of preser-
vation (not even crushed). Within the main cave deposit at Chou
Kou Tien up to the present time Sinanthropus remains have been
recovered from five different loci, three of which, including the
last major find, have been discovered by Mr. Pei during the last
season’s work. Contrary to any reports which have been circulated,
no skeletal parts other than the skull and numerous isolated teeth
have been recovered during the past year’s excavations.

It should be noted that the different Sinanthropus loci discovered
within the main Chou Kou Tien deposit are all clearly contempo-
raneous with one another, being Lower Quaternary (Polycene) in
age. This latter statement is based on the evidence collected in a
preliminary report on the geology and paleontology of the site by

Smithsonian Report, 1930.—MacCurdy PLATE 1

23 19340

SINANTHROPUS PEKINENSIS
SISNANIMSAd SNdOYHLNYNIS

¢ ALV 1d

Apingee]\— 066 | *qaoday uelUOsy IWS
SISNANIMSd SNdOYHLNYVNIS

O€6L GY 4DW

€ 3LW1d ApanejAj—"O¢6| ‘Oday uwiuosyqiuicg

ee
NAIL NOM NOHD WOYSA SISNANIM3Ad SNdOYHLNVYNIS

Of6) Be AINe

be Ba) Be Ps i af a Oe

vy ALV Id Apinyorej— 0¢6 | *qaodayy uPIUOSY}IWIG
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—MacCurdy PLATE 5

« P%e.
- * a ae =
Nantes pS ee

Parcs

ye inn
>

~

1. ZARZI

2. ZARZI
PLATE 6

Smithsonian Report, 1930.—MacCurdy

So PIL

ji
i eeu Ere

penn
=

WM Monin
\y

UL Ta

Ul) >
«( MM in s=aMin

jaa}

tl

D ® imi LLM <
SS IWS; ° ‘MM / i) ih, i/) ] | is

mr a ol pp :

O

or

te

\ Oy Y Na ce IY, uy

i

al

oo

e

N

a

N
Smithsonian Report, 1930

MacCurdy

HAZAR

MERD

PLATE

HAZAR

MERD

(LHSIY LY) SIAWVYD S3HL AO AAVD GNV GVM 73 LEAYVHONW

8 ALV1d Apaingery|— '0¢6| “quoday ueTuosyzIWIG
Wwe. rr TS CO

SS > ee

OLD WORLD PREHISTORY—MacCURDY 501

Pére Teilhard de Chardin and Dr. C. C, Young, just issued from
the press. Further it should be added that up to the present time,
though thousands of cubic meters of material have been examined,
no artifacts of any nature have been encountered nor has any trace
of the usage of fire been observed.

The greater part of the left lateral surface and the fore part of
the base of this unique skull of Sinanthropus is still imbedded in a
block of very hard travertine.?. The vault of the skull, from its
massive brow ridges to the occiput, and the whole right side of the
specimen was, however, supported within a relatively soft matrix
which has now been removed. In the present stage of its prepara-
tion it thus becomes apparent that the brain case has been almost
completely preserved while most of the facial region is lacking.
Black says the cranium is that of a young adult female.

The skull of Sinanthropus is approximately similar in length to
that of Pithecanthropus and like the latter form is provided with
massive brow ridges, a feature to be correlated with a powerful jaw
mechanism. However, Sinanthropus characteristically differs from
the Java type in the following important features: Relatively well-
developed frontal eminences, well-localized parietal eminences and
greater height of skull vault, all these characters pointing to a rela-
tively greater brain capacity in Sinanthropus.. The mastoid proc-
esses of Sinanthropus are small. The sockets in which the lower jaw
articulated are well preserved on both sides, a circumstance which
will be of great value in the restoration of the lower jaw fragments
recovered in 1928.

In July, 1930, Dr. Davidson Black announced the discovery at
Chou Kou Tien (Locus D) of the greater part of the vault and a por-
tion of the base of a second Sinanthropus cranium (pl. 4). He be-
lieves it to be that of a young though fully adult individual, probably
amale. The new specimen has been pieced together from fragments,
the broken edges of which fit one another; no other restoration being
resorted to in order to produce the results as seen in Plate 4.

This cranium, the second to be found at Chou Kou Tien, yields
valuable information concerning certain parts not represented in the
first more perfectly preserved specimen. Compared with the latter,
according to Black, the new cranium also presents certain slight
differences which may be due to a difference in sex. While the new
cranium has about the same maximum transverse diameter as the
first, its length is greater than the latter by some two centimeters.
On the other hand the frontal eminences are not so prominent, nor
is the average thickness of the skull vault so great in the second as

2The skull has since been completely disengaged. (See pls. 1-3.)
? This is not true because of the great thickness of the cranium in Sinanthropus,
28095—31——_83
502 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

in the first specimen. A small part of the left glenoid fossa has been
preserved, also the nasal suture and the base of the broad nasal
bones.

Saccopastore.—The estate of Saccopastore is about 3.5 km. (2.2
miles) from the Porta Pia, Rome. Here in a gravel pit workmen
discovered a skull of the Neandertal type in 1929. It was immedi-
ately turned over by the lessee of the estate, Signor Casorri, to the
Duke of Grazioli, who confided it to the Anthropological Institute
of the University of Rome, where it will be preserved. According
to Prof. Sergio Sergi, the mandible is lacking but the cranium is in
a fairly good state of preservation.

The cranium is characterized by the relatively large facial in con-
trast with the cerebral portion, as well as the high degree of progna-
thism and the depression of the vault. The cranial capacity is not
over 1,200 ce. and the cranium is that of a female. The remaining
teeth, five molars and a premolar, are large. The orbital apertures
are very large; the piriform aperture is low and large. The anterior
projection of the nasal processes and of the body surface of the
maxilla form a kind of snout, not met with in any other known type.

The cranium came from a depth of 6 m. (19.6 feet) in a stratum of
sand and gravel, rich in fossil animal remains: Hlephas antiquus,
Hippopotamus major, Rhinoceros mercki, Cervus elaphus, Bos primi-
genius, and others. No artifacts have been found at Saccopastore,
but artifacts of the Mousterian type were found in the same strata of
near-by sites in the valley of the Tevere and Aniene as early as 1846.
These finds with that of the cranium are proof that man lived in
Lazio probably as early as the Riss-Wiirm interglacial epoch.

Ozechoslovakia.—There are many sand pits and brickyards within
and near the city limits of Brno. These are watched continuously
for prehistoric relics. In May, 1927, a human skeleton was found in
the exploitation in Susilova Street, Zabovresky quarter of the greater
city. The skeleton was found in a red sandy loam at the contact
between the sand and the coarse gravel at a depth of 2.15 m. (7 feet).
It lay in a crouching position in a kind of egg-shaped hollow. The
color of the sandy loam about it was deep red. Since the color
diminished in intensity radially in all directions from the skeleton,
the coloring matter must have been originally a part of the burial.
The skeleton, which was in a bad state of preservation, is that of an
adult woman and is referred to as Brno III. According to Matiegka,
the skull bears the strongest resemblance to the skulls from Combe-
Capelle and Mladeé I; also in certain features to Brno II and the
female skulls from Predmost.

An additional fossil human. skeleton was found at Piedmost in
1928. The skeleton, in a fragmentary condition, was found in ashes
of the Paleolithic layer, associated with bones of the mammoth.
OLD WORLD PREHISTORY—MacCURDY 503

The proximal end of the left human femur is missing. On the re-
maining two-thirds, there are scrapings and cuts oblique to the axis
of the shaft on its anterior surface all the way up from the lateral
condyle. They were done by flint tools and raise the question as to
whether cannibalism was practiced at Piedmost. In all, 54 bones
of the human skeleton were found, at the same level and not far
removed from the remarkable communal grave discovered by MaSka.

Our knowledge of the fossil fauna associated with fossil man is
growing apace. One of these animals was the woolly rhinoceros
(Rhinoceros tichorhinus) which sometimes served as a model for
Cro-Magnon artists. It was a contemporary of the woolly elephant
(Llephas primigenius). Well preserved examples of both have been
found in Siberian ice fields. In 1907 asphaltum deposits at Starunia,
Poland, yielded a mammoth (woolly elephant) and woolly rhinoc-
eros, both perfectly preserved. They are now in the museum at
Lemberg. In 1929, from the same deposit there was taken another
complete woolly rhinoceros, which has been removed to the museum
of the Polish Academy of Science in Krakau.

Cave art.—The latest researches of Pittard tend to prove that the
first example of cave art to be discovered was not the engraving on
bone from Chaffaud, but an engraved baton of reindeer horn from
the cavern of Le Veyrier, near Geneva (Haute-Savoie). This baton
was found by Francois Mayor in 1833 and reported the same year
to the Société de Physique et d’Histoire Naturelle, Geneva. The en-
graving is not an important work of art. It would be difficult to
determine the animal intended to be represented. Mayor also found
that which at first glance would seem to be a harpoon. But the
point is at the wrong end; so that instead of being a harpoon shaft
with barbs, the piece represents a stem in bud. Thus the first en-
graved object and the first sculptured object dating from the cave-
art era were both found at Le Veyrier—on French soil, to be sure,
but by a Genevese.

A number of outstanding discoveries in the field of Paleolithic art
have been made during the past few years, some of which have not
yet been published. I shall mention briefly six of these—one each
from Siberia, Italy, England, and Germany and two from France.

Irkutsk—A human female figurine has been found on the Bjelala
River near Irkutsk, Siberia. The site is not far from the Chinese
frontier. In the same deposits were found fossil bones of the mam-
moth and woolly rhinoceros. The figurine is of the Brassempouy-
Willendorf type. The distance from Brassempouy near the Bay of
Biscay to Irkutsk is about 11,200 km. (7,000 miles).

Savignano—A human female figurine was encountered when dig-
ging a cellar in 1926 at Savignano-sul-Panaro (Emilia), Italy. It is
of the Brassempouy-Grimaldi type and made of steatite. The head
504 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

is not differentiated, the feet and arms are not represented, the legs
are fused, while the breasts, hips, and ceinture are overemphasized.
The figurine is 22.5 cm. in length.

Petersfels.—Petersfels is the ninth prehistoric station in Germany,
where Paleolithic art has been found. It is named for Herr Peters,
the discoverer. The site is near Engen (Hegau), southern Baden,
only a short distance north of Kesslerloch in Switzerland, which
many years ago yielded the well-known figure of the browsing rein-
deer. The find includes stone artifacts, bone needles, perforated
shells, and teeth, javelin points, batons of reindeer horn, decorated
ivory disk, pendants representing the human female form carved
from lignite; also engravings on bone and reindeer horn, including
figures of the reindeer on a baton. The female figurines are per-
forated for suspension and are of the Brassempouy-Willendorf type;
the head is no longer recognizable, the legs barely indicated and the
hips exaggerated. Petersfels belongs to a single phase of the Lower
Magdalenian Epoch.

Peyrony reports the finding in the cave of La Roche, near Lalinde
(Dordogne), of stones with engraved figures similar in stylistic pat-
tern to the lignite statuettes from Petersfels. The engraved figures
from La Roche and the figurines from Petersfels belong to the Lower
Magdalenian Epoch; so that they would be contemporaneous with
the so-called venus impudique, a figurine found years ago in the rock
shelter of Laugerie-Basse. The specimen from Laugerie-Basse, while
more easily recognizable as representing the human female form,
retains nevertheless characters which link it with the examples from
Petersfels and La Roche.

The cave of La Roche has yielded something entirely new in
paleolithic annals: An oblong object made of reindeer horn, and
pointed at both ends, one of which is perforated. One face of this
object bears a pattern composed of parallel series of incised lines,
some groups being longitudinal and some transverse. This piece
had been entirely covered by a coating of red ochre prior to the exe-
cution of the incised decoration; it bears a close resemblance to the
“ churinga ” of the Arunta Tribe in Australia and must in its time
have served a purpose similar to that served by the esoteric and
sacred churinga.

Trois-Fréres—In addition to the long series of mural figures dis-
covered at Trois-Fréres, recent excavations have yielded remarkable
examples of portable art. These finds were made in floor deposits
not far from the Enléne entrance, by Mons. Louis Begouen. ‘They
include a plaque of ivory on which are engraved figures of two cats
seen from the back, also a cricket in profile. Another example is a
baton of reindeer horn with engraved figure of a bison. Perhaps
OLD WORLD PREHISTORY—MacCURDY 505

the rarest of all is the head of a wild goat carved from reindeer
horn with inlay eyes of another material (burnt bone).

In the summer of 1929 Mons. Begouen found still another example
of Paleolithic inlay. It is on the base of a dart thrower, of which
the crochet is formed by a bird’s beak. On one face of the shaft
of the dart thrower there is engraved a goose, the neck bent; on the
epposite face the same bird is sculptured in high relief, the head
turned backward. The eye is represented by a deep pit in which
there was originally an inlay.

Le Roe.—The station of Le Roc is situated on a small affluent of
the Echelle, in the commune of Sers, some 15 km. southeast of
Angouléme (Charente). It consists of two caves—Grotte du Roc
and Grotte de la Vitrge—between which is a workshop where the
sculptured frieze was found. In addition to the sculptured frieze,
engraved figures on limestone were found as follows: Bison and cave
bear (on the same piece) from below the Grotte de la Vierge and
a horse from the same trench; a third example is the figure of a bison.

The frieze, which is now installed in the Salle Henri Martin at
Saint-Germain-en-Laye, is sculptured on a series of five stones.
When found these stones were turned with their ornamented faces
against the archeological deposit. As reconstructed, the series from
left to right is as follows: First stone, at left, masked man (?), center
two horses, right musk ox charging a hunter; second stone, horse fac-
ing left; third stone, horse facing right; fourth stone (beneath the
third), horse facing right; fifth stone, horse and pseudo-bovidae
both facing right.

El Pendo—tThe first example of cave art ever discovered was an
object of the type later known as baton de commandement. The
baton is a piece of reindeer horn or stag horn with one or more
perforations and usually decorated. Paleolithic batons have been
found sparingly in Austria, Belgium, Czechoslovakia, England, Ger-
many, Italy, Poland, Siberia, and Switzerland. Several dozen have
been reported from France, and nine from Spain. The latest one
from Spain was unearthed in the cave of El Pendo (Santander) by
the Don Jesus Carballo and is preserved in the Museo Prehistorico,
Santander. From the viewpoint of art and symbolism, this specimen
ranks among the most important. It is of stag horn with a perfora-
tion near one end. The entire superficies is practically covered by a
series of admirably incised animal heads: Four of Cervus elaphus
(one stag and three hinds) and one of the horse. ‘These are accom-
panied by groups of incised lines, some in parallel and some X shaped.
This baton furnishes added evidence that the cave artist showed a
preference for the female of the species. ‘The three heads of the hind
exhibit the same technique as does the hind’s head on the baton from
506 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

Valle (Santander). The baton from El Pendo was found in the
Upper Magdalenian level.

Creswell Crags—From England, poor in Paleolithic art, Leslie
Armstrong reports the finding in a proto-Solutrean horizon of one
of the caves at Creswell Crags (Derbyshire) the figure of a man
wearing an animal mask, engraved on reindeer bone.

Jordansmthl—I can not close this report of progress without
mention of at least a few recent discoveries of post-Paleolithic date.
There have been many, out of which Jordansmiihl (Silesia) should
be first considered. The name is well known in prehistory through:
discoveries made at the Neolithic and Chalcolithic camp site on
Bischkowitz hill. In the vicinity of Jordansmiihl (west side) are a
number of sites dating from the Bronze and Iron Ages, as well as
from the Neolithic.

The Jordansmiihl ceramic type is distinct from all others. ‘The
paste is free from coarse material, the walls of the vessels are thick.
The color is dark brown to iron gray. Other types than the Jor-
dansmiihl are found in the vicinity.

In 1925 a clay figure of a ram was found in a sand pit on the
Klose farm west of Jordansmiihl. With it were two clay vessels
and a broken flint knife. Although somewhat weathered the figure
of the ram has been restored. Its total height is 33 cm., body height
23.5 cm., and length 37 cm. The rugosity of the massive horns is
well represented by means of transverse string imprints. The neck
and body also bear string imprints. This is a splendid example in
clay of the Neolithic potter’s art.

Neolithic art in China—The East India Museum of Stockholm
has recently come into possession of a ceramic piece dating from
the Neolithic Period in China, which is of more than passing interest.
It is the lid of a vessel in the form of a human head, neck, and bust.
The facial region rises slightly from the spherical head. The chin,
nose, and cheek protuberances are perforated; the eyes and mouth
are simply oval holes. The brows are prominent. Above and back
of the brows there is a pair of pitted protuberances. Beginning
at the crown and meandering gracefully down the back of the head
and neck onto the bust there is a figure suggesting a Chinese pigtail,
but instead it is a serpent, the head (with open mouth) of which
rises above the pair of protuberances. Nothing like this has been
found in western Asia or southeastern Europe.

Iberian ceramic art—An idea of the excellence of the potter’s
art in the Iberian Peninsula some 400 B. C. may be had from a
study of the Heiss collection, recently published in part by Hugo
Obermaier and Carl Walter Heiss. The necropolis from which this
collection came is in the region of Archena (Prov. Murcia), south-
eastern Spain. The paste is a fine reddish yellow clay, the orna-
OLD WORLD PREHISTORY——MacCURDY 507

ment in two colors. A description of one of the vases will suffice
to give a fair idea of the group as a whole. The horizontal bands
dividing the vase into zones are reddish brown, whereas the zonal
decorations are in red. The principal panel (at the shoulder) car-
ries on one side a bird with outstretched wings, on the other a
carnivore with open mouth revealing teeth and tongue. Beneath
the bird on one side and the carnivore on the other there are in
each case a lone elevated bird’s wing and a fish. The rest of the
ground in each panel is appropriately decorated with plantlike
motives. Of the other narrower zones, the middle one is filled by
means of a series of S-shaped figures, while each of the two zones
below carries a series of concentric half circles. The vase has a
pair of vertically placed handles on the shoulder separating the two
panels of the principal zone. The ceramic art of Archena is in all
respects similar to that in the neighboring region of Elche.

Iraq and Palestine—tIn closing this account of progress, it is
fitting that mention be made of the work being carried on by the
American School of Prehistoric Research, especially that in coopera-
tion with the British in Iraq and Palestine. The first joint expedi-
tion was in that part of the hill country of southern Kurdistan now
included in the Kingdom of Iraq. This region is called Sulaimani
and the town of Sulaimani, which lies 265 km. northeast of Bagdad
and 45 km. west of the Persian border, has sometimes been called
the capital of Southern Kurdistan. Nearly eight weeks in the au-
tumn of 1928 were devoted to reconnaissance and digging.

The cave of Zarzi, 50 km. northwest of Sulaimani, was completely
excavated. (PIl.5.) The chief culture-bearing level at Zarzi is Upper
Paleolithic, the equivalent of the Upper Aurignacian at such stations
in Europe as Willendorf and Krems in lower Austria and the caves
of Grimaldi in Italy. (Pl. 6.) At the top of this level there were
found true Tardenoisian types of the Mesolithic Period. The layer
directly above this was mixed and yielded crude pottery as well as
flint implements similar to those found below.

Work was continued at the caves of Hazar Merd, about 8 km.
southwest of Sulaimani. One of these—the Dark Cave (Ashkot-i-
Tarik)—was partially excavated. (Pl. 7.) Here three levels were
encountered in the floor deposits, the sequence from above down-
wards being: (a) Bronze Age to recent, (b) Upper Paleolithic (simi-
lar to that at Zarzi), (c) Mousterian.

Miss Dorothy A. E. Garrod, representing the Percy Sladen Memo-
rial Fund, was in charge of the expedition. Her report * has just
been published in bulletin No. 6 of the American School of Prehis-
toric Research (New Haven, Conn., March, 1930).

*The Palaeolithic of Southern Kurdistan: Excavations in the caves of Zarzi and Hazar
Mera@
508 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

For three months during the spring of 1929, the American School
of Prehistoric Research and the British School of Archaeology at
Jerusalem made soundings in three caves at Jebba near Athlit,
Palestine—Mugharet el Wad (Cave of the Valley), Oven Cave and
Cave of the Kid—and partially excavated one, the Mugharet el Wad.
The locality is 16 km. south of Haifa and less than 5 km. inland from
the Mediterranean shore.

Mugharet el Wad proved to be a very rich site, containing also a
more complete series of culture levels than any other site thus far
discovered in Palestine. (Pl. 8.) Beginning with the Mousterian
Epoch, the cave was occupied almost continuously down to the pres-
ent. The sequence from the top downward is as follows:

7. Mixed layer with remains of Arab, Byzantine, Roman, Greek,
late Bronze, and early Bronze periods.

6. Mesolithic.

5. Upper Paleolithic—Capsian in type, showing probable relation
to African culture.

4, Middle Aurignacian in type.

3. Middle Aurignacian. in type.

2. Karly Middle Aurignacian in type.

1. Mousterian in type.

The artifacts of the Mesolithic layer included small flint crescents
and sickle blades, the latter polished through usage along the toothed
margins; cores of various sizes and shapes, knives, scrapers, awls,
etc. There were bone points, many containing one end intact to
serve as a handle; some were small enough to be needles but without
an eye, other small ones were pointed at both ends and evidently
served as fish hooks; bone harpoons, bone polishing tools, and a bone
grooved for hafting microliths or perhaps sickle blades. Objects of
adornment included small bone pendants, a bone bead, and various
teeth cut and pierced for stringing, the canine teeth of a small car-
nivore being especially numerous.

The most remarkable of all the finds from this level was a small
human head carved from a black and grey banded pebble. The hair
and back of the head were left unfinished. The face was done with
care: long thick eyebrows, large long eyes, well executed broad but
not very flat nose, and prominent lips. The neck was partially com-
pleted. The: whole is about as large as the end of a man’s thumb;
this is the oldest human representation found in Palestine to date
and may correspond in age to the late Magdalenian of Europe.

The Mesolithic layer of Mugharet el Wad has thus yielded objects
hitherto undiscovered in Palestine—the stone human head, the bone
haft for microliths and the bone harpoons. To these should be
added from the same site a pierced bone resembling a baton and

OLD WORLD PREHISTORY—MacCURDY 509

an animal figure carved in the end of a fragment of long bone, both
found previously by Mr. Lambert, assistant director of the Depart-
ment of Antiquities of Palestine.

Another find new to Palestine was the multiple human burial
found by the joint expedition in the Mesolithic layer. ‘This con-
sisted of 10 skeletons—4 adults and 6 children including infants. .
These had been piled on a hearth prepared for the purpose. ‘The
burials were all extended and at various angles. The arm bones
of two were interlocked. The head of an infant had been placed
on the shoulder of one of the adults. A deer antler, some of the bone
pendants and the stone head were all from this burial place, the
stone head being directly beneath the skeletons. An additional
skeleton was found at the same level in a recess and lying upon its
right femur was yet another skull. A flexed skeleton was found in
the terrace outside, not far from where Lambert had previously
found two skulls only.

Below the Mesolithic, there are four occupation levels which can
be definitely referred to the Middle and Upper Aurignacian. In this
Upper Paleolithic deposit were found two human jaw fragments
and other fragments of human bones, also a number of large human
teeth. ‘These and the Mesolithic skeletons will be described by Sir
Arthur Keith. The Aurignacian is also rich in artifacts. Beneath
the Aurignacian deposit, there is a Mousterian layer some two meters
thick. The third joint Palestine expedition (1931) will complete
the excavation of this deposit; it will also excavate the nearby Oven
Cave and Cave of the Kid.
s TAT af ear as = + 1 a -
be “ait Fo Es of eerie tk 3)
—_ a or ae “

ae alte te $
A ncontaus ate cee Ant 4-0 ba per
aon, ot hgh ae aleliag gap diy hoot
shavalay aed, teak id Re Li :
mpm es aoe
Wilde Asso %
alanoitth ba, ‘hcee adnan iaeieds band ood
edt gO Reh DUB gAIGae mink ce
inclomhaes, asain teak tees eG ee
Ceeeiveng: bed sedeunl my sort it tom hiaino onerio) et
5.) ig Bade hte a apie wa tebe, eRe ;
L400 Aidw alowuloroitsqusoo mot ote aid) guia of wold
eiliats sesame Asweqa Tiber Ibbol ot oF bovrivis's qlotiaiish. od
anemrgaTh. tal neath ow, baxot sxsw tieoqob oldtilosiad agg
mopar om tak do: sod ensuite Gal 9 iausdl to siaamyett sodto baw
1g ads borkeroap hog), Sawr arog staale. ‘sitviloead od} aw seed? aitead
caspantlssaacing aiubis ole gh palvaagaeh all alioabaeiie
Hapland. (078 ether serra natok agi oited. dearly aed |
cate bliwe i REO), soe atts a
(arOrydased, pa sadist ied? ptigogah aiddto
Si iyhth oo MEE ers Satan ASOD ae ak oe bee 2 Prt high odd dg oe): baw oe)
Bn hha abide ark Cleat WH ire pete ts oth eee: ee ey idan
its 06 Sas fetigbes <too Tot recs, Menard hi sie edit ieee ae
: ais Fie alee thee a i Lay SF onbees Peden hag Cheated Ox
p eka wine. poms aa See Oe te Sei a a
54 Shi Bat AA eee Re Sa GS i Gye eee MeL IE ge ry ate Ras
iy dae febhiiey: ic veee Uy: AR TMMER UR:

)

Pie tlest. wetoarkgnie Gh ake eee Sha) Lars on Pa hauls
pms: hdetict owed isms ob Placed: cares aa pibiilin.. | elinag
Hei Teele Se Epics esd gs ey eee fe aby ete er. Cae ES aa | iesire at tel
24 Jetway Lhe aoebruwes he eee. well okeenteeeeogins tae
Re wary Tak deine core eeie tees ree facie och eae
sie Aes Nhe se aaa, tee eine ate cht OD oie » baa wealD
tng ik Thehdskt hugs oepregeietage foros tiniest se eee ees :
ue na & cot cepa T, Aiseay Ge Dame ae cots ec caae: Ge pee reas

Tie Aperottive dre: od iat ¢ Want hos (hom soled oii
ot Dist) Uae ee ats a8 Pai ga Rake hattey PAM AS Mate rh. teen thas bong
: nuerolthe: wit she heise lector MEDS, Te “free alana ye
{Scum Uhe sianye, Sele say Priel Ree Peete a De. aque

os
ANCIENT SEATING FURNITURE IN THE COLLECTIONS
OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

By WALTER HovucH

[With 24 plates]

The first appearance of detached seating furniture is seen in stools.
These are according to the art ideas of the peoples constructing them
of varying forms shaped from blocks of wood or stone and having
usually four legs. The seats are circular, oval, oblong, and curved,
or hollowed out, showing the earliest attempts at adapting the area
to the conformation of the body; one might term it a primitive effort
at practical anthropometrics. In its simplest form the stool is a
circular block of wood such as was used by Peruvian tribes and the
Hupa of California (pl. 1, fig. 1), and perhaps the rounded stone
blocks of some ancient Pueblos in Arizona.

Specimens from Costa Rica (pl. 1, figs. 2, 3), West Indies, and Ta-
hiti have a projecting handle from one end and many American
specimens have a pierced lug with cord for hanging up, showing that
this piece of furniture was not commonly used but only on occasion.
This phase will be discussed later.

Simple stools were often elaborately carved. Wiener’ figures a
Peruvian stool of which the seat rests on two excellently carved
jaguars. British Guiana specimens in the United States National
Museum and specimens from that region figured by W. E. Roth? and
by Koch-Griinberg * from the Taulipang and other tribes of North
Brazil and Venezuela are carved stools in the form of tutelary
animals. These, although evidently used as seats in the house, are
cult objects. (PI. 2, figs. 1, 2, and 3.)

The simple stool has a rather wide distribution in Central America,
the West Indies, and northern South America. The limits of its
distribution have not been worked out, and it is to be regretted that
Baron Erland Nordenskijold did not include the stool in his excellent
work on comparative ethnographical studies.* The stool also extends

1Perou et Bolivie, p. 522. Paris, 1880.

2 Arts, crafts, and customs of the British Guiana Indians. Thirty-eighth Ann. Rep.,
Bur. Amer. Ethnol.

?Vom Roraima Zum Orinoco, pls. 19, 49. Stuttgart, 1923.

An Ethno-geographical analysis of the material culture of two Indian tribes of the
Gran Chaco. Goteborg, 1919.

511
o12 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

into the southern United States. The Creeks in 1666 were described
as having in their council houses “thrones” for the cacique and
important persons and “small formes” around the fire for lesser
people.®

Aerican stools are invariably cut from the solid, joining being
practically absent in Indian arts. In consequence no seats with backs
or even rudimentary beginnings of joined backs are seen in con-
tinental America, the stool being at first, as suggested, only a but-
tock prop in the posture of squatting.

In discussing the stone and pottery objects in the form of stools
or metates resembling stools from Chirqui, Panama, Dr. W. H.
Holmes says:

As bearing upon the possible use of these specimens it should be noticed that
similar stool-like objects are made of clay, the softness and fragility of which
would render them unsuitable for use as mealing plates or mortars, and it would
also appear that they are rather fragile for use as stools. I would suggest that
they may have served as supports for articles such as vases or idols employed
in religious rites or possibly as altars for offerings.®

From other countries of Central America many remarkable exam-
ples showing skill in working stone have been found in archeologic
sites. In general they follow the form of the Indian stool cut from
a cylindrical block of wood sectioned from a tree trunk. It is
altogether likely that the precursors of the stone stools were of
wood.

The West Indian specimens surviving are of more aberrant form,
in some cases reaching to the rank of chairs, (PIl.4.) There are
three types: the common 4-legged metate form in stone, a hammock
form in stone and wood (pl. 3, figs. 1 and 2), and a remarkably ad-
vanced form of curved-back chair like a steamer chair which seems
to be a development of the hammock type. Specimens figured by
Dr. J. Walter Fewkes,’ used by Prof. O. T. Mason in his descrip-
tion of the Guesde collection, show that the chair represents a man
lying on his back with his hmbs drawn up to form the legs of the
piece. The chair is a unique example of aboriginal furniture design,
comparing favorably in art with any ancient Old World specimens.
West Indian stools ulustrate the advance made by these Indians
in culture. In some respects they corroborate the theory that tribes
in an insular environment are helped by their situation to develop
a high culture.

Among the more remarkable antiquities found in America are
the great carved stone seats from the province of Manabi, Ecuador.®

5 Swanton, J. R., Bull. 73, Bur. Amer. Ethnol., p. 64, 1922.

®Ancient art of the Province of Chiriqui. Sixth Ann. Rep., Bur. Amer. Ethnol., p. 29,
1888.

7™Twenty-fifth Ann. Rep., Bur. Amer. Ethnol., Pl. XCIII, 7, p. 206.

8 The antiquities of Manabi, Ecuador. By Marshall H. Saville. Contributed to South
American Archeology, vol. 1, pp. 28-49, pls. 4-27. The George G. Heye Expedition.
New York, 1907.
a

ANCIENT SEATING FURNITURE—HOUGH 513

These seats are found in a limited area, where they occur in consid-
able numbers. They consist of a base, a support carved in animal
or human form, and a U-shaped seat without back. Undoubtedly
these seats are of ceremonial character and formed part of the cult
objects in the flimsily constructed hill temples which have now dis-
appeared.”

In ancient Peru, according to Wiener,'® movable seats were not
used, and the various great works cut from the solid rock called
seats have not been explained by archeologists. They have no char-
acteristics of seats.

If the Mayas had simple seats of stone or wood, none has sur-
vived to be noted by explorers. Maya sculpture, however, preserves
some remarkable examples of thrones. One of these is shown with
a seated figure from the hieroglyphic stairway at Copan.’ The
figure is seated on the skin of a jaguar upon an oblong stool, the
earved part of which evidently represents woodwork. At one end of
the stool is seen the head of a captive, a motive appearing often in
Maya art in which gods are represented as seated on bound victims.

The stucco altar piece of a small temple at Palenque shows a
throne seat of massive design of jaguar heads and paws, the former
being the arms and the latter the feet of this piece. Between the
jaguar heads, on an elaborately worked cushion like a hassock, sits
a Maya god with right leg horizontal on the cushion and with out-
wardly flexed arms, in a graceful pose. This masterpiece of Ameri-
can aboriginal art is called the Beau Relief.1* The original has
disappeared through ravages of time, but the drawing made by
Waldeck fortunately preserves this marvel of design and modeling,
the climax of aboriginal art in the Western Hemisphere. Doctor
Holmes, on his visit to Yucatan in 1894, saw enough of the remains
of this superb work of art to guarantee the accuracy of the artist
Waldeck’s drawing. The Asiatic characteristics of this work are
noteworthy, but there is no ground for its attribution to any other
source than American. So far as known the pose of the being
represented is not duplicated in Maya art. The cushion is also
unique. (PI. 6.)

Corresponding to those of America, simple stools are found among
the tribes of lower culture in Africa and Asia. So far as may be
ascertained, the use of stools is quite general in Africa, but the
distribution has not yet been worked out. From the Somali of
Berbera on the Gulf of Aden comes a round dish-top, 4-legged stool

®A 4-legz curved stool reminiscent of the West Indian type recovered from the muck at
Key Marco, Fla., was figured by Frank Hamilton Cushing. Proc, Amer. Philos. Soc.,
vol, 35, No. 153, pl. 34, fig. 7, Nov. 6, 1896.

19 Op. cit., p. 520.

1 Gordon, G. B. Mem. Peabody Mus. Amer. Arch. & Ethnol., vol. 1, No. 6, p. 12.
Cambridge, Mass., 1902.

23Holmes, W. H. Art and Archaeology, vol. 1, No. 1, p. 1. Washington, July, 1904,
514 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

cut from solid wood. (PI. 7, fig. 1.) The Vai and Ewe of Liberia
make elaborately carved, curved, and flat seat stools, some with a
center column surrounded by four legs like the stools of the Ashanti.
(Pl. 13, figs. 2 and 3.) The Vai and Grebo have another kind of
stool of box-shape neatly laid up of squared strips of wood in log
cabin fashion. (PI. 18, fig. 1.) In the Niger-Benue region, multiple-
leg stools are found.

In the Belgian and French Congo a great variety of stools are
made, some of them remarkable examples of the wood-carver’s skill.
Among the Baluba and Sankerru is found a one or two legged stool
with openwork curved elliptic seat. (Pl. 10, fig. 1.) These suggest
the chief’s backrest collected by Herbert Ward (pl. 10, fig. 2), and
utilized by him in posing his notable bronze statue, “ The Chief of the
Tribe,” in the National Museum (pl. 11). One of the stools in this
collection is carved from a log, has a band indicating four legs, and is
carved on the back with a lattice or rickrack pattern on which is
represented a climbing snake. (PI. 8.)

An elaborately decorated 4-legged stool with nearly straight seat
having projections of human heads at the ends, is from the Congo
collection by Herbert Ward. (PI. 7, fig. 3.) In the Ward collection
is also a notable specimen of wood carving consisting of two disks
connected with four decorated bowed bands. (PI. 9, fig. 1.) In
another specimen a woman sits on a disk and holds up the seat on her
head and arms. (PI. 9, fig. 2.) As an example of what may be con-
sidered acculturation, a 4-legged stool with back braced by thongs
is shown from the Gribo of the western Sudan. (PI. 7, fig. 2.)

In the C. C. Roberts collection in the United States National
Museum from the Ashanti of the ivory coast of the Niger River
Basin, is a fine stool of hardwood in the form of a leopard, the
realistic carving, especially the head, reminding one of the Egyptian
caryings of cats. (See Maspero, Art in Egypt, N. Y., 1922, Fig. 195.)
(Pl. 12, fig. 2.) Another, from the Cameroon, more conventionally
carved, gives an impression of the massive stolidity of an elephant
at rest. The handling of masses and relating of lines is worthy of
study. CPI'12, fiz: 1:)

Asia for the most part shows no development of seating furniture,
a reclining position and cushions being indicated for the customs
of the predominating peoples. Among the less civilized peoples of
Malaysia, stools occur. In the island of Nias, round and oblong
4-leeged stools for common use are seen. (Pl. 14, figs. 1-3.) Figures
of ancestral gods in carved wood are sometimes seated on a 4-legged
stool and also on a cylindrical support. (Pl. 15, figs. 1-2.) The
Tagals of the Philippines make 4-legged joined bamboo seats, but
these may or may not show traces of acculturation. (Pl. 16, figs.
ANCIENT SEATING FURNITURE—HOUGH 515

1-2.) A well-finished hardwood stool from ‘Tahiti indicates that
the Polynesians of this island had advanced to the use of seating
furniture. (PI. 17.)

Otherwise among the Polynesians the only example noted is a
4-legged stool from Hawaii illustrated in the Edge-Partington and
Heape Album. The seat is practically absent in the islands of the
Pacific.

The simpler forms of seating furniture were widespread in
Europe. Not until the seventeenth century did chairs become usual.
Until the middle of the sixteenth century a chair in the hall or in
the master’s chamber was the rule and was “ the chair,” hence chair-
man for presiding officer. Others sat on benches or movable forms.
Benches and chests formed the basis of the interesting development
of household furniture in Europe. This subject has been excellently
treated by H. Clifford Smith.** The ancient stool was also common
in the folk furniture of Europe, but it was always joined. It is said
that an inventory of 1624 at Gilling Castle, Yorkshire, mentions only
two chairs, but lists 35 stools. Also, in 1669, when Charles IL enter-
tained the Grand Duke of Tuscany at dinner, the only chair was
provided for the guest of honor.

In the ancient centers of civilization something may be recov-
ered of the manner of seating furniture used. Monuments give in
some cases abundant data. The statue of Gudea, about 2500 B. C.,
shows this king seated on a stool having four feet. The pairs of
legs at the ends are pierced, giving them somewhat the form of
the capital letter A. Upon these rests the seat. The ends were
probably cut from a single slab of wood and the seat joined on by a
mortise. (Pl. 18.) On the monument of Hammurabi, 2267-2213
B. C., at Susa is represented that king before the sun god, Sammas.
The sun god is seated on a low chair throne which seems to be
joined work of slats of wood symmetrically arranged, as seen in
the quadrangular panel at the side of the throne presented in the
relief. (Pl. 19.) A more elaborate seat and other remarkably de-
signed furniture is seen in a votive tablet from Sippur, Mesapotamia.
(Pl. 20.) The explorations of Doctor Woolley at Ur bring to light
a similar scene of about 2700 B. C., showing a figure seated in a
joined chair with rungs, cushion, and back. ‘This chair is of superior
design and workmanship and is to all intents and purposes a modern
piece of furniture.** (Pl. 21.)

Furniture, it appears, reached its greatest development of ancient
times in Egypt. For variety, taste, and cabinetmaker’s skill, the

4*Catalogue of English furniture and woodwork. Vol. 1, Gothic and Early Tudor.
Publication of the Victoria and Albert Museum, London, 1923.
4 Museum Journal, yol. 20, No. 1, p. 28. Philadelphia, 1929.
516 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

furniture of Egypt contrasts favorably with that of any period.
Wall paintings show the manufacture of chairs and other furniture,
workmen making parts, indicating the division of labor. It is very
likely that Egypt must be looked to for the first great development
of jomery. Even with our knowledge of the skill of the Egyptians
in designing furniture, the luxurious pieces taken by Howard Carter
from the tomb of 'Tut-Ankh-Amen excite our liveliest wonder. The
ordinary people, in the midst of sumptuous furniture enjoyed by the
favored, were content with the very ancient stool.

Greek furniture reflects the art feeling of that highly cultured
nation. The chair in which sits Aphrodite as portrayed by the
Tanagra artist of Boetia in the figure in the Berlin Museum is a work
of splendor, massiveness, and genius. (Pl. 22.) <A cast of a great
seat of carved marble which was the chair of Dionysos Eleuthereus
from the theater of Dionysos at Athens, fifth century B. C., is
exhibited in the British Museum. (PI. 23.)

Something is known concerning the cult usages connected with
the stool or simple seats mentioned as occurring among uncivilized
tribes; more with regard to joined chairs appearing in the higher
civilizations and the thrones or seats of honor of gods and monarchs,

W. C. Farabee states that the men of the Jivaro Indians of East-
ern Peru sit on stools and the women must sit on the floor.* ‘The
stool here is the particular possession of men. In British Guiana
the Indians have in their houses stools that are used indiscriminately
and others carved in the form of animals as the alligator and
“tiger,” upon which a candidate for admission into a society was
made to sit down during initiation. Stools in animal shape evi-
dently had a fetishistic intent.1° Divining seats carved in the form
of the macaw or tiger and alligator combined are used in the prac-
tices of the Arawak doctors of British Guiana.’”

According to observers of 1556 the Samoyed shamans of Siberia
have a stool with a back which they use in their incantations. Refer-
ence is also made to a similar seat from the Indians of the northwest
coast of America.** It is probable this seat went out of use among
these Indians many years ago. From the description, “An arm
chair of cedar boards without legs,” apparently a modified chest is
meant.

Here and there are found traces of the employment of special
seats for the rituals of initiation and other purposes outside of
domestic uses. The idea here appears to be localization of the per-

1° Tribes of Eastern Pera. Papers Peabody Museum, vol. 10, p. 116, Cambridge,
Mass., 1922.

7° W. E. Roth, 38th Ann. Rep,, Bur. Amer. Ethnol., p. 274, 1924.

“W. HE. Roth. Animism and folk lore of the Guiana Indians. 30th Ann. Rep., Bur.
Amer. Ethnol., p. 330.

18 Jackson. The great frozen land. London, 1809, quoting Hakluyt, vol. 1, pp. 317-318.

ANCIENT SEATING FURNITURE—HOUGH 517

son or object honored, much as cult images are seated and placed
in temples.

The placing of effigies of gods on bases or thrones may have a
bearing on seating furniture. This interesting phase was sug-
gested to the writer many years ago by the late Dr. Stewart Culin.
The more primitive images had no bases except in some cases a
necessary device to secure equilibrium. The square plinth appears
to be the first move toward the placing of images. Art and religion,
inseparably associated in a constructive way for a long period, were
the determinative causes of the development of placement.

Seats required in occupations form an interesting series of objects.
The only American occupational seat is a 3-legged stool upon which
the Eskimo hunter sits while fishing through the ice. The seat
is a light, well-made piece of joined work. Occupational seats per-
haps present the first diversification of seating furniture, of which
our great variety is the culmination.

The general distribution of chairs in civilized countries shows
one of the notable developments of modern progress. From the
simple benches and stools of the seventeenth century there has come
a great variety of seating furniture satisfying every need for art,
luxury, taste, convenience, and practical use.

It is suggested that development of seats, aided by art and
invention, was fostered by the increasing delicacy and complexity of
the costumes of men and women. It is likely that the modification
of seats beyond the simple stool was mainly through the factor of
fashion except in the special uses mentioned. This is plainly seen
in the head rest’® originating in response to fashion in hair
dressing.

In spite of modern vaunted progress, it seems that the efforts of
the present age go little beyond that displayed in the furniture of
ancient Egypt except in materials and mechanical arts. The indus-
try, however, has grown to enormous proportions. ‘The outstanding
invention of our age is the ancestorless rocking chair. Folding
chairs which seem to be consonant with modern invention have an
ancient history, it being known from surviving specimens recovered
in Europe that Roman generals carried iron folding chairs into the
field. A drawing on a Greek amphora of about 500 B. C., in the
United States National Museum represents a figure seated on a
folding chair of metal. (PI. 24.) A Greek black-figured plate of
the sixth century B. C., in the Royal Ontario Museum of Archeology,
Toronto, Canada, shows Dionysos and Poseidon seated on such
chairs with Athene standing between them.*°

i. Graebner, Kopfbanke. Ethnologica. Band. III, pp. 1-14. Leipzig, 1927.
* Bull. Royal Ontario Museum of Arcb., January, 1929 (frontispiece).

28095—31——34
518 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

The use of animal forms so prevalent in the art of stools and
chairs is apparently normal in all art at a certain stage and grows
out of the importance of animals in cult. The stool in many cases
is nothing more than a practical appliance for raising the body
from the ground, but at times is found to take on a cult phase due
to social advances, that is, it becomes an adjunct of social superiority
and is designed accordingly to convey some symbolic evidences of
power. Chairs set apart the sitter and elevate him in more than
one sense. Hence seats are made in the form of totemic animals or
those supposed to possess attributes of cunning, strength, or ferocity.

Whatever of suggestiveness aside from cult ideas was involved
in the animal-leg furniture of Egypt it is difficult to say. The artist
in designing furniture would be likely to know more ancient models
which he would use, or he might see that a 4-legged chair or couch
suggests a quadruped intended to bear the weight of the sitter and
thus be led to model the legs after some animal. Unquestionably
these changes in style are frequent and are characteristic of the
designer’s art, but it is logical to trace them back to the animal cults
of the mythologic period so convincingly elaborated by Andrew Lang
in his Myth, Ritual, and Religion.**. In many, perhaps a major-
ity of cases, the practical side of seating furniture is seen to develop
parallel with cult ideas introduced into seats. These are seen in the
illustrations of many seats carved out in curious forms and lavishly
decorated but evidently expressing no cult idea.

21Vol. 11, p. 339. London, 1901.
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Hough PLATE 1

SIMPLE STOOLS FROM THE (1) HUPA INDIANS, CALIFORNIA, AND (2. 3) THE TAL-
AMANCA INDIANS, COSTA RICA

Cat. N 126523, 15461, 15448,
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Hough PLATE 2

3

ANIMAL FORM SEATS, BRITISH GUIANA
1, Praying mantis; 2, alligator; 3, turtle-alligator. Cat. Nos. 291727, 291760, 291724.
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Hough PLATE 3

2

WEST INDIAN CARVED WooD SEATS, ‘‘HAMMOCK"' TYPE, TURKS ISLAND
Cat. Nos, 30052, 30053,
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Hough PLATE 4

CARVED WOOD GROUP, TWO FIGURES SEATED ON A 4-LEG STOOL. SANTO
DOMINGO

Cat. No. 42662.
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Houg} CLA E 2

MASSIVE STONE SEAT. MANABI!, ECUADOR
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Hough PLATE 6

pies apcsnetsees 9
Hes! us atin

THE BEAU RELIEF.

PALENQUE, YUCATAN, MEXICO, FROM DRAWING BY WALDECK
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Hough PLATE 7

3

AFRICAN CARVED STOOLS

1, Somali, East Africa; 2, Grebo, Western Sudan; 3, Upper Congo. Cat. Nos. 175316, 261642, 323456.
Herbert Ward and other collections.
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Hough PLATE 8

t + * rt '
a

STOOL WITH BACK. UPPER CONGO
Cat, No. 323448. Herbert Ward collection.
MVPeVeTLYY VAS NY 440M 4erd 31666G OPPGEGE SYN 4°)

OONOD YAddN ‘STOOLS ASAYVD

6 ALWid ysnoy{ Oto! *‘yaoday Uvtuosy Mg
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Hough PLATE 10

2

TWO-LEG STOOL. AND CHIEF’S BACK REST, UPPER CONGO

Cat. Nos. 174760, 323659. Herbert Ward collection and Dorsey Mohum collection.
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Hough

PLATE 11

eh
Hey

4

ae

Fav A TATA TAY Aen YS

VAvavavaTatnvatmts®
TAA TATA Vin Te ..
Favava 7%,

Bepaane

-

CHIEF OF THE TRIBE. SCULPTURE IN BRONZE

BY HERBERT
USE OF BACK REST

WARD, SHOWING
UPPER CONGO, WEST

AFRICA
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Hough PLATE 12

2

CHIEF STOOLS IN FORM OF (1) ELEPHANT AND (2) LEOPARD. UPPER IVORY
COAST, WEST AFRICA

Cat. Nos. 349130, 349131. C.C. Roberts collection.
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Hough PLATE 13

ca i gett nt,
EE LPL LL OIE ALLE ELE LITTON Se ce my

2

JOINED STOOL AND CARVED STOOLS LIBERIA AND KAMERUN, WEST AFRICA

1, Vai, Liberia; 2, Gold Coast; 3, Kamerun.
"M01409[109 }30QV “IM “LETLES ‘OLTLES ‘ZOFLES ‘SON “JBO “WIB[eC Holey ‘e ‘% ‘opunseny ‘T
SHIGNI[ LSV4 ‘GNV71SI SVIN ‘SAVIVW

vl ALVW1d

“STOOLS DNONWO ANY “IVWOINAGNITAD ‘S3dVHS SSV1TSYNOH

lL

ysnoyj—¢6 1 ‘ yoday UPTUOSY FIWIG
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Hough PLATE 15

1 2

ANCESTRAL GODS SEATED ON STOOLS MALAY, NIAS ISLAND, EAST INDIES
1, Terraced throne seat; 2, simple stool. Cat. Nos. 256601, 237384. W. L. Abbott collection.
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Hough PLATE 16

jz.

BAMBOO STOOLS. TAGALS, LUZON, P. I.

1, With carved slats; 2, simpler stool with wooden legs. Cat. Nos. 216683, 216684.
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Hough PLATE 17

HARDWOOD SEAT WITH HANDLE TAHITI

Cat. No. 178603.
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Hough PLATE 18

STATUE OF GUDEA SEATED ON JOINED STOOL. MESOPOTAMIA

Cast from original in the Louvre, Paris. Cat. No. 154438.
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Hough PLATE 19

SCULPTURED SCENE ON STELE OF HAMMURABI SHOWING SEAT OF SUN GOD.
MESOPOTAMIA

Cast from original in the Louvre, Paris. Cat. No. 229758.
PLATE 20

—Hough

Smithsonian Report, 1930.-
BG

at ew

TT POL Lee
smart

eit; pet ta

errr rar
ERE Pres

sere gat Wyatt TE
>* rs Fe
; a :
id v- a" r a? we be / ied il naa
*
A erviet i7 2. . mn or a

VOTIVE TABLET OF THE SUN GOD SHOWING SEAT. SIPPUR, MESOPOTAMIA
Cat. No. 229672.

Cast from original in the British Museum.
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Hough

{ the University

IWR LO

Lio t TAS

EAN ZA LI
PEAS La -

cy
’

IRSAWY RADA N

, Se Ear \
‘ San CUNY x
FISSOA NS
A , ~ Au Sy

tI ~~? . ; ‘ “a OSSB

Museum, Philadelphia, Pa

Te WY RNA]
DIIY.IN

wv,
in dl
Maal;

PLATE 21

TABLET SHOWING SEATED FIGURE, UR, MESOPOTAMIA, 2700 B. C.

Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Hough PLATE 22

APHRODITE. TANAGRA, BOETIA, GREECE
Cat. No. 154724. Cast from original in the Berlin Museum.
PLATE 23
3 }
Smithsonian Report, 1930 Hough

~ . ~«s
c  ¢
at, BA ma

CAST OF CHAIR OF THE PRIEST OF

DIONYSOS ELEUTHEREUS

INSCRIBED WITH HIS NAME
DISCOVERED IN THE THEATRE OF DIONYSOS art ATHENS.

PRESENTED py MISS WINIFREDE WYSE 1864,

CHAIR OF DIONYSOS, ATHENS, GREECE

From a cast in the British Museum.
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Hough PLATE 24

VASE WITH SCENE OF AWARDING A PRIZE TO A VICTORIOUS ATHLETE
To left a figure seated on a folding metal chair. Orvieto, Italy, 600 B. C. Cat. No. 136415.
ASPECTS OF ABORIGINAL DECORATIVE ART IN AMER-
ICA BASED ON SPECIMENS IN THE UNITED STATES
NATIONAL MUSEUM

By Herpert W. Kribcer
United States National Museum

[With 37 plates]

Author's note-—The available data regarding primitive art are encyclopedic in
scope, but are not always readily accessible. In a brief article covering con-
tinental America, the barest of mention is made of several styles of decorative
and representative art. New data are offered for consideration along with
facts that are well known, while principles of primitive design are treated from
a geographic point of view, considering tribal groups as they existed before
their disruption after contact with the white race.

STYLE IN PRIMITIVE DECORATIVE ART

Geographic stability of design—In primitive society decorative
designs appear as excrescences embellishing the arts and crafts.
They constitute the hall mark of the primitive artisan. Charac-
teristic forms of decorative design, like the technical structure or
style of its artistic expression are local in their development. Art
designs never wander far afield, and scarcely ever flourish when
borrowed. Each of the more generally diffused elements of design
as the triangle and zigzag or alternate spur, the spiral, the swastika
or axial cross, and the meandered guilloche has a distinct local style
which may never be mistaken when once one has become familiar
with it in its local setting. Many examples of the ideosyncrasies of
style might be cited. The designs of the Eskimo engraved on ivory
tusks of the walrus or prehistoric mammoth and carvings in the
round on wood by the Pacific Northwest Coast Indian tribes are
characteristic each of a definite style area even to the point of dif-
ferentiation of many subareas of design. Thus the Tlingit animal
totem of southeast Alaska, though a realistic form of sculpture in
wood, appears plain and crude when contrasted with the same
totemic pattern as treated by the Haida, their British Columbian
neighbors on the south. Again, the wood carving of the Maori of
New Zealand with its repeated embellishment of engraved spirals
may never be mistaken for decorative carvings of the Melanesians
whose designs are likewise frequently characterized by the engraved

519
520 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

spiral. The same individuality of style may be seen in the peculiar
body tattoo marks of the Marquesan Islanders, or in the metal
crafts of Nigerian tribes, in woven textiles of the Haussa, or in
pottery of the Ashanti of the Ivory and Gold coasts of West Africa.

There seems to be a key design peculiar to each distinctive art area
that unlocks the secret of the origin of other designs from the same
area. Trequently this key is merely a conventionalized form applied
to any of the arts as textiles, wood carvings, pottery, or metal crafts.
Examples are the cat or dog designs stamped on Peruvian textiles;
the molded zoomorphic figurine heads on West Indian pottery; the
engraved dog, leech, and leaf designs in Malaysia; the frigate bird
design in Polynesia; or the double spiral and crocodile pattern of
Melanesia. African metal work is distinctive; its various elements
of form and design can not be mistaken for Malay metal work, each
having its distinctive origin and development; for example, the
modern brass and bronze casting of Benin in west central Africa
was introduced by the Portuguese in the eighteenth century, and has
a European flavor. In a similar way bronze castings and objects of
iron from the Bronze and Iron Ages of prehistoric Europe are
distinct from modern African metal work, while Malay metallurgy
has Asiatic affiliations.

Application to the demands of the practical arts generally oc-
cupies civilized man to a far greater degree than it does the un-
civilized. Somehow it seems that with the increased comfort and
security characteristic of modern western civilization go augmented
duties impinging on that portion of the universal culture complex
that among all peoples passes under the name of artistry.

Realism of Magdalenian art-—The primitive artist works with the
media with which he is most familiar. This may be seen in the
cave art of the Magdalenian, whose serious occupation never exceeded
that of the hunter. This artist, therefore, permitted free range to
his artistic impulses to draw and to model animal life as he knew it.
Game animals are most frequently represented. The horse and the
red deer, also the lion and the hyena are depicted. The artists of the
Old Stone Age produced realistic representations of bison, horse, and
mammoth with a true appreciation of form. In plastic as in the
graphic arts they modeled or depicted both animal and human forms.
Sculpture in bone and in ivory display their ability to catch a pose.
Life attitudes are perpetuated in their incised drawings. Even in
the use of color there is a fine appreciation of values, particularly
with regard to blends and shades.

Culture change and decay of design—tin the history of primitive
decorative design there have been periods of progress and of retro-
gression. Retrogression in art forms appears to have followed

ee Pt Sa

ABORIGINAL DECORATIVE ART—-KRIEGER 521

closely on the invention of weapons, tools, and implements serving
to make for change in the practical arts, as hunting. Decadence
in art forms formerly closely associated with arts of daily life fol-
lowed the close of the Magdalenian culture period in Europe, as all
attention apparently went into the shaping and production of the new
accessories of material culture during the Azilian and early Neolithic,
before the full blossoming of the New Stone Age both in the Old
World and in the New.

With the invention of pottery in the Neolithic come new forms
and with it new styles of graphic and decorative arts. Cave life
had passed; the outlook upon the world had become that of the
sedentary tillers of the soil. As the arts of the new era were
mastered, new decorative designs hinged not upon geographical
and occupational areas, but upon inventions in tool making and new
forms of weapons and implements. In Europe there followed at
an accelerated pace after the close of the New Stone Age, an age of
Bronze, and later an age of Iron. In Europe, neither the Neolithic,
the Bronze, nor the Iron Ages paused long enough to permit full
flowering of crafts and arts into artistic forms. Geometrical de-
signs alone survived, and if we are to judge from the unhappy
modeling of the human figure in the Neolithic, realistic representa-
tions in Europe were lacking from each of the great periods fol-
lowing the Magdalenian. Save for ornaments almost all of our
knowledge of Bronze Age design is derived from geometrical decora-
tions on weapons such as knives, swords, and shields, and on imple-
ments. Even the pictographic art of Neolithic and post-Neolithic
Europe is more crudely done than that dating back to the
Magdalenian.

What is primitive art?—Primitive art as usually understood, how
ever, is the product of geographic areas and of peoples who have
for some reason not shared in the technical development centering
about metallurgy in Europe. Other great metallurgical centers,
as southeastern Asia and central Africa, developed art styles more
commensurate with local developments in culture generally and
were not disturbed by the early organized diffusion of western trait
complexes.

When man attempts to represent objects of nature through the
graphic arts of drawing, engraving, or painting, he is confronted
with the problem of showing 3-dimensional objects on 2-dimen-
sional surfaces. Primitive peoples solve this problem in a manner
different from ours. Perspective is utilized by the civilized artist
to give a visual presentation of the object as it appears to us in
photography. The primitive artist realized that such a view must
exclude from vision certain features essential for its recognition,
522 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

the eye, for instance, when the individual is seen from the back.
Primitive art puts the eye in the picture regardless of its misplaced
position and a pictograph gives way among the uncivilized to an
ideographic presentation of essential features regardless of relative
position. Profile views with both eyes showing or distortion of
features to bring them into the picture are thus characteristic of
primitive design.

Art styles, while products of cultural change, are in the main
geographic. With many characteristics in common, areas in primi-
tive art are recognizable. ‘Thus South American and West Indian
Arawak delineation of the human body is in the form of a triangle
with the point downward, or in the form of a rectangle, the two
descending lines of the triangle or rectangle being continued as legs,
while the horizontal line at the top represents the shoulder line and
is continued outward to represent the arms. In other areas the hu-
man body is often represented by a curved line which is open below
and terminates in the legs and feet. The Eskimo silhouette shows
only the outline of the figure depicted, but a realistic impression is
conveyed nevertheless. The Indian artist of the American Pacific
coast filled in details of a realistic nature in a distinctly modern
manner.

Symmetry.—Body decoration in the form of tattooing, painting,
and cicatrization takes on a peculiar local style which may be dis-
tinguished when analyzed according to the principles of form in art.
The symmetrical arrangement of lines whether etched, tattooed, or
painted is frequently the key. The Andaman Islanders and other
Oceanic peoples decorate their bodies with symmetrical patterns;
Australian boomerangs, churingas, and message sticks have sym-
metrically incised or painted designs. Symmetry in beadwork in
America and Malaysia may also be noted. Even the Fuegians of
South America understand symmetry in body decoration.

It is strange that among primitive peoples the lower forms of deco-
rative art follow certain principles or elements in art design which
are violated when once this primitive people has reached the stage of
pottery manufacture. Symmetry in pottery design is not obtainable
without the aid of a potter’s wheel, which was never invented in any
of the pottery-making areas of America or Oceania. The corrugated
effect produced by the pueblo potter by means of thumbprints on the
yet plastic coils of clay represents one type of pueblo design that is
symmetrical. Bilaterally applied zoomorphic figurine heads on
earthenware bowls of the eastern United States and the West Indies
are other examples of the balancing of unsymmetrical pottery vessels
through decorative embellishment. Bannerstones of the Indians of
Pennsylvania have symmetrical bird or wing shapes. Vertical

vl) Bacv-

ABORIGINAL DECORATIVE ART—-KRIEGER 523

symmetry may also be observed in Melanesian shields or in their
designs on paddles and arrows, also on Polynesian dressing boxes
of carved wood. Decorations of Melanesian houses have a rhythmic
repetition of design motive. Banded patterns on bamboo, although
differing one from another, are symmetrical in themselves and are
repeated at rhythmic intervals giving a pleasing effect for the pat-
tern as a whole. ‘The omission, inversion, and distortion of pat-
tern is carried out with almost mathematical precision. In Peru-
vian art on textiles, stamped blocks each incorporating a conven-
tionalized life form of a cat or fish, for example, are repeated at
regular intervals. Perhaps the simplest form of this rhythmic repe-
tition pertains to brasses, bronzes, and iron objects from Malay and
other oriental metal-work centers. Figures carved in the round,
alfhough produced by the Maori, the Melanesian, the African, the
Haida of the Pacific northwest coast, the Aztec, the Eskimo, and
the prehistoric West Indian Arawak, yet are sufficiently distinctive
to become a key or index to the art of a geographic design area. In
carving in the round, certain subsidiary principles arbitrary in their
nature lead up to differences in their execution. ‘The element of
grotesqueness, frequently misunderstood, enters into the designs of
each of the areas just mentioned so far as carvings in the round are
considered. The omission of parts, the repetition of others, the mis-
placement to fit the media on which the design is applied—all these
principles are well understood by the primitive wood carver; yet for
each there is a difference in style.

Tools——Tools used in executing art motives frequently effect a
difference in the finished product, in other words, in style. The
North American Indian uses a knife having a single-curved cutting
edge while the African uses a straight double-edged knife. Not only
in tools do we see a cause for the development of different art styles,
even when applied to the same element of design such as the spiral,
but in the manner, in which they are used do we find a considerable
difference in the end results. This may be illustrated through the
use of hammers whether held in the hand or attached to a handle.
Cultural habits complicate the explanation of styles in art still fur-
ther. Squatting tribes, for example, naturally do not develop artis-
tically embellished stools or seats. A development of art in hair _
coiffures naturally leads to the invention and ultimate artistic em-
bellishment of a neck rest. This we see at its best in Africa and in
Japan. Development of tools in the form of molds, stamps, dies,
patterns, drills, and bellows are but a few that might be named as
having made possible the progress of design.

Rhythm.—tThe use of some one feature or detail repeatedly to
express entirely different ideas is perhaps seen to best advantage
in the repeated use of the eye motive by the Pacific northwest coast
524 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

Indian tribes. Other peoples also make repeated use of the eye
motive. However, it remains an eye with them even when repeated-
ly used in a meander or scrolled design. In northwest coast Indian
designs, however, the eye may represent joints, such as the elbow or
the knee; it may represent the arm or leg, simply standing as a part
for the whole; or it may represent the entire animal in conjunction
with one or two other conventionalized features. The incised circle
and dot, or nucleated circle in flat relief occurs widely in North and
South America, but is used in a different way among different tribes.
The Eskimo and the tribes of the upper plateau apparently use it in
a purely decorative way without any symbolical or representative
value. On pottery from South America and the West Indies, the
circle and dot element becomes the eye, or it may stand for some
particular kind of eye and thus represent a bird or a snake or the
entire reptilian family.

Art areas —The character of decorative primitive art is capable of
geographic treatment. Art of a given kind characterizes a given
region, with borders sometimes fairly definite, sometimes merging
into the art designs and motives of adjoining regions by minute de-
grees of transition. Each tribe has art not exactly duplicated by
that of any other. Even isolated villages within the tribal area
develop marked divergences in design clearly intelligible to those
who know.

Art areas, however, usually include several tribes occupying a geo-
graphical unit. The Eskimo constitute an art area, also a culture
area, although they are not a single tribe. Linguistically the entire
Arctic is a single area in the sense that the language spoken by an
Eskimo in Canada may be understood by a north Siberian aborigine
even though not an Eskimo. In ceramic and other art developments
cropping out of a perfected pottery technique, we find eastern Siouan,
Muskhogean, Caddoan, Timucuan, Calusan, and other tribal stocks
sharing one art area, connected with West Indian and northern
Colombian tribal designs. Likewise in the wooded sections of the
Great Lakes and of the upper Mississippi Valley we may speak of a
ereat art area shared by diverse linguistic and tribal stocks.

The general use of the swastika or almost all symbolism in the
form of variants of the cross has a different application, and differ-
ent meanings attached as we proceed from country to country and
tribe to tribe. The use of the spiral is so widespread as to be of no
significance in itself, although the technic employed in its execution
may betray the maker. The spiral, common alike to painted designs
on pueblo pottery in the Southwest and to etched designs on bamboo
or wood in Polynesia or in lower Melanesia, can everywhere in the
three areas be distinguished as to the maker by the crudity or excel-
lence of workmanship. ‘The spiral and associated double-curve

a a)

ABORIGINAL DECORATIVE ART—KRIEGER 525

design representing originally zoomorphic forms, as the horns of the
water buffalo in Celebes or the frigate bird in Polynesia, are almost
mechanically perfect when incised on bamboo or gourds in western
Polynesia. The spiral is crudely done in Melanesia and New
Guinea. Not only are individual designs poorly or well done in one
area, but all of the designs share alike and take their cue from the
quality of the key design. We may thus speak of the excellence or
of the crudity of design as characteristic of art areas.

The discrepancies observable between a similar art design of one
tribe and that of another, and between one culture area and that of
another show that designs and motives become devitalized as they
travel from area to area. Designs like the cross and the swastika
originated in more than one area, and have traveled no great
distances.

Design motivation—Types of art are recognizable by their pre-
dominant motives. Realism in Magdalenian and early Mediterra-
nean art has been mentioned. Although realism enters into the de-
signs of several geographical art areas, there are peculiarities char-
acteristic of each of the areas. Dominance of a pattern of a similar
nature in distinct or widely separated geographic areas, such as the
“archaic” forms of human and animal figurines modeled in earth-
enware, found alike in the Valley of Mexico, and in South America,
has mistakenly led to the assumption that the areas were directly
related. Similarity in embellishment of an artistic nature is often
accompanied, however, by structural differences in the object on
which the artistic embellishment appears. Differences in symbolism
or use may accompany similar artistic devices and designs. How
many meanings, for instance, have not been read into forms of the
cross or swastika ?

Geometrical motives predominate where the designs are associated
with basketry, or beads, or woven objects generally. It is a ques-
tion whether their appearance on other materials, such as shell, wood,
and other media, may be ascribed to the exigencies of a weaver’s
technic, when, as is the case in the art of Plains tribes, where weav-
ing of textiles is not practiced, triangular and other painted devices
are applied on rawhide boxes and pouches.

It is but recently in the history of our own western art that we
have been freed from the tendencies to add features deemed essential
but which were not conveyed by a photographic impression, which
is but a momentary one. Thus, on the old pictorial maps we see
not only lines of latitude, coast lines, and contour features, but ships
at sea, dragons of the deep, and perhaps other objects designed to
teach a moral lesson. A succession of impressions were placed in
juxtaposition.
526 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

In painting we wish to see permanent colors, expressing ideas and
idealizations, not impressions of the moment. Thus the contrast
between photography and what we consider fundamental appears
even in modern civilized art, although civilized style of presentation
of such permanent features is far more sophisticated, and often more
pleasing, than is the case with primitive art.

Conventionalism in primitive art need not be unrealistic; when
possible, as in clay modeling or in wood carving, realistic portraiture
is quite commonly found along with conventional or grotesque
designs.

Modern Malayan art, for example, ranges far superior to pre-
historic European achievement. It was only with the coming of
Grecian influence to northern Europe that art forms developed there
beyond the initial crude stage of the later Stone Age.

MASKS

The primary association of the mask is with serious religious
practices rather than with decorative art. With this, however, is
combined the semireligious masked dance. The use of death masks
in aboriginal America is perhaps limited to that section of the west-
ern highlands both of North and South America where the use of
the mask itself had reached its greatest development. The mask
was used in ancient Peru and the false head or mask is a common
accessory with Peruvian mummies.

Contrasting with the false head on mummy bundles there appears
in the lowland region of South America a form of dance mask. Its
use is quite extensive as far north as the valley of the Orinoco
River. In Mexico and in Central America the use of the mask
apparently was general. The mosaic mask of the Aztec is a wooden
mask which was overlaid with designs built up with small particles
of turquoise. The stone temples in Mayan territory show in low
relief profiles of priests wearing masks. Sometimes these temples
have panels of plumed warriors and priests in low relief.

In the United States many tribes were apparently not addicted
to the use of the mask. In the Northeast were the Iroquois, who
were specialists in the manufacture and use of masks carved from
single blocks of wood. Such masks were grotesque, with lips pro-
truding, nose at tilt, and eye sockets cavernous. These faces rep-
resent mythical creatures essentially human. In the more totemic
tribes the representations on masks are of animals, birds, and mon-
sters of various descriptions. Between these two extremes we find
many tribes, both east of the Mississippi and on the Western
plains, among whom masks were in vogue. East of the Mississippi,
the Cherokee, Chippewa, Delaware, Choctaw, and Seminole used
a eS = 2 ae

ABORIGINAL DECORATIVE ART——-KRIEGER 527

carved wooden masks. ‘The tribes of the Pacific northwest coast,
however, reached the highest development in mask carving.

In Micronesia and Melanesia numerous wooden masks were fash-
ioned culminating in the masquerade costume of the Papuans of
New Guinea. The Malay peoples developed the marionette rather
than the mask, although there are certain traces of the primitive
mask in central Celebes and Borneo. In Siam and Java, and on up
into the continental hinterland of Eastern Asia, the elaborate demon
and devil mask is everywhere present. ‘The demon mask of the
Tibetans is the most striking example of this sort. In structure the
masks are simple where the ceremony is simple; where the ritual is
more elaborate the masks are also complex.

In structure the Tibetan mask, in a way, is reminiscent of the
mosaic masks of Mexico. Such casual resemblance, however, must
be ascribed to the natural limitation of the mask rather than to an
actual cultural contact or to a diffusion of this form of mask.

Judge J. G. Swan, one of the earliest students of northwest coast
Indian lore, describes a ceremony which he witnessed and gives
some information regarding the structure of the wooden mask of
the northwest coast Indian. “Some are very ingeniously executed,
having the eyes and lower jaw movable by means of a string so the
performer can make the eyes roll about and the jaws gnash together
with a fearful clatter. As these masks are kept strictly concealed
until the time of the performances and as they are generally pro-
duced at night, they are viewed with awe by the spectators, and
certainly the scene in one of these lodges dimly lighted by the fires
which show the faces of the assembled spectators and illuminate the
performers, presents a most weird and savage spectacle when the
masked dancers issue forth from behind a screen of mats and go
through their barbarous pantomimes. The Indians themselves, even
accustomed as they are to masks, feel very much afraid of them,
and a white man viewing the scene for the first time can only liken
it to a carnival of demons.”

Masks are not always identical in size with the human head or
the head of the animal they are supposed to represent. They may
be modeled in miniature, or they may be grotesquely enlarged. The
stone and bone images worn on their forehead by the West Indian
Arawak, also the carved whalebone or horn mask worn on the brow
of the Shaman of the Pacific northwest coast Indian tribes, are
diminutive examples. Some of the largest and most grotesque
masks known come from widely separated areas. From central New
Guinea comes the demon dancing mask, which not only covers the
entire body of the dancer, but projects 10 to 15 feet above the bearer’s
head. Bird masks from the northwest coast are frequently large
528 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

enough to completely hide the operator. The human form assumed
at will by all animate creatures is often represented in compound
masks just beneath the animal’s snout or beak. Often the animal
mask is fitted as an outer false face covering the inner mask of
human features, During a ceremony the outer mask is made to open
up and reveal the inner face.

Formerly among most primitive peoples the mask was more or
less of a personal possession of the shaman or medicine man. Only
he could make the masks. Later, anyone might make or use them at
will. Still later in our own civilization masks are a staple object of
trade, having first lost most of their original significance. Some of
the reasons given by the shaman for assuming the spirit of the animal,
figuratively speaking, and for donning the features of the animal
itself in the form of a mask, are to cure disease, forecast success or
lack of success during the coming hunting or fishing season, to ward
off danger from enemies, to supplicate the gods for rain to break
a drought, to insure production and plentiful supphes. They are
always intimately associated with fertility rites. In other words, the
use of the mask originated as a purely selfish method of getting the
properties of mythical and actual creatures to aid the individual.
This is best typified among the Jivaro Indians of Ecuador. <A warrior
takes possession of his enemy’s soul and becomes endowed with all
of his strength by the simple process of successfully cutting off the
enemy’s head. It is then carried suspended from the belt and is a
great aid to the Jivaro warrior. <A similar belief motivates the
Ifugao of Luzon when he goes on a head-hunting expedition.

As the material of which masks are usually made is limited to cer-
tain objects such as wood, basketry, bark, hair, or woven fabrics, gen-
erally, there appears to be a remarkable similarity in the masks of cer-
tain widely separated peoples. Thus the wooden mask of the western
Kskimo is practically identical with the wooden mask of the Melane-
sians of New Ireland, a remote island in the South Pacific. Or
again, a typical wooden mask from Java resembles very much the
earthenware masks from western China. The Iroquois Indian mask
is very much like that of the Cherokee and other Indian tribes of the
Southeastern States, which, in turn, resembles those of the Alaskan
iskimo. Perhaps the closest resemblance is between peoples whose
territory joins, as western Eskimo and northwest coast Indians, Mel-
anesians and Polynesians. Thus the masks made by the Eskimo of
the western Alaskan coast are copied by the Indians of the Yukon
Valley. In a collection of 80 masks from Anvik, Alaska, a Tinne
village perhaps 50 miles from the nearest Eskimo habitation, identity
with western Eskimo masks in form, structure, and use is striking.
Not only are the different masks representing different animals iden-
ABORIGINAL DECORATIVE ART—KRIEGER 529

tical in name, but their detailed ceremonial use corresponds. These
masks are used in ceremonies having to do with ushering in the hunt-
ing or the fishing season. It is sincerely believed by the Eskimo, and
also by the Tinne on the Yukon, that proper ceremonies insure
success in their economic undertakings. The celebration in which
animals masks play an important part is always accompanied by a
feast, popularly referred to as a potlatch, a term that originated far
to the south among the Tlingit of southeast Alaska.

Among primitive peoples generally, the relation of animals with
humans is based more or less on magic. Animals are supposedly
gifted with magic powers of assuming human forms at will, of per-
forming supernatural acts, and generally conducting themselves
so as to defy the laws of nature. Therefore they must be propitiated,
especially during crises in human life.

It seems that the bear, along with the raven and the coyote, are
about on a par with the fox and the bear in European folk lore.
These animals have supernatural powers; they are sly, they are
tricksters, and at the same time they are culture heroes. The anal-
ogy between animal folk lore of Europeans and primitive peoples
generally is almost startling.

A typical mask ceremony of the Yukon Indians is known as the
“feast of animal souls.” Its object is to assure success in hunting,
and it is therefore celebrated in midwinter when the hunting season
is best. Representations of the animals are carved on the ends of
sticks which are stuck up at various spots in the community gather-
ing place or kashime. Inflated bladders of as many different kinds
of game animals as possible are contributed by the different families
of the community. ‘These are hung on a cord stretched across the
kashime and the cord is shaken, causing the bladders to rattle. Dur-
ing the progress of the feast everyone must be reverent in his be-
havior, taking care to step softly in entering the kashime, and taking
their places without noise or unseemly behavior. There is a succes-
sion of songs illustrating animal stories and legends. Boys repre-
senting the various families of the community are dressed in their
furs with ornaments of wolf tails and wolf heads. <A form of ice
cream is then brought into the kashime in great bowls; on each bowl
are stuck small models of deadfalls and other objects having to do
with the hunt. The ceremonial eating of ice cream is observed in
strict silence, even the whisper of a child being subject to severe
reprimand. All of the animal mask feasts or ceremonies of the
Tinne are very carefully rehearsed even to the waving of the feather
plumes and the beating of drums. It is at the same time both pleas-
ing and ludicrous to observe the graceful movements of the dancers
who during rehearsals are encumbered with their babies and their
530 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

heavy out-of-door clothing. The ceremonial preparation and eating
of ice cream is a trait extending from one end of the Tinne territory
to the other. “ Ice cream” is a concoction of bear fat, fish oil, prefer-
ably deer fat, blueberries or other berries, ceremonially stirred with
the hand and arm bared to the elbow, during which time not a soul
in the assembled throng is permitted to speak. Snow is slowly
mixed with the other ingredients until the whole assumes the creamy
pinkness of ice cream. When deer fat is used the preparation is
edible enough, but with the addition of rancid oils and fats, more
or less putrified, the concoction becomes unpalatable to the uniniti-
ated. All night long stories are told about the hawk, the deer, and
other animals, the women gladly sharing in the labor of making the
ice cream so that their husbands shall have success in hunting.

The wearing of a mask is the usual method of impersonating the
animal counterpart of a mythical human-animal being. When the
American Indian impersonates a buffalo or a bear he puts the skin
of the head over his own head and looks out through the eye holes.
The effect is heightened by having the whole skin falling over the
shoulders of the wearer and down the back. When a wooden image
of a bear head is carved, the northwest coast Indian impersonates
the bear and skillfully increases the illusion by growling and walk-
ing about bear fashion.

The antiquity of the animal dance is evidenced by many etchings
and paintings on rocks of cave walls and of cliffs, such an important
ceremonial as the Hopi snake dance, which is an ancient prayer for
rain, being etched in detail on rock cliffs near Flagstaff, Ariz. The
so-called Katchina mask occurs as a rock etching or painting
throughout a wide area of the Southwest.

Most of the masks used by primitive peoples depend upon the en-
vironment for the material of which they are shaped. Thus the
West Indian Arawak developed a culture in stone not native to their
ancestral home in the forested lowlands of South America. This
art culminated in the stone maskettes of Porto Rico and Santo
Domingo. Similarly we may refer to the high development of wood
carving among the tribes of the Pacific Northwest coast region.
Reaching its highest development somewhere in southeast Alaska or
British Columbia, this extensive art area extended as far north as
the Arctic coast of Alaska and as far south as central California.
Throughout this entire area the use of masks prevailed. Another
extensive area in the development of masks was ancient Mexico.
Here, however, as in the West Indies, we again find a development
of sculptured forms in stone. In the Old World—that is, in China,
India, and in the outlying districts of Hindu culture—masks play
an important part even to-day. The use of earthenware and of
leather in the shaping of masks is characteristic of this area. Here
ABORIGINAL DECORATIVE ART—KRIEGER 531

we find a close resemblance in the leather puppets and dance figurines
used in Java, Siam, Burma, Ceylon, Japan, and China.

Occasionally the Indian or the primitive Malayan, the Australian,
or the African did not resort to masks but daubed his face with col-
ored clay. Perhaps the greatest caricature of a masked human being
is the Australian who has ceremonially daubed his face and body
with ochres and clays in readiness for his very serious ceremonies or
dances. Tribes living in regions subjected to great drought have
developed a lore of animal life in the desert. The lowly Bushman
and the primitive Australian have not advanced beyond the mimicry
of animal sounds and actions familiar to them. An example of this
is the dance of native Australian women imitating the jumping of
the kangaroo.

DECORATIVE ART OF THE ESKIMO AND INDIAN TRIBES OF THE
PACIFIC NORTHWEST COAST

Eskimo design—The engraved and carved objects of Eskimoan
decorative art, characterized by the extensive use of ivory materials.
has been likened to the art of the Magdalenian culture. stage of
central and southern Europe. The answer apparently is that, due to
the Arctic environment it could not very well be otherwise. We do
know, however, that the decorative art of the western Eskimo
merges into that of the Pacific northwest coast Indian tribes. This
may at once be noted in the realism of animal and human figurine
carvings in wood and ivory in the two adjoining areas. Masks are
a characteristic feature of Eskimo art as also of the northwest Pa-
cific coast. The sculpturing of human features in wood, stone, bone,
and ivory links up Eskimo art with a larger Pacific coast art area
extending south as far as San Francisco Bay and central California.
Representation of totem animals is also characteristic of the two
areas. This representation is in part realistic and in part symbolic.
Incised designs on wood, bone, and walrus or fossil mammoth ivory
characterize similarly the art of the western Eskimo and of tribes
of eastern Siberia. Feather decorations on hoods or coats, also em-
broidery work in border designs utilizing the hair of the seal are
noteworthy.

The earlier geometric art of the Eskimo of Alaska is an offshoot
of the boreal design area of northern and eastern Canada. The
curvilinear designs engraved on bone and ivory are generally of the
double spiral type of engraved and embroidered designs common to
Indian tribes from the Naskapi of Labrador to the Dene of the valley
of the Mackenzie. The design is not discontinued there but may be
traced in beaded moccasin designs of the Tinne of the Yukon Valley
westward across Bering Strait to the Amur River peoples of Siberia
532 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

where the design is perpetuated in embroidery alone, engraving be-
coming less common as the distance from the sea and the source of
suitable material such as walrus ivory is diminished. There is a
trace of the spiral and double curve to be found also among the
wood carving tribes of the Pacific northwest coast, where it vanishes
before the more powerful zoomorphic totemic design patterns and the
plastic art of the Pacific coast area characterized by sculptures in
wood. The realism of Eskimo silhouette engraving is noteworthy in
that its technic remains simple. The ivory tusk having first been
softened by immersing in urine, a base line is engraved lengthwise of
the tusk. Outlines of animal forms, of landscape scenes in silhouette,
of huts, canoes, and humans in profile are lightly etched. The out-
lines are filled in with cross hachure, blackened with dirt and grease,
the whole picture representing a scene from the daily life of Arctic
America. The figures give a sense of life and mobility.

Wood carvings in the round—Carving and modeling in the round
are peculiarly the achievements of the north Pacific coast and Es-
kimo tribes. Carving first appears in northern California and be-
comes more prolific in Oregon, Washington, and British Columbia,
the Haida of the Queen Charlotte Islands and the Tlingit of south-
east Alaska being the most adept carvers in wood and horn.
Great totem poles and house columns are peculiar only to a small
area of British Columbia and southeastern Alaska, while the ex-
quisitely carved small horn spoons, images, and countless types of
carved wooden objects appear from California to Point Barrow.
Wood becomes scarce and is replaced with ivory north of British
Columbia, and ivory carving begins with the Tlingit in southeastern
Alaska and reaches its highest artistic development at the hands of
the Eskimo on the bleak, barren coast of northwest Alaska. Along
the eastern stretches of the Arctic in the homes of the central and
eastern Eskimo their typical arts become marginal and artistic carv-
ing is less characteristic.

Decorative art in relief—Relief carving upon the outside of
wooden bowls results from an attempt to carry around the walls of
the vessel definite designs of animals or men in such a way that
the body of the bowl becomes also the body of the creature whose
features appear carved on the outer wall surface. When a flat sur-
face is decorated, the whole figure is spread out upon it. Sometimes
designs of totemic animals are merely laid out in color and become
thus more conventionalized. Indian tribes of British Columbia and
of southeast Alaska practice their decorative art in a more intensive
way as it is, in part, their expression of beliefs concerning family
ancestors and culture traditions. North of the Tlingit and south
ABORIGINAL DECORATIVE ART——KRIEGER 533

of the Nootka, of Vancouver Island, vessels may still be carved in
the lifelike forms of animals, but are there devoid of relief
ornamentation.

A textile center is located among the Salish tribes of inland
Washington and British Columbia. Small geometric figures in col-
ored yarns woven in a twined technic as in the basketry of the Haida
and Tlingit make up a decorative pattern resembling the quilled
woven bands of the Dene of the adjacent caribou area. The Chilkat
blanket, woven by the northern coast Tlingit is decorated more in
harmony with inland designs. Weaving of complex designs in
twined blankets from patterns painted on wood are characteristic
of Chilkat textile art. In fact, the weaving of goat’s and dog’s hair
into blankets or robes with decorative design in color not only rivals
the products of the Navaho and aboriginal Mexican looms, but hints
at ancient connections with the weaving technic of the south.

In the National Museum exhibit of Tlingit and Haida costumes
are large ceremonial blankets of goat’s hair such as is being woven
in the large Chilkat group case; robes of tanned deer skin bordered
with quilled fringe and superb decoration in color; splendidly
painted dance aprons trimmed with fur and fringed with deer
hoof tinklers; and a woven dance apron trimmed with puffin beaks.

The house architecture, sculpture in wood, horn, slate, and the
wood carver’s arts of the northwest coast tribes have aroused wonder
and admiration from the time of their discovery by the Russian
explorer Bering, who first landed at what is now called Sitka,
Alaska, in 1741. The earliest account of their peculiar arts dates
back to descriptions written by Captain Cook in 1778. No mention
is made by him of ever having observed totem poles, although his
artist illustrates a house interior showing the great interior house
posts with their carved totemic crests,

Totemic forms and totem poles——Nowhere else in the world may
one find a similar type of art. It represents for the most part the
carved figures of animal forms, usually of well-known animals, such
as the beaver, bear, killer-whale, shark, hawk, eagle, and raven, but
also of mythical creatures such as the thunderbird, which makes
lightning by the flash of its eyes and thunder by the clapping of its
wings,

These carved images find expression on the tall wooden totem poles,
house posts, dugout canoes; in fact, on almost every object of daily
use from a musical instrument to an artistically carved cooking pot of
cedar wood. The designs are usually in low relief but are duplicated
in paintings in native colors on house fronts, on boxes, and in tex-
tiles and basketry.

28005—31——-35
534 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

The most striking objects on which the native lavishes his best
artistic efforts are the tall columns of cedar wood familiarly known
as totem poles, but which are really memorials, erected in honor of
the maternal brother whose property the builder has inherited.
These totem poles are carved from the hollowed trunks of the giant
yellow cedar, and occupy the place of honor at the center of the
gable end of the owner’s house.

The origin of the arts of the northwest coast Indians has never
been satisfactorily explained. It has been suggested that they may
be ascribed to a recent Asiatic influence or to migration of peoples
from the islands of the south Pacific Ocean, among whom the arts
of wood-carving are well developed. The extremely mild and humid
climate of the northwest coast affords perhaps a better clue. At
Ketchikan, near the southern boundary of southeast Alaska, the
average annual number of rainy days reaches a total of 235. Dense
forests of beautiful cedars supply materials for most of the native
arts and crafts. The fondness of the Indians for working in wood
becomes almost an obsession with them and finds expression, for
example, in the long, seaworthy dugout canoes hollowed from a
single cedar trunk. These boats are constructed with a high prow
and stern, painted in black, green, or white colors, with representa-
tions of mythical and realistic animal forms. The birch-bark canoe
of the northern interior tribes of Canada, or the skin-covered boat
of the Alaskan Eskimo, is unknown to them. In a similar manner
do the northwest coast Indians differ in almost every particular
phase of their daily life from inland Indian tribes of Alaska, British
Columbia, and the State of Washington on the south.

The art of the northwest coast Indian is unusual in that the totem
pole which he erects, is pleasing in itself, although not intended
primarily to please but rather designed to impress the beholder with
the owner’s greatness or wealth or position in society, and to induce
respect for himself as the heir of the family crest and totem, all of
which are expressed on the pole, usually at the base, center, and top.
The Indian has inherited the right to the crests and totems repre-
senting the traditional animal protector of his uncle or mother’s
brother, together with his mother’s family or clan name and rank.

Totem pole art is almost entirely a representation of animals.
These representations refer for the most part to the réle played by
certain animals as actors in native myths. To properly understand
the carving one must know the story of the myth. Then, to make
the totem pole art still more abstruse, the Indian artist has certain
rules of procedure which obtain for him the desired results but which
make the representation of animals unintelligible to us unless the
rules are also known.
ABORIGINAL DECORATIVE ART—-KRIEGER 535

He adds certain parts which convention dictates; or he may sim
plify and represent only what are to him the essential animal parts.

The curved beak of the hawk is invariably represented as touching
the mouth on the under side, while the thunderbird, which wears
a cloud hat, has a larger beak. The raven has a long, straight beak,
while that of the eagle is short and curved. Birds, even when they
take human form, are to be recognized by a beak added to an other-
wise human face.

The beaver usually has a stick in its mouth, which it holds between
its paws. The large projecting incisor teeth and scaly flat tail are
further characteristics. Certain mythical water monsters may take
ona variety of forms. Animal representations have erect ears placed
above the eyes, but are otherwise often difficult to distinguish from
human figures. Stock objects or fillers-in occupying the spaces on
the totem pole between the totemic crests are such minor animals as
frogs and ground worms.

The bear is usually carved in a sitting position holding a stick
between his paws while his tongue protrudes from his mouth.

The shark carvings may be recognized even when represented in
human form by three parallel markings on the cheeks representing
gill slits. The forehead rises in a triangular-shaped lobe, while
the downward-curved mouth is drawn back exposing sharp tri-
angular teeth. Other fish are distinguished by their fins. The
killer whale is characterized by the prominent dorsal fin.

The most important thing in the life of the Indian is his crest or
totem. Representations of this animal crest are placed on every
conceivable object of daily use; they are even tattooed on his arms
and body and are painted on his face. The inheritance of a proper
kind of crest or totem determines an individual’s chances for suc-
cess and for a favorable standing in the community. As he inherits
the crest or totemic animal protector from his mother’s male rela-
trves, he makes it his business to erect a memorial column to his
maternal uncle as soon as he is financially able to do so. This totem
pole has carved on it, as mentioned before, the symbolical and often
distorted or simplified animal figures representing his inherited
family glory or experience. It may be only after years of saving
and effort that an Indian is able to erect the column which firmly
establishes his place in the estimation of his fellows.

INDIAN ART OF THE EASTERN WOODLANDS AND OF THE WESTERN
PLAINS

Design technic of eastern Indians—As compared with the
numerous objects now housed in museums but originally collected
among Indian tribes of the western plains there is little material
536 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

extant from Indian tribes of the eastern portions of the United
States. In the case of the Virginia Indians, the only source of in-
formation is the meager description left by Capt. John Smith and
a number of drawings, now preserved in the British Museum, made
by the artist John White. There is likewise a scarcity of data re-
garding design motives of all of the eastern Indian tribes. Costumes
and objects of dress now in the National Museum from Indian tribes
formerly occupying the region east of the Mississippi River fill

Simple buckskin garments, coarsely woven cloaks embellished
but one small exhibit case.
with turkey feathers and used only in colder weather, moccasins,
and, in the case of the Gulf State tribes, leggings, fringed girdles, and
feather-plumed turbans were characteristic objects of dress. Weav-
ing of bast fiber of basswood and of the mulberry, also of yarn
fashioned from buffalo hair is said to have been practiced in the
Lower Mississippi Valley, where basketry still remains as a live
weaving technic. Chitimacha basket weavers of Louisiana use spilt
cane splints in natural straw and in dyed black and red colors.
Mantles of turkey feathers were plaited in the Southeastern States,
but were apparently devoid of any attempt at decorative design.
Fringed buckskin garments, simple beaded designs on moccasins
and belts, and farther north woven belts and sashes made on an
upright frame, embroidered bags and pouches decorated with bead-
work in floral designs, and also body painting and tattooing are
forms of decorative art inferior to styles and types of ceramics from
the same area. Subareas of ceramic art are numerous east of the
Mississippi.

The double-curve motive—Beads and quills are employed in
eastern Algonkian designs but in a different manner from that of
Plains tribes, resulting in a distinct type of design. Instead of rec-
tangular textile embroidery or angular painted figures, the lines are
curved and plantlike figures result. This design pattern, known as
the double-curve motive, is really a double incomplete spiral. Re-
sembling leaves, plants, and vines, the design is executed on birch
bark or painted on skins. Painted coat borders of the Naskapi
Indians of Labrador are a good example of this art, although the
Montagnais, Micmac, Passamaquoddy, and Penobscot reached the
same results through quill or moose hair embroideries, bark etching,
and beadwork, while farther westward the same double-curve pat-
tern has been adopted by the Cree, the Chippewa, Huron, Sauk and
Fox, Menominee, Winnebago, and certain of the Plains tribes as the
Blackfeet. The Iroquois and Delaware Indians, like the western
tribes just mentioned, used beads and porcupine quills with which to
embroider similar curvilinear designs.
ee

ABORIGINAL DECORATIVE ART—KRIEGER 537

Belts of wampum, bands of quill, and moose hair interwoven with
bast fiber tend to the geometric. The double-curve motive does not
work well in these materials. There appear to be some distinctions
between the eastern and the western sections of this area. The
Dene of the Mackenzie Valley of northern Canada weave rectilinear
and curved bands of quill and moose hair; while the Chippewa of
Wisconsin and the Menominee weave on a simple frame belts, bags,
‘und mats incorporating geometric designs. Textiles are elsewhere
practically nonexistent in the northeastern part of North America.

Drawing and etching on birchbark became such a highly de-
veloped art among tribes of the vicinity of the Great Lakes as to
form a system of symbolic or mnemonic pictographic writing, along
with a decided realistic tendency in beadwork, while in the East,
freehand double-curve floral figures were embroidered or painted.
The extreme floral character of some of the beadwork of the Chip-
pewa has led many to regard the whole as a post-Columbian develop-
ment. The wide distribution of the Cree and Montagnais, together
with their very early intimate association with the French colonies,
presents a favorable condition to rapid diffusion. Yet, their very
characteristic double-curve art on bark and painted skins can not
be attributed to Europeans whose trade stimulated the use of beads,
while the influence of the old French missions in the Mississippi
Valley and in Canada is not to be underestimated. There seems not
the least reason to doubt that the very striking beaded flowers of the
West are due to the influence of French mission fathers.

Pictographic art-—Representative art of the tribes of the region
surrounding the Great Lakes and also of the Plains tribes, is ex-
pressed in picture writing. As decorative art the designs show a
distinctive pattern and conventionalized pictographic devices. Paint-
ings on muslin cloth supersede the older art of painting on tanned
hides landscape scenes embodying horses, men, and hunting scenes
where are shown buffalo. Horse stealing is also a favored theme
for pictographic or representative decorative art. From the view-
point of art styles, pictographic or, as we might call it, ideographic
art, has not a high value. The engraved pictographic representa-
tions on rock cliffs similarly placed throughout many of the areas
of primitive art in America and in Oceania have a motivation in
representative art rather than in decorative design alone.

Decorative designs in color are characteristic of fewer areas and
peoples than is their application of design in relief. Modeling and
engraving are the early technics of decorative art. Decorative art
of Plains tribes consists in the painting of geometric designs on sad-
dlebags of rawhide, while the tribes of the Pacific northwest coast
paint totemic zoomorphic forms on chests and boxes. The Eskimo
538 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

use black color as a filler in line cuts to bring out the sharpness in
their silhouette designs. The same effect is obtained by Papuans
and Melanesians through the use of white kaolin.

Limitations imposed on the primitive artist by the materials with
which he works and the technic which he must employ are potent in
shaping the style of art.

Geometric art of the Plains tribes——Much of the decorative technic
of the Plains tribes consists of bead embroidery, an outgrowth of
the former widespread use of split quills of the porcupine. The
most beautiful examples in the National Museum of the use of por-
cupine quills in embroidery are in the few remaining specimens of
the Catlin collection obtained by George Catlin from several uni-
dentified tribes in 1838. The decorative designs embroidered either
in beads or with porcupine quills are geometric and consist of tri-
angles and rectangles in varied arrangement of figures and colors.
The use of the triangle has come to be a distinctive mark of the art
technic of the Plains tribes. Sometimes this triangle is acute and
again it is obtuse. When acute it is called a tipi design and fre-
quently has extended bars reaching beyond the apex. The obtuse
form has a rectangle inside recalling the stepped insert of the Pueblo
tribes. Parallel lines of beadwork are interpreted as trails; breaks
in the trail indicated by colored beads represent camping sites.

There are considerable tribal differences in the patterns embroid-
ered as also in the painted designs appled for the most part to raw-
hide containers, as quivers, saddlebags or parfleches, work boxes, and
the like. The Sioux are distinguished by their use of the entire field
as a surface for applying the design. This is especially noticeable
in the embroidered beaded patterns on moccasins, bags, and pipe
bags. White beads or a cream-colored paint fill in the background,
setting off the angular designs. The Arapaho, on the other hand,
use several small stripes of color covering but a small portion of
the whole area of the decorated object. The unique spurred acute
triangle design of the Comanche is set off at the apex with curved
hornlike volutes. Plains designs embroidered or painted are both
realistic and abstract in their meaning. Purely animal forms are
not painted on rawhide or embroidered in beadwork or quills. Geo-
graphical features as lakes, mountain passes, rivers, and trails are
represented even to such details as trees, growing grass, and buffalo.
To be sure, an interpretation is required to appreciate such realism,
as buffalo, for instance, are represented by a series of dots boxed in
a rectangular figure. A mountain pass is the angle between two
bordering obtuse triangles.

The Blackfeet are unique in that they attach no symbolism to their
designs which resemble those of the Sioux, Cheyenne, and Arapaho.
ABORIGINAL DECORATIVE ART—KRIEGER 539

With the Sioux, the pictographic designs are symbolic and are
applied by the men of the tribe, while the women care for the purely
decorative embellishments. Complex designs are built up from rec-
tangles, diamonds, triangles, and line patterns. They have names
which they apply to the designs they make, but the names do not
signify that the design represents the object named. For example,
the turtle design does not look like a turtle and does not represent
a turtle. This design is a common one and resembles rakes attached
at right angles to one another by their handles where they are
covered with a lozenge-shaped design. Undoubtedly several formerly
symbolic devices have deteriorated, and are now applied simply be-
cause it is the style. Thus, the turtle device much simplified ap-
pears as a design embroidered on the back of a woman’s dress, also
on the front as a U-shaped semisacred device.

While on the Pacific coast realism tends to express itself in the
delineation, modeling, or etching of human and animal figures, the
art of the western plains is characterized by the employment of
geometric design. Tribes occupying the plateau area beyond the
Rocky Mountains and east of the Pacific coast tribes, occupy a middle
position in which geometric designs predominate. Designs formerly
embroidered with porcupine quills are, since the coming of the
trader, now worked out in beads. Painted designs appear on raw-
hide shields, saddle bags, decorative skin and tipi covers, and on
other materials of rawhide, while the quills of the porcupine are
sewn on tanned skins in geometric patterns. Use of porcupine quills
has not entirely given way to trade beads of glass, but the early
quilled, small checker patterns as shown in collections made by Lewis
and Clarke, by George Catlin, and by the early explorers generally
have gone. Painted parfleche or saddle bags are still fashioned and
decorated, and the ancient art has not entirely disappeared from the
Plains and plateau tribes.

Tipi covers are decorated with realistic and symbolic designs such
as stars or eagles. There is also incised work on wood.

The Sauk and Fox Indians, like the Plains tribes and the Pueblos
follow definite patterns in decorating the walls of their rawhide
vessels. Decoration of the several fields is planned on a yet un-
folded piece of rawhide. Painted designs, although symmetrical,
are lost when the rawhide box has been folded. The elements of
the design, when not hidden by the folding process appear as acute
triangles with oblique spurs, Maltese crosses, hourglass forms, loz-
enges, and isolated obtuse triangles.

Symbolism.—Symbolism includes abstract ideas as well as re-
ligious motives. Kroeber’s study of Arapaho symbolism is im-
portant in arriving at a conception of what, in the mind of the prim-
itive artist, is back of apparently simple geometrical patterns of
540 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

lines or triangles. Thus a stripe executed in colored beads on the
uppers of a moccasin shows the destination of the traveler, while
the beaded heel stripe indicates the place of departure. A white
border represents snow, while transverse stripes across the instep
represent hills and valleys. Triangles represent mountains. Sioux
symbolism is almost identical. This was studied by Wissler. Large
triangles in apphed bead work represent tents; crossed patterns rep-
resent arrows or flight of arrows. The double triangle placed back
to back with another set of two triangles forming a cross is a favor-
ite Siouan pattern and represents conflict, perhaps between the two
sets of triangles representing tents. Among the Arapaho, a white
stripe with dots in it represents a buffalo trail; acute triangles are
tents, while bordering obtuse triangles represent distant mountains,
perhaps where dwell the buffalo. The sun shining on a mountain
might be represented as the top segment of a triangle in yellow
paint, while the middle or bottom appearing in red color represents
the ground, and green grass growing on the slopes. A Shoshoni par-
fleche with a blue central rectangle represents an inclosure sur-
rounded by an enemy which is represented in red or green outer
rectangles. Embroideries in beadwork, and paintings on rawhide,
the first on pouches, pipe bags, work bags, and awl cases, and the
latter on quivers, work boxes, and saddle bags (parfleches), have no
apparent distinction as to design.

Among the Arapaho a cross with scalloped ends represents a star.
Many other designs resembling a cross also represent a star. The
same designs when painted with different context may represent
individuals. Kroeber shows how a diamond-shaped figure might be
used to represent a turtle, a mountain, a star, an eye, a human being,
and the navel, or a lake. A rectangle represents a hut, a mountain,
a camp circle, a buffalo, or the earth.

A buffalo motive is treated by the Plains Indians in an interesting
manner. A painting on the tanned surface of a buffalo, calf or
doeskin is centered with a rectangular device with triangular exten-
sions at the four opposite corners. Triangles are added oppositely
at the ends and the representation is complete. This treatment is
symbolic and signifies the want of more buffaloes for the chase.

PICTOGRAPHIC AND DECORATIVE DESIGN OF THE NORTHERN AND
SOUTHERN PLATEAU, AND OF THE PACIFIC SLOPE

Decorative designs of Indian tribes occupying the high lands west
of the Rocky Mountains, and the Pacific slope south of the Columbia
are of interest primarily because of the extreme contrast which they
represent in the range of aboriginal culture. It has been noted that
Indian tribes of the plateau region possess a culture type transi-
tional between that of the Plains and of the Pacific northwest coast
ABORIGINAL DECORATIVE ART—KRIEGER 541

tribes. This is not actually the case as they have absorbed only
certain types of culture traits from the Plains tribes, and none at all
from the Pacific coast group. In prehistoric times, before the intro-
duction of the horse in the valley of the Columbia, plateau culture
resembled that represented until quite recently by the Thompson
River tribes of inland British Columbia. This culture then repre-
sented a single design area originally shared by Shoshonean tribes
with the Basketmaker, Apache, and Navaho of New Mexico and
Arizona on the south, and the Californian tribes of the west coast.
Within historic times, Plains design motives, and design patterns
have filtered in from the east, while in Arizona and New Mexico
the developments leading up to the growth of sedentary agricultural
life of the Pueblo Indians had long been under way. Here, as else-
where in aboriginal America, were developed ceramic and textile
arts without apparently any assistance or hindrance from without.
The nomadic Navaho and Apache groups disjointedly learned from
the Pueblos their arts, while the Californian tribes continued until
historic times to pursue their unique basketry art. No suggestion
has ever been advanced regarding the borrowing of this art, which
permeates their entire culture complex, from cooking vessels to
cradle beds. The twined basketry of the inland Salish is distinct
in that it is intimately associated with weaving technic, which is not
practiced by the California tribes. Aboriginal California, except for
isolated culture influences coming from the north, offers an excel-
lent example showing how a culture may grow in isolation, the key
to decorative design being excellence in basketry technic.

Among the basket-making Apache of the Southwest, objects of
tanned skin decorated with beadwork designs, represent an intrusion
from the Plains area. Identity between the designs on Apache
baskets and objects of skin is therefore unusual, the latter being
borrowed from the Cheyenne or Comanche. Among the Plains
tribes it was the men who painted robes, tipis, and other skin objects
with realistic figures, while among the Shoshoni farther to the west,
both beadwork and basketry were the work of women, who wove
symbols into their art, although, like most of the Plains tribes, they
did not decorate pottery.

Pictographs and petroglyphs are paintings and engraved designs
occurring on the smooth surfaces of rocky cliffs and boulders.
Explanation of the 60 or more elements of design has been attempted
many times, but represents merely guesses. They represent, to be
sure, objects and ideas with which other primitive artists of the
tribe were acquainted. They do, however, give one a definite clue
as to the tribe to which the individual belonged; it may be assumed
that tribal art is always distinctive and characteristic.

Similarity in basketry, pottery, and weaving design technie.—
There is an observable unity in designs on baskets from Utah and
542 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

other Rocky Mountain States and on earthenware vessels from
Arizona and New Mexico. ‘This is readily ascribable to the use of
checkered and angular devices in the designs of both classes of
aboriginal objects. To be sure, there is a greater freedom in the
use of curved and symbolic or realistic designs on Pueblo earthen-
ware, but fundamentally the designs belong to one area. Even the
designs woven into the famous blankets of the Navajo fit into the
type of design, which is fundamentally geometrical. It is interesting
to note that the pottery technic under discussion is limited in its
distribution, while the basketry technic is both ancient and more
widely extended, reaching from one end of the western plateau
country to the other. It is also interesting to note that the weaving
technic of the Navajo isa comparatively recent acquisition, reputedly
having been borrowed from the Pueblo Indians whose weaving tech-
nic apparently belongs with that of northern Mexico. In Navajo
and in Pueblo weavings there is embodied a style of geometric art
design such as might have been borrowed from basketry, but which
might also have been developed independently. This design, as in
basketry, is characterized by series of stepped rectangles and by
diagonal series of small squares and transverse stripes. In the older
fragments of Pueblo weavings, rescued from cliff dwellings, the
designs are marginal or consist merely of stripes, the entire field
being plain.

Pueblo symbolism.—As is well known, the representative as also
the simply decorative patterns of the Pueblo Indians of Arizona and
New Mexico are best expressed in painted designs on earthenware
vessels. These are in part conventionalized and symbolize myth-
ological and religious motives. The purely decorative earthenware
designs are in part realistic and in part conventional. Repetition of
a motive either geometrical, as a spiral meander, or realistic, as birds
facing each other in inverted form, and with interlocking beaks are
painted on the inner or outer walls of pottery bowls. The repeated
use of the eye design in decorative or in symbolic representative art
is reminiscent of other, unrelated areas. Boas calls attention to a
Pueblo decorative design consisting of a triangle with rectangles
attached or inclosed. This pattern occurs on the western plains
among the Arapaho and other tribes each attaching a distinct mean-
ing to the design. The Hopi Indians of Arizona substitute the
semicircle for the triangle, and instead of spurs attach long lines in
parallel to the base of the design. The semicircles according to the
Pueblo Indians represent clouds, while the vertical lines represent
rain. The Shoshoni, Arapaho, and other Plains tribes call the
angle design a mountain or a mountain pass. The Pueblo apply
the rain cloud design on earthenware as a painted figure or on wood
as an altar painting.

ABORIGINAL DECORATIVE ART——KRIEGER 543

Elaboration of mythological, religious, and symbolic lore into de-
sign pattern is characteristic of the Southwest. Representations are
geometrical; motives are usually magical or symbolic. Designs on
shields of rawhide, on cloth, woven basketry, and on pottery, are no
less common than are images principally in the form of dolls cut
from wood. Feather designs are associated with religious practices
and are not purely decorative. Paintings in clay and on sand are
also associated with ceremonialism. A borrowing from the cere-
monial art of the Plains may be seen in a Pueblo painting represent-
ing a buffalo stretched out on a tanned doeskin. (Cat. No. 11317,
U.S.N.M.) It was collected by W. F. Arny, governor of New Mexico
in 1877. The art pattern is geometrical, being identical with a
Comanche painting (Cat. No. 6975, U.S.N.M.) of a buffalo applied
in the same geometrical pattern with lozenge-shaped head, diverging
horns and a border design of triangles. The painting is in glue
applied with a stick which rubs the glue into the skin, and when it
hardens brings the design in relief. The painting is really an altar
piece representing a prayer for more buffalo.

Pueblo pottery.—The repeated invention of pottery making in
America is no longer open to question. ‘There are, to be sure, cer-
tain universally diffused steps whereby the earthenware vessels are
brought to a finished state, similar throughout the entire area of
pottery manufacture in aboriginal America. Coiling of clay ribbons
instead of gouging out of the solid mass of clay, for instance, is the
prevailing method, and has been the prevailing method of pottery
production throughout the Americas. For that matter coiling has
been the prevalent method everywhere among primitive peoples with
but few exceptions.

In the country of the Pueblo Indians, in Arizona and in New Mex-
ico, the clay is collected from suitable beds and carried to the village.
It is there worked by the potter into a powder, impurities removed
and tempering materials such as crushed potsherds or crushed frag-
ments of mineralized rock added to the powdered clay. The mass
is then thoroughly mixed and pulverized, and water is added.

The bottom of the vessel is molded on a solid substance used as a
foundation. This may be a basket fragment, or a fragment of mod-
ern crockery. Next are added to the rim of the base a coil or ribbon
of clay, fashioned by rubbing between the open palms of the potter.
Successive coils are fitted one above the other and are joined with the
aid of wet fingers and improvised tools consisting of curved gourd
fragments each cut to suit the particular curve of the walls desired
in the vessel to be shaped. The drying process serves also as a test
of the quality of the paste, as it will not crack while being dried if
tempering is adequate. Next the vessel walls are moistened and
scraped with bits of sharp stone to remove irregularities, and to
544 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

reduce portions of the walls to proper thickness. The thoroughly
smoothed walls are now treated with a slip or several coats of a slip
consisting of white, yellow, orange, or reddish shades of clay reduced
with water to a thin paintlike mixture. The slip serves as a back-
ground for the painted designs to be later applied in colors. Some
vessels are now burnished with a rounded stone in short rotating
movements. Fat of sheep or some other form of grease is applied as
lubricant for the process and as an aid in obtaining a luster.

The painting of symbolic or of merely decorative designs in colors
is the most interesting stage in the manufacture of Pueblo pottery.
Paint brushes of split yucca leaves from which a portion of the
leaf has been removed leaving a straight edge for line work, are
commonly used for applying the paint. Most of the colors are ob-
tained from mineral ochres in shades of red and yellow, and in black
which is obtained by boiling the juice of the bee plant (Peritoma
serrulatum). ‘The ochres are either used raw or are burned. The
painting is altogether freehand but must follow definite patterns
well known to all the women who make pottery and also to the men
who occasionally make pottery vessels.

After the vessel has been satisfactorily painted the potter piles
up several newly fashioned vessels in an inverted position and builds
an oven around them. This consists of dried dung or split cedar wood
completely covering the vessels to be burned. A hot fire is main-
tained for the greater portion of an hour when the firing has satis-
fied the potter.

In certain cases, when an undecorated ware is to be fired and a
black color is desired, a smothered fire with plenty of smoke is main-
tained throughout the firing. Red slip under such conditions turns
a brilliant black. After firing, the vessels are cleaned with a greasy
rag.

The form and design of Pueblo pottery although differing from
tribe to tribe and from period to period, yet is distinct from that
of Mexican wares and entirely distinct from the pottery of the
eastern United States. Perhaps the most distinctive feature about
Pueblo pottery is the use of paints in conventional designs pertain-
ing to local mythology. To a much lesser degree are life forms
molded or luted on to the walls of the vessels or to the handles and
lids of earthenware vessels. Rims are sometimes shaped into angular
scallops and are never wavy or boat-shaped as in the eastern pottery
area. Decorative design often takes the form of eccentric animal
and human modelings; birds are modeled in more lifelike patterns.
The painted paneling on the earthenware vessels of the Zufi separates
the wall space of earthenware vessels into several divisions on the
neck and body. Designs painted on the neck space are repeated
to produce a symmetrical balance. Neck designs consist of volutes
ABORIGINAL DECORATIVE ART—KRIEGER 545

or double curves resembling those of the eastern woodlands area;
also of triangles and lozenge-shaped figures, and of prayer-stick de-
signs distorted to fit the space. On the body of the vessel appear in
combination certain figures as that of a deer and a rosette represent-
ing a sunflower. There they are repeated in a manner showing an
appreciation for the symmetrical disposition of space. There may
be another encircling panel filled with an interlocking scroll of
inverted or interlocking conventionalized birds. A series of three
rectangular steps or terraces may be substituted for the deer, sun-
flower, and bird-design patterns.

THE WEST INDIES, MEXICO, AND SOUTH AMERICA

When Columbus first encountered American natives on one of the
Bahama Islands he met with the most northern of the South Amer-
ican tribes. The prehistoric inhabitants of the Bahama Islands
were Arawaks who had followed the island chain northward from
the Venezuelan coast. Their culture was a meager one, perhaps
much more so on the part of the Bahamans than on the larger
islands of Haiti and Cuba where stone carving and woodworking
rivaled in excellence the Various types of freehand modeling of life
forms in earthenware.

The Indian tribes of northern Mexico are adept at the weavers
art and embroider designs based in part on native and in part on
Spanish patterns. Geometrical devices and animal forms essentially
native combine with heraldic patterns. The conveying of ideas
is at the bottom of much pictographic or representative art of
Mexican tribes. This, however, does not lessen the value of the
ornamentation.

Mexican art area—Ancient Peru and ancient Mexico produced and
maintained dense populations at various centers, but round about
these centers were lesser populations occupying marginal positions.
Among the Huichol Indians weaving incorporates designs having
marked realistic tendencies. Modern textile art from the Rio
Grande to Panama shares this train of realism in design. There is
a general similarity to Peruvian conventionalization of its art de-
signs. According to early Spanish authorities the Mayan peoples
were the most expert weavers in New Spain. Contact with the
Spanish altered to a certain extent the design but the old resem-
blance remains with the Andean highlands. Pottery likewise sur-
vives only through archeological studies, extensive collections reveal-
ing painted designs. Painted designs and modeling of embellish-
ments in relief here take the place of mere pueblo designs. In the
Panama area, including Costa Rica, and the Chiriqui district of
Panama, we have complex designs of animal and reptilean forms
546 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

recalling textile and Peruvian art designs. Mayan textilelike de-
signs for mosaic and stucco work are striking exceptions to the rule
that realistic carving and design prevail.

South American art areas——Aboriginal textiles from the Inca
region of Peru have been preserved in great abundance in the rarefied
dry climate of the Peruvian highlands. These show complex color
designs producing realistic designs of men, birds, cats, fish in more
or.less conventionalized form, all with the geometrical basis of loom
weaving.

There is a superior development of earthernware decoration
incorporating life forms in Jars representing persons, birds, monkeys,
fishes, plants, as corn, potatoes, peanuts, gourds, and others. Deco-
rations are in color and in incised work. In color the Nasca and
Titicaca ware is superior to anything yet discovered in the New
World. The painted designs upon this pottery are comparable to
those upon cloth in their realistic tendencies. Certain fixed con-
ventional forms appear both on pottery and cloth.

As we go out from Peru in both directions pottery decoration
becomes inferior. Historical relations of this center with adjoining
regions have not as yet been worked out.

This Andean highland culture spreading northward west of the
Rocky Mountains and southward along the western slope of the
Andean ranges is the true home of a most characteristic and the
highest development of art form and design in the Western Hemi-
sphere. ‘There is no possibility of direct connection between this
peculiar development and other art centers in Oceania or on any of
the continental masses of the Old World.

The geographical center of this great American development is
furthest removed from any possible contact with peoples from other
continents, the only possible routes of entry into America being the
Aleutian Islands south of the Bering Sea, and the islands of the
Bering Sea itself, and the more scattered islands of the south Pacific.
None of these were favorable routes for entry of ready made art
complexes. The infiltration of peoples must have been painfully
slow, perhaps occurring but once in the entire geographic history.

On the other hand one can not ignore certain parallelisms of de-
velopment in the arts of tropical peoples of Oceania and South
America. Similarly one can not ignore a certain parallelism between
the high achievements of the Inca, the Aztec, and the Maya on the
one hand, with the Egyptian and Asiatic cultures on the other. An-
other parallelism, that of cultural types, Melanesian and lowland
South America might be placed alongside the observed parallelism
between New Guinea, Maori, and north Pacific coast cultures. There
is also something to be said for parallelism in African design with
that of eastern America. Similarly one might point out more gen-
ABORIGINAL DECORATIVE ART—KRIEGER 547

eralized parallelisms that prevail practically throughout the entire
world where there can be no possibility of migration of peoples or
even of the art designs themselves. The use of the spiral, in fact of
all the elementary forms of incising, the many forms of simple
crosshatch, etched or painted, the many symbols of motion widely
known as swastika, and in weaving, the application of certain geo-
metrical designs are found wherever a basket is woven or wherever
a piece of cloth is produced. The widespread diffusion of geometrical
designs on tapa cloth or on bark cloth are purely environmental in
their distribution. In a similar way the beginnings of plastic art
and of sculpturing in wood and in clay are distributed.

Hundreds of examples might be selected which first appear to
show a culture connection. All these must be discarded as examples
of pseudo-culture diffusion in that the very arts themselves, of weay-
ing, of pottery making, of wood carving, and of many other crafts
when perfected, lend themselves readily to a display of similar forms
of surface finish and embellishments.

Such is the beginning of primitive art. Although widespread in its
various presentations, it began in a thousand places when the prim-
itive craftsman began to realize his power over material. As soon
as he began to play with his technic he became a primitive artist
as well as a primitive artisan.

EXPLANATION OF PLATES

PLATE 1

The god of the east wind, one of the disease-bearing gods of the Iroquois
Indians, tribe of the Onondaga. Cat. No. 248702, U.S.N.M.

PLATE 2

Wampum belts in the United States National Museum.

Top: Cat. No. 248744, U.S.N.M., Delaware Indians of Ontario, Canada.
G. G. Heye collection. This belt resembles the famous Penn treaty belt
delivered to William Penn at treaty of 1682 at Shackamaxon.

Middle: Cat. No. 165103, U.S.N.M. lLroquois Indians of Canada. W. N.
Thompson collection.

Bottom: Cat. No. 201156, U.S.N.M. Collection of W. H. Tobias. Cylin-
drical, drilled beads of wampum were cut from the shell of the hard-
shell clam (Venus mercenaria) which gave beads of purple and white
colors. Woven belts of wampum served as objects of personal adorn-
ment, and had a certain ceremonial value. In western America wampum
was replaced by dentalium shell in beaded sashes, belts, and other objects
of personal adornment, as earrings and necklaces.

PLATE 3

Beaded shoulder bags of the Chippewa and the eastern Canadian Indians.
Left: Cat. No. 154030, U.S.N.M. From the Hazen collection. Dimen-
sions: 9 inches deep and 9 inches wide.
Right: Cat. No, 328762, U.S.N.M. Collected by B. R. Ross from the
Chippewa Indians, Dimensions: 7 inches deep and 7 inches wide.
548 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

The panels of woven beadwork are backed with red flannel strouding.
Suspension is by means of a strip of tanned doeskin. In the older examples
tanned skins were used instead of flannel strouding, amd dyed porcupine
quills instead of trade beads of colored glass.

PLATE 4

Headband (lower left) and sashes and belts of woven beadwork. Chippewa
Indians.
PLATE 5

Examples of the incomplete scroll design of the northern woodlands tribes,
extending from Labrador to the vicinity of the Great Lakes and the valley
of the Mackenzie River, also to northern and eastern Siberia. This design is
more popularly referred to as the double-curve motive of Algonkian art.

Top: A babiche woven bag, Cat. No. 2551, U.S.N.M., collected by B. R.
Ross from the Dog Rib Dene Indians of the Mackenzie Valley. “ Babiche”
is made of finely dissected tanned buckskin woven in openwork coiling
without foundation. The decorative panel appearing near the lip of the
bag has been embroidered with split and dyed porcupine quills; the design
is a flattened double volute. The bag is 18 inches wide and 9 inches deep.

Middle: A decorated woven garment characteristic of the dress of the
Ainu of northern Japan. Embroidered patterns in flowing double volutes or
spirals resembling those of the Gold and other Amur River tribes of north-
ern Siberia apparently link up a decorative design area of northern Asia
with northern America.

Bottom: Designs from decorated tanned skin shirts of the Naskapi
Indians of Labrador. The patterns are applied through painting while
farther west they are embroidered ; on the Pacific coast, among the Eskimo,
similar designs are incised or engraved on ivory. Upper row from speci-
mens in the United States National Museum; lower row, from Peabody
Museum.

PLATE 6

An example of Chippewa wood carving, Cat. No. 17535, U.S.N.M., collected by
J. H. Clark. The engraved and flat-relief patterns resemble in part the
double-curve motive of eastern Algonkian art, and in part the geometrical,
acute triangular designs of the Plains tribes. Art designs generally pre-
valent among the Chippewa, Menominee, Winnebago, and other western Great
Lakes tribes are transitional between floral, curvilinear motives of the eastern
woodlands tribes and the geometrical art of the Indian tribes of the Plains.

PLATE 7

Saddlebags or ‘“ parfleches”’ of painted rawhide typical of the Plains Indians.

Left: Parfleche with painted designs typical of the Comanche Indians.
Cat. No. 78532, U.S.N.M.

Center: Decorated rawhide quiver of the Comanche, Cat. No. 76689,
U.S.N.M. (left), and a decorated rawhide work box of a Comanche Indian
squaw, Cat. No. 76421, U.S.N.M. (right).

Right: Painted rawhide parfleche of the Sioux Indians, Cat. No. 17196,
U.S.N.M. Plain on reverse; painted in green, yellow, blue, and red colors
on obverse in the order indicated. Dimensions: 29 inches long; 17 inches
wide.
ABORIGINAL DECORATIVE ART—KRIEGER 549

PLATE 8

Decorated and painted rawhide quivers, woman’s workbox, and other con-
tainers of painted rawhide from the Sioux, Comanche, Kiowa, Cheyenne, and
Apache Indians.

Upper left: Workbag of a Comanche Indian squaw. Cat. No. 6906,
U.S.N.M. It is a cylinder of rawhide sewn at the side and provided with
suspension thong and lid. Painted geometrical designs in black, blue,
red, and yellow colors. Collected by Palmer.

Upper center: Flat rawhide bag of the Cheyenne Indians painted on both
sides in red, blue, and yellow colors. Dimensions: 12 inches long; 54%
inches wide. Cat. No. 165910, U.S.N.M.

Upper right: Decorated rawhide quiver of the Sioux. Cat. No. 76836,
U.S.N.M. Collected by Gov. R. W. Furnas from the site of the Battle
of White Stone Hill. Painted designs appear in red and blue. The
quiver is sinew-sewn at the side where a fringed panel has been inserted.

Lower left: Cylindrical quiver of rawhide, painted in geometrical patterns
of red, yellow, and blue colors. Danglers of sheet lead form an encircling
decorative panel. Fringed at bottom. Collected by E. Granier from the
Apache Indians of Arizona. Dimensions: 14 inches deep; 6% inches wide.
Cat. No. 3808, U.S.N.M.

Center: A work bag of decorated rawhide collected by James Mooney
from the Kiowa. A typical example of Kiowa art in yellow and green
painted colors. Cat. No. 152966, U.S.N.M.

Lower right: The rawhide workbag of a Sioux Indian squaw. Painted
in green, yellow, and red. A piece of old red flannel strouding has been
sewn around the edges as a marginal decorative embellishment. Collected
by the Washington branch of the Scottish Rite. Dimensions: 9 inches
wide, and 6 inches deep. Cat. No. 338845, U.S.N.M.

In shaping rawhide it is folded and sewn while yet plastic; fringed
flaps are inserted and sewn to the sides, while the cover flap may either
be sewn On or merely a folded section. Triangular painted devices when
acute may represent tipis, when obtuse, they may represent mountains
or mountain passes, streams, etc., but are devoid of meaning among some of
the northern Plains tribes as among the Blackfeet. Rectangles, triangles,
spurs, serrations, rake devices, series of dots are given different inter-
pretations by the various tribes who recognize the symbolism of such
devices. Thus a series of dots in color may represent a herd of buffalo,
a stream, or a trail.

PLATE 9

Cat. No. 345993, U.S.N.M. Painting in colors on tanned buckskin representing
Sioux Indians stealing horses from their enemies. Collected by W. W.
Anderson.

Pictographie art of the Sioux is similar in character to paintings of
hunting and travel scenes on rock cliffs in the plateau country west of the
Rocky Mountains. It is extemporaneous, not symbolic art.

PLATE 10
Beaded and quilled pipe and tobacco bags of the Sioux Indians.

Left: Cat. No. 272207, U.S.N.M. Pipe bag of Red Cloud, chief of the
Oglala Teton Sioux. Dimensions: 18 inches long; 8 inches wide. Bequest
of Fannie A. Weeks.

Right: Cat. No. 303379, U.S.N.M. Pipe bag of the Sioux Indians.
Dimensions: 18 inches long; 8 inches wide. Collected by Wanbli Hoksila.

28095—31——36
550 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

PLATE 11

Fig. 1. Woven bags of the Nez Perce, Okinagan, and Salish Indians.

Upper left: Cat. No. 220447, U.S.N.M. From Fred Harvey collection of
Nez Perce objects at the Louisiana Purchase Exposition. Plain border and
bottom with overlay of twined grass on which are embroidered conven-
tionalized butterfly designs in colored woolen yarns. 16% inches long;
13% wide. 2

Second from left: Cat. No. 220450, U.S.N.M. From Fred Harvey collec-
tion at the Louisiana Purchase Exposition, Nez Perce. Designs in colored
woolen yarns chemically dyed and embroidered on twined overlay. Dimen-
sions: 17% inches long and 14% inches wide.

Middle row, left: Cat. No, 220448, U.S.N.M. From Fred Harvey col-
lection, Louisiana Purchase Exposition, Nez Perce. Overlay grass design in
flat relief, but no embroidered figures in yarn. Dimensions: 15 inches long
and 13 inches wide.

Middle row, second from left: Cat. No. 345429, U.S.N.M. From Salish
of Washington. Collected by Mrs. G. B. Welch. Designs in embroidered
yarn on grass overlay. Dimensions: 11 inches long and 9 inches wide.

Middle row, third from left: Cat. No. 220449, U.S.N.M. From Fred
Harvey collection at the Louisiana Purchase Exposition. Plain field; de-
signs in colored yarns. Dimensions: 1514 inches by 12% inches.

Lower row, left: Nez Perce. Fred Harvey collection at Louisiana Pur-
chase Exposition.

Lower row, second from left: Cat. No. 177610, U.S.N.M. From Okinagan
of Washington. Collected by Mr. C. L. Fletcher. Red flannel border rein-
forcement; designs in colored yarns. Dimensions: 1244 inches long by
11 inches wide.

Lower row, third from left: Cat. No. 277609, U.S.N.M. From Okinagan.
Collected by Mrs. C. L. Fletcher. Flannel strouding border; designs in
dyed wollen yarns. Dimensions: 12% inches long by 91% inches wide.

Fig. 2. Woven bags of the Nez Perce, Okinagan, and Salish Indians.
(Designs on reverse side of bags figured at left.)

Upper row, second from right: Cat. No. 220447, U.S.N.M. . From Fred
Harvey collection at the Louisiana Purchase Exposition. Rectangular
designs in dyed woolen yarns on a field of overlay grass twining. Dimen-
sions: 164% inches long by 18% inches wide.

Upper right: Cat. No. 220450, U.S.N.M. From Fred Harvey collection
at the Louisiana Purchase Exposition, Nez Perce. Designs in colored
woolen yarns chemically dyed and twined about the warp fabric. 1714
inches long by 14% inches wide.

Middle row, third from right: Cat. No. 220448, U.S.N.M. From Fred
Harvey collection at the Louisiana Purchase Exposition, Nez Perce. Over-
lay grass design in flat relief. Dimensions: 15 inches long by 13 inches
wide.

Middle row, second from right: Cat. No. 345429, U.S.N.M. Salish. Col-
lected by Mrs. G. B. Welch. Plain field designs in colored yarns of light
blue, red, yellow, and black; also in dyed grass twining. Dimensions:
11 inches long by 9 inches wide.

Middle right: Cat. No. 220449, U.S.N.M. From Fred Harvey collection
at the Louisiana Purchase Exposition. Designs in colored yarns twined
about warp elements, Nez Perce. Dimensions: 15% inches by 12% inches.
— om

ABORIGINAL DECORATIVE ART—KRIEGER 551

Lower row, third from right: Nez Perce. Overlay of twined grass in
various colors forming triangle and diagonal spur designs in flat relief.
This is an older decorative technic than embroidery in colored yarns.

Lower row, second from right: Cat. No. 277610, U.S.N.M. From Okina-
gan of Washington. Collected by Mrs. C. L. Fletcher. Dimensions: 12%
inches long by 11 inches wide.

Lower right: Cat. No. 277609, U.S.N.M. Okinagan. Collected by Mrs.
C. L. Fletcher. Border of red flannel strouding; designs in dyed woolen
yarns. Dimensions: 12% inches long by 914 inches wide.

PLATES 12 AND 138

Woven pouches of the Nez Perce Indians of Idaho, and of the Menominee from
the Hrdlitka, Bushnell, Matthews, Wetheral, and Fred Harvey collections.

PLATE 14

Pictographie art from the valley of the Middle Columbia River at Vantage
Ferry, Kittitas County, Washington. The etched figures of a man and of a
mountain goat (A) are perhaps the most characteristic forms of petroglyphs
to be seen on the basalt cliffs of the Middle Columbia. Other types of carving
of the human figure may be seen (D) at bottom of plate. The elaborate
headdress is often confused with figures representing the sun disk. Rain
symbols in the form of rake figures also appear in this pictograph. A many-
legged insect is frequently engraved on rock (C) as are also figures of lizards,
big horn, sheep, deer, flying geese, snakes, bear tracks, bird tracks, sheep
horns, and turtle, along with geometric devices such as dots, stars, cogged
wheel, cross, concentric circles, wavy or zigzag lines, spirals, connected circles,
which are sometimes bisected, circular gridirons, cross hachure, angular
meander, diamond or lozenge-shaped figures, ladder, and mazes of several
descriptions. The dragonlike figure (B) is unique, while life forms as man
on horse, dancing figures, or katchinalike representations; that is, wedge-
shaped human figurines are not infrequent.

PLATE 15

Decorated dishes of carved wood and spoons cut from the horn of the mountain
goat. From the Wishram, Quinault, and other Tribes of the Middle Columbia
Valley and representative of the so-called Dalles Culture which is transitional
between the north Pacific coast and the Upper Plateau cultures.

PLate 16

Native houses and totem poles of the Haida Indians, Kasaan National Monu-
ment, Prince of Wales Island, southeast Alaska.

Upper: The house fronted with a single totem pole surmounted with
the carved representation of an eagle is the only house remaining. It is
named “ hutnes,” meaning eagle house.

Lower: The house at the right of the village of Kasaan and fronted
with two totem poles, was recently burned. It was named the “ house of
big doings” or “ribs.” Built by Chief Skaul. Immediately on the right
is another “sky” house, and just beyond is a former slave's cabin.

The National Monument of Old Kasaan is under the administration of the
Bureau of Forestry.
552 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

PLATE 17

Examples of the wood carver’s arts of the Haida Indians of southeast Alaska.

Upper left: A tobacco pipe of carved wood. The pipe is carved to repre-
sent the eagle totem; a smaller carved figure just beneath represents a
beaver, recognizable by the cross hachure representing its bushy tail,
applied for convenience sake on the eagle-figure wing. Cat. No. 3373854,
U.S.N.M. Collected from the Haida by T. S. Forsyth.

Upper right: One of the most recently erected totem poles in the National
Monument of Old Kasaan. It was carved for Chief Nastow in 1886. The
two bearded and high-hatted carved figures at the top of the pole are
watchmen.

Lower figure: A carved and painted wooden chest. This box is typical
of carved and decorated wooden chests fashioned by the northwest Pacific
coast Indian tribes and used by them as containers of various objects. The
chest is made from a cedar slab grooved on the inner face at proper inter-
vals, bent to a rectangular shape, the ends pegged and a bottom and top
supplied. It is decorated by surface painting, by shallow intaglio carving,
also by relief carving. The designs are of totemic animals wonderfully
analyzed into conventional decorative designs representing totemic forms
as in the woven Chilkat blankets. Frequently the smaller chests are
secured with an ornamental lacing of cedar bark cord. Sometimes bark
mats are wrapped around them before the cords are applied. The carved
wooden boxes are intended to contain food or valuable belongings of the
household.

PLATE 18

Totemic mask of carved wood and cedar bark representing the culture hero
of the Haida and Tlingit Indians of southeast Alaska in the form of a raven.
The massive beak is operated with strings from within by the impersonator
of the raven totem. Collection of the United States National Museum.

PLATE 19

Examples of recent forms of stone sculpturing by the Haida of Queen Char-
lotte Islands, British Columbia. Carvings in slate after patterns formerly
executed in wood.

At upper left is the “bear mother.” This has been styled the best
example of aboriginal art from the Pacific northwest coast, in the manner
in which the primitive artist has succeeded in modeling the intended
symbolism through carving and polishing a slab of slate.

At upper right is a miniature carving of a totem pole; below appears
engraved on the inner surface of a carved and polished tray of slate
certain mythological monsters of totemic import, but not found in natural
history books.

Piatt 20

Examples of modern decorative art of the Alaska Eskimo.

Pictographic engravings on walrus tusks of ivory. The hunting and
fishing scenes engraved on the flattened surface of one of the ivory tusks
appear in silhouette. These are of an earlier date than the work illus-
trated by the engravings appearing on the surface of the other tusk,
which appear in perspective, framing a modern cribbage board, one of
the favored commercial objects offered to the trade by the modern Alaska
Eskimo.
ABORIGINAL DECORATIVE ART——KRIEGER 553

The environment of the Alaska west coast Eskimo limits their choice
of materials suitable for pictographic and decorative art. From the be-
ginning of their occupancy of Alaska, the Eskimo engraved geometric
designs on bone, ivory, and to a lesser extent on wood. Carving in the
round in a highly realistic manner, although practiced to a more limited
degree, was no less successful, reminding one in this respect of the art of
the northwest coast of British Columbia and of southeast Alaska. Em-
broidered designs were applied on skin garments by the southern Eskimo
and by the Aleut.

Early designs were more curvilinear than are the more modern spurred
and angular engraved patterns. Repeated use of the eye motive of the
northwest coast tribes points to an early connection between these coast
peoples, which was only recently broken off by the intrusion of the
Athapaseans. There is furthermore in these early attempts at decorative
art a striking similarity to the incomplete double volutes and double curves
of the Aainu of northern Japan, and of the Siberian tribes.

PLATE 21

Coiled baskets of the Panamint and Tulare Indians of Inyo and Tulare Counties,
Calif.
The upper (Panamint) basketry tray illustrates the so-called lone pine
pattern, while the lower (Tulare) basket is decorated with the diamond
rattlesnake pattern.

PLATE 22

Decorated coiled baskets of the Pomo Indians, Mendocino County, Calif. Orna-
mentation effected principally through sewing in of white shell beads, downy
tufts of woodpecker feathers, and in weaving patterns in colored (black) bas-
ketry splints to form geometrical designs symbolizing various life forms. The
Pomo attach a meaning to the ornamental structure. The same may be said
for the designs of the Salish tribes of British Columbia and for the symbolic
ornamentation on the basketry of the Alaska Tlingit Indians, although the
Haida do not attach much importance to their decorative devices on twined
basketry. The beautiful examples of Pomo coiled basketry shown are built up on
either a single or 3-rod foundation, are sewn with split sedge root and the stems
of tiny feathers are caught under the stitches. Colors are obtained through
use of several kinds of bird feathers, as the red from the woodpecker, green
from the mallard duck, orange from the oriole, yellow from the meadow lark,
black from quail. In the shell pendants variety in colors is derived from the
tinted abalone and the white clam.

PLATE 23

Basketry jars of the White Mountain Apache of Arizona; gaming tray of the
Pomo; and (below) twined baskets of the Pomo decorated with shell beads
and feathers of the red woodpecker and other birds.

PLATE 24

Exhibit in the United States National Museum of the decorative arts of the
Apache Indians of Arizona and New Mexico.

The typical Apache decorative designs may be noted in the saddle bags
of cut hide and tanned skins, formerly the property of the Apache chief,
Geronimo; also on the medicine man’s dance shirt of painted and@d otherwise
ornamented tanned skin, all highly symbolic and sacred to the Apache
554 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

religious practices. The patterned beadwork on leggings and the peculiar
cut of the moccasin last which is recurved at the toe end and expanded to
a button-shaped knob, as also the several styles of baskets shown, fully
illustrate the art and arts of the nomadie Apache.

PLATE 25

Painted altar of tanned doeskin. Pueblo Indians of New Mexico.

This example of southern Plains Indian art was collected from the
Pueblo Indians by Gov. W. F. M. Arny in 1877. It resembles in structure
and details of design, a painted symbol of Comanche origin. The painted
design of a buffalo is spread out on a tanned doeskin. A lozenge-shaped
figure represents the head, recurved diverging horns, several comblike, or
rakelike figures and painted triangles make up the design. A spurred
border in particular resembles the corresponding sacred device of the
southern Plains tribes, notably the Comanche. The design is applied with
sticks dipped in glue, which is well rubbed into the tanned skin. When it
hardens, the design is brought into relief. Cat. No. 11317, U.S.N.M.

PLATE 26

Mexican and Pueblan textile designs. A woven serape and ceremonial kilts.

Above: Designs incorporating the symbolism of the Hopi. This con-
sists of stepped triangles and of pendent parallel lines. This is the so-
called rain cloud design and reappears in several patterns due to the need
for conformity with the borders of the textile into which the pattern has
been woven. A rounded, dome-shaped figure frequently appears instead
of the triangular device, which is similar to the triangular pattern used
in the symbolism of the Plains tribes. Below: The Saltillo serape is
perhaps the finest example of weaving and of woven decorative design
known from aboriginal American tribes. The woven blankets of the
Salish, of the Chilkat, and of the Navaho are close seconds so far as per-
tains to design alone, but are inferior in weaving technic. Except for the
yoke pattern, in the example shown, there has been woven throughout, a
series of small, lozenge-shaped figures. Other examples of Saltillo serapes
incorporate series of small, hour-glass figures in continuous panels. The
art of weaving serapes on native Mexican looms has all but become extinct
and the few known examples of this textile art are valued highly.

PLATE 27

Decorated earthenware bowls of the Pueblo Indians of Zufli, N. Mex. The
painting of decorative or of symbolic designs in colors has been carried
out to an extent far superior to weaving or basketry technic within the area
occupied by the Pueblo Indians. Paint brushes of split yucca leaves are
commonly used in applying the paint. Before painting on the designs the
surface of the vessel has been treated with a slip consisting of white, orange,
or yellowish clays reduced with water. This priming coat serves as a back-
ground for the painted designs to be applied. Colors for the paints are de-
rived from plants as the bee plant (Peritoma serrulatum) which produces
a brilliant black, or ochres in shades of red and yellow.

Use of paints in conventional designs pertaining to local mythology is
more common than is the painting on of life motives in eccentric or in
realistic form. The Zufli potter separates the available wall space into
ABORIGINAL DECORATIVE ART—KRIEGER 555

several divisions. Neck designs consist of volutes or of double curves,
also of triangles and of lozenge-shaped figures. These designs are repeated
to produce a symmetrical balance. On the body of the vessel are painted
such combinations as the representation of a deer and a rosette represent-
ing a sunflower. A series of three terraces may be substituted for the
deer and sunflower figures. There may also be found an encircling panel
of bird figures with interlocking bills.

PLATE 28

Pictographic earthenware forms and painted designs in combination with
eccentric life forms, some of which approach the realistic. Pueblo Indians
of Zufi and of the Rio Grande, N. Mex.

PLATE 29

Woven belts of the Tarahumare, Huichol, and Cora Indians of northern Mexico.
Irom the Lumholtz, Palmer, and Nelson collections from Sonora and Chibua-
hua. The apparently meaningless angular designs are, according to Lum-
holtz, symbolic to the highest degree.

PLATE 30

Woven bags of the Cora, Huichol, and Tarahumare Indians of Mexico; also
one woven by the Menominee of the Great Lakes or eastern woodlands area
introduced here for comparison.

Upper row, left: Cat. No. 204711, U.S.N.M. Hough collection from San
Luis Potosi, Mexico. Woven bag with native geometrical design. Dimen-
sions: 3% inches in width; 5% inches in depth.

Upper row, second from left: Cat. No. 201072, U.S.N.M. Woven bag of
the Cora Indians collected by Nelson. Dimensions: 5 inches deep by 4%
inches wide.

Upper right: Cat. No. 201077, U.S.N.M. Woven bag collected by Nelson
from the Cora Indians. Dimensions: length, 7144 inches by 6 inches in
width.

Right, second row from bottom: Cat. No, 204710, U.S.N.M. From the
Hough collection, San Luis Potosi, Mexico. Woven with cotton base and
woolen weft. Excellent handiwork. Dimensions: 9 inches long by 6
inches wide.

Left, second from bottom: Cat. No. 165381, U.S.N.M. Collected by
Palmer. Cora, Dimensions: width, 8 inches; depth, 6% inches.

Lower left: From the Bushnell collection representing the woven grass
bags of the Menominee Indians of the eastern woodlands area introduced
here for comparison with more sophisticated Mexican examples. The
zoomorphie designs resemble those of ancient Peru. Dimensions: Depth,
5% inches; width, 8 inches,

Lower right: Cat. No. 165380, U.S.N.M. Woven cotsa bag collected by
Doctor Palmer from the Cora, in northern Mexico. Dimensions: 6 inches
by 6 inches.

PLATE 31

Woven poncho with painted decorative design of the Piro Indians of the

upper Amazon (above), contrasted with a splendid example of Navaho
loom work.
556 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

PLATE 32

Aboriginal architectural detail from the country of the Maya illustrating the
aboriginal American stone arch, also relief embellishments on the stone walls
of a Mayan temple at Chichen Itza.

PLATE 33

Ceremonial figurines of the Choco Indians of southeastern Panama.

These figurines carved from a light wood represent devices used by the
Choco medicine man or doctor as aids in the curing of disease. The
painted designs are characteristic of the aborigines of Darien and appear
also on bark cloth.

PLATE 34

Animal and bird effigies modeled from gutta percha collected by Lieuts.
Herndon and Gibbon from Amazonian tribes in 1856. Below: a ceremonial
figurine of carved wood from the prehistoric Arawak of Santo Domingo.

The zoomorphie figurine with aviform headdress is mounted on the end
of a staff much like those of the Tule, Bribri, and other tribes of Panama
and Costa Rica, although the style of carving resembles modeled life forms
appearing on earthenware vessels from the Great Antilles. Collected by W.
H. Gabb in a cave in Santo Domingo. Cat. No. 42664, U.S.N.M.

PLATE 35

On the left is an ancient Peruvian mummy enshrouded in its original covering
of decorated woven cloth. On this example of prehistoric Peruvian cloth
appear stamped geometric designs in panels, also the conventionalized figure
of a fish, as primary decorative motives in color. Collected by W. L. Safford,
U.S.N. 5

On the right is a decorated bark-cloth shirt collected by F. L. Cushing from
a Peruvian tribe on the upper Amazon River. Cat. No, 175807, U.S.N.M.

PLATE 36

South American Indian decorative design and weaving technic.

Left: Decorative technic of the Jivaro Indians of Peru in feathers and
beads. Above is a loin cloth of woven and plaited feathers of the toucan
and other brilliantly-colored birds. Beaded fringes capped with green
metallic elytra of beetles are attached to the lower border. Beaded belts
and sashes appear at the sides, while at center is an open mesh beaded
skirt. Collected by W. L. Safford, U.S.N.

Center: The dark colored skirt, with its ornamental appliqué embellish-
ment of shell beads and danglers, has been woven by the Peruvian Indians
from human hair. Collected by W. L. Safford, U.S.N.

Right: Decorative motives of the Tehuelche Indians of Patagonia. The
painted decorative designs are applied on the inner surface of a tanned cow
hide to which the hair is still attached. Collected by W. L. Safford, U.S.N.

PLATE 37

War shirt decorated with feathers of the emu. Indians of Paraguay. Similar
war jackets of woven cord are in the museum collections from Kingsmill
Island and from Negrito tribes of the interior of New Guinea.
Smithsonian Report, 1930—Krieger PLATE 1

IROQUOIS MASK
SNVIONI SIONOOY! AHL AO SLTFG WNdIWVM

¢€ ALV 1d aSaIy— "IEG | ‘Wodey ueruosyztuig
PLATE 3

Krieger

Smithsonian_Report, 1930.

INDIANS

BEADED SHOULDER BAGS OF THE CHIPPEWA
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Krieger PLATE 4

oes Sk MA ek ataas* 2 '

i
Pater ee ke

VAR ali

HEADBAND (LOWER LEFT) AND SASHES AND BELTS OF WOVEN BEADWORK OF
THE CHIPPEWA INDIANS
PLATE 5

Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Krieger

ee

Ste:

ae

ee ee ee ee ee Oe
55 56

eigen ee ae

EXAMPLES OF THE DOUBLE-CURVE DESIGN
Upper, Dene; Middle, Ainu; Lower, Naskapi.

* ¢ ae eS a

PLATE 6

Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Krieger

FLORAL

AND GEOMETRIC ENGRAVED DESIGNS ON WOOD

DECORATIVE ART OF THE CHIPPEWA.
SNVIONI (LHOIY 'XNOIS) SHONVWOD SHL AO SSHD315YVd IGNV ‘HSAING ‘SOvVgG JGOIHWMVY OSLNIVd

Z3LW1d JWBIIY "YEG | “WOday uemosyqiuag
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Krieger PLATE 8

DECORATED QUIVER, WOMAN'S WORKBOX, AND OTHER CONTAINERS OF PAINTED

RAWHIDE. SIOUX, COMANCHE, KIOWA, CHEYENNE, AND APACHE INDIANS

SASYOH ONIIWSLS SNVIGNI XNOIS ONILNSSSYdasyY NIMSHONG GANNV_L NO ONILNIV"

6 3LV1d JaBouy- “OL6| “Oday ueruosYyyTMg
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Krieger PLATE 10

a =. => me
a
=

BEADED AND QUILLED PIPE AND TOBACCO BAGS OF THE SIOUX
INDIANS
SNVIONI HSIIVS' ONY *NVYOVNINMO ‘393d ZAN SHL AO SOVGA NSAONM

LL aLvId 22891 Y—"OCH| ‘Oday uURuosyynUg
OHVQC! AO SNVIOGNI 39Y8S3d ZAN AHL AO SOVEA NAAOCM

cl ALV 1d 19391 }— EG] *qaodayy uPIUOsyyIWG
PLATE 13

Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Krieger

OPI AA

'e A a wt &

WOVEN BAGS OF THE MENOMINEE, AND NEZ PERCE (CENTER, AND LOWER RIGHT)
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Krieger PLATE 14

PICTOGRAPHIC ART FROM THELVALLEY OF THE MIDDLE COLUMBIA RIVER
AT VANTAGE FERRY, WASH.

AATIVA VIEGWN1N0D 3AIGGICZ SHL 4O saaiy | YSHLO ANY
"WYYHSIM “LINYNING SHL WOU LVOSD NIVLNNOW SHL AO NYOH SHL WOYS LND SNO« IdS ONV GOOM GSANVD AO SF

HSIQ Q3ivyHyoosq

Sl 31W1d sHIUY—'YEH| “Oday ueruosyqiug
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Krieger PEATE 1/6

NATIVE HOUSES AND TOTEM POLES OF THE HAIDA INDIANS AT KASAAN, PRINCE
OF WALES ISLAND, SOUTHEAST ALASKA
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Krieger

UPPER LEFT

Wr

a

A CARVED WOODEN PIPE; UPPER RIGHT, A HAIDA
BOTTOM. CARVED AND PAINTED WOODEN CHEST

PLATE

|

seaman

}

Pr ie

TOTEM

17

q

POLE;
VHsSV1V
“NSAAVY SHL ONILNASS day HMYVvgd YVGeD GNv doo GAAYVD AO MSVYW SIWSLOL

ISVAHLNOS 3AO SNVIGN] VaOIVH

8lL ALV1d 19891 Iy¥—'9¢6 | *‘qaoday ueiuosyjIwig
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Krieger PLATE 19

CARVINGS IN SLATE AFTER PATTERNS FORMERLY EXECUTED IN WCOD. HAIDA
INDIANS OF QUEEN CHARLOTTE ISLANDS, BRITISH COLUMBIA
VHSV1V AO OWINSA AHL AG SHSNL SNYIVM NO SONIAVYODNA DIHdVYDOLO!d

O¢ ALVId Ja3a1IyJ—")¢6| ‘Aodeyy uertuosyqIWIG
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Krieger PLATE 21

. ee y
oo ae
te

* hy haere
SASS e. ¢

COILED BASKETS OF THE PANAMINT AND TULARE INDIANS OF CALIFORNIA
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Krieger PLATE 22

DECORATED COILED BASKETS OF THE POMO INDIANS OF CALIFORNIA

Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Krieger PLATE

3ASKETRY OF THE APACHE AND POMO INDIANS
PLATE 24

Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Krieger

OLA 4 bps
AVAVAM AV AN AW, dn
DOAAAAZ SP Pr
PY AIA

RARE ER Batt
2 a Z Iq. p

en

EXHIBIT OF THE DECORATIVE ARTS OF THE APACHE INDIANS
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Krieger PLATE 25

PAINTED ALTAR OF TANNED DOESKIN, SYMBOLIZING THE INDIAN'S PRAYER FOR
MORE BUFFALO. PUEBLO INDIANS OF NEW MEXICO
PLATE 26

Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Krieger

/ Me a ra

Vj ‘
POM TY
WVUAHNVARVAAAAAAUSIEIA SEO AAAAY

Sbarro FSM

cn

iia

eterna
i CN

‘

ee re Ty 7 ay

ATA ere

aw |

AND DESIGNS FROM CEREMONIAL KILTS AND

(BELOW)

MEXICAN SERAPE

INDIANS OF ARIZONA

(ABOVE) OF THE HOPI

SASHES
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Krieger PLATE 27

DECORATED EARTHENWARE ZUNI JARS
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Krieger PLATE 28

PICTOGRAPHIC DESIGNS PAINTED ON EARTHENWARE BOWLS, VASES, AND CAN-
TEENS OF THE ZUNI AND RIO GRANDE PUEBLO INDIANS

Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Krieger PLATE 29

rm]
~

KSSE
SES

~ <>
2 SS
ee ee

Cn

\
, ‘
}
4
}
/
(
,)
/ f

an =
/ a>
=>
~

>

<<
aw

—<-
o~

C7
<<

SSS

~~
=

=

oS

WOVEN BELTS OF THE CORA, HUICHOL, AND TARAHUMARE INDIANS, MEXICO
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Krieger PLATE 30

‘ iS Orr

D TARAHUMARE INDIANS OF MEXICO.

WOVEN BAGS OF THE CORA, HUICHOL, AN
LOWER LEFT BY WAY OF CONTRAST

A WOVEN MENOMINEE BAG IS SHOWN AT
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Krieger PLATE 31

AN EXAMPLE OF PAINTED PIRO CLOTH (ABOVE A WOVEN DESIGN OF THE
NAVAJO (BELOW)
PLATE 32

Krieger

1930.—

Smithsonian Report

ILLUSTRATING THE MAYAN ARCH AND DECORATIVE ARCHITECTURE
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Krieger PLATE 33

CEREMONIAL FIGURINES OF THE CHOCO INDIANS OF SOUTHEASTERN PANAMA
PLATE 34

Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Krieger

ABOVE ARE SHOWN GUTTA-PERCHA ANIMAL AND
BIRD EFFIGIES COLLECTED BY LIEUTENANTS
HERNDON AND GIBBON FROM AMAZONIAN
TRIBES IN 1856. BELOW IS A CEREMONIAL
FIGURINE OF CARVED WOOD FROM THE PRE-
HISTORIC ARAWAK OF SANTO DOMINGO
NOZVWY
YaddN BHL 3O SABINL NVIGNI “SNDSISSG YVANITIANND GALNIVd HLIM HLOID HV VLHOIYN LV -LS577 LY NMOHS SI NOISSQG
SAILWHODSO G3dWVLS HLIM HLONID NOLLOD NSAOCM NI GSQNOYHSN]A AWWNW NVIANYAd LNAISNY NY SNOISSGC 3ATMNLXSL NVIANYSd

be
fae
:

‘©

at Mine
van ee Sw ne te

GE 3ALV1d sBIUY— "NE H| “Woda uvwosyyuicg

SATIHD SNVIGN[ AHOWNHAL “ACGIH
-MOD GANNVL AO 38ON NO SNOISHG GSLNIVd “€ ‘NY3ad YIVH NYWNH AO NSAOM LYIMS °2 *NYSd ‘SNVIGN] OYVAIC  LYINMS GaaVveag ‘}

pilaidalile. |

a

BPCORENE ET ea apis
" ele

BERR FPG aves

 «
Wi

9€ ALV1d 193911y—")¢6| ‘W4odayy UeTUOsYzIWICG
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Krieger PLATE 37

WAR SHIRT DECORATED WITH EMU

FEATHERS. INDIANS OF PARAGUAY
THE ACCLIMATIZATION OF THE WHITE RACE IN
THE TROPICS '

By Roserr De C. WARD

The acclimatization of the white race in the Tropics is a question
which is largely medical in many of its aspects. I wish to make it
clear that I write wholly as a layman in so far as the medical side
of my topic is concerned. The subject, however, also very distinctly
concerns the climatologist. It is from the climatological, rather than
from the medical, side that I propose to treat it. The problem is one
the solution of which—if there be a solution— requires the close
cooperation of medical men and of climatologists. The study of the
physiological effects of tropical climates, and of tropical diseases, is
the responsibility of the medical man. On the other hand, it is the
business of the climatologist to set forth, in the greatest possible de-
tail, all the characteristics of tropical climates, and, if the picture is
not sufficiently complete or satisfactory for the purposes of the
physician, to take steps to make it more so. While much work, and
very excellent work, has been done by investigators of many national-
ities, in many parts of the Tropics, there still remain great gaps in our
knowledge which must be filled before our conclusions can be consid-
ered wholly sound, or final.

To my own thinking, there are few more interesting problems
awaiting study on the part of medical investigators than those that
relate to the physiological effects of tropical climates on white men
and women, and especially on children. Such studies should by no
means be limited simply to the ordinary physical changes in the body.
They should especially be extended to cover the nervous system and
the mental effects. Incomplete as our present knowledge of this prob-
lem is, it is nevertheless possible for us to present certain fairly well
ascertained facts. It is these that I wish to consider, always remem-
bering that the future may very considerably change our present
views, and that many phases of the acclimatization problem are very
recent. The attention of the medical profession has naturally and

1A lecture given at the Lowell Institute, Boston. The writer is indebted to Dr, Richard
P. Strong for his kindness in reading the manuscript of this lecture, and for his helpful
suggestions. Reprinted by permission from the New England Journal of Medicine, vol.
201, No. 13, pp. 617-627, Sept. 26, 1929.

557
558 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

properly been more concerned with the study of specific causes of
tropical diseases than with the general physiological effects of tropi-
cal climates.

The acclimatization of the white race in the Tropics is a question
of vast importance. Upon it depend the future settlement, control,
government and utilization of the Tropics. It is becoming more im-
portant with the passing of the years. The increasing pressure of
population in Europe demands an outlet. The need of an additional
food supply in the not far distant future is turning our attention
more and more toward the hot belt of the world. Tropical products,
like coffee, rubber, quinine, spices, fruits, and lumber are desired in
ever-increasing quantity. The land areas within the Tropics are to
a large extent under the control of extra-tropical nations, as colonies,
or protectorates, or possessions of one sort or another. The future
more and more looks toward the Tropics. And what becomes of the
Tropics is for the white man to decide.

This problem is of concern to many. It interests the statesman,
whose responsibilities include relations with tropical countries; the
economist, who concerns himself with laws of population and with
food supply; the medical man, whose business it is to fight disease
and to improve conditions of health all over the world; the clima-
tologist, whose intimate study of tropical climates is essential to any
thorough understanding of tropical problems; the ‘engineer, geolo-
gist, or business man whose livelihood is to be gained in tropical
countries.

The literature is already very extended. We Americans are apt
to forget that people of our own blood, of the British Isles, have had
many long years of intimate contact with the Tropics, and have made
many important studies of the experience of their troops and of their
civilians in hot countries. France has had her own dealings with
‘ the Tropics, in Africa and in the Far East. Germany, also, more re-
cently, chiefly in Africa, accumulated information along the same
lines.

One of the very natural misconceptions of a layman is that the
climates of the whole tropical zone are in all respects alike. This is
by no means the case. There are, in reality, three logical subdivisions
of that zone: The equatorial belt, the trade wind belts, and the mon-
soon belts. In each of these there are modifications due to oceanic
and to continental influences. Further, the effect of altitude is so
important that another subdivision should be added to include moun-
tain climates. All parts of the hot zone are not equally disagreeable
or hostile, so far as occupation by the white race is concerned.

The tropical zone includes extended deserts over the continental
areas in the latitudes of the trade winds; immense expanses of damp
forests and jungles and swamp land in the vicinity of the equator ;
WHITE RACE IN THE TROPICS—WARD 559

fertile islands, refreshed by cool steady winds from the ocean; great
grass lands with one season of drought and dust and another season
of dampness, of rains, and often of floods; the monsoon districts,
with their climatic control alternately that of the wet monsoon and of
the dry monsoon; the mountains and plateaus with their lower tem-
peratures and, if rising high enough, carrying snow the year around,
even on the equator. This variety of climates makes it difficult to
arrive at general conclusions for the lower latitudes as a whole. Each
type of climate has advantages and each has disadvantages for the
white settler. ‘The deserts are free from many tropical diseases, their
parched soil and dry, sterile air being unfavorable to the development
and distribution of most microorganisms and of disease-bearing in-
sects. Further, the general physiological effects of desert climates are
stimulating. They do not have the weakening and enervating effects
associated with the hot-house air of the latitudes nearer the equator.
The drier districts are, on the whole, to be preferred to the moister.
On the other hand, the dust and heat and brilliant sunshine are very
trying, and the lack of water is obviously a serious limitation to
settlement and agricultural development. Tropical deserts are
“healthy ” in the ordinary meaning of the term, but they are not
desirable places of residence for white settlers.

Tropical islands in the trade winds, especially those toward the
margins of the tropical zone, like the Hawaiian Islands, are generally
regarded as far more desirable places of residence for white men and
women than are the continental areas, especially those near the
equator. Trade wind islands are still more desirable if they are
mountainous, and therefore offer the advantages of tempered heat.

Wherever mountains and plateaus occur in the Tropics there is
general agreement that the climatic conditions, at least up to a height
of a few thousand feet, are more favorable for the white settler than
are the hotter, damp lowlands. Altitude is chiefly important because
of its effect in tempering the heat, especially at night. In India the
hill sections are crowded during the hot months by civilian and mili-
tary officials, and it has been well said that India is ruled from 7,000
feet above sea level. The climate of many tropical plateaus and
mountains has the reputation of being a “ perpetual spring.” Thus,
on the interior plateaus of the tropical Cordilleras of South America
and on the eastern plateaus of Africa the heat is greatly tempered by
the altitude, while the lowlands and coasts are very hot. A list of
the better portions of the Tropics for white settlement always in-
cludes the plateaus of the Andes, of eastern equatorial Africa, and of
South Africa; the Indian hill stations, and the Hawaiian and other
trade wind islands. To this list, many other places might easily be
added. Lord Bryce believed that Rhodesia will become the home
of a settled British population, where the race will renew itself from
560 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

generation to generation, but the climate of this elevated region is
very different from that of the hot and moist latitudes along the
equator. Yet tropical mountains and plateaus lack one feature of
essential importance. They may, perhaps rightly, be said to have a
“ perpetual spring,” but they lack distinct seasonal variety. They
lack the tonic of a cold winter. Their temperatures are, it is true,
lower than those nearer sea level, but although the temperature scale
is lower, the same monotonous succession of notes is played upon it.
They are temperate in the sense of having tempered heat. They are
not “temperate ” in the sense that they have temperate zone charac-
teristics of distinct seasonal variety; of constantly fluctuating
weather changes; of the alternation from warmer to colder winds,
and from storm to fine weather. Tropical mountains and plateaus
have monotony; a monotonous repetition of the same weather. That
is the secret of their failure in solving the problem of acclimatiza-
tion. They do offer immunity from certain tropical diseases. They
fail to provide the “spur of the seasons” to which we are accus-
tomed in temperate latitudes. The nonseasonal character of tropical
climates—the so-called “ perpetual spring ”—is not by any means the
best fitted for man’s mental or physical development, however pleas-
ant it may be for a time. Many tropical hill and plateau stations
are beneficial in restoring those exhausted by overwork or by the
heat of the lowlands. They are especially advantageous in the cases
of white women and children. Nevertheless, climates temperate
because of altitude can not replace climates “temperate ” because of
latitude.

In the problems of acclimatization: and colonization in the Tropics
cur concern is chiefly, although not by any means solely, with the hot,
damp, and rainy climates found generally in the latitudes near the
Equator: The climates of the Amazon and Congo forests, for ex-
ample; of the west coast of Africa and of northern South America;
of the typical tropical jungles; of the steamy oppressive “hot-house”
type. It is in these more or less constantly wet climates that we
find the wealth of tropical products which chiefly attracts the white
man. It is here that, on the whole, there are the greatest possibilities
for future food supply.. The economic return is mainly from the
damp lowlands, and not from the deserts or from the high plateaus
and mountains. It is fairly safe to say that it is specifically the
rainy low-latitude type of climate which promises the greatest po-
tential agricultural resources, and also presents the most serious
handicap to white settlement. It is with this climate that the prob-
lem of acclimatization is mainly concerned.

In the minds of most people the acclimatization problem is merely
a question of whether a single white man or woman can live for a
time in a tropical climate in reasonable comfort and with a fair

WHITE RACE IN THE TROPICS—-WARD 561

chance of good health. But the question is a far larger one than
that. It concerns not one individual alone, nor even one generation
alone. The real problem is this: Can men and women of the white
race immigrate in large numbers to the moist hot Tropics and live
there on the same high plane of civilization as that characteristic of
their former homes, retaining their physical health and vitality,
their mental and moral standards, and reproducing their own kind?
Further, can future generations of white people, born in the Tropics,
maintain, in the years to come, these same standards of civilization
and of physical, mental, and moral vigor? This, it will be observed,
is a very much larger, more complex, and more fundamental question,
but it is the real crux of the whole matter. And this much larger
question is, at present, very difficult, if not altogether impossible, to
answer on the basis of known scientific facts.

The health relation of the white race in tropical climates is best
considered from two points of view, first, the general one of tropical
diseases, and second, the one that concerns the effects of physiological
disturbances without always, or necessarily, involving specific disease.

It is not for the layman, without professional knowledge of medi-
cal science, to attempt any technical discussion of tropical diseases.
He may, however, consider some of the obvious facts without com-
mitting himself in regard to details which do not properly fall in his
own field of scientific study.

Certain diseases are so much at home in the Tropics that they have
come to be known as tropical diseases. This designation does not
imply that some of them may not, and do not, occur in extratropical
latitudes when conditions of climate, traffic, unsanitary mode of life,
absence of proper medical supervision, and so on, favor such oc-
currence. There is greater variety in tropical than in extratropical
disease, but then, many diseases common in cooler latitudes prevail
also near the Equator, and many are found in low latitudes which have
been practically or altogether banished from higher latitudes. Again,
certain diseases even in the Tropics, as is well known, e. g., in the case
of yellow fever, have been hemmed in more and more by modern
sanitary measures. Several conditions are at work in favoring the
widespread prevalence and in determining the large number of trop-
ical diseases. Among these three may here be mentioned: The agency
of tropical insects and parasites in propagating or in transmitting
the disease germ; the general weakening effect of the steady, damp
heat upon the human body, and the excessively unhygienic modes of
life of the natives. The tropical climate is not the sole, or even in
many cases the determining factor, yet certain high temperatures
are necessary for the occurrence and spread of malaria and yellow
fever, for example, and the agency of the tropical fauna, whose re-
quirements are the presence of known conditions of heat and of
562 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

moisture, is of fundamental importance in many cases. As the late
Sir Patrick Manson pointed out, many years ago, in his famous work
on tropical diseases, the term “tropical diseases” does not mean
diseases confined to the Tropics. It was employed by him in a meteor-
ological sense for diseases associated with, but not solely or even di-
rectly due to high temperatures. Tropical climatic conditions, per se,
it may be noted in passing, probably do not injuriously affect the
natives of the Tropics any more than do the conditions of extratrop-
ical climates affect us who live in them. Most tropical diseases attack
both natives and whites; sometimes the former suffer most; some-
times the latter. There is no rigid hard-and-fast rule. The racial
element is, however, often potent. Finally, great numbers of tropical.
natives have inevitably, in the long succession of generations, become
more or less immune to the attacks of disease against which the whites
have not yet developed immunity.

Leaving these broad generalizations, let us turn next to a brief
consideration of a few of the more important tropical diseases. In
addition to the more or less direct effects of exposure to tropical sun-
shine, dampness and heat, such as sunstroke, heat exhaustion and the
like, there are malaria, and dysentery in various forms, doubtless the
two worst enemies of white residents in the Tropics; sleeping sick-
ness ; tropical abscess of the liver ; hookworm and other intestinal par-
asitical infectious fevers of different kinds; ulcers and other infections
of the skin; many infectious diseases common to colder as well as
warmer latitudes, and other ailments that chiefly attack the natives,
and are therefore of a medical rather than of a practical interest in
our present consideration. Yellow fever, cholera, and plague are
very greatly limited, and are being more and more successfully over-
come as the result of modern sanitary measures.

Twenty years ago Sir Ronald Ross wrote of malaria, “I venture to
say that it has profoundly modified the history of mankind by doing
more than anything else to hamper the work of civilization in the
Tropics.” During the two decades that have elapsed since that state-
ment was made, the campaign against malaria has accomplished
remarkable results, both in prevention and in treatment; yet it is
safe to say that malaria still remains one of the most destructive
diseases in the world. Rough estimates—the only ones that are pos-
sible at present—indicate that about one-third of the population
throughout the Tropics suffers from it constantly. The malarial zone
is a broad band within the moist Tropics, extending at times into the
margins of the adjoining temperate zones. The disease is absent, or
infrequent, in deserts and steppes, and on mountains at moderate
elevations above sea level. It is perennial in its zone of maximum
frequency, but has a general tendency to rise to a peak in the warmer
or rainy season. Even in the early days of medical investigation into

WHITE RACE IN THE TROPICS—WARD 563

the origin and conditions of malarial infection, a close relation
between temperature and the occurrence of malaria was observed, so
distinct that from then on the line of a mean annual temperature of
60° F. hes been considered as marking the polar boundaries of recog-
nized malarial infection, and winter cold has been seen to be the great
barrier against the occurrence and spread of the disease. Rainfall
is important because the malaria-bearing mosquito passes one stage
of its life in water. Hence lakes, and especially marshes, pools, and
swamps are critical as breeding places of the mosquitoes. Digging
up the soil results in hollows where puddles and pools may collect.
In early days, it was believed that stirring up the soil gave rise to
certain noxious exhalations from the ground, and that these vapors
or gases produced the disease. It is easy to see how that belief
originated, and why it persisted until medical science wholly dis-
proved it.

Tropical dysentery “ slays outright, and makes miserable wrecks
of white men in the Tropics,” as a recent writer has put it, doubtless
without exaggeration. Dysentery has its real home in tropical
climates, and increases in severity and in frequency with approach to
the Equator. Some form of it is always present in low latitudes,
and it is there next in importance to malaria in causing high death
rates, and in its lasting effects. In contrast with the case of malaria
and of yellow fever, altitude can not be relied on to give relief.
Residents on mountains sometimes suffer more than do those at lower
levels.

The species of tsetse fly associated with sleeping sickness requires
a warm, damp atmosphere, and the immediate presence of water.
The limit of its altitudinal range is about 4,000 to 5,000 feet. It is
found in the true equatorial forests where there is water, and also
extends into the adjacent grasslands where there are groups of trees.
Sleeping sickness occurs over a vast area in tropical and subtropical
Africa. There it causes high mortality, a decreased birth rate, and
is a serious menace to the existence of a large population. In con-
sequence of its ravages, the labor supply is being diminished, and the
economic development of the country is being retarded.

Because of its inevitable enervating and enfeebling effects, hook-
worm is another tropical and subtropical disease which is a very
serious menace in many places. The economic loss is very heavy,
perhaps even heavier than that caused by malaria. It has been esti-
mated that between 60 and 80 per cent of the population of India
harbor the parasite.

Yellow fever, formerly widely prevalent along the tropical shores
of Latin America, and occasionally even invading our Gulf coasts,
now has its last stronghold in western equatorial Africa, where such
splendid work, unfortunately accompanied by the loss of valuable
564 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

lives, has been carried on for some years by the Rockefeller Institute
for Medical Research. An outbreak of yellow fever in Brazil during
the summer of 1928 showed that South America is not yet safe
from this disease. Definite temperature controls over the occurrence
of yellow fever have long been known, and stated in specific num-
bers of degrees of the thermometer scale, and the disappearance of
epidemics when the freezing point is reached was noted several
decades ago.

Sunstroke and heat prostration, as is to be expected, are most com-
mon in the Tropics. Exposure to the sun does not always explain
sunstroke, for at sea the tropical sun is much less fatal than on land,
and places with apparently similar conditions of sunshine differ much
as regards prevalence of sunstroke. The story is told of a planter
from Barbados who had gone to live in Madras, and who insisted on
riding horseback in the sun as he had been accustomed to do in
Barbados. He laughed at friends who warned him against running
this risk, and lost his life by sunstroke. At Panama there were only
two deaths from sunstroke and 21 cases of heat exhaustion in a popu-
lation of 120,000, in 13 years. In Liberia, on the other hand, it has
been pointed out by Dr. C. F. Brooks that in climatic conditions on
the coastal lowlands much like those of the Atlantic coast of Panama,
manual labor such as is performed by white men in Panama is im-
possible, and only a few minutes’ exposure is enough to give “a touch
of the sun.” It has been suggested that an explanation may perhaps
be found in the fact that in Panama protection against the sun is
provided by a moist layer of air which extends to great heights,
while in Liberia the moist layer is relatively thin. Very damp air,
combined with strong sunshine, induces heat exhaustion at fairly —
moderate temperatures, and most damp lowlands in the Tropics are
dangerous for white men who are doing manual labor, or who have
their heads unprotected. Apparently, either intense sunshine alone,
or very damp air alone, is not dangerous. It is the combination of
the two that brings fatal results. On the wharves of Calcutta there
used, to be painted, in large white letters, the significant warning,
“ Beware of the sun,” so that persons coming there for the first time
from the British Isles would read those words before they set foot on
shore. “ Beware of the sun” is a good rule for the Tropics. There
is, in general, too much sunshine in the Tropics. The skin of white
persons exposed to the sun there often becomes badly burned and
blistered, and travelers commonly suffer because of lack of protec-
tion of neck and limbs under the hot tropical sun.

The second aspect of the health and acclimatization of the white
race in the Tropics concerns the physiological disturbances. While
the separation of the effects of physiological disturbances from
specific diseases is difficult, and may, from a strictly medical point of
Be oe hg le td |

WHITSB RACE IN THE TROPICS—-WARD 565

view, even be impossible, nevertheless there is a line of demarcation
between the two, however faint it may be, and however difficult it
may be to draw.

The uniformly high temperatures of the Tropics—the well-known
tropical monotony of heat—when combined with high humidity and
the characteristically small variability of temperature from day to
day, have certain already fairly well recognized physiological effects,
although definite numerical measurements are still to a large extent
not yet available, and much of the evidence is conflicting. On the
basis of recent studies, the body temperature seems, in general, to
be essentially the same as elsewhere when the body is at rest, but
with exercise it rises more rapidly than in cooler climates, and also
falls more slowly. Much exercise has the same effect as a mild fever.
The respiration rate is high, probably because of the body’s attempt
to increase evaporation and so to reduce its temperature. There is
evidence to indicate that evaporation from lungs and skin is far
more concerned in controlling the body temperature than is chem-
ical activity. The blood pressure apparently shows no permanent
change, but there seem to be greater temporary variations after
exercise than is the case in temperate climates. As regards the
composition of the blood, there is a slight relative decrease in the
number of red corpuscles, but the specific gravity shows no change
except in disease. It appears that the popular belief in a “thinness
of the blood ” after prolonged residence in the Tropics is unfounded,
except, as just stated, in the case of disease or of anemia. Perspira-
tion is profuse. There is, in general, an increased activity of the
liver, kidneys, and spleen, as contrasted with an increased activity
of the organs of respiration in higher latitudes. It would seem that
when the white man goes to live in the Tropics his first functional
disturbances are likely to be in the intestinal organs, and may
predispose to dysentery or other dangerous diseases. Per contra,
when human beings or animals are brought from the Tropics to
higher latitudes, where there are lower temperatures and greater
variability of weather, the troubles which they experience are mostly
pulmonary. It appears that, on the whole, the measurable physio-
logical disturbances are not very significant, in so far, at least, as
our present data go. There are, however, nonmeasurable nervous
effects which may be much more critical and fundamental in the
problem of acclimatization. Dr. B. C. Crowell, in an address before
the American Philosophical Society, five years ago (1925), said,
in speaking of the effects of tropical climates upon white men,
“Science has not been able to measure the unquestionably harmful
influence on the nervous system of a constant temperature, bright
sunshine, brilliant colors, and the absence of seasonal variations.”

28095—31——37
566 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

The strain of residence in tropical climates seems to react distinctly
unfavorably upon the nervous system of the majority of persons
from colder climates, and, in the opinion of many medical authori-
ties, it is just here that the greatest obstacle in the way of white
colonization may be found. The muggy, oppressive “ hothouse” air
is not only uncomfortable and difficult to endure, but it has a dis-
tinctly enervating effect, which is more or less widespread among all
white residents in the Tropics, and especially among women and chil-
dren. Energetic physical and mental action are difficult, even
impossible. “ A depression of bodily and mental activity follows—
enervation, indifference, disinclination to exertion, a general, ill-
defined condition of debility.” There is lessened power to do work,
greater fatigue from work, lowered vitality. Dr. James Horton, an
English physician, who was for some time stationed on the west
coast of tropical Africa, reported that every continued mental effort
in that climate was almost immediately accompanied by extreme
fatigue and headache. While in England he could be actively at
work 15 hours a day, he found that immediately on his return to the
Tropics six hours was his extreme limit of continued activity and
intellectual effort if he wished to avoid serious mental fatigue. An
anemic condition is widespread in the moist Tropics. All this
renders the body less able to resist disease. It is already weakened,
and then the microorganism of some specific disease finds a fertile
field for its ravages. The individual has largely lost his powers of
resistance.

The monotony of tropical heat, together with a high degree of
humidity, may produce the condition of neurasthenia so widespread
among the white population of the Tropics, “a complex of symptoms
produced by nerve exhaustion and often associated with, if not caus-
ing, an alteration in bodily nutrition.” “It is this terrible nerve
exhaustion,” writes Dr. Havelock Charles, president of the Medical
Board of India, “ which has, in the past, been the most important
factor in preventing the northern races from settling and procreating
their line with a full share of the nerve vigor which the parental
stock possessed.” ‘Tropical neurasthenia is not directly fatal, but
it tends to create an emotional state of depression and to undermine
a vigorous and healthy constitution. It prevents the development
and maintenance of the mens sana in corpore sano.

The problem of acclimatization is not a question of climate alone.
It is tremendously complicated by the controls exercised by race, diet,
occupations, habits of life, and the like. The Chinese, for example,
succeed where other people have failed. Indeed, so well do they
thrive that there may, in the distant future, be more in “the Yellow
Peril ” than most people are willing to believe. The southern Eu-
ropean is more successful than the northern European; the Latin
WHITE RACE IN THE TROPICS—WARD 567

than the Anglo-Saxon. Those whose diet is light and simple fare
better than those who are hearty eaters and much of whose food is
meat. Excessive indulgence in strong alcoholic beverages is always
injurious and dangerous. The Englishman who indulges freely in
his brandy and soda in the hot Tropics is likely sooner to fall a victim
to disease than is the Italian who drinks only light wines. Indoor
occupations which keep people out of the sun are far more favorable
than labor outdoors. Shopkeepers and clerks have, other things be-
ing equal, a better chance of keeping fit and well than do white
policemen, or soldiers, or railway employees. Life in the Tropics,
away from home associations and traditions and standards, is ex-
tremely likely to lead to the excessive use of intoxicating liquor, to
lowered moral tone, to sexual indulgence, to a distaste for and avoid-
ance of reasonable physical exercise; to an incorrect and poorly
balanced diet. These, and other conditions, combine to make a
normal, healthy life very difficult for most men from northern lati-
tudes whose business takes them to the Tropics, and keeps them there
for any considerable length of time. It is, of course, true that most of
these handicaps to sane and healthy living can be overcome, but to
overcome them takes more strength of will and moral backbone than
many persons possess, and they remain as contributory controls in
the general question of acclimatization. Dr. B. C. Crowell has
pointed out that “the equilibrium of the white man’s nervous system
and his energy and initiative are disturbed by contact with impassive
and at times stupid colored natives, by the tendency to the abuse of
stimulants, and by the general lowering of the moral tone.”

There is another factor in this great complex which one of my
European colleagues has aptly termed “the climate of loneliness.”
It is psychological in its nature. It is found in every part of the
world. The more socially inclined any individual is, the more signif-
icant is the role of “the climate of loneliness ” in his case. It must
not be lost sight of. It must not be confused with the ordinary
climatic factors. It should be given weight—and sometimes tragically
significant weight—as a contributing element in any discussion of the
problem of acclimatization. How often has “the climate of loneli-
ness ” been the fundamental cause of the wreck—physical, mental, and
moral—of the lives of young men and young women, whose breaking
down, whose ill-health, and even whose deaths, were attributed to the
tropical climate alone! “The climate of loneliness ” is hard enough
to bear at its best, in the climates to which one is accustomed at home.
But it is in the deadening monotony of the steaming Tropics, far
from home, that the real suffering which is caused by “ the climate of
loneliness ” is experienced.

As compared with the death rates in colder latitudes, tropical statis-
tics of mortality average high. ‘These death rates, however, represent
568 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

such very diverse conditions of season, climate, race, occupation, soil,
mode of life, food, dwelling, etc., that they can not properly be com-
pared with one another. The prevalence of some special disease in
exceptionally virulent or widespread development will raise the death
rate of any one year far beyond its normal figure. Again, the
presence of some plant disease or pest which causes loss of crops, and
the resulting lowered vitality of the people in consequence of insuffi-
cient food, may easily swell the death rate. Nowhere can these
tropical death rates properly be compared with those noted under
different conditions in other latitudes. Most of the reliable statistics
of mortality relating to white men in the Tropics are for soldiers, that
is, men, in the prime of life, subjected to rigid discipline; provided,
when possible, with carefully selected food, proper living quarters,
and adequate medical and sanitary supervision. Obviously, death
rates for white soldiers in the Tropics are not directly comparable
with the death rates in our own country, which include all ages, both
sexes, and very diverse living conditions, as well as deaths by accident
and old age. So various and so complex are the controlling factors
that critical comparative study is not worth while. Some years ago
I was asked to present a paper on tropical death rates before a scien-
tific body, but I declined the invitation on the ground that such a
discussion was really not a profitable one.

Tropical death rates are certainly high, but this fact should not be
attributed solely to the dangers of the climate. Bad sanitary con-
ditions and lack of medical attendance account for many, if not
most, of the high mortality rates among the natives; and an irra-
tional mode of life explains many deaths among persons coming from
cooler climates. Tropical death rates have been, and are being, re-
duced with remarkable rapidity in all countries which are wholly
or partly under white control, and especially among white troops in
the Tropics. This is the result of experience with tropical condi-
tions, and of the increased precautions that are now taken in select-
ing and caring for the men.

The death rates among white people in the Tropics range from
the appalling figure of 483 per thousand among European troops on
the Gold Coast of Africa in 1829-1836—almost every other man
died—down through steadily lower figures until we come to a
rate as low as 5 per thousand for the British troops in India in recent
years. A few illustrations of the change may be given. A death
rate of 115 in French Cochin China in the 1860’s had been reduced
to about 20 per thousand in the later 1870’s and early 1880’s. Among
Dutch white soldiers in Java the rate of 170 in the second and third
decades of the nineteenth century had been lowered to less than 20
in the last decade. Very striking, also, has been a phenomenal re-
duction in the death rate from dysentery among the Dutch troops
WHITE RACE IN THE TROPICS—WARD 569

in Java, from 13 per thousand in the 1870's to less than 1 per thou-
sand in the 1880's, a decrease attributed to the avoidance of con-
taminated water as the result of the use of artesian wells.

The mortality rate of the British Army in India has fallen from
over 80 per thousand in the early decades of the nineteenth century,
successively, in later periods, to under 60, under 20, under 10, and even
to 5 in the most recent years. In Ceylon, reckoned as one of the most
unhealthy stations, the rate was over 110 and is now about 7. In
western equatorial Africa, formerly known as “the white man’s
grave,” the terrible figure of earlier years has fallen to a fraction of
the former rate. Such statistics are clear proofs of the notable
triumphs of medical science and of military organization. In many
former wars, for one victim claimed by a bullet, an arrow, or a spear,
four or five victims, even perhaps nine or ten, were claimed by disease.
The records of the Crimean War and of the Boer War furnished
striking evidence of this fact. Our own record in the war with Spain
was not one to be proud of. Encouraging as is this remarkable re-
duction in tropical death rates, it should be observed that, as the
Indian Medical Record pointed out some years ago, “The lowered
death rate in hot countries is not evidence in favor of acclimatization,
but, on the contrary, it shows that this low rate is only reached after
the taking of most elaborate precautions. It is rather a proof of the
inability of the white race to colonize in the Tropics, i. e., to labor and
undergo exposure there. It is absurd to say that a reduced death
rate, directly due to the careful avoidance of every possible exposure,
is an evidence that such exposure can be endured.” Furthermore, it
is but natural that large numbers of white soldiers, and of civilians
also, are if possible invalided home to cooler climates as soon as it is
discovered that recovery will be slow, or difficult, in the Tropics. It
thus results that many invalids, in cases where they do not recover,
have died on the voyage back, or at home, and their deaths do not
figure in the tropical death rates. I have seen statistics, authority
for which I am unable to give, that in a fairly recent year the death
rate among a certain group of European troops invalided home, or
discharged, was over 50 per thousand.

In general, as I see it, no statistics of tropical mortality can be a
true index of health conditions there for the reason that many tropical
diseases, not necessarily or highly fatal, leave their victims in a
weakened and debilitated condition. In addition to those who die of
disease, there are many who become wrecks of their former selves and
are unable to carry on. ‘The economic loss resulting from this condi-
tion is necessarily a very great handicap.

In considering tropical diseases in relation to acclimatization, the
thought inevitably arises in one’s mind whether, with the eventual
elimination and eradication of the major tropical diseases, the prob-
570 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

lem of acclimatization will not be solved. No one can read of the
wonderful progress that has been made in the fight against yellow
fever, malaria, hookworm, and dysentery, without looking to the
future with high hope of a continuing and eventually'a complete
conquest. The work of General Gorgas at Panama, in reducing
the death rates from 40 per thousand to 7.5, a year or so later, is
certainly an object lesson in successful prophylaxis. It is one of
many “ monuments of victory,” as these splendid achievements in the
war on tropical disease, in Panama, in Cuba, in the Philippines, and
elsewhere, have well been called. It has been estimated that in the
Malay States, over 30,000 lives were saved by the introduction of
an adequate drainage system. Fifty years ago the death rate in
Jamaica averaged over 50 per thousand. It has now been reduced
to nearly that in our own cities. A brilliant group of medical men—
heroes, all of them, and several of them martyrs to medical science—
has accomplished almost incredible results. The areas ravaged by
some diseases have been limited. ‘“ Quinine, kerosene and mosquito
netting” have accomplished wonders. The future certainly looks
bright. Many diseases associated, directly or indirectly, with trop-
ical heat and moisture can now be effectively guarded against by
the intelligent and persistent observance of simple rules of living.
Medical science already knows, fully or partially, the best methods
of controlling and preventing such diseases as plague, cholera, yellow
fever, typhus, malaria, sleeping sickness. As a recent medical writer
has put it, the question of how far to apply this knowledge in a
practical way is now very largely one of expense and of incentive.

In this discussion certain facts seem to stand out in the mind of a
layman. ‘Tropical diseases are still, and will for generations remain,
a very serious handicap to white settlement of the Tropics. Medical
men will doubtless be the first to agree that a great deal of slow,
patient scientific research must still be accomplished before the fight
against the widely extended strongholds of many tropical diseases
can be successfully carried through. Sanitary campaigns, on a vast
scale, must be undertaken. These are immensely expensive, perhaps
for generations to come prohibitively expensive. And they may also
be very difficult because of the ignorance and opposition of the
natives. To quote, “ Those who are not actively engaged in the war
against tropical disease are not given to exuberant optimism con-
cerning the outlook, but are preparing for a conquest ‘ which must
be sustained with method and tenacity’ for years to come.” The
brilliant work accomplished in Cuba, in Panama and elsewhere, in
the fight against yellow fever, involved a very large expenditure of
money. The area was limited. There was strong military or
civilian compulsory authority behind it. If one looks at the extent
of the wet Tropics on any map of the world’s climates, the impos-
WHITE RACE IN THE TROPICS—WARD 571

sibility of carrying through any such campaign over the whole of
that vast area will be obvious at one glance. Yet, in spite of all
these difficulties, the advance that has been made within the last few
decades inevitably leads us to hope that eventually life may be as
safe from disease in the inner Tropics as it is in our own home
climates. .

In view of the large number of factors involved in the problem
of acclimatization, and of the very incomplete state of our knowledge
on the subject, it is not surprising that the opinions of writers
differ very markedly from one another. There is, on the one hand,
the group which takes a distinctly pessimistic view, and sees prac-
tically no hope whatever. Those who belong in this group are mostly
men who expressed their opinions many years ago, before the days
of the modern study of tropical medicine and of tropical sanitation.
In the second category we find those who believe that acclimatization
is merely a question of overcoming disease; who look forward to a
rapid elimination of all tropical diseases, and who do not regard the
effects of the physiological disturbances of any special significance.
Writers of a third group fully recognize the progress made in the
warfare on tropical disease but do not, even in their most optimistic
moments, see the disappearance of tropical diseases which are such a
tremendous handicap to white settlement in the Tropics. They be-
lieve thit, entirely apart from the presence or absence of disease, hot,
damp tropical climates have a deleterious influence upon white men,
especially upon white women and children, which operates and will
operate as an apparently insuperable obstacle to the complete
acclimatization of our race in the Tropics.

It will help to understand the views of these three groups of writers
if we quote briefly. Alfred Russell Wallace held the view that true
acclimatization is impossible. “An Englishman,” he said, “ who
can only live in Rome by sleeping in a tower and never venturing
forth at night can not be said to be truly acclimated.” The older
generation will easily remember the days when cautious travelers
in Italy never accepted a room on the ground floor of a hotel, and
always came in before sunset. ‘Those were, of course, the days when
malaria was rampant on the Roman campagna, and experience had
shown that what was called “ Roman fever ” was “ caught ” oftenest
by those who were out in the evening, and who had rooms near the
ground. The correct explanation is, of course, to be found in the
fact that the malaria-bearing mosquito is nocturnal in its habits,
and usually does not fly far above the ground. Those were the days
when life on the equatorial west coast of Africa was a very dangerous
and uncertain business. The doggerel, “ the Bight of Benin, and few
come out that ever go in,” was a common way of expressing the
serious risk of landing in the Bight of Benin, the body of water
572 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

off the Slave Coast of Africa. It was a popular saying at that time
that every British colony on the west coast of Africa had three
governors, one on his way out on a steamer to assume his post of
duty, one still carrying on the government of the colony, and the
third on his way home in the handsomely appointed coffin. which
the government had provided for him. In The Control of the
Tropics published in 1898, Benjamin Kidd wrote: “The Tropics
* * * can only be governed as a trust for civilization, and with
a full sense of the responsibility which such a trust involves. The
first principle of success in undertaking such a duty seems to the
writer to be a clear recognition of the cardinal fact that in the
Tropics the white man lives and works only as a diver lives and works
under water. Alike in a moral, in an ethical, and in a political
sense, the atmosphere he breathes must be that of another region;
that which produced him and to which he belongs. Neither physi-
cally, morally, nor politically, can he be acclimatized in the Tropics.”
Kipling put much the same idea into verse:
“And the end of the fight is a tombstone white
With the name of the late deceased,
And the epitaph clear, ‘A fool lieth here
Who tried to hustle the Hast,’”’

Of India, Meredith Townsend in his book, “Asia and Europe,”
made the following significant statement: “ Not only is there no
white race in India; not only is there no white colony, but there is
no white man who proposes to remain. No ruler stays there to help,
or criticize, or moderate his successor. No successful white soldier
founds a family. No white man who makes a fortune builds a house
or buys an estate for his descendants. The very planter, the very
engine driver, the very foreman of works departs before he is 60,
leaving no child, or house, or trace of himself. No white man takes
root in India.”

There is a practically universal conviction on the part of white
residents in the Tropics that they need to renew their strength and
vigor by going back to their home climates at frequent intervals,
unless they wish to wear themselves out, and some day succumb as
hopeless wrecks. For white children, especially, a long residence
in the Tropics is highly undesirable. One competent authority says:
“As a matter of fact there is a constant stream of invalids sent
home from all tropical climates, and omitting a few dissenters,
there is a generally accepted opinion that two years is the longest
period it is safe to remain in hot places without a more or less
prolonged vacation in a cold country.” A surgeon who had long
experience in the Tropics says that the limit of endurance of an
equatorial climate, even on an island, and for a strong man, is

WHITE RACE IN THE TROPIOS—-WARD 573

seven years. An American Army medical officer has stated that
the most energetic and stalwart Americans after a year of service
in the Philippines lose energy, strength, and ambition. I have
a copy of a letter written by an English judge who had long been
a resident of Ceylon, in which he emphasizes the tragedy of send-
ing the children back to England. He writes. “Surely for us
there is no climate like our own. And when all is said, in a tropical
climate, even of the best, we live as it were on sufferance, and the
climate tells on the next generation. For every one of us who has
his livelihood in Ceylon, there comes the inevitable day when he
must part from his children and send them home. This stern neces-
sity has been styled a price which we pay for our Eastern posses-
sions—and a heavy price it is.”

The second group of writers says, in brief, “ The conquest of the
Tropics is not yet an accomplished fact, but enough has been done
to show that most or all of the disabilities of the climate can be
overcome. The Tropics are not unhealthy because of any effects
of the climate, but because of the diseases peculiar to the Tropics.
Many of these are now preventable; the others will soon be so.
With their disappearance, the countries formerly thought deadly
for white men and women have actually come to be almost salubrious.
Most, if not all, of the difficulties are due to such factors as intemper-
ance, improper food, sexual indulgence, the proximity of inferior
races, and the like. These are handicaps, but they can be overcome.
They are secondary and indirect climatic effects, and will disappear.
The acclimatization problem is rapidly nearing its natural solution.”

Such optimism seems, to me at least, beyond the bounds of rea-
son. That the elimination of some tropical diseases has made a
tremendous change for the better in certain parts of the Tropics
no one will deny, but that effects of the physiological disturbances
remain, and the happy future forseen by these enthusiasts is not
yet in sight, is equally true.

The views of the third group are intermediate between those of
the first two categories. There is, in the minds of most writers on
acclimatization, the conviction that even if all tropical diseases could
conceivably be eliminated from the picture, there would still remain
those insidious physiological effects of the tropical sun, the heat and
the humidity already referred to; the general physical, mental, and
moral deterioration; the neurasthenia; the inability to maintain full
bodily and mental vigor. In the present stage of our knowledge,
true acclimatization is considered impossible, and while, with proper
precautions, individual white men can live in the Tropics, the race
can not persist. This thought, Dr. Andrew Balfour, director of the
London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, has recently
574 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

stated as follows: “So far as the race is concerned, I am persuaded
that the hot and humid Tropics are not suited to white colonization
and never will be with our present knoweldge, even if they were
rendered as free from disease as England.” ‘The same idea was
expressed by Dr. John C. Phillips, in an article in the Harvard
Alumni Bulletin, four years ago: “I doubt whether the white man
can ever escape the ultimate effect of the Tropics (particularly the
mental effect) merely by living at high altitudes. He may well
escape all tropical diseases, but there are subtle deteriorating influ-
ences that will finally come upon him unless there are regular and
extended visits to the homeland.” Some few years ago I wrote to
the editor of one of the leading English medical journals, the Lancet,
asking him to state briefly what he believed to be the views of the
medical profession in his country on the question of acclimatization
in view of the long experience of British soldiers and civilians in
tropical countries, especially in India. It should be remembered
that much of India and of other monsoon areas, especially during
the rains, have conditions of heat, moisture, and rainfall very similar
to those of the low altitudes near the equator. The answer to my
request was an excellent editorial in two successive issues of the
Lancet, giving considerable detail, and summarizing the conclusions
briefly in the following statement: “That residence in hot climates
under the circumstances of ordinary life has an adverse effect upon
Kuropeans can not, we think, be doubted. Some constitutions seem
to be altogether unfitted for these climates, and such individuals lose
their health and physical energy from the moment of their arrival.
A still larger number do so sooner or later under a more protracted
residence, even if they escape being attacked by one or the other of
the endemic or epidemic diseases incidental to such climates. Resi-
dence in tropical and subtropical countries usually produces a very
appreciable effect, not only on the complexion but on the constitution,
and notably so during childhood and youth.”

Such quotations might be extended almost indefinitely, but those
that I have given are representative. It is obvious that there are
real differences of opinion as to the effects of tropical climates. The
truth lies somewhere between the extremes; between the older pessi-
mistic and newer optimistic views. The Tropics are not as hope-
lessly unhealthy as they have been painted. On the other hand, they
are not, for the large majority of nonnatives, a desirable place of
residence. To sum up this highly complex matter: White residents
from cooler latitudes on coming into the Tropics must adjust them-
selves physiologically to the new climates. During this adjustment
there is more or less strain on various organs and functions of the
body. The strain may be too severe; then the individual suffers. The
WHITE RACE IN THE TROPICS—WARD 575

adjustment is usually greatly retarded and hindered by a persistence
in habits of food, drink and general mode of life which, however
well suited to the home climate, do not fit tropical conditions. Dur-
ing the adjustment, especially if complicated by irrational habits,
the body is naturally abnormally sensitive to the new diseases to
which it is exposed. Even should no specific diseases be contracted,
there are anemic and neurasthenic tendencies and other degenera-
tive changes. Experience teaches that white men can not with im-
punity do hard manual labor under a tropical sun, but that they
may enjoy fairly good health as overseers, or at indoor work, if they
take reasonable precaution. Acclimatization in the full sense of
having white men and women living for successive generations in
the Tropics, and reproducing their kind without physical, mental, and
moral degeneration—i. e., colonization in the true sense—is impos-
sible. Tropical disease and death rates, as has been abundantly
shown, can be much reduced by proper attention to sanitary laws, so
that these rates may become not much, if any, higher than those in
the extra-Tropics. And with increasing medical knowledge of the
nature and prevention of tropical diseases, as well as by means of
modern sanitary methods, a white resident in the Tropics will con-
stantly become better able to withstand disease. It can not truthfully
be said that scientific investigation has shown that climate is an
insuperable obstacle to the white man’s residence in the Tropics.
Further investigation is, however, very greatly needed. As Sir Pat-
rick Manson expressed it, acclimatization is less “an unconscious
adaptation of the physiology of the individual ” than “ an intelligent
adaptation of his habits.” For greater comfort, for better health,
and for greater success, properly selected hill stations will, however,
always be essential to northerners who have to live in the Tropics,
especially to white women and children.

It has been said, I believe by General Wolseley, that the white
soldier in the Tropics is “ always in campaign, if not against the
enemy, at least against the climate.” This sentence may be made
to fit the case of the white civilian by changing it to read: The
white race in the Tropics is always in campaign against its enemy,
the climate.

What of the future? There will be a slow and limited settlement
of the most favorable portions of the Tropics by nonnatives, who
will construct houses suited to the conditions: Large, well-ventilated
and artificially cooled, and well exposed to free-moving air. Elec-
trical appliances of all sorts, for cooking, for refrigeration, for
ventilation, will prove a tremendous boon to those whose lot is, in
the future, cast in hot tropical climates. Proper clothing, modern
sanitary measures, good hygiene—all will prove increasingly im-
576 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

portant. There is no doubt that civilized man can cope with tropical
conditions and problems far more successfully tham can the native.
The white man can live there, but he needs intelligence and a rigid
discipline in order to do so successfully. His mode of life must
conform to the climate. He should not expect that his internal
physiological adjustments will make him independent of his environ-
ment. “Toleration of climate is one thing; independence of it is
quite another.” Life in the Tropics will, in the future, certainly be-
come more comfortable as well as safer for the white race, but in the
light of our present knowledge, acclimatization, in its full and literal
sense, is and will remain impossible.

THE EIGHTH WONDER: THE HOLLAND VEHICULAR
TUNNEL?

By Cart C. Gray and H. F, Hacen*

[With 30 plates]

Back in the second century B. C., a certain Antipater of Sidon
composed an epigram in which he enumerated what he termed the
“Seven Wonders of the World.” They were the walls of Babylon,
the statute at Olympia by Phidias, the hanging gardens at Babylon,
the Colossus of Rhodes, the pyramids of Egypt, the mausoleum at
Halicarnassus, and the temple of Artemis at Ephesus.

To-day any similar list of wonders, no matter by whom compiled,
would doubtless include the pyramids, not merely because they alone
have survived the ravages of time, but because they still represent a
marvelous achievement of man’s handiwork. What the other won-
ders would be might afford material for a contest sponsored by some
newspaper columnist. But surely there would be a place in such a
list for the Holland Tunnel, as the longest subaqueous tunnel in the
world, a stupendous project, magnificently conceived and executed.
And surely old Antipater himself, however wedded he might be to
his own wonders, would to-day be glad to add the Holland Tunnel
to his list, as an eighth wonder of the world.

It is with this belief that the following record of its history has
been written, in recognition of the magnitude of the task, of the
heroism of its first chief engineer, Clifford M. Holland, and his suc-
cessor, Milton H. Freeman, both of whom gave their lives to the
undertaking, and of the great advance in the science of ventilation
which its construction made possible.

Of course, a tunnel is no new thing. Primitive man, living close
to nature, could hardly have failed to observe evidences of tunneling
by animal life about him, and soon made tunnels for his own pur-
poses. We know that in ancient Egypt a king, upon ascending the
throne, began at once to excavate the long narrow passage leading

1 Reprinted by permission, with a few omissions from a pamphlet entitled “‘ The Eighth
Wonder,” published by the B. F. Sturtevant Co.

2 Grateful acknowledgment is made for valuable data obtained from the official reports
of the New York and New Jersey Tunnel Commissions and from the Engineering News
Record, and for permission to reprint a portion of an article from the magazine Charm,
published by L. Bamberger & Co., Newark, N. J.

577
From

comes the first record of a subaqueous tunnel—construct-

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

to the rock-hewn chamber at Thebes which was to be his tomb.

578
Egypt, too,

JoUUnL puBl[oH ey} JO e[yord puw uv[g—'T gunn

Gee hes % SOf Bis aut, 4204 ) det os ;
2, o¢7 we auung YtJON Pe faced BERUXCIAAY feel? PHIM OES BOE Ne unhix2
— ip fhe. PSE R SOL JO 90UBH.UF
LOE u  4ixe “ore us Se Sag: nino
% OLE 10 92UMLUFZ ee Fe i Le, eS: 1 Gee WB fatuny aiseH
4 bo ihe feuding “spun y ee

Yeyueyg “wrayiog J0nis rn bi E
werd pasodory! 4 A woroaold wolepyuan Sangy j -{Uaf ice
ea

pueuoutag Spy ‘bupung waWBH

Naw'sbuipying i Wolpoji,uen Puo7

UOMD/LUeA

Aulpping
————O ———
Woe oz o0t +4 0001 00S 0
9109S “419A 2109S “OH aeiry ALID Aasyar
woot? BUI uals aul} peady(ng \ pink

LS poay sed pHaylald->\ i vas
bth =
“°° asodOld
is agng ’S 4. ——_—
Si OLED 1 ==

—~ ———— E—SSSSS=S=
————

014208 JENIN iP], S559 edt N 7 <a om ae

a RF (fete
’

It was 12 feet wide, 15 feet high,

ed under the dry bed of the river Euphrates, which had been tem-

porarily diverted from its channel.
and was lined with brick masonry.
THE HOLLAND TUNNEL—GRAY AND HAGEN 579

In the time of Caesar Augustus, or perhaps even earlier, the Ro-
mans built a notable tunnel through the Posilipo hills, between
Naples and Pozzuoli, about 3,000 feet long and 25 feet wide. In
order to light this tunnel, its floor and roof were made to converge
gradually from the ends to the middle: at the entrances it was 75
feet high. The Romans were the greatest tunnel builders of an-
tiquity. During the Middle Ages tunnel building was chiefly for
military purposes. Every great castle had its private underground
passage from the central tower or keep to some distant concealed
place, through which to make sorties, receive supplies, or escape in
time of need.

With the advent of gunpowder and of canal construction, a strong
impetus was given to tunnel building in its more modern aspect of
commercial or public utility. Previous to 1800, canal tunnels were all
through rock or hard ground. Then, in 1803, a soft-ground tunnel 24
feet wide was excavated for the Saint Augustine Canal in France.
Timbers were laid to support the roof and walls as fast as the earth
was removed, and the masonry lining built closely following. From
this experience the various systems of soft-ground tunneling since
employed have developed.

The use of shield and metal lining marks the greatest development
in the art of soft-ground submarine tunneling. The shield was in-
vented and first used by Sir Marc Isambard Brunel in excavating the
first tunnel under the river Thames at London, begun in 1825 and
opened in 1843. In 1869 Peter William Barlow used an iron lining
in connection with a shield in driving the second tunnel under the
Thames at London.

The modern tunnel shield is a steel-plate cylinder whose forward
edge acts as a cutting edge. Its rear end, extending backward, over-
laps the tunnel lining of cast-iron rings. Inside the shield, hydraulic
jacks act against the tunnel lining as a thrust block so as to push the
shield ahead when pressure is applied. A partition prevents earth
from entering the shield except as permitted through suitable open-
ings. As the shield moves forward, the lining is erected under the
protection of its rear. In submarine tunneling compressed air
pumped into the forward end of the tunnel counterbalances the pres-
sure of the water which tries to enter.

In 1906 the Legislatures of the States of New York and New Jersey
created for each State a bridge commission to investigate the feasi-
bility of constructing a bridge over the Hudson River, uniting New
York City with Jersey City. Legislative recognition was thus given
to an increasingly vital problem—some means to supplement the
ferries plying between these two ports.

Further legislation, enacted from time to time, continued the life
of these commissions. In 1913 they were authorized to consider the
possibility of a vehicular tunnel. Finally, on April 10, 1919, author-
580 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

ity was granted them to proceed with the construction of a tunnel,
or tunnels, between a point in the vicinity of Canal Street on the
island of Manhattan and a point in Jersey City.

Those who had the project closest at heart felt that the tunnel
would

1. Shorten the time of transit across the Hudson River and afford a con-
tinuous means of communication between New York and New Jersey, unaffected
by climatic or other interference.

2. Relieve traffic congestion, already serious.

3. Accelerate the movement of necessary supplies into the city of New York,
and thereby relieve conditions of distress.

4. Increase the tax value of real property within a considerable radius of
the tunnel terminals.

5. Pay its cost three times over within 20 years.

6. Reduce the high cost of living by reducing the cost of trucking.

7. Increase the facilities for commerce in the port of New York by removing
from the surface of the harbor many lighters and other floating equipment.

8. Furnish means for the uninterrupted movements of troops and supplies
to and from the city of New York in case of need.

The commission selected as chief engineer, Mr. Clifford M. Hol-
land, tunnel engineer of the Public Service Commission, First Dis-
trict, State of New York, in immediate charge of the construction of
all subway tunnels under the East River. He was regarded as hav-
ing had a greater and more successful experience in the work of
subaqueous tunnel construction than any other member of his pro-
fession. A board of consulting engineers was appointed, and a
contract or treaty between the two States was drawn up and ap-
proved by the commissions and given the consent of Congress.

Chief Engineer Holland took office on July 1, 1919, and at once
began the organization of an engineering staff. His chief assistants
were selected from those who had been associated with him in the
construction of the East River subway tunnels. Having had not
less than 10 years’ experience in subaqueous tunneling, they were
well qualified both by technical training and by practical experience
to meet the requirements of the work. Actual construction began
October 12, 1920.

Upon the death of Mr. Holland on October 27, 1924, at Battle
Creek Sanitarium, where he had gone in search of health after de-
voting all his strength and energy to the construction of the tunnel,
the commissions gave it his name. Under his direction all the more
difficult portions had been completed and the remaining details
planned, and on the very day his body was borne to his home there
came a demonstration of his engineering skill and accuracy in the
successful junction of the under-river headings of the north tunnel.

His successor, Mr. Milton H. Freeman, had been his division en-
gineer. He, too, gave himself unsparingly to the work, and died on
March 24, 1925. He was succeeded by Mr. Ole Singstad, who had
THE HOLLAND TUNNEL—-GRAY AND HAGEN 581

been engineer of designs under both Mr. Holland and Mr. Freeman.
Under his direction the Holland Tunnel has been completed.

The Holland Tunnel is located in the vicinity of Canal Street,
New York City, because that street is a wide east and west thorough-
fare giving direct communication across the island of Manhattan.
On the east, Canal Street connects with the East River bridges and
Brooklyn; on the west, with the Hudson River water front, at ap-
proximately the center of down-town traflic over the Hudson ferries.

Its location in Jersey City is at the logical point as nearly opposite
Canal Street as is practicable, in order to obtain the shortest tunnel.
This point is very near the center of traffic and is advantageously
located. It gives direct communication to Jersey City Heights and
points beyond by means of the Thirteenth Street viaduct. The water
front, with important railroad yards, is easily accessible and ade-
quate communication is afforded with the low-lying parts of Jersey
City and Hoboken through streets which parallel the river.

The southerly tube for eastbound traffic extends from Provost and
Twelfth Streets, Jersey City, under the Erie Railroad yards, the
Hudson River, and Canal Street to Varick Street, New York City.
The northerly tube for westbound traffic extends from Broome Street
midway between Varick and Hudson Streets in New York City,
curving to the west to Spring and Hudson Streets and under Hud-
son Street and the Hudson River, the Erie, and the Delaware, Lack-
awanna and Western Railroad yards to Fourteenth Street at Prevost
Street, Jersey City.

In planning a public undertaking of the magnitude of the Holland
Tunnel, consideration had to be given to many features besides those
of actual tunneling. The building of the structure itself was a
great engineering problem, but many investigations beyond mere
technical design were required.

To secure the best location and arrangement of tunnel roadways,
a survey of present and future traffic and the influence of the tunnel
on the development of adjacent territory was called for, first of all.
Traffic conditions had to be considered from many angles, such as
capacity, congestion of the tunnel roadway, adequate approaches,
congestion in adjoining streets, width of roadway, and the growth
and development of vehicular traffic,

A preliminary forecast of tunnel traffic, based chiefly on the yearly
increase in traffic over the Hudson ferries, resulted in an estimate of
the number of vehicles that would use the tunnel as follows:

Number
1924 (when tunnel was expected to be opened) ______ AS _. 5,610, 000
peer eed 6 268.3 St eee Sa a eee ea yee elt ge 138, 800, 000
IIS EF SPR Teer k Se, Se ane ae Tae eee Lee ee See ee ae PSO 15, 700, 000
CR SR Se a eer ee IF Se 22, 300, 000
582 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

Further estimates indicated that a 1-line tunnel would have a
capacity about equal to the traffic demand at the opening of the
tunnel. <A 2-line tunnel would have sufficient capacity to accommo-
date all traffic up to 1937, while a 3-line tunnel would reach its capac-
ity in 19438.

Obviously it would be unwise to construct a 1-line tunnel whose
capacity would be reached as soon as put in operation. As between
a 2-line and a 3-line tunnel, it was found that the difference in cost,
with interest, would be sufficient to pay for another 2-line tunnel
after the first 2-line tunnel had outgrown its capacity. Of greater
importance was the consideration that no street or section could
accommodate the volume of traffic represented by a 3-line tunnel.

If a 3-line tunnel were built, it could be operated at only 2-line
capacity. This would violate two of the main principles governing
proper tunnel planning—the distribution of traffic so as to avoid
undue congestion, and the investment of capital for construction only
as facilities are needed, without the necessity of providing for the
distant future. These are two of the most important features in
which tunnel construction is held to be superior to bridge construc-
tion in crossing wide, navigable rivers.

The cost of a long-span bridge does not vary directly with the
span but increases about as the square of the span. On such a bridge
no commensurate saving in the cost of construction is obtained by
omitting some of its facilities. The tendency in bridge construction,
therefore, is to provide facilities greatly in excess of immediate
requirements, with a consequent expenditure of capital long before
those facilities are needed. Then when there is sufficient traffic to
utilize the bridge to full capacity, the resulting congestion in the
vicinity of the bridge entrances becomes a serious matter. This is
seen in the case of the Kast River bridges in New York City to-day.

Tunnel construction, on the other hand, is more flexible than
bridge construction, because the cost is a direct function of its length,
with the volume of excavation increasing as the square of the
diameter. Since the cost of excavation represents a large part of
the total cost of a tunnel, any increase in the width of roadway can
be made only at considerable expense. The proper way to plan a
tunnel is to avoid the disadvantages inherent in bridge construction,
build only for the present and near future, and construct other
tunnels at other locations when the facilities of the first tunnel are
outgrown.

Since a 2-line tunnel would have sufficient capacity to accommo-
date traffic up to 1937, and a 3-line tunnel would create such traffic
congestion in the vicinity of its entrances and exits as to preclude its
use to capacity; also since the difference in cost between a 2-line and
a 3-line tunnel, with interest, would pay for a new 2-line tunnel
THE HOLLAND TUNNEL-—GRAY AND HAGEN 583

when the first was outgrown, the obvious proceeding was to construct
a 2-line tunnel and when its capacity is reached, to build another
2-line tunnel at some other location as determined by future traffic
conditions. The Holland Tunnel is, therefore, a twin-tube tunnel,
providing in each tube for two lines of traffic in each direction.

In planning the entrances and exits of the tunnel, a careful study
was made of vehicular traflic, with particular reference to its move-
ment at street intersections and through the tunnel. It was recog-
nized that wherever traflic intersects, its continuity is broken. In-
stead of moving in a steady stream, it breaks into a series of waves
as it is held up and released at intersections. This interruption in
the stream of traffic at street intersections so limits the capacity of a
street that its real capacity as determined by its width is never
reached.

A tunnel differs from a street in that the only interruptions by
cross traflic are at the entrances and exits. Consequently these
points are of vital importance, affecting as they do the ultimate ca-
pacity of the tunnel. Unless the entrances and exits insure con-
tinuity of traffic during the period of maximum demand, the
capacity of the tunnel roadway can never be reached.

Accordingly, the entrances and exits of the Holland Tunnel are
widely separated. In New York City, one is to the north and the
other to the south of the Canal Street through traflic; in addition
they are located so as to be served by two main north and south
avenues. Tunnel traffic is thus given the best possible facility for
free movement while at the same time the greatest separation is se-
cured at a reasonable cost. In accord with this same principle the
entrance and exit at the Jersey City end are located in separate
streets adjacent to the railroad yards east of the north and south
traflic streets connecting Jersey City with Hoboken.

This separation of the tunnel entrance and exit traflic is consid-
ered to be a factor of the greatest importance in relieving congestion
in the vicinity of the tunnel. This was particularly necessary in
New York City, with its large and rapidly increasing volume of
traflic. It was also called for in Jersey City, where there were no
wide thoroughfares in the vicinity of the tunnel.

In addition, property was taken to provide broad plazas at en-
trances and exits. The entrance plazas serve to accommodate the
waves of traflic as they approach the tunnel and converge in the
portal roadway into continuous lines of vehicles through the tunnel.
Similarly wide exit plazas insure the free and uninterrupted move-
ment of traflic away from the tunnel. Through the separation of
entrance from exit, and the use of adequate plazas, the tunnel traflic
can be distributed over a large number of streets.
584 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

In considering the requirements for the width of the roadways
and the clear headroom needed, measurements were taken of vehicles
crossing the Hudson on the ferries between New York and New
Jersey. It was found that their height varied from 6 feet 6 inches
for passenger cars to a maximum of 18 feet for large loaded trucks,
but that the number exceeding 12 feet in height was only 1 per cent.
The width of motor vehicles varied from 6 feet for passenger cars
and light trucks to a maximum of 10 feet 6 inches for army transport
trucks. In the case of 3-horse teams, the outside dimension of the
three horses abreast was 9 feet, but the number of vehicles exceeding
8 feet in width was only 31% per cent.

In determining the amount of clear headroom required, it was
necessary to consider the matter of providing sufficient area in the
tunnel roadway. Any increase in clear headroom, without increas-
ing the size of the tunnel, could be made only at the expense of the
available ventilating duct area. Any reduction in this area would
increase the power required for ventilation and add to the cost of
operating the tunnel.

Given a maximum height of 12 feet 2 inches and a maximum width
of 8 feet, a clear headroom of 13 feet 6 inches seemed adequate to
allow even for jacking up vehicles in case of breakdown, and this
was decided upon.

Normal operating conditions in a tunnel accommodating two
lines of vehicles in the same direction on one roadway obtain when
there is a slow line of heavy trucks 8 feet wide abreast of a fast line
of light trucks and passenger cars 6 feet wide. It is, however,
necessary to provide for such a contingency as when a vehicle of
maximum width has to pass another of the same width that has
stalled. The roadway has to be sufficiently wide to permit the pas-
sage abreast of two vehicles of maximum width.

It was believed that in the slow line, operating at a speed varying
from 3 to 6 miles per hour, a clearance of not less than 6 inches
between the outside of the tire and the curb should be provided. In
the fast line, due to the greater speed, this clearance should not be
less than 1 foot. It was also considered that for safe and convenient
operation a clearance between moving vehicles of 2 feet 9 inches
should be allowed. These considerations led to the adoption of a
width of roadway of 20 feet, with, in addition, a sidewalk 2 feet
wide in each tunnel. This sidewalk is set back from the curb line
a distance of 6 inches and is located at an elevation of 26 inches
above the roadway.

This roadway is paved with granite blocks laid in the usual sand
cement cushion layer, about 1 inch thick, with the joints filled with
hot asphalt mixed with heated sand. By means of squeegees, a thin
coating, sprinkled with sand, is left upon the surface, resulting in a
-~ 9 oe,

THE HOLLAND TUNNEI-—GRAY AND HAGEN 585

smooth, resilient, and long-wearing surface that will help to deaden
the sounds due to traffic, and be more quickly repaired than concrete.

Each side of the roadway is lined with a granite curb, the roadway
having a transverse slope from one side to the other, with a de-
pressed concrete gutter behind the curbstone on the low side with
side inlet openings at frequent intervals. The drain connects with
a sump at the low point of the tunnel, from which a discharge pipe
is carried under the roadway of each tunnel to the New York River
shaft. Intercepting sumps with pumping equipment are provided
in all the river and land shafts.

The tunnel is lighted by electric lamps located in the side walls of
the tunnel immediately below the ceiling slabs. A continuous water
main is provided throughout the entire length of each tube, with hose
connections for fire protection and flushing at frequent intervals.

The walls are lined with white tile, care being taken to eliminate
all tile containing blue, green, or red tints, upon advice of a “ color
psychologist,” on account of its “ depressing effects.” The color of
the borders is a light orange. The ceiling is painted white.

The tunnel, with its twin tubes, 29 feet 6 inches in diameter, is the
largest subaqueous tunnel in America, exceeding by 6 feet 6 inches the
Pennsylvania Railroad tubes. On the New Jersey side, the diameter
of one of the tubes is increased to 30 feet 4 inches to meet ventilation
requirements. This exceeds by 4 inches the diameter of the Rother-
hithe Tunnel under the river Thames, London, England, which has
been the largest subaqueous tunnel in the world.

The shield method of construction was adopted for the Holland
Tunnel after careful consideration of other schemes, notably the
trench method. By the trench method, the work is conducted from
a plant floating in the river, and the tunnel is constructed either
under a protecting roof or floated into position and sunk in sections
in a dredged trench. The longest subaqueous tunnel built by this
method is the Detroit River tunnel of the Michigan Central Rail-
road.

It was recognized that in the excavation of a trench under the
Hudson River, there would be an unavoidable interference with a
great volume of river traffic. Fifteen hundred boats cross the line of
the tunnel daily. Such congested river conditions would make every
dredge or other machine working in the tunnel an obstruction to
traffic. Collisions would be frequent, increasing the time and cost of
the work, with danger both to shipping and to the equipment of con-
struction. Storms, fog, and ice would cause a discontinuance of sur-
face work for at least two months of each year. At the New York
end, a large mass of ledge rock, involving blasting and removal at
great depth, would be a serious obstacle to open-trench excavation
under water.
586 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

Since there was a real hazard involved in carrying on operations
from a plant anchored in midstream, the shield method was clearly
called for. In addition, silt conditions in the Hudson River were
regarded as extremely favorable to this method. In a trench tunnel,
soft material greatly increases the volume of excavation, while in the
case of a shield tunnel this material is most easily excavated. If the
silt is not shoved aside by the shields, it is easily disposed of through
the tunnel. The shield may be closed with the exception of certain
openings through which the material is squeezed into the tunnel as
the shield advances.

The first contract provided for the sinking of two land shafts,
one at Washington and Canal Streets and the other at Washing-
ton and Spring Streets, New York City. They were sunk by the
compressed-air method.

The double steel walls of the caissons were filled with concrete as
the caissons were sunk. This added to their weight when sinking
weight was needed, and at the same time completed the structure of
the walls. In addition to this concrete, weight for sinking was ob-
tained by storing the excavated material from the working chamber
on the roof of the chamber as the caisson went down. This necessi-
tated handling the material a second time, but gave the desired
weight and permitted the lowering of the caisson without greatly
reducing the air pressure in the working chamber, thereby prevent-
ing loss of ground.

Upon the removal of the compressed air, the bottom seals of the
caissons proved to be water-tight. The shafts were now ready for
the building of the shields preparatory to the beginning of shield
tunneling. Temporary bulkheads were provided in the west side
walls to permit the passage of the shields, and in the east side walls
to connect with the approach section which was to be constructed
by excavation from the surface.

This work was followed by placing under contract the entire un-
der-river portion of the tunnel. Power plants had to be constructed
to produce low-pressure air for caissons and tunnel, high-pressure
air for the operation of grouting machines, air drills, and hoisting
engines used below the surface, and hydraulic pressure for operat-
ing the jacks used in driving the shield and for operating the erector
arm for building the tunnel lining.

Overhead gantries and dumping platforms for the receipt and
disposal of materials and buildings for housing the workmen had
to be provided. Pipes, through which compressed air would be
supplied to the tunnel headings, had to be laid to the shafts. On
the New Jersey side this involved laying low-pressure lines as large
as 16 inches in diameter, high-pressure lines, hydraulic lines, water
THE HOLLAND TUNNEL—GRAY AND HAGEN 587

lines, electric cables, and telephone cables. Every facility had to
be provided, even an independent telephone system connecting all
parts of the work with the public telephone system.

Canal Street Park was made available as a site for the air-com-
pressing plant and engineer’s field office. Pier 35 and adjacent slips
were used for the storage of materials and for the disposal of ex-
cavated matter from the tunnel heading. Overhead gantries con-
necting the shafts with the pier permitted traffic to the water front
in connection with the tunnel to pass above the city streets,

The first shield was erected in the Canal Street shaft. On Oc-
tober 26, 1922, compressed air was introduced into the shield cham-
ber, and tunneling was begun. Each shield was 30 feet 2 inches
in outside diameter, 16 feet 4 inches long, and the upper half was
equipped with a hood projecting 2 feet 6 inches ahead of the shield
proper. Five vertical and three horizontal walls divided the shield
into 13 compartments, through which the ground in front was ex-
cavated. It was equipped with thirty 10-inch jacks, having a
combined thrust of 6,000 tons. A hydraulic erector was used
to build the tunnel segments into a complete ring. The weight
of the shield, with all equipment, was about 400 tons.

The tunnel lining is composed of rings 2 feet 6 inches wide,
consisting of 14 segments, each approximately 6 feet long, with
a key 1 foot long, bolted together. Inside the lining is an inner
lining of concrete 19 inches thick. As the shield advanced and
the lining was erected behind it, the space due to the difference in
the diameter of the shield and the rings forming the lining was
filled by forcing a grout of cement and sand in equal parts into the
void under high air pressure. For this purpose each segment
was provided with a grout hole fitted with a screw plug. The lining
was made water-tight by placing hemp grommets soaked in red
lead around the bolts, and by caulking lead wire into grooves be-
tween the segments.

Shield driving requires extreme care and exactitude to keep to
line and grade. The position of the shield fixes the location of the
tunnel, and no correction can be made afterward. It is absolutely
essential that the slightest deviation of the shield from its theoreti-
cally correct position be known at once, so that measures may be
taken to remedy the error during the next shove. The shield is
guided by the operation of the jacks distributed around its cir-
cumference, omitting the use of those jacks in the direction toward
which the shield is to move.

Every precaution was taken to provide for the safety of the work-
men in the compressed-air chambers. A high emergency gangway in
the upper part of the tunnel led from the shield to the locks, for
escape in case of a blowout. Safety screens were installed to trap the
588 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

inrushing water. Fire lines were installed in the compressed-air
chambers. Fire is a real danger in compressed-air work on account
of the increased amount of oxygen present. As an indication of the
fire hazard, a candle, if still glowing when extinguished, will again
burst into flame.

The starting of the shields out of the caissons at the New York
land shafts was difficult because of the large diameter of the shields
and the shallow cover overhead. The material at this point was
granular, consisting largely of fine sand, which if undisturbed, held
air fairly well. As the shields were under the city streets, it was
impossible to increase the cover overhead. To avoid blow-outs at the
face with the consequent inrush of water, it was necessary to regulate
the air pressure carefully and to protect the face during each suc-
cessive step in excavating.

As a preliminary step to shoving the shields out of the caissons,
the circular steel bulkheads in the caissons were burned out in front
of the shields. The work was done by removing the steel in hori-
zontal layers, each layer carefully protected as the steel was removed
to avoid exposing a great area of the face to air leakage, especially
when the air pressure sufficient to dry out the bottom would be heavy
enough to cause a blow-out at the top.

Removal of the steel bulkhead was started, with the steel above
intact and with air pressure sufficient to dry out the bottom. After
the lower third of the steel bulkhead had been removed, a wooden
bulkhead was built in front of the shield, and the space between this
bulkhead and the ground ahead was packed with clay. The air
pressure was then reduced until it balanced the water pressure at the
top of the shield, and work was begun at the top, removing the top
plates and proceeding downward.

As these plates were removed, breast boards packed front and back
with clay were inserted to cover the exposed excavation. This work
proceeded down to the point where the bottom plates had previously
been removed, while at the same time the air pressure was raised step
by step to balance the water pressure. The shield was then advanced
against the wooden bulkhead at the bottom, compressing the clay
which was removed as the shield advanced, with the jacks reacting
against the cast-iron tunnel lining temporarily erected in the shaft.

In order to prevent the leakage of air around the hood of the shield,
an annular pocket was excavated ahead of the hood the full length
of a shove, and this pocket was packed with clay. This served a
double purpose: First, the hood, as the shield advanced, cut into this
clay and made a thorough seal in front against air leakage; and
second, by exploring the full length of the shove, assurance was had
that the shield would not pick up and drag timbers in front of it,
leaving open channels behind them through which air could readily
yf

THE HOLLAND TUNNEL—GRAY AND HAGEN 589

escape. The necessity of talking this precaution is evident when it is
considered that at this point there were but 14 feet of cover above the
shield to the street surface, and only 8 feet from the top of the shield
to the under side of an old brick sewer, which would readily allow
the air to escape from the tunnel heading.

As the tail of the shield left the caisson, grouting was at once
started to fill the annular space which the shield left outside the
tunnel lining. Every effort was made to keep this space fully
grouted, even to the extent of stopping the shield in the middle of a
shove to keep the grout up with the shield.

The method just described was later modified so that in the bottom
quarter of the shield, instead of packing ahead with clay, a fixed
wooden bulkhead was built in the shield, and the shield was advanced
into the fine wet sand with this bulkhead in place. This compressed
the earth, driving out the water, so that the material was firm and
could be excavated during the shove over the top of the bulkhead, or
through small openings cut in the bulkhead itself. This prevented a
free run of wet material into the bottom which is the ordinary method
of tunneling under the river.

The grouting previously described was continued, and not only
prevented an abnormal escape of air at the tail of the shield, but
also prevented settlement of the streets and adjacent buildings.
The buildings at the corner of West and Spring Streets settled
slightly, but at no time were they in need of shoring, nor were the
occupants disturbed at any period of the tunnel work. This was
the situation also with the New York Central tracks under which
the Canal Street tunnel was driven. The grouting was carried on
so effectively that it filled some of the old sewers in the vicinity
which later had to be cleaned out.

The Canal Street shield passed very close to a cofferdam around
an excavation for a sewage treatment plant, and it was evident from
the first that great care must be exercised in driving the tunnel past
this location. At the nearest point the shield was within 5 feet of
the steel sheeting of the cofferdam, with the bottom of the sheeting
at about the springing line of tunnel. On November 30, when the
shield was about 40 feet away, it was noticed that sand and water
were being forced through the sheeting into the cofferdam by the
air pressure from the tunnel heading. In about 2 hours approxi-
mately 150 cubic yards of earth had been blown into the excavation
from behind the sheeting, and it was plain that not only was the
cofferdam in danger, but the continuation of tunneling operations
would be hazardous because the cavities left in the ground provided
open channels for the leakage of air, which might have resulted in
a tunnel blow-out. It was decided that tunneling operations should
be temporarily suspended, that the steel sheeting of the cofferdam
590 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

should be left in place permanently, and the concrete walls of the
permanent structure placed immediately, being increased in thick-
ness to enable them to withstand the pressure from tunneling
operations.

Preparatory to tunneling under the river bulkhead, cley and other
material to prevent the escape of the compressed air from the tunnel
were deposited in the slip between the piers and on the landward
side of the river bulkhead to fill such voids as might remain around
the tops of the piles supporting the timber platform of the bulkhead
construction. Not only were the voids around the piles filled, but
the soft mud in the slip was displaced by the heavier clay, a firmer
material and better adapted to resist air leakage.

In this section great care was taken in excavating ahead of the
hood to be sure that all piles within the area of the tunnel section
were cut off before coming in contact with the shields. This was
done to avoid pushing the piles through the ground and leaving back
of them an open channel for air to escape. These piles extended down
to the springing line of the tunnel excavation, and as many as 30 had
to be cut off at one time in advancing the shield the length of one
ring. In this manner both shields passed under the river bulkhead
without accident.

The tunnels then entered the Hudson River silt. The front of the
shield was completely bulkheaded. Some of the lower pockets in the
shield were opened to allow a part of the material to enter the tunnel
as the shield was advanced. The balance of the material in excava-
tion was displaced bodily. At once it was noticed that there was a
tendency of the tunnel lining to rise behind the shield. This rising
always accompanied the movement of the shield; whenever the shield
was stopped the rising ceased. The difficult feature at this point was
that the shield was so heavy that it settled while the cast-iron tunnel
lining behind the shield rose, so that the shield at all times was below
grade while the tunnel lining a short distance back was above grade.

The bulkheads in the shield were moved forward to reduce weight
by lessening the amount of muck in the shield. This aided somewhat
in keeping the shield from settling and then more material could be
taken in through the shield. This procedure lessened the pressure on
the tunnel behind and reduced its tendency to rise. As the contract
vequired that a second tunnel bulkhead should be constructed in this
vicinity, the south shield was stopped after passing through 218 feet
of silt and the bulkhead was built. This bulkhead, which is typical
of all the bulkheads, is a concrete wall 10 feet thick, equipped with
the usual muck, man and emergency locks, and adds temporarily con-
siderable weight to the tunnel.

With this additional weight, the rising of the tunnel was some-
what checked and after tunneling a distance of 121 feet farther
THE HOLLAND TUNNEL—GRAY AND HAGEN 591

in the silt the shield entered at the bottom of the sand layer
which overlies the rock, and thereupon all rising of the completed
tunnel during shield driving ceased. In the north tunnel, which
was driven through the same material after the south tunnel was
built, a larger amount of material was taken in through the shield at
the start, and while there was some rising of this tunnel behind the
shield, it was very much less than in the south tunnel. In neither
tunnel was the movement sufficient to endanger the structure.

The excavation in the part-earth and part-rock section just east of
the New York river shaft caisson was carried on by driving a short
bottom heading in advance of the shield, in which was placed a con-
crete cradle with steel rails embedded in it upon which the shield
slid. After placing the cradle the rock was blasted out for one or
two advances of the shield and then the soft material on top was
carefully excavated and supported by poling and breast boards.

The New York river ventilating shaft caisson was sunk by the
compressed air method in the river near the New York pierhead line.
It was built on launching ways, then launched and drydocked. After
concrete had been placed in the pockets surrounding the working
chamber, additional steel was erected, carrying it to a height of 55
feet.

A platform supported on piles had been built on three sides of the
site (the south side being open ready to receive the caisson), and the
caisson was towed to its position on the work. The caisson at that
time weighed approximately 1,650 tons. Upon arrival, additional
steel was erected and concrete was placed in the walls, the caisson
sinking as the additional weight was placed. Care was taken to
keep the center of gravity as low as possible to maintain the
necessary stability. When it had reached a depth of 35 feet, the
cutting edge encountered the river bottom, into which it settled at
each low tide, and weight was added with sufficient rapidity to over-
come the tendency to float on the subsequent rising tide.

No excavation was carried on in the working chamber until the
cutting edge had penetrated about 9 feet into the mud, as the weight
of the caisson displaced the material up to this point. Compressed
air was then introduced into the working chamber and the usual
shaft mucking operations started. Ata depth of 69 feet below mean
high water, rock was encountered. This was taken out in lifts about
6 feet deep and the caisson was lowered by successive drops until it
reached its final position.

The upper half of the outside of the caisson, or the part which is
exposed to open water, was covered with water-proofing, which in
turn was covered with an 18-inch layer of protection concrete. An
additional protection is afforded in the upper portion by a granite
facing where the shaft is exposed to tidal action.
ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

592

SYOOT AJB ZuTMoYS PveyH[Nd aj919U09 Jo AIA Io].10}xXe {ssad0id uy Surnois pus Sarj[0q YIP PlelYS JO Ive1 woIy Mota {ssad01d Uy Zuryonut
PUB UOIT JO UOT}PIe SUMOYS P[OLYS JO Avex : MOTed ‘suorZe1edo UOTONA}SUOD SutMoys Surpeey jeuun} ysnoryg} oles [vUIpNyIsuo[T—z muapwy

SHIOT KV BNIMOHS SSBudOsd NI SNLLNOYD % SNL TOR SSBBIOUd KI SNIHONW } NOY! 2O NOLLIZWa
GVAHWING JLIZONOD 4O MIA toWILXd Q7SIHS 30 Yvat WOUd MBIA OwTaIKS JO NVA

[ie =
a)

' “A
13
|_ VAN

= 4%
2

SHOLLVU2d0 NOLLOMMLSNOD

——

AT

ff
f

AE
qT
= He

THE HOLLAND TUNNEL—GRAY AND HAGEN 593

After the caisson was sealed to the rock and waterproof, the east
and west shield bulkheads in both the north and south tunnel cham-
bers were burned out and both shields were driven through the cais-
son. A timber and concrete cradle of sufficient strength to carry
the shield was erected in each chamber and the shield jacked across.
After the shields had progressed a sufficient distance west of the
river shaft to permit tunnel bulkheads, these were built in each tun-
nel and placed in operation. After this, tunneling operations were
carried on from the river shaft, releasing the tunnels between the
land and river shafts for the placing of concrete lining.

The caissons for the north and south land shafts on the New
Jersey side were assembled and sinking started in the fall of 1922.
After the caissons had passed through the cinder fill of the railroad
yard, a timber crib filled with riprap was encountered which made
excavation extremely difficult. The timbers had to be sawed or
chopped into short lengths and some of the rock broken up.

The distance between the tubes on the New Jersey side required
the sinking of two separate river ventilating shafts. This presented
a problem due to depth of the bedrock, 250 feet as compared with 70
feet on the New York side. It was considered that the silt which
overlies the bedrock would not afford a satisfactory support.

Accordingly, it was decided to support the shafts by means of
steel casings 24 inches in diameter, filled with reinforced concrete,
extending from the bottom of the shafts to ledge rock. They were
made in lengths of 20 feet, threaded at both ends for couplings.
Three lengths were connected and one end lowered into the silt. The
silt inside the pipe was then loosened by churning with a 2,000-pound
bit, and the mud and water bailed out. Excavation was continued
in this manner to a depth of approximately 20 feet below the bottom
of the pipe. The material was firm enough to prevent caving into
the hold. Another section of pipe was then added and the entire
section driven into the hole previously excavated.

The north tunnel shield east and the south tunnel shield west were
built first and started out from their respective caissons. After the
south tunnel shield west had progressed a sufficient distance to erect
a tunnel bulkhead, the face of the shield was bulkheaded and the
roof was removed from the south caisson and the south tunnel shield
east was erected. As soon as this shield was ready, the roof was
replaced on the caisson and the shield was started eastward, so that
at the close of 1923 two shields were tunneling eastward, and one
westward.

The method followed in starting these shields out of the shafts was
similar to that already described for the New York shields, except
that here it was not so difficult as there was adequate cover overhead.
After the roof of the working chamber had been replaced, the
594 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

girders in the side of the caisson, through which the shield was to be
advanced, were burned out, after which the plates were removed from
the invert to the springing line. The lower pockets of the shield
were then bulkheaded and the space between the pockets and and the
exposed face was filled with clay. After this, the remaining plates
were removed, proceeding upward from the springing line. A semi-
circular annular ring was cleared for the hood and packed with clay
into which the hood was forced when the shield was advanced.

The material at the face consisted of timber and riprap down to
the springing line, similar to the material encountered in shaft
sinking, making excavation very difficult. The stones in the crib
varied from 1-man stones to those three-quarters of a yard in size.
The voids between the stones were filled with soft black mud, which
did not offer sufficient resistance to prevent the escape of air, neces-
sitating the mudding up of the entire face with clay. As the excava-
tion was carried forward, the escape of air through the heading of
the north tunnel at times taxed the full capacity of the power house,
40,000 cubic feet of free air per minute.

On June 10, 1923, a small blow occurred at the face of the shield
and it became necessary to drop the air pressure sufficiently to allow
the water to flow into the tunnel before the blow could be stopped.
The progress through the riprap was very slow, as extreme measures
had to be taken to avoid blow-outs. After the shield had passed
through the old timber and riprap crib, the river bulkhead was en-
countered which did not offer any unusual difficulties.

Before tunneling through similar material in the south tunnel east
5,500 bags of 1:1 Portland cement grout were ejected through the
east shield bulkhead of the south caisson and six pipes were sunk
from the surface east of the caisson through which 140 bags of
1:1 Portland cement grout were placed. ‘This grout displaced much
of the soft mud and filled the voids in the riprap and greatly facili-
tated the driving of the shield so that very little air escaped through
this material after it had been consolidated by grouting.

After about 60 rings were erected in each tunnel, the shields were
stopped to build tunnel bulkheads and to install cages at the shafts
and then tunneling was resumed. Immediately east of the river
bulkhead soft mud, considerably lighter than Hudson River silt, was
encountered in the upper part of the excavation. In this material
the tunnel began to rise directly behind the shield and also to move
northward.

To hold the shield and the tunnel to the proper grade, it was
necessary to take in a certain amount of material through the shield.
Accordingly, the shield was advanced with the top pockets bulk-
headed and a large percentage of the excavation was permitted to
enter the tunnel through openings in the lower part of the shield.

THE HOLLAND TUNNEL—GRAY AND HAGEN 595

This material had to be entirely removed after each shove before the
erection of the cast-iron lining could proceed and slowed down prog-
ress. In addition it was desired to retain this material in the tunnel
directly behind the shield so as to increase the weight of the tunnel
and reduce the tendency to rise.

To meet this situation a different method of tunneling was adopted.
The work was stopped and a steel bulkhead semicircular in shape and
fitting into the lower part of the tunnel was built to trail about 10
feet behind the shield, and four pockets of the shield immediately
above the springing line were equipped with hydraulically operated
doors. When the shield advanced, these doors were opened varying
amounts, depending upon conditions, to allow the material to flow
through the shield into chutes which cropped the silt back of the
trailing bulkhead. This method of tunneling permitted both the
shield and the tunnel to be kept on grade.

River-shaft caissons were built, launched, floated into position, and
sunk, as on the New York side.

On October 22, 1924, shield driving was suspended in the north
tunnel from the New York side and a bottom heading or junction
drift was started to meet a corresponding drift from the New Jersey
heading. On October 29, the rock barrier remaining between these
headings was blasted away. After this all tunneling operations were
conducted from the New York side, as the junction was much nearer
the New York shaft. The south tunnel headings were joined on
December 7, 1924. Work on the New York side was suspended and
the New Jersey shield driven to meet the New York shield.

In July, 1924, the placing of the concrete lining forming the road-
way and air ducts was started on the New York side in the north and
south tunnels between the land and river shafts. The concrete invert
was first placed in both tunnels from the land shafts to the river
shafts. The remaining concrete was then poured in nine operations.
Five types of collapsible steel forms in 60-foot sections, afterward
increased to 75 feet, supported and moved by carriages resting on
previously placed concrete, were used.

The approach tunnels from the land shafts to the open approaches
at Dominick and Hudson Streets, New York City, and at Provost
Street, Jersey City, were built by the cut and cover method as usually
employed in subway construction.

A visitor to the Holland Tunnel in 1924 has written the following
graphic and interesting story of the shield method of construction.
The invitation to inspect the tunnel read, “ Wear old clothes and
bring your galoshes.”

Such was the admonition of our host on a warm September evening in 1924,
But knowing our host, we complied without ado other than a casual lifting of

the eyebrows. Ten o'clock that evening found four of us being piloted toward
Canal Street and the administration building of the Vehicular Tunnel.
596 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

Chief Engineer Holland himself greeted us, and began an introduction to
this vast engineering project with maps, diagrams, and more maps and dia-
grams, till red lines showing tunnels, and blue lines showing traffic lanes, and
green lines showing river bed swam before our gaze. We nodded very know-
ingly, mumbled pleasantly that exquisite shades had been chosen for the
various lines, and moved on to the doctor’s office.

Here we were introduced to the necessary procedure before going into
compressed-air chambers. Ears, heart, and blood pressure were examined.
As we were found physically fit, we were passed on to the wardrobe, where
we were presented with an assortment of khaki cover-alls and left to our own
discretion as to choice.

The first twinge of squeamishness about cleanliness was quickly dispelled
by the romatic second thought that the very men who were performing this mir-
acle under the river had worn these self-same garments. Then followed a
scramble for the most bespattered on the theory that such muck was a mark
of courage in dashing into subaqueous passages. Size was completely disre-
garded. Never in all the stages of dressing up to set forth for adventure in
my childhood days had I enjoyed more of a thrill as so arrayed we followed
our guides to the tunnel entrance.

Once inside we were amazed to find what a simple form such a complex
sounding work could assume. The tubes are made of cast-iron segments bolted
together. Fourteen of these sections are required to make a complete ring.
Each section weighs 1% tons and is held in place by huge bolts weighing 10
pounds.

“QOh’s” and “Ah’s” were vented as we continued our way to see the actual
excavating. We passed groups of men sitting about talking, laughing, and
playing cards, awaiting their shifts. Work was never stopped 24 hours a day,
7 days a week. (With an investment of $42,000,000, it was imperative that no
time be lost.) We met car after car of excavated material on its way down the
temporary tracks to the entrance and out to be dumped.

At last we arrived at the great concrete bulkhead that sealed the compressed-
air section, separating it from the completed portion of the tunnel.

The bulkhead contained four air chambers or locks. Two large compartments
at the bottom of the bulkhead were equipped with tracks for bringing supplies
to the workers and for remoying the excavated material. Two smaller cham-
bers were provided in the upper section for the workmen who on entering and
leaving the tunnel must be gradually brought from one pressure to another.

We entered one of these (only one was used normally, the other reserved
for emergencies) and saw the iron door clanged to and fastened. Then followed
lessons in equalizing the pressure inside and outside the head by holding the
nose and “ snorting ”’—very much as one does when trying to expel water from
the nose after diving. The danger of the “caving in” of one’s eardrums
was stressed, and we were warned to hold up our hand the moment the pressure
became too severe. This was the only way to attract the attention of the man
who turned on the compressed air, as the noise made eyen shouting inaudible.

We sat wild-eyed, expecting the hideous monster to leap upon us any minute.
The bark was worse than the bite. Twice we raised our hand and the pressure
was turned off until the pressure in our ears was relieved. When the 29-pound
mark was reached the door leading into the high-pressure section was opened,
and there we were in the very midst of the digging.

Once accustomed to the pressure, it was not noticeable, and we began a
siege of questions about the actual excavating.

This work was done under a shield, or movable head, slightly larger than
the external diameter of the tunnel. The shield was forced forward 214 feet
THE HOLLAND TUNNEL—GRAY AND HAGEN 597

at a time, the width of a section, by means of 30 hydraulic jacks supported
against the end of the tunnel already built. Several of the jacks were then
removed and a segment was hoisted into place by a tremendous erector arm
till a complete ring had been added, and then the shield was forced ahead
again. Doors in the lower part of the shield allowed about 30 per cent of
the displaced compressed silt to enter the tunnel on each shove.

We stood watching the big burly men as they shoveled the débris into the
ears that carried it out through the lower air chambers. Not particularly
envious of them at such hard labor, we listened only half-heartedly to our
guide until he remarked that the automobiles we had seen parked at the
entrance belonged to these very “sand-hogs”; that they made high wages
and worked short hours. There are laws forbidding their working in com-
pressed air for more than two hours at a time for health reasons, Law like-
wise requires the company employing the men to furnish hot showers and hot
coffee for them when they come out.

From the digging we turned to watch the erector; two men tugging at a
mammoth wrench tightening the bolts: the grouting machine as it forced its
mixture with pressure beyond the segments to form a concrete shell for the
whole tube; and then to discuss the miracle that prevented the Hudson itself
from pouring in on us in one deluge. There we stood with only a few feet of
sand and gravel between us and the river.

“Chief” Holland and the rest of the engineers chatted with us as casually
as if it were a game of tiddlede-winks they were explaining, instead of an
achievement that even seeing denied believing. We picked up bits of rock for
souvenirs and continued gasping when one of our hosts turned questioner. He
asked if we could whistle.

Assuring him that whistling did not stump the modern girl, we inquired his
preference as to a tune. He consulted the other men, and after much deliber-
ation proposed to give us a big party on the condition that we whistle “ Yankee
Doodle ”"—all five verses. With one accord lips were puckered and cheeks
distended. Our chagrin was only equaled by the laughter of our tormentors
as we puffed and blew in vain. The party was given for effort and not for the
results obtained against 29 pounds of pressure.

In quitting the compressed air it was necessary to put on fleece-lined coats
to prevent catching cold. We retraced our steps through the man lock, where
the pressure was reduced gradually back through the tube, and insisted on the
law requirement of hot coffee on signing off.

The problem of ventilation of the Holland Tunnel was unlike any
heretofore solved, both in character and magnitude. The only exist-
ing vehicular tunnels even approximately comparable to the Holland
Tunnel are the Blackwall and Rotherhithe Tunnels under the Thames
at London.

The Blackwall, opened for traffic in 1897, has an under-river length
of 1,221 feet between shafts. It consists of a single tube 27 feet in
diameter with a roadway accommodating one line of traffic in each
direction and two sidewalks. Traffic counts in 1920 showed that the
maximum number of motor vehicles using the tunnel was less than
100 per hour.

The Rotherhithe is 30 feet in diameter, similar to the Blackwall
in traffic facilities, with an under-river length between shafts of 1,570

28095—31——39
598 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

feet. Both of these tunnels are ventilated by the natural movement of
air through the shafts and portals. The Holland Tunnel, with a total
length of 9,250 feet, an under-river length of 5,480 feet, and a capacity
of 1,900 vehicles per hour in each direction, or 46,000 per day, obvi-
ously required something more than natural ventilation. To this
end the ventilation of the tunnel was studied under three heads:

1. The amount and composition of exhaust gases from motor vehicles.

2. The dilution necessary to render the exhaust gases harmless.

3. The method and equipment necessary for adequate ventilation.

The impurities in the atmosphere of a tunnel used by motor vehicles
are the product of the combustion of gasoline. If complete combus-
tion occurred, the carbon content in the gasoline would be in the
form of carbon dioxide, which can be tolerated in considerable quan-
tity without injurious effects. In a gasoline engine, however, com-
plete combustion seldom, if ever, takes place. The exhaust gases
contain varying amounts of carbon monoxide, depending on such
variable factors as the quality of the gasoline, conditions of car-
buretion, etc.

Carbon monoxide is a highly poisonous gas, injurious to health in
minute quantities if breathed for a long time, and if present in large
quantities is injurious even when breathed for a short time. Venti-
lation requirements are determined by the quantity of this gas in
exhaust gases. If sufficient fresh air is supplied to reduce this gas to
a safe percentage, other gases and impurities, such as carbon dioxide,
methane, and smoke, will also be diluted sufficiently. The first con-
sideration, therefore, was to determine the amount of carbon mon-
oxide that would be liberated in the tunnel.

Investigations were carried out at the Bureau of Mines experiment
station at Pittsburgh. The schedule called for the testing of pas-
senger cars and trucks of various makes and capacities. The tests
were made with cars loaded and light, standing with engine racing
and idling, accelerating from rest on level grade and on maximum
grade, running at 3, 6, 10, and 15 miles per hour on level and up and
down a grade of 314 per cent, corresponding to the maximum tunnel
grade. <A total of 101 cars were tested. Gas samples were taken
directly from the exhaust pipe throughout the entire duration of
the test.

In general, the results showed that the exhaust gases contained
about 6.8 per cent carbon monoxide and 8.4 per cent carbon dioxide,
developing only 67 per cent of the heat value of the gasoline. About
one-third of the gasoline fuel was wasted through incomplete
combustion.

Experiments to determine the proper dilution to render the
exhaust gases harmless were conducted at the Bureau of Mines
experiment station at Yale. They were performed in a gas-tight

THE HOLLAND TUNNEL—GRAY AND HAGEN 599

chamber of 226 cubic feet capacity. Members of the staff spent
periods of one hour in air containing amounts of carbon monoxide
varying from 2 to 10 parts in 10,000. In addition, tests were per-
formed in a chamber of 12,000 cubic feet with an automobile en-
gine exhausting into the chamber. ‘The duration of all tests was
one hour, whereas the length of time required to travel through the
tunnel at a speed of only 3 miles per hour is but 31 minutes.

The results of the test showed that when an automobile engine
is running properly the exhaust contains no substance that is in-
jurious to any appreciable extent except carbon monoxide. Gasoline
engines with cylinders missing, or when cold, over-supplied with oil
or gasosline, or smoking from any cause, may throw off disagreeable
vapors irritating to the eyes and nauseating to some persons.

The physiological effects of carbon monoxide are wholly due to
the union of this gas with the hemoglobin of the blood. To the
extent that hemoglobin is combined with carbon monoxide, it is by
that amount incapable of transporting oxygen to the body. This
combination of carbon monoxide with the hemoglobin is reversible,
so that when a person returns to fresh air the carbon monoxide
is gradually eliminated.

Of all physical signs and tests of carbon monoxide poisoning,
headache proved the most definite and reliable. Concentration of
gas too weak or periods of exposure too short to induce a headache
are to be considered harmless. No one had this symptom to an
appreciable degree after a period-of one hour in the chamber with
four parts of carbon monoxide. With six parts the effect was usually
very slight, while with eight parts there was decided discomfort for
some hours.

Hence a uniform concentration of four parts carbon monoxide
in 10,000 of air is designed to afford not only complete safety, but
also comfort and freedom from disagreeable effects.

By the longitudinal method of ventilation, the entire tunnel would
be utilized as a duct for conveying air through the tunnel. Sufficient
air would be supplied through blower fans near one portal and would
enter the tunnel through a nozzle or nozzles at a velocity sufficient to
force it through its entire length.

If in a 29-foot tunnel the air were introduced into the north tube
near one portal through a nozzle having a cross-sectional area of 74
square feet, and were exhausted through the opposite portal, the air
would have a nozzle velocity of about 282 miles per hour. This
would produce a velocity of 72 miles per hour at points where the
roadway was occupied by a pleasure car and a truck abreast, or a
velocity of 51 miles per hour where there were no vehicles. Such air
velocities would be prohibitive in a vehicular tunnel, and the power
required to handle the air would be excessive.
600 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

In the distributive method of ventilation adopted for the Holland
Tunnel, the air is introduced into and exhausted from the tunnel
through a number of openings at frequent intervals leading from the
tunnel roadway. By this method fresh air is supplied at all points
throughout the tunnel. The air at any point can be controlled.
There is no discomfort or danger from high-velocity air currents.
The ventilation is not affected by traffic or the direction of the wind.
Exhaust gases are quickly diluted and removed.

The space above and below the tunnel roadway is ideally suitable
for air ducts. Fresh air, supplied by blower fans at the shafts, is
discharged from the main duct under the roadway through adjustable
openings into continuous expansion chambers on each side, thence

Exhaust por ts
1346"
Bog ages

Continuous

Granite
blocks...

ys
[R-nessmrenee 20’ Roadway - wenn

.
*
*
.
.
.
,
°
°
®
°
.
‘
:
.
:
:
:
5
v

FiGuRE 3.—Cross section—vie tube Of Holland Tunnel t

through a continuous slot into the roadway. ‘The air remains in the
tunnel an average of 114 minutes as it slowly ascends .« the ceiling.

Exhaust fans located in the same buildings with the blower fans
draw the vitiated air through ports in the ceiling and thence through
the upper duct above the roadway, delivering it through stacks to
the outer atmosphere.

Experiments to determine the coefficient of friction for flow of air
in concrete ducts, to verify formulae used in computing the power
required for moving air through a duct from which air is taken off

THE HOLLAND TUNNEL—GRAY AND HAGEN 601

at intervals, and to determine the power losses in bends or elbows
in concrete air ducts were conducted at the engineering experiment
station at the University of Illinois.

A concrete model, the linear dimensions of which were one-half
those of the lower duct of the tunnel, and 300 feet in length was used
for direct tests. Outlets with adjustable shutters to control the flow
of air were provided at uniform intervals on each side. Measure-
ments of air velocity and static pressure were made at three locations
in the duct, one 5 feet from each end and one midway. ‘Tests were
run with all side ports closed and port pockets open at various inter-
vals, and with air velocities ranging from 1,000 feet to 6,000 feet per
minute. A total of 186 blowing tests and 17 exhausting tests were
run from which to determine the coefficient of friction.

On a full-size model of the expansion chamber proposed for the
tunnel, tests were made to determine the proper shape of the chamber
and the shape and size of the slot which would give a direction of air
flow high enough not to raise dust from the roadway and low enough
not to short circuit the fresh air to the inlets into the vitiated air duct
over the roadway. These experiments also gave the minimum static
pressure required to discharge the requisite quantities of air through
the slots at different locations in the tunnel. <A total of 112 tests were
made on various shapes of expansion chambers and various widths of
slot under the several conditions to be met in the tunnel.

Experiments on elbows were made in two parts: On galvanized
iron single and compound elbows constructed to one-tenth the in-
terior dimensions of the elbows to be used in the tunnel, and on con-
crete compound elbows to one-half the interior dimensions of those
planned for the tunnel ducts.

To verify under tunnel conditions the amount of carbon monoxide
produced by automobiles and the physiological effect of exhaust
gases, an experimental tunnel was constructed in the workings of a
coal mine at Bruceton, Pa. It was located about 1,000 feet from the
entrance to the mine and about 135 feet from the surface. The
tunnel had a driveway 8 feet by 9 feet wide, with continuous air
ducts above the ceiling and below the roadway. It was oval in
plan, with a major axis of approximately 135 feet and a minor axis
of approximately 110 feet, giving a roadway length of 400 feet.

Air for “de test was supplied by the mine fan, belt-connected to a
steam engine and operated outside the mines. The fan operated
normally exhausting, giving upward ventilation in the tunnel.
Downward ventilation was accomplished by reversing the direction
of the air currents through the reversible housing of the fan, which
then operated as a blower.

In the upward ventilation system, air entered the duct under the
roadway, passed through adjustable port openings into the con-
602 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

tinuous expansion chambers on either side of the roadway, thence
into the driveway. In the downward system, air was delivered to
the duct in the ceiling, thence through the ports into the upper ex-
pansion chambers from which it entered the roadway.

A total of 17 tests were run with cars varying in number from
1 to 8, with concentrations of carbon monoxide in the driveway from
0.5 to 9.4 in 10,000 parts of air, at various temperatures and humid-
ities, and various methods of transverse ventilation. The tests veri-
fied the earlier conclusions, and demonstrated that with upward
ventilation the exhaust gases crossed the breathing plane of per-
sons in the tunnel but once, while with downward ventilation they
crossed this plane twice. There was also a lower concentration of
carbon monoxide with upward than with downward ventilation.

Valuable and necessary as were the experiments required to de-
termine the various factors involved in the problem of adequate
ventilation for the Holland Tunnel, the data resulting from these
preliminary investigations had to be crystallized into tangible units
of ventilating equipment.

These are the 84 giant Sturtevant Silentvane fans which are the
very lungs of the tunnel. Without such fans blowing in fresh air
and exhausting the vitiated air the tunnel could not be made to
function.

The Sturtevant Silentvane fans are installed in the ventilation
buildings, of which there are two on each side of the river, one at
the pierhead line and the other inland. Each land shaft ventilates
four sections of tunnel, the adjoining portal sections of each tube,
the whole intermediate section to the pierhead shaft where traffic is
on a downgrade, and one-half of the parallel section where it is on
an upgrade. The buildings over these shafts contain four indepen-
dent sets of blower and exhaust fans. The pierhead shafts ventilate
three sections of tunnel, one-half of each of the 3,400-foot river sec-
tions and one-half of the intermediate section where traffic is on the
upgrade. In all there are 14 sets of blowers and 14 sets of exhaust
fans. Dividing the upgrade sections of the tunnels into three parts
gives added ventilation where the greatest amount of carbon monox-
ide is expected.

There are 28 ducts—14 blower and 14 exhaust, connecting the va-
rious sections of the tunnels with the ventilating buildings. Each
duct is equipped with three fans, two of which, when operated to-
gether, will supply the maximum quantity of air required. Their
capacities range from 81,000 to 227,000 cubic feet per minute and
they operate at static pressures varying from 0.6 to 3.75 inches of
water. This range in pressure and capacity is due to the great
difference in length of tunnel ventilated by different sets, those at
the outside of the pierhead shafts having 1,700 feet to serve while

THRE HOLLAND TUNNEL—GRAY AND HAGEN 603

the inside fans have only 700 or 800 feet. These fans, during an
hour of heavy traffic, will handle 84,000 tons of air, or 1,400 tons per
minute. They provide for changing the air in the tunnel 42 times
per hour.

The fans are of the backward curved-blade type. Under differ-
ent conditions, one, two, or three fans may be operated on one tunnel
duct at any one time.

Fi
Bi othe Copper capping-----

éL. of
i t (
| :
; “ ;
r orem. IE BESTT mas
ve ae ire |
; : Ne ==
21-2 =
bi aN
: =
in ‘a
a] AH Ge eS
1 AP i
“1A Pe \
|_| Teme=Vi
—a oo j =

\

ee ee oe

a eee eC
ee

Ss)
PET AL BPOL TIC Ss SRR OLARR AE RAPE
= iat
J)

Bt
ye

; u ;
dA
a $-E-5
Pier derr| Looe ‘South tube,
A pa Y exnaustnas i
+1 | pe

port Bad su af

Ficure 4.—Typical vertical section through ventilating building

They are electrically driven by wound-rotor motors with resist-
ance in the circuit to make it possible to run them at variable speeds.
The combined capacities of the motors is approximately 6,000 horse-
power, two-thirds of which will be in operation at times of maximum
load and one-third in reserve. Chain drives are to be used to make
possible speed adjustments or changes in the motors as well as on
account of the space limitations in the ventilating buildings.
604 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

The placing of the fans is varied to suit the local conditions in the
individual buildings. Generally, the exhaust ducts are at the corners
of the buildings and supply ducts are in the central portion. Con-
sequently the compartments containing the exhaust fans are located
near the corners under the exhaust stacks, leaving the central por-
tions of the fan floors free for intake fans, and the central section of
each outer wall for the air intakes. The intakes are made sufficiently
large to give low velocities through the louvres.

The louvre blades are made of heavy wire glass to give light to the
interior of the buildings as they take up most of the space otherwise
available for windows. Heavy bronze screens protect them and also
serve to keep out birds.

The arrangement whereby fresh air is drawn in through louvres
high up on the sides of the buildings and exhaust air is forced out
through stacks which extend 20 feet above the roof insures a complete
separation of fresh and vitiated air.

The intake fans and their motors are situated in the open portions
of the fan floors where they are accessible. The exhaust fans are, of
necessity, inside of chambers at the top of the ducts. Their motors,
however, are out on the main floor, the drive shafts being run in to
the fans through close-fitting collars in the side plates of the duct.
Access to the fans is provided through air locks equipped with air-
tight doors which can be opened against the unequal pressure by
wedge latches which force the doors open sufficiently to break the
seal.

Kach duct is equipped with a damper which may be closed when
the fan is shut down so that air from the other fans will not be short-
circuited through the idle fan. These dampers are motor operated
from the control room and are equipped with limit switches.

An unusually flexible system of power supply has been worked
out based on the facts that all the motors are in groups of three, also
that the maximum power equipments are less than the capacity of
the minimum size power cables installed by the local companies.
Three cables from the New York side and three from the New Jersey
side are run to the bus bars in each ventilating building, thus giving
one motor in each set a separate cable connection to power supply on
each side of the river. Interconnection at the bus bars makes it pos-
sible to cut in any or all motors on each cable. Thus connected, each
motor may be supplied with power by six independent cables, each
capable of carrying the entire tunnel load; and, as there are at least
two independent sources of power at each end of the tunnel, con-
tinuity of power supply is absolutely assured.

As the transformers are located in the ventilating buildings where
smoke from an oil fire might be drawn into the ventilating system,
air-cooled instead of oil-cooled transformers are used.
THE HOLLAND TUNNEL—GRAY AND HAGEN 605

Each fan is provided with a control switch at the motor for
emergency or repair use. Further local control is provided at the
switchboard in each ventilating building, and complete operating
control is provided at the main switchboard in the administration
building where, by a sysiem of signal lights, it will be possible, at
all times, to tell what motors are in operation,

Air from the intake fans is forced down into the longitudinal
duct under the roadway of the tunnel. Irom there it is fed through
flues 10 to 15 feet apart into a continuous expansion chamber above
the curb line at each side of the roadway, the flow of air into this
chamber being controlled by adjustable slides over the flue openings.
The outer side of the expansion chamber is a copper-steel plate
which can be adjusted to give an opening of widths varying from
34 inches to 184 inches through which fresh air flows into the
tunnel.

Vitiated air is drawn off through openings through the ceiling
into the exhaust ducts. These openings are spaced 10 to 15 feet
apart and are from 3 to 6 feet long. They, also, are provided with
slides by which the opening can be adjusted to meet the local re-
quirements for air circulation.

By this arrangement of supply and exhaust ports, fresh air sup-
plied to the roadway mixes with the warmer gases and rises to the
ceiling where the exhaust ports are located.

There will be no longitudinal movement of air in the tunnels
except that induced by the movement of vehicles, nor will there
be any objectionable winds such as would be created by longitudinal
ventilation. Tests made with smoke bombs showed that even large
quantities of smoke will not spread far from the point of origin,
but will rise quickly to the ceiling and be taken out. Similiarly,
in case of a fire the hot gasses will rise to the ceiling, where they
will be drawn off. There will not be the same danger of spreading
the fire from car to car as there would be with longitudinal
ventilation.

As part of the studies for the ventilating equipment, numerous
tests in relation to fire were made, both in the test tunnel at Bruce-
ton and at the laboratories of manufacturers of fire-fighting equip-
ment. These tests included the burning of an automobile drenched
with gasoline and with gasoline spilling from a hole in the tank
on the car to determine how quickly such a fire could be put out
with the hand extinguishers to be placed in the tunnel.

As a check upon the air conditions in the tunnel, automatie carbon
monoxide recording devices are installed in each exhaust duct which
will make a continuous analysis of the gases and record it graphically
in the control room of the administration building in New York.
There, by observing the chart, the operator can increase or decrease
the fresh-air supply as traffic conditions change in the tunnel.
606 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

HUDSON AIVER VEHICULAR TUNWEL

LOCATION PLAN»
Mlb

NOW YORK Grate
GALDGE & TUNNEL COMMISSION
NEW JERSEY INTERSTATE
DRIOGE & TUNNEL COMMISSION

BROOKLYN

-— Le
PLATE tee

“,
\ wie a
Scale i
a

>) \es
x\

\

Fiaurw 5.—Location plan of Holland Vehicular Tunnel

:

THE HOLLAND TUNNEL—GRAY AND HAGEN 607

That the construction of the Holland Tunnel was no easy task is
evidenced by the great increase in both time and money required for
its completion. The original plans called for an expenditure of ap-
proximately $28,000,000 and for completion in 1924, or three and one-
half years. Actual expenditures have run 50 per cent greater, and as
this is written, the opening will not be until the fall of 1927.

Yet this is not surprising. Although the shield method of con-
struction has been described in this story as if it were a relatively
simple operation, many difficulties had to be overcome in bringing
the work to a successful conclusion. The proceedings involved in the
taking of real property at entrances and exits, changes in the grades
of streets, the closing of a portion of Eleventh Street in Jersey City,
negotiations with the railroads at the Jersey City end for the acquisi-
tion of parts of the railroad yards, all took time. It was not always
easy to harmonize the views of the State Commissions. Alterations
necessarily had to be made in the preliminary plans as further infor-
mation resulted from investigation and experience.

That the undertaking cost the lives of its first two chief engineers,
not from accident, but from the drain on their vital energy, is perhaps
the most striking evidence of the magnitude of the undertaking.
, a sees
‘ ‘qe. ‘Ww paestrbsotn a8, a fs
ieocetg bes a om Ser ati Boiteh

‘

a, ae Feet “a Fink 9ild, fies § w
28809 Sat ‘Ssihiaia Biswde oii he, srt hi >. ;
“agin riiafer &, yaw Bias Bh. YIOa atitt * rf m1
 gatgaind ni’ siiodTocadtot bad api sig ar
‘edt af Kovlovai “et tit wor atl noigirionos iutzeooo0
aborts art. mts asta 2 ie aOR Be .

; . . Soostaal ane abive a aslo
 agele ton awd cn a qoaet ey aes 2 asiy beorlies alt, ter ate
‘atortsiatLA  dagdieeiad otk a reas te, ae iY. onl} oR inoarrnd
) tol nn eel ik Baaieahy rie Lax oyih tek Shncitod: of bad 5 lis

- ie ; wifi oh grtals tga xe fren Ak ian it sti Weds no
se ie BTS 110 19 totds Gard if Ht ott ee a th ri Ha, eon Be psrigencl ot)
i My aqadiady ef .wyproptinicy “a re bi

i 74
abe aitdsnshaieodsy b

.

PLATE 1

Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Gray and Hagen

ts first chief engineer, in memory of whom the tunnel was named,

CLIFFORD MILBURN HOLLAND
Genius of the Holland Tunnel and it
uasepy] pue Aein—')¢6| *‘qaoday ueruOsyzIG

¢ ALV 1d
niths ynian Report m0 sray and Piager
i

SECTIONAL VIEW OF HOLLAND TI!

~ ey a

t UNDER

YORK CITY

THE HUDS

Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Gray and Hagen PLATE 4

MILTON H. FREEMAN
Who succeeded (Mr. Holland as Chief Engineer, and who died in 1925,
pus spunod og9‘9T Wate sdutyY *(SoloUl 2 399) 9T JeJ0UIEIp) [ou

*AJOATIOadSeI *300} IVEUT| ied spunod 029‘¢
pus (Seqoul 9 499} 67 JOJIUIBIP) JoUUNT, PUB[[OH JO Boras pezis-[[n4

-UN], PRoITEY UBBQUBIY 7 WOSpNA{ JO Woes pozis-[[ny
7AANNOL GvOuwTIVY NVLLVHNVW 93 NOSGNH ONY TANNNOL ONV1T10OH

ake . *
Ce aga

ama
ue me <5 162. ava

fe aga bet ae
TINND | OY WIDMA CIAR nova}

NOILD9S GIZIS WIN

S 31iv1d
usdepy pur Air) —"0¢61 *qaoday UnruOsyyItG
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Gray and Hagen PLATE 6

Soha ie:

< So nS

ASSEMBLING SHIELD IN CANAL STREET SHAFT
View looking down into shaft, showing bulkhead in west side wall.
7

Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Gray and Hagen PLATE 7

LAND SHAFT CAISSON AT SPRING STREET, NEW YORK CITY

ulkhead in west side wall through which shield advanced after erection.

Showing steel t
‘[eUUNY Ul SHOOT Ie pus yyeys Ul seseo sov[d
pue yooep IeYS PAOUIAL 0} Jap1O UI psAomel aINsseid Ive puv pepuedsns Aple1odure} suOIB1edo SuljeuuNT, ‘“pveyylng Are1odu19} pues oovid UT Plays Jo pus Ivar JO MOTA

ALID MYHYOA MAN ‘LERYLS LSAM LV LABFYLS TWNVD “IANNO_L HLNOS ‘C1 IHS

8 3LV1d uasey] pue Avin—9¢6| ‘oday ueruOsyyIUIG
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Gray and Hagen PLATE 9

1. GANG OF ‘‘SAND HOGS" IN LINE

Waiting to check in for work in compressed air. Canal Street land shaft and air locks, South Tunnel.

2. HAULING A CAR OF MUCK OUT OF A MUCK LOCK, SOUTH TUNNEL
Smithsonian Report, 1950.—Gray and Hagen |) Ley aN Fe) Ss yO

1. CONCRETE ROADWAY

Beginning of sidewalk, and reinforcing of sidewalk, North Tunnel. View shows construction track on
roadway and roof rebolting and calking platform.

2. CONCRETE BULKHEAD AND LOCKS

South Tunnel, Canal Street, New York City.
"yUNS puv UOT}ISOd OjUI poywoy ‘puLysy Duo] ‘JoqIVAy SIOULIBIY 4B PeyoUNsV] WOssTey)

SAVM 3HL ONIAVST YS14aV LSNS ‘'NOSSIVD LAVHS YSAIY AaSYar MAN

ii” el
Wa, a pe

Lk 34V1d usSepy pure Aeiy— OCG *‘yuodayy URrUOsyyIUG
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Gray and Hagen PLATE 12

TIGHTENING BOLTS IN TUNNEL LINING, NORTH TUNNEL,
BY MEANS OF RATCHET WRENCH. EACH BOLT WEIGHS 10
POUNDS
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Gray and Hagen PLATE 13

ERECTOR ARM
Swinging iron segment into place in tunnel lining, South Tunnel New York City.
PEON MHVN OPIS avoavy mon JU puompeyf UBUON YIM spuBry Suryeys ‘QPIS YIOX MAN JO poompory Aaae FL

HSNOYHL ONIIOH

VL ALVId

uasepy pue A )— 0€61 *qaoday upIuosyzIWC

Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Gray and Hagen PLATE 15

CURVE IN SOUTH TUNNEL UNDER WEST STREET, NEW YORK CITY (RADIUS 1,000
FEET). SHOWING COMPLETED RINGS OF CAST-IRON LINING
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Gray and Hagen PLATE 16

CONCRETE CONSTRUCTION IN SOUTH TUNNEL

Showing atypical cross section of concrete lining and details. The upper and lower arcs of the tunnel form
the ventilating ducts.
TANNAL GHL JO
HLON]Z1 24ILNZ JHL 1NOHONOBHIL
ONINNA|Y LONG MIiv HSIN

INMOHSOMONHL 13394 Gi
AMJAZ SANs WIV HSI84

AYMQVOH O1 Alddns
¥IVY HS3Y¥4 SNONNILNOD

jdid AlddNS Y31VM

YSHSINONIANG
auld

00°000'001$ ZBWODNI IVNNNY
S318VD HdVHO9TIL ONY 3NOHd3131

ANOHONOWHL LB9d Gi
ANZADT SLHOd ISNVHXG

uasdepy I

Awiry O¢61 ‘ploday uBtuosy yc
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Gray and Hagen PLATE 18

we

« oe Weed) he g
*

REST AND REFRESHMENT IN ROTHERHITHE TUNNEL, RIVER THAMES, LONDON,
ENGLAND
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Gray and Hagen PLATE 19

APPROACH TO THE BLACKWALL TUNNEL, RIVER THAMES, LONDON, ENGLAND
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Gray and Hagen PLATE 20

1. EAST BLOWER AIR DUCT
In land ventilation building, New York City, showing curved back and vanes.

2. EAST BLOWER AIR DUCT
Land ventilation building, New York City.

Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Gray and Hagen PLATE 21

1. FRESH-AIR DUCT IN SOUTH TUNNEL, NEW JERSEY SIDE

Showing the beginning of the transition from its position under the roadway to its position alongside the
tunnel

2. TILE AND BRONZE WORK

Left to right: Bronze door to relay niche with telephone and fire-alarm boxes on each side; tiled refuge
niche with fresh-air outlet on each side, two fire-extinguisher niches; tiled opening to mid-river sump.
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Gray and Hagen PLATE 22

LAND VENTILATION BUILDING
West side of Washington Street, Canal Street to Spring Street, New York City.
c
©
Ei
=
ia]
c
=
>
€
oO
L
ca
=
4
&
c
«
c
.
Ss
8
|
E
n

oot te ue

RIVER VENTILATION BUILDING

Pierhead line between Piers 34 and 35, North River, New York City.
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Gray and Hagen PLATE 24

SPECIAL APPARATUS ERECTED AT HYDE PARK PLANT OF B. F. STURTEVANT Co.
Used in testing Sturtevant silent-vane fans for the Holland Tunnel.
Smithsonian’Report, 1930.—Gray and Hagen PLATE 25

STURTEVANT SILENT-VANE FAN WHEELS FOR THE HOLLAND TUNNEL
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Gray and Hagen PLATE 26

ONE OF THE 84 STURTEVANT SILENT-VANE FANS WHICH ARE THE LUNGS OF THE
HOLLAND TUNNEL
PLATE 27

Gray and Hagen

Smithsonian Report, 1930

LAND VENTILATION BUILDING

JERSEY

IN NEW

IT

mntrol ¢
‘Mor]e10d0 UI OU OOM SUB] BION AA PRY
-yJhq jonp are Jo ysom AVMPBOIJO UOTJIPUOD 49M PUB UOT}BIEdO UI O10M SUB O1OYM PBOYH[NG JONp Ale Jo ysvo AVMPVOI JO UOTJIPUOD AIp SUTMOYS MOI
1 1B Jo 4 Ip I I J | pq t J Iytp p surMoy 1A

TANNNL HLYON NI NOILYSNSQNOD

8¢c ALV 1d uasepy pue AeInN—'I¢6| ‘yaoday ueIUOsy IG
Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Gray and Hagen PLATE

OLE SINGSTAD, CHIEF ENGINEER

Under whose direction the Holland Tunnel was brought to successful completion

29

Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Gray and Hagen PLATE 30

1. MODEL OF ENTRANCE TO TUNNEL, NEW YORK CITY

Looking north-northwest across entrance plaza which comprises north half of block between Broome
and Watts Streets.

2. MODEL. OF EXIT FROM TUNNEL, NEW YORK CITY

Looking northwest along Canal Street.

Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Swanton and Roberts

PLATE 1

JESSE WALTER FEWKES

|

—_

a

JESSE WALTER FEWKES*
By JoHN R. SWANTON AND F. H. H. Roserts, Jr.

[With 1 plate]

The death of Jesse Walter Fewkes removes one who was an out-
standing influence in the formative period of American archeology,
particularly the archeology of our great Southwest. fe way born
at Newton, Mass., on November 14, 1850, of parents whose «..cestral
lines in America extended back to the seventeenth century. In 1871
he entered Harvard and he graduated four years later with honors in
natural history, besides being elected to membership in Phi Beta
Kappa.

In 1874, while he was still an undergraduate, two papers on elec-
trical subjects were published by him, but the year before he had
come under the influence of Louis Agassiz in the latter’s school at
Penikese Island, Buzzards Bay, and this experience probably led
him to turn his attention wholly to zoology. At any rate he took up
graduate work in natural history and, after receiving the degrees of
A. M. and Ph. D. in 1877, he continued zoological studies at Leipzig
under Rudolph Lueckart between 1878 and 1880. Later he spent
several months in Naples and at Villa Franca on the south coast of
France as holder of the Harris fellowship. After his return to
America he received an appointment as assistant in the Museum of

_Comparative Zoology at Harvard where, from 1881 to 1889, he had

charge of the collections of the lower invertebrata. In 1881 he ac-
companied Alexander Agassiz to Key West and the Dry Tortugas
for the study of marine life and two years later he visited the Ber-
mudas on a similar quest. Every summer, from 1884 to 1887, he was
assistant in charge of the younger Agassiz’s marine laboratory at
Newport, R. I., but in the spring of 1887 he pursued scientific studies
at Santa Barbara, Santa Cruz and Monterey, California, as a guest
of Augustus Hemenway, of Boston, and in the summer of 1888 he
studied in Paris and engaged in field work in marine zoology at
Prof. Lacaze Duthier’s zoological station at Roscoff, Brittany.
Doctor Fewkes’s visit to California proved to be a turning point
in his career, for it was then that he came in contact with the culture

1 This article is expanded from one by John R. Swanton published in Science, July 4,
1930, Vol. LXXII, No. 1853.
609
610 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

of the Pueblo Indians, which excited in him an interest still further
stimulated by the enthusiasm of Mrs. Mary Hemenway. In 1889 and
1890 he undertook field work among the Zuii Indians of New Mexico,
and in the latter year he made use of a phonograph—the first time,
it is believed, that it was so employed—in the recording of Indian
music. In 1891 be became director of the Hemenway Southwestern
Archeological Expedition and editor of the Journal of American
Archeology and Ethnology, established to publish the results of its
investigations. During the same year he began those studies of Hopi
ceremonials for which he became especially noted and which probably
constitute his most enduring contribution to American anthropology.

These investigations were greatly facilitated by his initiation into
the Antelope and Flute priesthoods. The happy relationship thus
established enabled him to witness many secret rites from which the
ordinary observer was barred and his descriptions of many of the
ceremonials were the first to be published. His account of the Hopi
snake dance, which appeared in 1894, was a pronounced factor in
spreading the knowledge of this striking rite and stimulating popular
interest in it. In the following years he prepared additional reports
on various phases of it and although innumerable papers on the sub-
ject have been written in recent years, his works still furnish the
background and source of information for many of the descriptions
of the ceremony.

The Hemenway expedition having been invited by the Spanish
Government to participate in the historical exposition held at Madrid
in 1892-93 to commemorate the discovery of America by Columbus,
Doctor Fewkes was given charge of the exhibit and he was a member
of the jury of awards. In recognition of these services he was
honored by Maria Cristina, queen regent of Spain, with the decora-
tion “Isabel la Catolica,” grade of knight. In 1894 King Oscar of
Sweden presented him with a gold medal, “ Litteris et Artibus,” for
his work in anthropology.

After returning to America, Doctor Fewkes resumed investiga-
tions in the Southwest, but they were soon brought to an end tempo-
rarily by the death of his patroness, Mrs. Hemenway, in 1894. The
collections made under his direction during this period are in the
Peabody Museum at Cambridge.

In May, 1895, Doctor Fewkes received an appointment as ethnol-
ogist in the Bureau of American Ethnology at Washington along
with the honorary title of collaborator in the division of ethnology
in the United States National Museum, and the connection which
he established with the bureau at this time continued unbroken until
his resignation and retirement from active service in 1928.

This constituted a turning point in his career in another direction
because, although he continued to publish the results of his work

FEWKES—-SWANTON AND ROBERTS 611

among the living Hopi for many years afterward, his field excur-
sions now became mainly archeological. From 1895 until 1901 the
scene of these investigations was in and near the Hopi country in
Arizona.

It was during the summer of 1895 that he made a survey of the
ruins along the Rio Verde and excavated at the Hopi ruins of
Awatobi and Sikyatki. His collection of specimens from the latter
sites contains some of the finest examples of the ceramic art ever
found in the Southwest. While conducting the Sikyatki investiga-
tions Doctor Fewkes fostered the beginnings of a renaissance in
Hopi pottery making. Nampeo, a young woman from the village
of Hano, was a constant visitor at the scene of the excavations and
was so fascinated by the beauty of the pottery being unearthed that
she began copying the forms and style of decoration. As a result
of Doctor Fewkes’ encouragement and advice she was so successful in
her endeavors that other women turned to the ancient wares for
their inspiration. From that time to the present day the pottery
made in the various villages has been distinctly of the Sikyatki style.

The field seasons of 1896 and 1897 were spent in the Little Colo-
rado and upper Gila districts. The excavations conducted at that time
furnished data for the most elaborate and extensive reports yet
printed on the region. Doctor Fewkes had no sooner reached the
field in 1898 than the whole Hopi area was swept by an epidemic of
smallpox and he was forced to return to Washington.

In the autumn of 1899 his attention was temporarily diverted from
archeological researches when he returned to the Hopi villages to
complete some of the ethnological studies begun in earlier years. He
spent the winter living with the Indians and obtained much valuable
information which appeared in subsequent reports on their cere-
monies. The spring of 1900 found him continuing his reconnaissance
of Arizona ruins. The following year was devoted to a study of the
information obtained in the field and the preparation of a report
on his work. He did find time, however, to make a trip into western
Texas and northern Chihuahua, Mexico, during the summer of 1901.
While in Mexico he visited the ruins known as Casas Grandes and
made what at that time was the most critical and extensive study of
them ever attempted.

As a result of the Spanish-American War considerable popular and
scientific interest was focused on Cuba, Porto Rico, and the West
Indies, and Doctor Fewkes was among those who desired to conduct
investigations in the area. Accordingly he devoted portions of the
years 1902, 1903, and 1904 to researches in the islands. The region
furnished him much in the way of specimens and information and he
was able to prepare an extensive report dealing with his discoveries.
612 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

The season of 1905 found him carrying his investigations to the main-
land and doing work in northeastern Mexico.

With the passage of the Lacey Act in 1906 providing for the crea-
tion of public parks or national monuments a new era dawned in the
history of Southwestern archeology, and the services of Doctor
Fewkes were at once enlisted by the Department of the Interior for
the exploration and restoration of ruins upon the public domain. In
1906 and 1907 he explored and repaired the famous Casa Grande
ruins of southern Arizona, but in 1908 transferred his labors to the
Mesa Verde National Park in southwestern Colorado and continued
there through the field season of 1909, ‘The work of the latter two
expeditions consisted of the excavation and repair of the two large
cliff dwellings called Spruce-Tree House and Cliff Palace. His re-
ports, magazine articles, and lectures on these spectacular ruins at-
tracted many visitors to the park and greatly simulated public inter-
est in the subject of Southwestern archeology.

In 1909 and 1910 he visited large undescribed cliffhouses in the
Navaho National Monument, northern Arizona, and prepared a pub-
lication on them. This turned the attention of archeologists to the
region and in the years immediately following several expeditions
were sent out from various institutions to conduct investigations in
the ruins.

In 1911, he returned to the West Indies, visiting Cuba, the Isle of
Pines and Grand Cayman, and, in 1912, the Lesser Antilles, but the
following spring he went to Europe where he spent part of his time
studying the West Indian collections in German and Danish museums.
While in Europe at this time he made a trip to Egypt in order that
he might observe the methods employed by the egyptologists in their
excavations. He was especially interested in the technique of repair
which they had developed and was able to adapt certain features of
it to his later work in the Southwest.

The summer of 1914 found him again in the Southwest. This time
his activities were centered in the Mimbres Valley in southwestern
New Mexico and as a result of his investigations the highly pictorial
form of ceramic decoration peculiar to the region became generally
known. Publication of papers on this pottery led many institutions
to send parties into that field. Digging there has continued
unabated to the present day.

The summer of 1915 was spent on the Mesa Verde in southern Colo-
rado. During the season two ruins, Sun Temple and Oak-Tree
House, were uncovered. Sun Temple, because of its unusual shape
and indications that it had been erected solely for ceremonial pur-
poses, attracted a great amount of attention and illustrated articles
about it were printed by many newspapers and magazines throughout

FEWKES—SWANTON AND ROBERTS 613

the country. No single ruin on the mesa caught the public fancy as
did Sun Temple and up to the time of his withdrawal from active
participation in archeological affairs Doctor Fewkes was called upon
to answer many letters of inquiry regarding the structure.

Early in the field season of 1916, Doctor Fewkes returned to the
Hopi country in Arizona with the hope that he might locate some
of the villages which Indian traditions attributed to clan migra-
tions during the period antedating the founding of the Hopi towns.
From there he worked eastward into western New Mexico and con-
ducted a reconnaissance in the vicinity of Gallup. Completing his
survey of the ruins in that section he proceeded to Mesa Verde where
the remainder of the season was devoted to conducting excavations in
the Mummy Lake group of ruins. The remains of the pueblo struc-
ture uncovered were given the name Far View house. This piece of
work was considered important because it showed that there was no
outstanding difference between the houses built in the large natural
caverns and those erected on the mesa tops. At the close of the work
on the mesa Doctor Fewkes made a trip into the Uintah reservation in
eastern Utah for the purpose of determining the northern limits of
the pueblo cultures. On this survey he observed and reported many
tower and house ruins which previously had been unknown.

In 1917 he spent the field season conducting a reconnaissance in
the McElmo district of southwestern Colorado. This was done in
an effort to discover, if possible, what the relation between the many
towers and circular structures of that section and the Sun Temple
ruin might be. He found little of help in that respect but did estab-
lish the fact that most of the ruins scattered throughout the area were
comparable to the ruin on the mesa which he called Far View House.
The problems involved became so intricate that he returned to the
same region in 1918 and continued his survey in an effort to obtain
further information. As a result of this he was able to postulate
the development of the great communal dwellings out of small house
and village clusters. Curiously enough, at that time neither he nor
other investigators in the Southwest placed much emphasis on this
theory of the evolution of the house. The work of recent years con-
ducted by younger men has shown that his idea was a sound one and
that he had foreseen what excavation has actually shown.

On March 1, 1918, Doctor Fewkes was appointed chief of the
bureau of which he had so long been an active member. However,
this appointment scarcely interrupted the course of his field investi-
gations.

In 1919 he continued his work on Mesa Verde excavating the ruin
known as Square Tower House and the remains of a pit dwelling
which was designated Earth Lodge A. The latter was interesting

28095—31——40
614 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

because it was one of the first of that type brought to light in the
Southwest. Since then many pit houses have been located and un-
covered and the type has become widely known.

The summer of 1920 was devoted to the excavation of additional
ruins on Mesa Verde. The most outstanding of these was the one
which Doctor Fewkes called New Fire Temple. It is considered one
of the most remarkable cliff dwellings in the park, if not in the
whole Southwest. Like Sun Temple, it had been erected purely for
ceremonial usage and from the evidence he obtained in uncovering it
Doctor Fewkes was convinced that it had been dedicated to the
sacred fire and probably to a form of fire worship. The other ruins
investigated that season were Cedar-Tree Tower and Painted Kiva
House.

The following season, 1921, he completed the excavation of Far
View House, repaired and capped its walls to protect them from the
weather and also repaired and capped the walls of Sun Temple.
During the course of his investigations in the Southwest, beginning
with his work at Casa Grande in Arizona, Doctor Fewkes always
made it a point to repair and protect the ruins which he exca-
vated. So persistent was he in his belief that ruins should be pro-
tected once they were uncovered and so untiring was his advocacy
of that pratice that in the course of time most of the institutions
engaged in extensive work in the region followed his lead.

The field seasons of 1921 and 1922 were the last ones which
Doctor Fewkes spent at Mesa Verde. His work then consisted of
the excavation and repair of several small ruins, Pipe Shrine House
and One Clan House being the most significant. Both represent
an earlier stage of development than that of the large cliff-dwellings
and furnished him with data upon which to draw conclusions con-
cerning the sequence of building types in the park.

At the beginning of his work on the Mesa Verde Doctor Fewkes
started a custom which became popular with the visitors to the
park. Each night a group would gather around his camp fire and
he would tell them of the Indians, of his finds, of his views and ideas
concerning the ruins which he was excavating. With the passing of
the years the number of visitors rapidly increased and a special
place had to be provided for the evening camp fire so that all who
were desirous of hearing the talks might attend. As a result of
this Doctor Fewkes had a tremendous influence in arousing an
interest in the story of the Southwest and creating an appreciation
for the excavators and their problems.

The creation of the Hovenweep National Monument, including the
McElmo district in Colorado, in 1923 and the Wupatki National
Monument in Arizona in 1925 may be attributed to Doctor Fewkes’
untiring efforts to have those districts set aside and preserved by the
Government.

FEWKES—SWANTON AND ROBERTS 615

His last outdoor work of importance was the excavation of Elden
Pueblo, near Flagstaff, Ariz., in 1926.

As chief of the Bureau of Ethnology Doctor Fewkes also found
time to interest himself in the archeology of the southeastern part of
our country which he visited several times. His most important
undertaking here was the excavation of the Weeden Island mound,
near St. Petersburg, Fla., in the winter of 1923-24, and it is charac-
teristic of his archeological optimism that his very last expedition
consisted in a “reconnaissance” of the Piedmont region of South
Carolina in June, 1927, looking toward more extensive investigations
at some later period.

In April, 1925, Doctor Fewkes had to undergo a severe operation
and, while he returned to the field, as noted, in 1926 and 1927, he
never recovered fully from its effects. After his return from the
South in 1927 he suffered a fall and, as a result of it, became so much
weaker that on January 15, 1928, he resigned as chief of the Bureau
of American Ethnology but continued on its staff until November.
His death took place on May 31, 1930, his wife, who had been his
constant field companion, preceding him by a few weeks.

Doctor Fewkes was a member of the National Academy of Sciences
and an honorary or corresponding member of many scientific societies,
American and foreign. He was secretary of the Boston Society of
Natural History from 1889 to 1891, vice president and chairman of
section H of the American Association for the Advancement of
Science in 1901 and again in 1915, president of the Anthropological
Society of Washington in 1909 and 1910, president of the American
Anthropological Association in 1911 and 1912, and for more than 30
years he was on the visiting committee of the Peabody Museum at
Harvard University.

In January, 1915, he was the official representative of the Smith-
sonian Institution at the inauguration of Doctor KleinSmid as presi-
dent of the University of Arizona and had bestowed upon him by
that institution the degree of LL. D. On the occasion of his seven-
tieth birthday, November 14, 1920, a luncheon was given in his honor
at the Smithsonian building, participated in by about 40 of his
friends, and a specially bound volume of letters of congratulation
was presented to him. His last public act was the presentation of a
bust of Louis Agassiz to the Hall of Fame on behalf of the American
Association for the Advancement of Science and an unnamed admirer
of the great naturalist. This took place on May 10, 1928, Doctor
Fewkes being the only pupil of Agassiz then living able to be present.

His publications include, besides the two papers on electricity
already mentioned, nearly 70 contributions to invertebrate zoology,
mainly the Medusae, Echinodermata, and Vermes, and about 200
contributions to ethnology and archeology.
616 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

Doctor Fewkes was possessed of a genial and confiding nature and
an effervescent enthusiasm which drew people to him and made them
readily communicative of any information they happened to have
regarding new types of ruins, unique pottery, or mounds which had
escaped scientific eyes, so that, from the quantity point of view, he
was almost uniformly successful in his field expeditions. And in
this way he made many openings for later workers, even though he
did not exploit all the possibilities of an undertaking. For he was
interested in variety of material, especially material of a novel char-
acter, rather than in associations of materials, and the extension of
his work interfered with its intensiveness. However, his unaffected
pleasure in a new variety of artifact or an exceptional pottery design
was something that the average man could understand and through
his talks to tourists and in the lecture hall, and through press inter-
views, he interested hundreds to whom a more rigorous student might
have spoken in vain. In this way he created a “ Pueblo conscious-
ness” which drew other investigators to the field and provided
popular support for their work, performing a similar service to that
of Cushing at an earlier date on the side of ethnology. Thus the
title “dean of American archeology ” which, with advancing years,
some of his admirers came to apply to him was not inappropriate.
It was a term which his charm of manner set off to most excellent
advantage, and he had a devoted circle of friends who will feel that
his going has removed something peculiarly warm and winning from
their lives..

Smithsonian Report, 1930.—Schuchert PLATE 1

GEORGE PERKINS MERRILL
GEORGE PERKINS MERRILL (1854—-1929)*
By CHARLES SCHUCHERT

(With 1 plate]

George Perkins Merrill was born May 31, 1854, at Auburn, Me.,
and died there suddenly on the morning of August 15, 1929. He
was spending his vacation at his summer home on the Isle of Springs
off the coast of Maine. On the afternoon of the 14th he left the
island to look up a reported find of large beryl crystals at Albany,
Me. That night he spent with his brother, Horace, at Auburn.
Starting early the next morning for Albany, he was stricken with
apoplexy in the railway station at Auburn while waiting for the
train. As Miss Moodey writes:

It seemed quite strange that he should have gone back to his birthplace and
died there; it is also there that he is buried. The funeral services were held
on Sunday the 18th in the Minot Church, where his grandfather preached.

Merrill’s father, Lucius Merrill, a carpenter and cabinetmaker, was
a descendant of Nathaniel Merrill, who settled in Newbury, Mass., in
1633, and who is stated to have been one of the Huguenot de Merles
who were driven out of France at the time of the massacre of St.
Bartholomew, the name “ Merrill ” being a corruption. His mother,
Anne, was the daughter of the Rev. Elijah Jones, of the First Con-

gregational Church at Minot, Me. There were seven children. He
writes:

The home being somewhat crowded, I lived for several summers with my
grandfather in Minot, and after I had become of sufficient age to be of value,
worked for three summers on the neighboring farm of my uncle. I was edu-
cated in the town schools of Auburn and the Lewiston Falls Academy, situated
in Auburn, afterwards known as the Edward Little High School. I early
became quite independent, at first doing small chores for the neighbors, then

1In the preparation of this memorial, the writer has had the advantage, through the
kindness of Mrs. Merrill, of seeing an autobiographical sketch prepared by Doctor Merrill
at the request of the National Academy of Sciences in April, 1924; and he is indebted
for other information to Miss Margaret W. Moodey, assistant in the department of
geology, United States National Museum. The writer's personal acquaintance with Doc-
tor Merrill began in 1893 and covered 10 years of association with him in the United
States National Museum and three years spent as a member of his family. It was kept
alive after their paths diverged by correspondence and occasional contacts. Hence, the
present tribute is not only to a scientific colleague, but to a highly valued friend. A
more detailed sketch of Doctor Merrill, accompanied by a complete bibliography, will be
found in the Bulletin of the Geological Society of America, vol. 42, 1931.

617
618 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

working with my father, when at school acting as janitor of the building, and
in later years, from 18 to 21, working in the shoe factories. My education
up to the time I was 21 was necessarily scrappy, but in the winter of 1876
I entered the University of Maine (then the small and struggling Maine State
College), working my own way as in years previous and graduating in chemis-
try with the degree of B. 8S. in 1879. Later I received the honorary degrees
of M. S. (1883) and Ph. D. (1889) from the same institution.

During the winter of 1876 I taught school at what is known as the Jackson
district in Minot Center and during the vacations of the subsequent winters
at East North Yarmouth, all in the State of Maine, receiving in the first
instance $25 a month and board, and in the second, $30 a month and board
as remuneration. I taught everything asked for—to students ranging from
those who were sent to keep them from under their mother’s feet to those
who were as old and several sizes larger than I was myself. Along with the
a, b, c’s, I taught English, grammar, French, algebra, and geometry, and it
was even suggested that I add singing as an extra course! Since I felt that
a line should be drawn somewhere I drew it there.

Immediately after graduating in 1879 Merrill became assistant to
Prof. W. O. Atwater in Wesleyan University at Middletown, Conn.,
working with him on the chemistry of foods. It was while here
that he made the acquaintance of America’s greatest pioneer in mu-
seum administration, Dr. G. Brown Goode, a graduate of that uni-
versity and some time curator of its museum collections, but at this
time in charge of the United States National Museum. They were
attracted to each other at once and it was this meeting, together
with an earlier recommendation, that had much to do with Merrill’s
subsequent appointment in the National Museum. In the winter of
1880-81 Merrill was connected with the Fisheries Bureau at Wash-
ington, D. C., and in the following July was transferred by Doctor
Goode to the staff of the geological department of the National
Museum as aid to Dr. George W. Hawes, who had in 1880 been
appointed curator of geology. As we shall see, it was the latter who
started Merrill on his geological career, and mainly in the line of
petrology.

In the sketch above referred to, Merrill says that he must have
been born with a fondness for natural history, but adds:

If in my work there may have been any one controlling influence it must
be attributed to the summers of my childhood which I spent with my [maternal]
grandfather. He was a man of far more scholarly standing than the majority
of clergymen in like situations. In the parlor of his house, on the mantel over
the fireplace, I remember there stood a stack of narrow pine shelves on which
were placed from time to time such objects as were sent to him by missionary
friends from heathen lands and such “natural curiosities” as came to hand.
Among these last were found a long-horned, adult form of the pine tree borer,
Monhammus confusor, and a hideous lace-winged “ helldiver,” Corydalis cornuta.
Later I myself added many insect forms, including the big luna-moth which was
esteemed a great treasure. But amongst the inorganic forms there was a curved

piece of stone, like a fragment of a saucer, or possibly the segment of a sphere.
There was nothing remarkable about it had it not been that there rested in
MERRILL—SCHUCHERT 619

it a small spherical pebble, the two resembling an iron-stone concretion familiar
to geologists. I long afterwards learned that the two had had no connection
whatever, someone having placed the pebble in the receptacle. It always excited
my attention and I never failed to examine it when admitted to the room.
. . . When the old household was broken up by death and removal, I secured
that specimen as my share of the spoils, and to-day it rests on another mantel
over the fireplace of the living room in my home at Washington.

Further information regarding these early influences appears in a
letter dated October 20, 1921, wherein Merrill states that it was in
particular the insect collection belonging to his grandfather that
excited his enthusiasm (MS., 1924) :

What more natural than that with these “as an example” I should myself
begin collecting, and under judicious encouragement soon had my room at home
a far more diversified curiosity shop than anything displayed at my grand-
father’s? This indiscriminate collecting I carried through my school and col-
lege days, and so succeeded in impressing one of my influential friends, all
unintentionally, that years afterward he recommended me to the late G. Brown
Goode of the Smithsonian Institution as a promising youth for appointment
on his staff.

I do not know that I had any very decided views on what profession I
wished to take when I entered college. I had thought of civil engineering but
this was mainly because it was an out-of-door pursuit—as I understood it. It
was not long, however, before I decided on chemistry and natural history as
more to my taste, and to these I gave most of my attention. Prof. A. B.
Aubert was then professor of chemistry and as it turned out I became his
favorite pupil. I failed, however, to become a chemist, though I became a fair
analyst. Our professor in natural history was C. H. Fernald. I became, too,
one of his favorite students and acquired much information that helped me
in my subsequent career. What I learned in geology was almost wholly my
own; not a single field trip did we get, nor were we taught even the rudiments
of field work. My first real geological trip was with Prof. William North Rice,
with whom I visited the contact between the trap and Triassic sandstone at
Meriden, Conn., while assistant at Middletown.

Merrill was married in November, 1883, to Sarah, daughter of
Joseph R. Farrington of Portland, Me. She fell seriously ill in 1892,
and the family had to be divided between Maine and Washington.
These were hard and trying days for the Merrills. Mrs. Merrill
died in 1894, leaving four children, Joseph Farrington, Anne Mar-
garet, Mildred Hastings, and Ruth. In February, 1900, Merrill
married Miss Katherine L. Yancey, of Virginia, by whom he had
one daughter, Katherine Dorothy. During the years 1909 to 1918
Merrill himself had setbacks through illness, necessitating repeated
visits to the hospital, but from this trouble he apparently recovered
fully.

Physically, Merrill was 5 feet 10 inches in height, of sturdy build,
with sandy hair and keen blue eyes. Alert and active, he was always
occupied, spending most of his evenings reading, not only the sci-
entific publications of the day, but the best literature as well; on
his table invariably lay copies of the poems of Robert Burns, the
620 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam, and some volumes of Edwin Arling-
ton Robinson; in fact, he was ever a lover of music and poetry.
A typical “down East Yankee,” he appeared on first acquaintance
austere, reserved, and pessimistic, but to his many friends, though
always critical, he showed a loyal and generous heart. Those who
met him as host or at any social function found him unsurpassed
in humor and in apt quotation.

Merrill’s thought was rarely, if ever, speculative. As Farring-
ton (1930) says, “ He preferred to keep close to facts and allow time
and accumulation of further data to furnish their interpretation,”
a tendency to which he himself bears witness when he states that he
prefers in his daily work “ to be always afloat in regard to opinions
in geology.” (1913a:67.)?

His ideals of what qualities a geologist should possess profes-
sionally may be read in his statement at the centenary of the birth
of James D. Dana, whom he greatly admired. “A geologist,” he
says, “ must be, first, a good observer; second, he must be sufficiently
erounded in certain basal sciences to enable him to draw legitimate
conclusions from what he observes; third, he must know what other
workers have done and be able to utilize to advantage their work and
conclusions; fourth, he must have staying power; fifth, if he is a |
great geologist he must possess a creative imagination and be mas-
ter of both inductive and deductive methods of reasoning.”
(1913a : 64-65.)

Merrill was a Government officer in the United States National
Museum for nearly a half century (1881-1929). His official and
scientific career there will be presented under four headings, as
follows:

I. As organizer of the department of geology in the National
Museum.

II. As pioneer in the study of building stones and the processes
of rock weathering.

III. As pioneer in the application of petrology to the study of
meteorites.

IV. As pioneer historian of North American physical geology.

MERRILL AS ORGANIZER OF THE DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY IN THE UNITED
STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

As previously stated, Merrill began his long and fruitful Wash-
ington career in the winter of 1880-81 as aide in the United States
Fisheries Bureau. The following July he was transferred to the
department of geology in the National Museum, which had started
in 1880 in charge of Dr. G. W. Hawes, who died in 1882. The next ©

2This and subsequent references are to Merrill’s bibliography as it will appear in the
Bulletin of the Geological Society of America,

MERRILL—SCHUCHERT 621

year Merrill was promoted to be acting curator in charge of the
division of lithology and physical geology, working on the collec-
tion of building stones, and starting another one having to do with
physical geology. In the annual report for 1884, he says that for
whatever material the department possessed prior to 1882 it was
largely indebted to the Centennial Exposition of 1876 held at Phila-
delphia, the Tenth Census, and the various national geological sur-
veys. It was this material that he was then laboring to put into
museum order. “The years immediately following the death of
Hawes were full of hard work and much trial.” In 1889 Merrill
was promoted to full curatorship, and in 1897 to head curatorship in
the newly organized department of geology, embracing the divi-
sions: (1) Physical and chemical geology, with Merrill as curator;
(2) mineralogy; and (3) stratigraphic paleontology. This appoint-
ment came to him while he was in St. Petersburg attending the
International Geological Congress.

This reorganization whereby the entire geological, mineralogical, and paleon-
tological departments were placed under a single administrative head rendered
possible, for the first time in the history of the museum, systematic and coordi-
nate work in all divisions and at the same time permitted the writing of a
consecutive report of progress . . . The collection up to that time had
grown in a very irregular and spasmodic manner, the mineral collection being
particularly poor and the meteorites hardly worthy of mention. By means of
money appropriated to the museum for the purpose of taking part in the
various expositions I had, however, succeeded in making the geological exhibits
comprise something more than a collection of building stones and ores, by
seizing the opportunity to build up exhibits along lines in which the museum
was particularly weak. (MS. 1924.)

In Merrill’s time there were 10 of these expositions.

As is well known, Merrill proved himself one of the most effective
of museum exhibitors and husbanders of geologic materials. Under
his care the department of geology in the National Museum grew
from a small and insignificant beginning to one of the great collec-
tions of the world, and one which possibly is unexcelled.

Anyone who has held a curatorship in a large museum knows that
most of his time goes into the husbanding of the collections in his
charge, and caring for the daily work. This routine is greatly in-
creased in a national museum since the Government feels obliged
to answer, so far as it can, all questions asked of it by its citizens.
Hence, as Merrill has said, “ The curators are subject to a continual
bombardment of letters containing queries covering a wide range of
natural history topics, which are only too frequently of a trifling
nature, dealing with matters which are curious but not important, but
all of which require an answer.” (MS. 1924.) On the other hand,
“the care of the collections and installation of exhibits has always
been considered the first duty of the departmental force. Research,
622 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

except in a few instances, has been secondary—to be carried on as
time from these other duties permits. In addition specialists and
interested visitors must naturally be shown all possible courtesies.
Finally, label writing for the exhibition series requires the greatest
care and a thorough knowledge of the subject described.” (MS. 1929.)
It is therefore only by the most careful husbanding of the curator’s
time that any research work can be accomplished at all, and most
of it is done out of official hours. How well Merrill made use of his
time and facilities is attested by his bibliography of nearly 200
titles, many of which are long papers and books. In addition, he
wrote 47 annual reports of his department, and was a contributor of
articles to at least six dictionaries and cyclopedias. Furthermore,
in the years 1893 to 1916 he held the chair of geology and mineralogy
in the Columbian (now George Washington) University and _lec-
tured several times each week during the college year to under-
graduates, finally retiring on account of ill health. This teaching
he likewise did after official hours. He also was lecturer in the
Maryland Agricultural College in 1890-91.

Merrill’s first geologic work had to do with the microstructure of
building stones and their preparation for exhibition in the Museum.
In 1883 appeared his first report as curator, in the course of which
he states that he has in his keeping about 12,500 specimens, of which
3,862 were the just added building stones. These new and old col-
lections occupied him for the next few years. He soon came to see
that “the facts in regard to each and every specimen should be so
placed on record that its identity can never again be lost, however
often the administrative force of the department may be changed.”
This greatest of museum necessities he learned from the old collec-
tions then in his charge, which were largely valueless because of the
loss of labels, or, worse, because labels had never been written.

In 1889 Merrill feels that his department in the Museum is in good
condition, “ having become fairly established.” In the following year
he is striving to apply the educational views of that born museum
worker, Doctor Goode, then in charge of the National Museum, by
making the geological exhibition series “a profusely illustrated text-
book in which the objects themselves serve as illustrations, and the
text, reduced to a minimum amount, is furnished by the labels.”
By 1891 his department has “ at last emerged into a systematic series
of collections, designed to show something regarding the earth’s
structure and history and the extent to which its resources are
utilized by man.” His section now had about 35,000 specimens, and
that of mineralogy about 25,000 more.

After 1890 the Department of Geology grew especially rapidly
and in 1897 there were about 60,000 items in its reserve collections.

MERRILL—SCHUCHERT 623

At this time, even though all of Merrill’s oflicial time was taken up
with official routine, he was in his happiest years, saying in 1901,
“The department, as a whole, was never in better condition than it
is to-day.”

The greatest administrative task that came to Merrill was the moy-
ing of the geological collections from the old and very much crowded
brick building to the far larger new granite one. A new arrange-
ment of the exhibition collections had to be thought out, and deci-
sions made regarding the type and arrangement of cases and their
internal shelving. For this task Merrill had prepared himself while
in Europe. He says:

I made studies of Russian, English, and other European museums, with
special reference to cases and methods of installation, acquiring information
which became well-nigh invaluable to me in later years. (MS. 1924.)

The preparation for this move and the actual moving from the
old into the new Museum between August, 1909, and June, 1910, was
indeed a great labor for all concerned with the National Museum.
Of the many consultations regarding it between the head curators
(Holmes, Stejneger, and Merrill) he says:

I believe our decisions in all these matters were the best and carried out
with as great economy of funds as ever occurred under similar conditions
anywhere. Our decisions for mahogany cases in place of steel were based upon
architectural considerations, and I still consider the decision a wise one. Our
exhibition halls certainly compare favorably with those of any natural history
museum in the world.

The department of geology, starting in 1880 single-handed, had
in 1929 grown to a staff of 15 paid or honorary curators and asso-
ciates. In the way of material wealth the various sections then had
in their reserve and exhibition collections the following number of
specimens:

EN Gael PY Tp a ele 7 eee 93, 044
Section of mineralogy and petrology_---_----------------- 132, 279
225, 323
Seetionvof stratigraphic paleontology—= -2s- ss4se 22hse sees leesek 1, 765, 600
Nestion ‘of vertebrate paleontology... 2) uN ces 24, 497
2, 015, 420

Truly a remarkable growth!

MERRILL AS PIONEER IN THE STUDY OF BUILDING STONES AND THE PROC-
ESSES OF ROCK WEATHERING

Merrill appears to have been the first to make a systematic study
of stone for building purposes, and in America the first also to study
in detail the processes involved in rock weathering. ‘“ No material,”
he says, “ has yet been found so well adapted to the nobler forms of
architecture as stone.” At the basis of this work lies the science of
petrology, which deals with the microstructure and chemical nature
624 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

of rocks. It was along these lines that Merrill’s greatest activity
lay between 1881 and 1905, and during these years he published
upwards of 80 papers and books, a total of 40 per cent of his entire
bibliography.

The reason for Merrill’s entering the field of petrology he tells
as follows:

My abrupt shift from chemistry to geology was due purely to a newly-made
friendship with Doctor Hawes who was at that time one of the leading
authorities on microscopic petrology, a branch of study then just coming into
vogue. It was understood at the time of my accepting this position [in the
National Museum] that, there being no university in America where this
branch of geology could be studied, I should be assisted in taking it up by
Doctor Hawes, but unfortunately, owing to his failing health, this part of
the agreement was never carried out. At the time I became Doctor Hawes’s
assistant he had been appointed a special agent of the Tenth Census, in charge
of the building-stone industry, his idea being to ascertain not merely the mag-
nitude of the industry, but as well the petrographic characters of the mate-
rials. It was in the latter branch of the work that I was engaged. (MS.
1924.)

With the death of Hawes this study and the completion of the
report fell to Merrill and he made good use of his opportunities, as
the Tenth Census report shows. (1884b.) Before this study was
completed Merrill further prepared himself in petrology at Johns
Hopkins University, where the subject had been developed by Prof.
George H. Williams.

Merrill’s first duty in the Museum was the cutting of thin sections
of the entire collection of some 4,000 samples of building stones that
had been brought together from upward of 1,500 quarries in the
United States, together with many from foreign countries—‘“ the
most systematic and complete collection of its kind in any museum
in the world.” Each specimen was examined under the micro-
scope “in order not only to determine what the rock was, but also
to ascertain if it contained any mineral constituents liable to un-
favorable change on exposure to the weather.” (1885a: 521.)

As the Government hours were but from 9 a. m. to 4 p. m., I had opportunity
to study and all encouragement in the way of use of the materials, and with
Hawes’ volume on the petrography of New Hampshire and Zirkel’s report on
the fortieth parallel rocks, together with the first edition of Rosenbusch’s
Mikroskopische Physiographie, I proceeded to equip myself as best I might.

The final report, by 21 authors, contained an introductory treatise
by Hawes on micropetrology, followed by Merrill’s account of the
mineral nature and microstructure with illustrations, and was issued
as a part of volume 10 (1884b: 15-29) of the publications of the
Tenth Census.

The 18 artotype reproductions of photographs taken through the microscope
were the best that had thus far been reproduced.

This work on building stones naturally led to his first book, The
Collection of Building and Ornamental Stones in the United States

MERRILL—-SCHUCHERT 625

National Museum. (1889c.) Merrill continued this work along the
same lines on his own initiative, traveling and visiting quarries,
examining old stone buildings whenever opportunity offered, and
collecting data on weathering properties. Then he rewrote the book
and published it as Stones for Building and Decoration. (1891b.)
Of all Merrill’s writings none had a wider circulation. It treats of
the geographical distribution of building stones in the United States,
their minerals, physical and chemical properties, and weathering
qualities, and gives suggestions on their selection and testing. The
book passed through three editions (1897b, 1903e) and was, as he
says, “the first systematic work of its kind to appear in America,
and I believe I may say was the chief instigator of the numerous
investigations by State surveys along the same lines which were
undertaken later.” It established his reputation as an authority on
the subject. Until the Bureau of Standards was established, the Gov-
ernment repeatedly called for Merrill’s opinion on the stones to be
used in its various buildings. The one building in which he took great
interest was the Lincoln Memorial. The question of the ability of
the so-called Yule Creek marble quarries in Gunnison County, Colo.,
to furnish material in quantity and in the unprecedented sizes needed
for this memorial was favorably decided by him after a single visit
to the place. ‘I may state, however,” he adds, “that the selection
of a marble for the structure was not mine. For our climate I
would have preferred a light colored granite.”

With regard to his work on rock weathering, he says:

It is perhaps but natural that my attention having been called to the weath-
ering of rocks when used for building purposes I should have turned my
thoughts next to this particular phase of geology. The field was an inviting
one and indeed the amount of superficial decomposed material overlying the
rocks in the District of Columbia had early attracted my attention, since I
had come from a glaciated region where like phenomena were almost wholly
unknown. ‘The results of my studies in this line were very favorably received.
The main results were brought together in my treatise Rocks, Rock-weathering,
and Soils. (1897b.) In the preparation of this volume, I had not only collected
my own materials, made my own sections, but also many of the separations and
chemical analyses, a detail which in the present condition of chemical science
I should scarcely dare to attempt.

This book of Merrill’s was unique and has been a source from
which compilers of textbooks on agriculture have drawn their mate-
rials for many years. As Dr. Harvey W. Wiley said:

Doctor Merrill is the most complete autherity on soils. ... He has given
much to geology but has given much more to agriculture—how much the public
will never know.

And in Europe, Farrington tells us, it is for this work on rocks
and rock weathering that Merrill is best known.

Rocks disintegrate, alter, decompose, and dissolve, under all cli-
mates, but the decomposition is, Merrill says, most apparent under
626 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

moist and warm conditions. In rock weathering, “ hydration is an
important factor, the amount of water increasing rapidly as decom-
position advances. In the earlier stages of degeneration it is doubt-
less the most important factor. There is, moreover, among the
siliceous crystalline rocks, in every case a loss in silica, a greater pro-
portional loss in lime, magnesia, and the alkalies, and a proportional
increase in the amounts of alumina and sometimes of iron oxides,
though the apparent gain may, in some cases, be due to the change
in condition from ferrous to ferric oxide. As a whole, however,
there is a very decided loss of materials. Among siliceous crystal-
line rocks, this loss, so far as shown by available analyses and calcu-
lations, rarely amounts to more than 60 per cent of the entire rock
mass. Among calcareous rocks, on the other hand, it may, in
extreme cases, amount to even 99 per cent.” (1906a: 220.)

About Washington, Merrill had observed granitic rocks “so disin-
tegrated at a depth of 80 feet from the present surface as to be read-
ily removed by pick and shovel.” About Atlanta, Ga., “the rocks
are ‘completely rotted ’ to a depth of 95 feet, while ‘ incipient decay ’
may reach to a depth of 300 feet.” (1906a: 271.)

When F. P. Dewey in 1889 resigned his curatorship of economic
geology in the National Museum, Merrill was asked to take over
this work also. The task of overhauling and installing the nonmetal-
lic economic collections early focussed his attention on these sub-
stances, resulting not only in a greatly improved exhibition collec-
tion but as well in a book, Guide to the Study of the Collections in
the Section of Applied Geology: Nonmetallic Minerals. (1901c.)
The popular demand for this shortly exceeded the supply and it was
republished in modified form by John Wiley & Sons as The Non-
metallic Minerals. The purpose of this book is “to bring together
the widely scattered notes and references relative to the occurrences
and uses of sundry minerals of value other than as ores of metals.”
(1910b: 111.)

MERRILL AS PIONEER IN THE APPLICATION OF PETROLOGY TO THE STUDY
OF METEORITES

No geological problem interested Merrill more than that of meteor-
ites, and of his entire bibliography of about 200 titles, no fewer than
80 have to do with these most interesting celestial bodies. The first
three papers appeared in 1888 and the last one after his death, while
the 20 years of greatest activity began with 1907.

Previous to 1897 the meteorites in the National Museum were con-
sidered as belonging to the mineralogical department, but in that
year they were transferred to the division of geology and “recog-

are

¥.
MERRILL—SCHUCHERT 627

nized as of petrographic rather than mineralogical interest and
given an entity of their own.” In 1880 the Museum had about 10
falls and finds, among which were the large irons of Tucson and
Casas Grandes. In 1888 the number had increased to 128 specimens
due to the active interest of F. W. Clarke, with 156 additional ones
in the Shepard collection, which was placed on deposit in 1887
and became the property of the Museum in 1917. Most of the speci-
mens in both collections were small. In 1902 there were, all told,
348 falls of which 143 were irons, and in 1916, 412 distinct falls and
finds. Merrill alone has described 40 new falls. From Canyon
Diablo the collection had 400 complete individuals weighing 2,200
pounds; and of the Holbrook, Ariz., find, over 600 complete indi-
viduals. (MS. 1929.) As Farrington has well said (1930), “In
this as in all of his undertakings Merrill achieved remarkable suc-
cess.” Certainly he built for the National Museum one of the great
meteorite collections of the world, probably the sixth one in numbers
of falls and finds.

Meteorites, as defined by Merrill, are those “ masses of metal and
mineral matter which come to the earth from space in the form
of falling bodies and which are commonly considered identical in
nature with the meteors, or so-called ‘shooting stars, which on
clear nights may often be seen darting rocket-like across the sky.”
(1916a: 1.) They are from regions outside our earth. “The most
satisfactory theory would seem to be that they are fragments of
comets which have gone to pieces.” (1925c: 457.) A meteorite
“furnishes tangible testimony of the nature of materials existing
outside of our solar system, and affords, aside from the spectroscope,
the only clue to the matter of which celestial bodies are composed.”
Truly they are chips of other worlds (Weltspiine), as the German
Chladni said in 1794—“the remains of worlds gone to pieces.”
(1916a: 13.)

It is estimated that upward of 20,000,000 shooting stars strike
the earth’s atmosphere daily and are burnt into gas and dust, and
the total weight of meteoric matter annually added to our earth
has been estimated at 100,000 tons. Meteors are all small, “ perhaps
scarcely more than a grain in weight.” Even iron meteorites up to
20 pounds may be wholly consumed in their flight through our at-
mosphere. The surface of the stony meteorites, as they fall on
earth, consists of a black crust that is rarely more than a few milli-
meters thick. This crust is formed while the stone is falling through
the atmosphere, burning at white to blue heat, and is eroded away
about as fast as it is made. This black crust, according to Merrill,
is “a more or less perfect glass.” In iron meteorites the crust is
thinnest, being an oxide of iron. (1916a: 21.)
628 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

Outside of the earth’s atmosphere, meteorites move at high speeds,
estimated to be around 25 to 50 miles per second. This speed through
the air enveloping the earth brings about a pressure on the meteorite
of about 10,000 pounds per square inch, and if the meteor is of friable
stone it is crushed to fragments. “If the meteorite is of iron it may
withstand the pressure, but in either case it catches fire and may be
completely consumed. ... It has been calculated that any iron
meteorite must lose 90 per cent of its substance by being burned
away in its passage” to earth. Not over three or four are found
each year, and the number of all the iron and stony meteorites in the
museums of the world is less than 1,000 and their total weight not
over 200 tons. (1925.)

Meteorites on entering our atmosphere are greatly retarded and
usually fall on the earth with speeds up to several miles per second.
Some have been seen to fall so slowly as to rebound on striking ice,
without either being broken, and others have buried themselves in the
soil to depths of 5 feet and one went down to 11 feet. The stony
meteorites range in size up to 660 pounds and the iron ones to 36.5 tons
(Cape York, west Greenland). Of all the known meteorites about
one-half have been seen to fall and have then been found (these are
called “ falls”); others, discovered without having been seen to fall,
are labeled “ finds.” Of the falls only 10 are irons, and accordingly
most of the metallic ones are finds. Usually a fall consists of a
single specimen, but among the stones the individuals of a single fall
number at times thousands and in two cases each fall yielded as many
as 100,000 stones.

Constitution of meteorites —The meteorites of celestial space show
“so great a uniformity of material yet so individualized that one
conversant therewith can tell almost at a glance whether celestial
or terrestrial in origin.” (1930: 47.)

“The elemental matter of meteorites is the same as that of the
earth.” In meteorites there are surely known 10 common and 18
rarer elements; 7 other elements have been reported but as yet these
are not proved. “’Though the elemental matter of meteorites may
be the same as in terrestrial rocks, the form of combination is at times
radically different and of a nature to indicate that they formed
under conditions quite unlike those existing on the earth to-day, and
particularly so with reference to the presence of free oxygen and
moisture.” (1916a:1,5.) One of the minerals known in meteorites
is merrillite, first noted and described by Merrill, and named by
Wherry in 1917 in honor of its discoverer. Farrington (1930) de-
fines it as “a calcium sodium phosphate, differing in composition
from any known terrestrial mineral.”

MERRILL—SCHUCHERT 629

“All known meteorites are composed of volcanic materials, and
none has shown any traces of animal or vegetable life.” Many have
undergone metamorphism. “ They are comparable with more or less
compacted and altered masses of volcanic ash or tuff.” Nor is
there present anything in the nature of a true vein rock, a ter-
restrial sedimentary or a metamorphic or pumiceous one, “ and noth-
ing in content of silica, alumina, lime or alkalies corresponding to
the granites.” All meteorites “are of a basic nature, related closely
to the basalts, pyroxenites, and peridotites among terrestrial forms.”
(1919a: 184; 1930: 39, 45.)

Merrill arranges the meteorites into “three somewhat ill-defined
groups ” as follows:

Chondritie meteorites, consisting essentially of silicate
Aerolites or stony minerals with minor amounts of the metallic alloys and

meteorites. sulphides. About 90 per cent of all known stony me-
teorites are chondritic.

Consisting of an extremely variable network or sponge
of metal, the interstices of which are occupied by the
silicate minerals.

Consisting essentially of an alloy of nickel-iron (5-25
per cent nickel) with iron phosphides and sulphides.
Nearly or quite devoid of silicate material.

Siderolites or stony:
iron meteorites.

Siderites or iron
meteorites.

Chondritic meteorites —For what they teach, the most interest-
ing meteorites are the stony ones, the aerolites. These chondritic
meteorites have small spherical and oval grains known as chondrules
(from the Greek word for grain) and composed of silicate con-
stituents, “the formation of which affords one of the most inter-
esting puzzles in connection with the origin of meteorites.”

Mineralogically, the chondrules are composed chiefly of olivine
or pyroxene. “Some are largely of an undifferentiated glass.
Feldspars occur but rarely except in the form known as maskelynite.
In addition are occasional inclosures of metal or metallic sulphides,
chromite or other minor constituents.” (1920d: 450.)

Merrill in 1916 thought that the chondrules might be looked on as
the solidified molten drops of a “ fiery rain ” or a world-making mist.
Later, however, after a study of all the thin sections of stony mete-
orites in the National Museum he changed this view, saying:

In none of them do I find chondrules developed in the variety and perfec-
tion of forms existing in those meteorites which are plainly tuffaceous. This
fact and others . . . have led me to regard the larger part if not
all chondritie stones as originally tuffaceous and owing their more or less
crystalline condition, where such exists, to heat and pressure in a nonoxidizing
or even reducing atmosphere. (1920d : 462-463.)

_ Meteor Crater—Probably the most remarkable phenomenon
thought to be connected with the falling of meteorites is a crater-
28095—31——-41
630 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

like circular hole about 4,000 feet in diameter and 600 feet deep,
known as Meteor Crater, situated 12 miles southeast of Canyon
Diablo, Coconino County, Ariz. In the summer of 1907 Merrill was
detailed by Secretary Walcott of the Smithsonian Institution to
make a study of this so-called Coon Butte or Meteor Crater. Here
he had the guidance of Mr. D. M. Barringer, a mining engineer who
had been unsuccessfully exploiting the place in the hope of recover-
ing the main mass of the meteorite.

Meteor Crater has a raised rim, which stands from 120 to 160
feet above a plain made of horizontal strata of Permian age. At
the surface is the buff-colored arenaceous Kaibab limestone and
beneath it the very porous, gray, highly siliceous Coconino sand-
stone, with a thickness greater than 400 feet. Ever since the great
hole was found, geologists have been asking: Was it made by a blow-
out from within, or is it due to an external impact of a stellar
body ?

The rim of the crater, according to Merrill (1908a), is composed

of loose unconsolidated rock fragments of all sizes, from microscopic
dust to blocks weighing thousands of tons. The crater walls “ are
composed of the crushed, broken, and bent strata of the limestone
and sandstone forming the floor of the surrounding plain, and which
dip away from it in all directions.” The dips vary between 10°
and 80°. “ Perhaps the most significant feature of the ejectamenta
is the occurrence of enormous masses of the sandstone which have
undergone a partial metamorphism through crushing and heat.
This material must have come from a depth of at least 300 feet below
the original surface.” There is also a vast amount of a chalky
white siliceous rock-flour, the shattered grains of the gray sand-
stone. Outside of the rim “are many low, rounded, moraine-like
deposits composed of the same material as the rim, but for the
most part in a comparatively fine state of disaggregation.”

The deepest part of the crater is about 440 feet below the level of
the plain. Much loose material has been washed into the pit, hence
the original depth must have been considerably greater. Bore holes
put down to 1,100 feet reveal, below the floor of the crater, crushed
rock (as a rule rock-flour) down to 620 feet, and then follows undis-
turbed bed rock—a gray sandstone that is not metamorphosed.

The Canyon Diablo iron meteorites found on the rim and the ad-
jacent plains are “the most interesting and instructive of known
meteorites,” containing small black and white diamonds. At least
20 tons of these irons are known to have been gathered over several

A ig eR ge cation
a Se eae

MERRILL—SCHUCHERT 631

square miles of the ground about the crater; in number they run
into the thousands and in weight from 1 gram up to 1,013 pounds.

Merrill concludes from the shape, size, and ejected material of
Meteor Crater that the evidence points strongly “to an origin by
impact. It is difficult, if not impossible, to conceive of the smashing
and metamorphism of the sandstone on any other ground. The sand
grains are crushed in a manner that could be brought about only by
some sudden shock... . The fused quartz indicates great heat... .
The slightly disturbed and unchanged condition of the deeper-lying
sandstones seems to prove the superficial character of the phe-
nomena.” The higher strata dip downward “as though forced out
of position by some power acting from above.” The infall of mete-
oritic material “seems worthy of serious consideration.” (1908a:
489-490. )

The place of meteorites in the solar system.—Students of mete-
orites are now all agreed that they are celestial bodies fallen on our
earth. Farrington is inclined to regard the meteorites as “ portions
of extraterrestrial bodies,” in other words, as “ fragments of some
pre-existing body rather than independent celestial bodies.” (Me-
teorites, their Structure, Composition, and Terrestrial Relations,
1915: 211.)

According to T. C. Chamberlin, the meteorites are all independ-
ent members of the solar family, originating out of the sun when it
was interfered with by a far larger intruding star. This approach
caused mother sun to give birth to her very numerous family of
planets and their satellites, to the erratic comets, to the meteorites,
and to the chondrules to which alone Chamberlin restricts the popu-
lar term “shooting stars.” The careful student must clearly keep
in mind that Chamberlin regards planetesimals and chondrules as
the world-making stuff born of the sun. The planetesimals “ re-
volve concurrently in a narrow disk and are thereby fitted to collect
into planets ”; while the widely sweeping chondrules are not so re-
stricted, and gathering into swarms remain discrete and compose the
heads of the very erratic comets; the other chondrules, revolving
close about the sun, gather into the meteorites and are from time to
time more or less completely fused or metamorphosed. (The Two
Solar Families, 1928.)

MERRILL AS PIONEER HISTORIAN OF NORTH AMERICAN PHYSICAL GEOLOGY

It was but natural that, in his position as head curator in the
United States National Museum, Merrill should have to know some-
thing of the connections, education, and career of his colleagues and
his predecessors, and in his administrative work it was often neces-
sary for him to look up the records of the early Government surveys
632 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

with a view to ascertaining the final disposition of their collections.
Having this information, he began lecturing to his students at Colum-
bian (now George Washington) University about these surveys and
the older generation of geologists. This led him to devote “odd
moments ” in his official life to the study of the rise and progress of
American geology, with the result that he became the historian of
our science previous to the present century. He wrote memorials of
James D. Dana, John W. Powell, Joseph P. Iddings, George F.
Becker, George W. Hawes, Carl L. Rominger, Edward T. Cox, and
W. 5S. Yeates; and brief sketches of 196 American geologists were
combined to form his Contributions to the History of American
Geology (1906e), which was the first book of its kind. In addition,
he prepared many shorter sketches for the Dictionary of American.
Biography, now in process of publication.

From the “Contributions” we learn that the pioneers of Amer-
ican geology “had received little or no preliminary training along
these special lines, and had access to but few books. The informa-
tion with which the geologist of to-day begins his career did not
then exist, and an effort has here been made to show by what years of
toil each new fact has been unearthed, cleansed of the débris which
obscured its outlines, and treasured up in such form that it is now
possible for the student, in a few short years, to encompass the gar-
nerings of a century. Nor must it be thought that in touching upon
sundry disputes, quarrels, and petty jealousies it has been done with
an idea of belittling the individual in any way. Indeed, a truly
able man is not belittled by his weaknesses. To appreciate his
strength we need to know his weakness. These were but men, and
we, who are weakly human, like to recognize in them human traits—
like to learn of their errors in judgment and wordy warfares.”
(191-192.)

In 1924, the Yale University Press brought out this book, very
largely rewritten, under the title “The First One Hundred Years
of American Geology.” Schuchert in reviewing it said:

It is a history of the growth of geology in America in all of its physical
aspects. Beginning with 1785, it goes on to the closing years of the past
century—a review of the gradual development of the science in this country
through 100 years. ... It is an impressive volume.

“Early American geology,” Merrill says, “was preeminently a
science of observation and deduction. Information on which to base
theory and hypothesis was not available—indeed, did not exist.
With the accumulation of recorded observations it became possible
to carry conclusions beyond the point of mere observation, and the
inductive method was evolved. Well toward the close of the pe-
riod . . . synthetic methods of research were introduced by which the

eel

MERRILL—SCHUCHERT 633

attempt is being made to discover by actual experiment in the lab-
oratory the correctness or falsity of deduction or of inductive rea-
soning.” (1924, preface.)

Merrill also wrote Contributions to a History of American State
Geological and Natural History Surveys. (1920a.)

In the course of his historical research, Merrill accumulated por-
traits and autograph letters, not only of most of the American pio-
neers, but of a great many of the later American geologists as well,
and this very valuable collection has now been given to the Museum
in which he labored so long.

MERRILL’S HONORS

Merrill was elected into the National Academy of Sciences in 1922,
thus receiving the greatest honor that can come to a man of science
in America; and in that same year he was awarded the J. Lawrence
Smith gold medal of the academy for his work on meteorites. He
was a member of the American Philosophical Society, the Academy
of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, the Washington Academy of
Sciences, the Geological Society of America (vice president 1920),
the Geological Society of Washington (president 1906-07), and the
Maryland Academy of Sciences; and a corresponding member of the
American Institute of Architects and several other organizations.
His fraternal affiliations were with Phi Gamma Delta and Phi
Kappa Phi, and he was a member of Phi Beta Kappa and Sigma
Gamma Epsilon.

Of honorary degrees, he held an M.S. and a Ph. D. from the Uni-
versity of Maine, and a Sc. D. from George Washington University.

A very great honor, and certainly a most enjoyable one, came to
Doctor Merrill on the evening of his seventy-fifth birthday, when
he was given a testimonial dinner by his many friends and colleagues
from scientific circles. At this love feast many nice things were
said of him and of his scientific career, and out of the report of the
dinner in Science (August 2, 1929:122-123) the following is
gleaned:

[For nearly half a century Merrill had been connected with the Smithsonian
Institution.] During this time Doctor Merrill has won admiration and high
esteem from his many friends and acquaintances in scientific and social spheres,
His career is indicated by his versatility. He is a teacher, a critic, a public
speaker, an executive, and a scientist. During his long and active life,
Doctor Merrill has done much for the advancement of science, among his many
achievements being several works which stand out as monuments, namely,
Stones for Building and Decoration, Rock-weathering and Soils, The First One
Hundred Years of American Geology, and his many highly enlightening works

on meteorites, for which in 1922 he was awarded the J. Lawrence Smith medal
by the National Academy of Sciences.
634 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1930

After the dinner there was presented to Merrill a bound volume
of more than 200 letters of congratulation and esteem, from his
friends and colleagues of this and foreign countries. Concluding his
thanks with lines expressive of a hope based upon T. B. Brown’s well-
known poem, Merrill said:

“YT stand upon the summit of my years,”
So may it ever be,
Not bowed beneath their weight
With feet firm planted
And soul undaunted
I'll stand and contemplate
What time has wrought
And tremble not
For what was, is, or is to be,
I'll stand upon the summit of my years.

INDEX

A
Page
Abbot, Dr. Charles G., secretary of the Institution_.__ m1, xu, 10, 13, 18, 24, 45,
48, 53, 71, 83, 102, 113, 114, 122, 125, 129, 140, 146, 159, 160, 161

Fees POOMNON rr UO Ul cub Lud eee ls... 129
St aa yee WLS e sie cere wsewddaweca men eau. 4, 28, 32
Aboriginal decorative art in America based on specimens in the United

States National Museum, Aspects of (Krieger) _.___.__.......--..---- 519
Acheson memorabilia, Edward Goodrich-_-_..-..........------------- 30
ee oe ee aan nnn en oaknae acok en 30
8 stiles ev ianabine ini mie mmlamalbee wekeinte 60
Adams, Charles Francis, Secretary of the Navy (member of the Institu-

er ow ea es res a cape Se a XI
SN Se Re ie Ve ge eee ee 45
Age of the human race in the light of geology, The (Richarz)__--------- 451
Agriculture, Secretary of (member of the Institution) __.__._.----.------- xI
Agriculture, United States Department of........-----.------------- 28,115
Ahmet Mouhtar Bey, Turkish Ambassador to the United States_-_------ 31
ES ET RE Pe See ae Pe ey ey OnE eee”, eek LIE 23
Pe AsOiNG (OMMMABON Ad. 6. od nidnbhin gn bacejewastimth add dnnteocbenn 85
NN linings p iv mse Ses ard len pt bs bs Ins icin vu, 36, 37
Aldrich, Loyal B., assistant director, Astrophysical Observatory --~-_- ~~~ xu, 113
OS EEE ELLE EE ETT EE ERE Wie 146
American Association for the Advancement of Science_-_--.----------- 128
eit Assegintion Of Museums. .........-.-.23~34--4-Henew5-=n es 128
SN SS ee ee ee a 49
American Historical Association, report.....----.------------------ 141, 145
INE PE ROROCOAN PIOOIOO oo a eee ee ee em dae one 129
American Hungarian Foundation....4<....-.-s-~---<+-------=--<4---«- 49
American Museum of Natural History__...........----.------------- 131
American Negro artiste, paintings by._...........-.------.----..<.-. 49
mzmerican Numismatic Association... ..........---.---.-- ss se ens 31
I I Cis ce a ts dee tenet ee enthenk Geet S 31
Animal industry, Bureau of, Pathological Division. ......-..----.----- 89
Animals in the collection June 30, 1930, National Zoological Park_----~-- 90
Annals of the Astrophysical Observatory ..-.---..-----=--<------.---- 141
Anthropological Society of Washington---.-.-.-...--...--.-......-.-.. 128
Applied entomology in the United States, The rise of (Howard)-....---- 387
Appropriations, table of, for past 10 years....-.-.-------.-..---------- 157
Archaeological Institute of America. .....----.-.-------------------- 128
Art, aboriginal decorative, in America, Aspects of, based on specimens in

the United States National Museum (Krieger) -..--....-.---------.-- 519
Art works received during the year, National Gallery of Art....-....--- 49
BE EE SS ae SOP Reel ayy eacer ee? ey 162
Assistant secretary of the Institution............-- x1, 13, 36, 44, 129, 159, 160

635
636 INDEX

Page
Astrophysieal, Observatory. .-. + oe oe ee es x11, 1, 7,12, 20
annals. son see oe a te ek eee a oe: a 141
field 'stations= 3 2 2 oo ce ate ee ee te ata 112
library 2lo20S lo See Te gee See Re ee ee ee 126, 133
persomuel: . e262). Sete. Beek AE i Se Se ee 113
Plamb. and \ODYCCUS ei aia ee eS a a te 103
TQDOT eo sk = Be ts ee eg cle er te ea as er 103
Stal soa on a5 a Se a a ee ae ee XII
work at Washingioni. ons Se es a ee 103 .
attdospheric ozone: waits bee} 242 ore ate Ph eee ty ete 104
reductionjef observations! 211-534. 205. £5: 35. 23-9). 2 = 104
solar variation and temperature changes--_-~.-¥_ siete eS s_ 107
Achisan, Josenh-Anthbony oo ee ee 51
Attorney General (member of the Institution)...._._._....-..-.--.-_-__- XI
Autogiro, The: its characteristics and accomplishments (Pitcairn) _______ 265
(very fund... 54<s50444e0n-5455---c beet baa 2 Bdeecesan 4
B
Babcock; Hf. D!"(Beyond the'red: in the spectrum) 225. 20 2222 > Sees 165
Bubcodic ts Wicom Cores 222 ssa = ose Sent eka’ eee a eee oem 31
Dacon fund; Virgie irdy oan ak a eee hes Ss oe eee 4, 150, 155
Bacon traveling scholarship, Walter Rathbone_-_--_-------._---=-- 15, 29, 34
Badé, William Frederic (The Tell en-Nasbeh excavations of 1929—a pre-
liminary eport) yates = sea Sse Senne Se See ne eee earner re 483
Dard fm, baey tose eo eS ee eee eee ee ee 4, 150, 155
Baker, Arthur Benoni, assistant director, National Zoological Park______ 23, 84
Balance sheet of the Smithsonian Institution, June 30, 1930______-____- 155
bo) 601 PR) aie 3 pelea ele ih oe aR a nae pa ee yen prt Ho 30
IDS tse bls MISES ee acre ee cents ans, arene oar eae eRe rer aa eS eo er x11, 13, 29, 34, 84
fC STU SS til seg 9.2 3A He pla sia ht aad pir eet nt nt XI, x1, 38, 43, 146
Beam expedition, third, National Geographic Society______-_---------- 33
Beedy Weroni“ Carrols Vi Chae ko4 $s alates Serene, eee ee ee 50
Pell Di Alexander, Grahame =* 59s" + eben s veo a ee Se ee ee 134
Beldne, LiEeninre Lites? as =~ seen 2a) Se ee ee ee” a XII
hengariv. Poster tis 2 "aren * snes = seh ade essen See ee ae eee 85
Benjamin, Dr. Marcus, editor, National Museum_-_---------- x11, 129, 144, 146
Beanet t-sys Ava kes tss= oss ees eare eee eee ee ee eee 44
Denk. Anrr eo sns hres = SAS les tees Te Se eee oe 17, 29
Derry, roi Wes a 2 oan is ee ee ee ee eee ee 30, 42
Beyond the red in the spectrum” (Babcock) 2222 22222222222--22222Lil2 165
biological Survey; United States: a eee ee Eee 85
Bishop, Dr. Carl Whiting, assistant curator, Freer Gallery of Art___-__- x11, 60
Blakeslee, Albert F. (Extra chromosomes, a source of variation in the
DinisONTWeEE)) Baha ree = mth he eRe RS aE pete eC eos ee aT ee 431
Bobzien, Lieut. Edwin B.,; United States Army__-_-_ __-_--22 22 2 212 33, 68
Boehmer Lacy ©: irs: George: ttt yee Se ee ae eee 68
Bogoras, W. G. (Elements of the culture of the cireumpolar zone) ------- 465
Bond, Wires. Ar ee Sore eee Pe ee ete eter are en eae ee 113
boric, (Charles Te irs = sn ns sutra See ee 45
boss, Norm) Poca" Sats, Sa ee: SE ee SE ee ee eee 30, 39, 44
Brackett * Dr "Frederick 6247.27.22 25 sate > 227 eres ae eae ee xi) 12

Brackett, F. 8., and Earl S. Johnston (New researches on the effect of light
wav.esron the growth or plants)iso2 22 22 tht ee eae 255

INDEX 637

Page
renee, Dr. To, Woe cee wen ccc vennndehete Lotiol exp rust aliens) bea 28
I ee seewens sbaren tii intes 20 129
British School of Archaeology in Jerusalem...-.-...-.-.-.-.-------.-- 129
mes eenerk t. (regent), cccneseesesccececesccncan=teswee x1, 3, 161
Brown, Walter F., Postmaster General (member of the Institution) -.__-- XI
Bryant, Herbert 8., chief of correspondence and documents, National
Ne cutpecsionee wae ranma 40
ert adie e hetioite Arooid Fg .sesnusnnneunesusecseuneensthida 50
Buildings and equipment, National Museum---.....--.---------.----- 40
Bundy, John, superintendent, Freer Gallery of Art..-.......-..------- xu
ene Devil [Sr scccn cde ke ded~ Vaieanbageleddyauneildil sus 68
ES Ce ge eee Bee eee a ee ee a ee? eee ee ee 113
Byrd, Admiral Richard Evelyn, United States Navy-.-.----------- 2, 7, 8, 162
C
a sage penta ano pan time apelin patie pega. leg dpa apsiee 4, 150, 155
enn SERIIEOENS en ne Pe nr er oo ec nee nee 38
ge ayo cape gra gpa papa Ache pen ee Wf ogee spe leindagedpanel 158
Carnegie Institution of Washington_—- ---:----2------------------ 30, 39, 137
ee renee cn Ca ae ne en ool o 2 mecha te womens wee 84
eS oe fe Se ee ee ong aaa ge oe ome 42
eee ai teen arene Teer serena lan ins can tans 4, 150, 155
nr wee 2 ne en een ern noes ee anaes 4
Cash balances, receipts, and disbursements during the fiscal year____-_-- 152
Catalogue of Scientific Literature, International, United States Regional
be en ute enon pe shee ipa prog erty mpm ingen ela potas Apa eet pet al tepectt pi 6 ae Rely f
Spake eae pee Papen paola aninge leaden a panpagee epee oymymaenatne erp ane parent 123
a are 4 te rahe st gpepapemntinetretpe ine ptetapep sieng- ty ane Sate ie Leesray ates eet = 129
emiperain tung, rrances Leh_.-.— 2.2 ot ae 4, 17, 30, 150, 155
sat any pa I De ye a nah ere a, pep kane pe 32
ceaneelen Dit lo dnastitntions? scclisY. coluvowedl cusluud lsd. levee 21, 161
ene ee eee oR Be 134
I a dbs shout ba suakueduunel 48
Chapman, Frank M. (The nesting habits of Wagler’s oropendola on Barro
pene see oat welt bs sedewea tala d cc ccetmoet sulk son. 347
I a tere ee BERLE So beeeecak . 37
Chemistry, Modern concepts in physics and their relation to (Langmuir). 219
SESE Sane Or pe ee |) - Si 138
Chief clerk of the Institution and administrative assistant to the Secretary_ xI
Chief Justice of the United States (chancellor and member of the Institu-
SED ES CA | el x1, 2; 3, 21
NS SSE Er a aN ee ee Cee e ey Nap | 18
a Ss cose cen anda nee bien ell nee MAE lS 49
Chromosomes, Extra, a source of variations in the Jimson weed (Blakeslee). 431
Seeeerwond, Walter P................-dudl Jace oes. Luudsed. io 85
Circumpolar zone, Elements of the culture of the (Borgoras) ~-.-.------- 465
See RR IONE Jie oe Ses ok ss ees cn ss JA 129
Clary iat Biseste sabe duce tendiedes) a sae lds. a x11, 117, 129
SE a ee ee wT a 2,8,9
ieee Delend Be oeci ots Sons eees coos Sua sees 6 eek xu, 118
USS ON 2 a ee ae en or os Se * 71
NN | a ne ee XII

ESS ET ae a eee! tae seabl os 67
638 INDEX

Page
Coast and Geodetic Survey, United States__.............-2 2-2 2b i ek 31
Cdle, Dr. Fay-Cooper...ceesccnccdstcaksntasccevcunmesee co: ee 41
Collections, National Mauseum. .....0el eee of ceeldador A. ls looted 5 (27
anthropology sou222 cece cea geek eos ccncec cu OR .G Or eee 28
arts‘and industries. 3/u. hs Jade) reuse) einen? 2d ee 3 30
biology.822 22 Peak es. pote bene On JO. Jains 4 eign 28
Polos yco. seen ewehsase sheet istic eeasc cacao weeces pele 29
historyi.s22sssseasessassessesussscé sod Di ied). see 31
Gollins, Henry By tili ce enw ese ele ene se awe 13, 17, 28, 32, 44
Commerce, Secretary of (member of the Institution)_...........______- xI
Concilium: Bibliographichimesrds.. 0 .addcetsnsusncede tel Bes 138
idolidge,) Mrs AC awn 7k SOON DRS I acerca lah pete 31
Coolidge: Harold’ Slajessac eee eee Hetil seelewe bogie Bees 85
Coomarss warn, Dr PA Ee Eee MARGE ge tne ee 57, 59, 60
Copying paintings, National Gallery of Art_.._........._.......-..----- 52
Corbin; W.-L.; librarian. of the. Institution. 2422 foc ee x1, 58, 140
(Corliss; Miss Mary. 020 cec toe wc ee oe 129
Coville; DrwPredertek V2 se eo ee Lae oS See XII
Crows Agents of-the Colonies so. fo. soe ee 128
Culture of the Circumpolar Zone, Elements of the (Borgoras) __.._.___-- 465
Cumming, Mes) Alistair (Gordon. 2 2. 2.6 8 Ro es 51
Cumming .Surg. Geom, Je i326 32 os gs ea ee 42
Curators, of the, Institution os + 23 32 323. we oe ae ee XII
(eramran, (CHAT ee IP oe ce Os Ae fa le a ig ee 48
Curtis, Charles, Vice President of the United States (member and regent of

the lnstitwtiom) fens Seg ee ee ae lee 2 ae ae x1, 3, 160
Maurtiness Cirle Ba ji oh 4 ge cy a nig ale aie ap aie G
Cyrogenic Laboratory at Leiden, director of.............._.-.-42 2-2 11

D

Daughters of the American Revolution, National Society, Report of the.. 145
Davenport; Mir n@ ha rles a fs see ea ee tee 42

(Themmechanismiofiorganic.evolution) £2. eee ee 417
David cAbbE Armiandagcso_ vse _ in atiled stent al aa ee 34
Davis, James John, Secretary of Labor (member of the Institution) _ __-- xI
Dawes;: Ambassador Charles Gus loe_ ses ee ee 2, 8, 159
De Broglie, Louis (Waves and corpuscles in modern physics) -..-------- 243
BEBE © Tesh Na ech UU ps easy a Far a 67
De: Frey garg; Mad! of sowtepesovievsuuicbe hie nomcierl edie 2s 84
Delano, Frederic A. (regent) _....-...2-..------------- x1, 3, 158, 159, 160, 161
BipairitberitiG lion Rae ak Sc a ges Sp ee XII
Dennis, We dis. oe. Seeds ee Bei Se ie oe ee 37
Densmore;. francés 2 eizA sa eae ees i gases 19, 66, 67
Department of Agriculture, Ottawa, Canada__..-_.____-_------------- 131
Director of National Zoological Park......-.......---L2i LiL. x11, 102, 146
Distributions, National Gallery of Art...22.2...2 12 .2222---2-2-i4220 51
Habson,! Dr: iG Bees 2 Sle te a a eres hyd leh na teh a ter a ee 104
Dorsey, Harry W., chief clerk of the Institution and administrative assist-

Minit: torte. secretarys i.e ee XI
Dorsey, Nicholas W., treasurer and disbursing agent of the Institution-__ x1, XII
Bouwgiasss Dr VAG eS. oo oe ee Se ee 33
Duncan, GeorgeiS lc. 3. Jabpsbes Jee ee el oh ee 129
Dy kaar. MosésWainer seats! ono i ee eee 50, 51

INDEX 639

E

Page
EEE EES ae stor. 31
Editors of the Institution and branches-_-----~--_- XI, xu, 68, 129, 144, 145, 146
ENE EEE LE SS TE A. OY, |S 60
es nse enn ReMi pain a tase in nie vane nw een dns ele BLD 44
ED ES ee eee: 8 ee NEE tT 17
tt RR tip rath st aictnminniaine Mink wee be een ne eae new SOLU 30
I a ic ice minis wine ini mel UD 7
EEE LOE LLL EEE TR oF 129
ee ES TE © 4, 149
Entomology, applied, The rise of, in the United States (Howard) ________ 387
Ethnological and archeological investigations, cooperative_..........__- 13
@thnology, Bureau of American............siseco se bes eelee 1, 7, 14, 19
I lc Raha snr ceaioe ieghp: ener io nlc vin x1, 19, 71, 146
I i etal de 70
SS EO, LA St SD 69
editorial work and publications--.--.............-.....---- 68, 141, 145
EET EI Sn ee Cem ee CRS Se ry =” 69
Siens, a¢eut basin ult io sosle ll al) ol pub cued 70, 126, 133
ON a ee es a oe Ee bo 61
nmnNGN a a etl lg td OW deel) cs) eb el 2 66
TE ARES i aCe ce a ee ne Oe ee xII
em smwen mepperened if... 2 ee ee nee on oe 8
Events of the year, National Gallery of Art_.......-..-._-._-_._.-_-- 46
Evolution, organic, The mechanism of (Davenport) ____._-_._-_----_-- 417
nn MerWiee -INtOrmelonel nee nce eee nena ad 1, 7, 19, 27
foreign depositories of governmental documents_-_--_--..---------- 75
[ommienershangns agencies... .--.- ansidelsseciull bised asp 81
interparliamentary exchange of the official journal_____._...___---- 78
I ang 5 mee Se 3 Set! fs ones eee! eb. age ed Tg 72
I EE ae er +m iis see XII

Expenditures for researches in pure science, explorations, care, increase
RS OT a ee | ye 154
EEL DAS | ee 12
EE CN OE ET Re, eS) 32

F

Par Eastern Archaeological Society -.....-2.2.222.-- 22-222. eee. 129
gs chaired nite bet oat ae: by Bree ota vats Wetine Sih “phe Rien 4S 44
Fewkes, Jesse Walter (Swanton and Roberts) _................----_--- 609
Senn, ee nnn UE AMG ene. ok cul taccan suena npoean eee 60
arene IND Co on. Shoo Sora ota ek ones 3
First rains and their geological significance, The (Hadding) --_---__----- 285
Fish poisons in South America, The use of (Killip and Smith)_.-_.----- 401
CN REN 8 8 Oe oe ne ea OE se te ean era teat 35, 36

Fixed Nitrogen Laboratory, United States Department of Agriculture. 12, 115, 121
Food plant of the Southwest, A rare parasitic (Thackery and Gilman)... 409

Forbes, Miss Leila G., assistant librarian. _....................-- xu, 44, 126
Forbes, V. S: (The moon and radioactivity) -...............-..--.-.--- 207
RMR St Sen rn SS eS Sy re Re eos a 32
Foreign depositories of governmental documents------......---------- 75
ne Se in ae Misa eet. na wa a wapeee an 81

rr a MNIIN Fos. a ein ea eae cee Selo enue Sn Nib
640 INDEX

Page
oebag; Drain Seasese. pou Sie oh eo ee XII, 38, 43
Bibles rete le rire la ee eo ee xu, 104, 118
Pox,’ Mre:'Charles*S_o ast 2... ._ sadenen! hee poltuiiiec! pit bes 50
Rrasersslamesehy 722 ee ise a ee ee See ee es 45
reer “Charles Fists oo ee ee et ok ne be er 150
Preer' Gallery of Arte. 2 co Sen esl set ee eee ae 1, 4, 139
etiemdamnce' joe ee ee eee ee 59
Pua Ag a Os 59
fieldiiwrark::$3 2p. 528 ee ee ee eee 60
fundy. aed ese oe orate ol pies Teves ht et ie. Berrys} epee 150
library... i bessinl peotal® hetin adi sito seb edt. hol 58, 126, 135, 1387
report.ick 2-4 Lewy bhessgqons_anotinuiteaus _leotooloslars has Tynisa! 54
reproductions and pamphlets -.__2.___.- _aesteats i peo ees 58
Stam umes . oe, PO i ee ee ee ee ee XII
Rrewundy. J Lorene Satie tak fase ee ee 42
rick; Childa. JU urtes of tue loebiline._ _. saonteotidurc Yo pen lieeceieee 4, 39
Priedmbnns <Dr..Herbert....--—~-.-..-.-=.a80loibbes Dee Jaap terot xii, 44
Pipe cara eA TS Rak a a 113
Furniture, Ancient seating, in the collections of the United States National
Miuseumg (Hlotioi)rcmiiae hone. ars hy NC bem 5 Pegs ae eS ol 511
Hurscott,. Miss: Daisya(Mbisx Carl W...Bishop).. >... a eae ae 60
G
Gaburri; Mme: Annita._........~d34_ ln aselles) Jepoltat assy et ins 50
Garbers (Paz. S2ec lbosicmihha pest hh ae heed edd) a eer eae 129
Gellatly olimis. She ee ete S352 eee: eee ae 45
arbicolleetion_........ -aeaes b_Letae rr ae So eae lsegab ae 7
Geographic: Board, United: Statesticvi22 2. abu Saar _2gee 66
Geological Survey,. United States laiuluced: Jos.cedete salusstaiver 137
Geology, The age of the human race in the light of (Richarz)_---_----- 451
Gopal ystiea ly, Vii cress i egy ay a ae 128
Georgii, Prof. Dr. Walter (10 years’ gliding and soaring in Germany)---- 273
PS i Da EN ag na ng yg eae Syn hp gE Os 45
Se an De 1 | ER NSN TE 30, 39, 40, 129
Grilbert « Clhnessbeers Gi wie pte pee ep go ait SE i SE XII
Gill, De Lancey, illustrator, Bureau of American Ethnology___-------- x11, 69
Gilman, M. French, Frank A. Thackery and (A rare parasitic food plant
OF the Southwest) ose 0u kena eee WO Se ae eae oe ce ea bey eee 409
icrlerore: Tie Gms We ce of eee i asset ee ln oe xt, 17, 30, 39, 40
Glaciation, Weather. and (Reeds) _...,..4.<. 45-- 224-8 enka ee 295
Gliding and soaring in Germany, 10 years’ (Georgii)_._---.------------ 273
Goddard lr. Ris 00. ue oe eels oe ae ea ee 2
rocket: ©X DETLMCN ES) O8 5 oer a er a Be tee ee a 9, 10
Goldsborough, Oman phe a = caer ae ena a a Be 51
Coldshorough, Wits. MSEY 6. ce so 058 ee oe ee coe 51
Goldsmith, James S., superintendent of buildings and labor, National
TM GSTS a aa ER PN I ESE be xi
Good,, James. Wilson, Secretary, of, Wal si.< a.366 eoneseres a sec ease 43
Governmentally supported branches. .:-..-=sp sc ¢eqe¢ >on SHH Se —p- Se 16
RTH a a ML 2 = NB TA Na LD Ih CIE NO Sat ET TERE p> “ow 17, 28, 29, 34
Giyareayy TWY OUR VION oe oc ae eee ie 113

Gray, Carl C., and H. F. Hagen (The eighth wonder: The Holland Vehic-
plan TUNEL). esis ois ee tp yn 577

INDEX 641

SN a Dp Actes ose tee menewe sd. Sid 4b locus 2 Jsunited cet 113
Geek, Mire. Piemee Gies) ait Samecliosed ce iL Jo. crctosss bien. 44
Guest, Grace Dunham, assistant curator, Freer Gallery of Art_.......__- xu
eonneh Meme. <di Jo ulwous) soutloucy tua sgaluced..Jd_sudied 2,10
Ee ee ir ec a x11, 125
H
EE EE ES es fe Rm | a 4
name Cepia: Lnobamitr li J. nelosoi soi VW useleosehg 4
Hadding, Assar (The first rains and their geological significance) _._____-- 285
Hagen, H. F., Carl C. Gray and (The eighth wonder: The Holland
8S USES Sc a eee 7) 577
cies crideenirtisin atari vsinrninrenierenteter rare tet tae Sresaiee de Seed 85
A Orie Meet Stel Jeleusuboyse, ws sokudseuh, anit 57
nor Poundation of: New York........-......evsusee euindeci cc 49
Harriman Alaska Expedition, report..................-..---.-------- 141
EE ELT, A an a eR ee ee xu, 19, 63, 64
Bearer mameralovical Museum... 2p seid eretere ree weowet 38
ee nimerety eo oc terudaedin ad! Su suecdase Suvvseels 4, 138
I seca achat reenntanioarteiemne ok Meee who 84, 89
EE et 129
EEE SD SE ee ee 33, 68
I 8 BS Se le See oe os ee ee 60
TEE ES ene See ee ee ee ee ne eee 43
EEE LEE LO TT Oe: |!) 4
Perish Dele Bl eB 8s sb ilieGer Kieren eeu cue x11, 19, 65, 66
pee nerd Brederick ©... Je) Je A Acselccsonall.2 50
ne ATG CR Tg Sirens = SUL U8 s0_2ae 60
Hill, James H., property clerk of the Institution--_...._.....--------- xI
Historiographical Institute, Tokyo, Japan.__.......----------------- 16, 128
Peete mrs Gull Jostwels Gul ot wadeuedes bev dan scien 37
I URINE COMO ewe rower te bane J SLE OIE Seu 4,155
EIT DT TR eee, Oe !) 4, 150
I ee ee ee wae aaa ae 34
Holland Vehicular Tunnel, the: The eighth wonder (Gray and Hagen) - ---- 577
Holmes, Dr. William H., director, National Gallery of Art. xu, 18, 45, 53, 129, 135
I MUNI AD ar tate artrerettitarsire iietininr anise, sO SR. SU 17, 29, 36
Hoover, Herbert, President of the United States. ..........----------- x1
test Mira. Heshottin nc nice ew ie O AU Dol a )W  e 51
ites raainesctarkctnctsnintishannirierty nlateticctetininitimine cBOD aie 113, 119
i Te Bini one cnnnncnancasosnnadna SOULE Mate XI, XII
(Ancient seating furniture in the collections of the United States
| ee eer we | T 519
Witvard, Deitel. 0 js0es ab wien Joes. bbe. SUS. wd ES. x1
Se re Be ee ee Mee! 395
(The rise of applied entomology in the United States) ........------- 387
eS ee ee ae xu, 13, 17, 28, 34, 42, 129
Hughes, Charles Evans, Chief Justice of the United States (chancellor and
rn TE PIGS UGE CALA treed tretrtnre rete weretrwres Ee doe x1, 159, 161
Mushebtead; Bruce. Usred Jute. 50. SIU S 4, 28, 150, 155
Hulitar, Mme. Bronislava De Brissac..............---.-------------- 50
Human race, The age of, in the light of geology (Richarz)_.....------- 451

Hungarian artists, paintings, sculptures, etc., by contemporary ...-.------ 49
642 INDEX

Page
Hungarian National Council of Fine Arts. -22.22<2s<Sss=s.-2-- 49
Hurley, Patrick J., Secretary of War (member of the Institution) ______- XI
Hutehings, DeWitt Vite yeelie eee. eeadens ese See ae 50
Hyde, Arthur M., Secretary of Agriculture (member of the Institution) __ XI
Hygienic Laboratory..222 2202 ssscssscasecccet ase eee 128
I
Insects; Mant.and.. (Howard) oso 220 2st ace ie ae 395
Interior, Secretary of the (member of the Institution)_....._.__.__._.--_-- 2a!
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature, United States Regional
Bureau; of: thees 1) 29 has) dadoie ol P32 lee ree Dee xu, 1,7, 24p328
TOPO bs sa eo eee ease ee on ae nee regeh sen 123
International Mixchanpe! Service oa a oe ee ee 1, 7, 19, 127
foreign depositories of governmental documents_-_---------------- 75
foreign exchange agencies..22.2)4---s2--see4=see 4 aah en 81
interparliamentary exchange of the official journal____._________-_- 78
report 2). 2th eee eee De el ee 72
SULT as a a a al a ll pala AD forn iy oy Exirelgalpe Rpn i XII
Interparliamentary exchange of the official journal____---___.__--_____- 78
Investments, ‘classification: of oss 5 a a ype 151
Epis) Brnest Gee 2h ee So a te toe gs ee ee 48
Pasa, (Charles Sos ee ee fel ee eee 17, 28
Ai
daly, Mita: JOR De nie cep te ees a a a ee al ge 129
Jimson weed, Extra chromosomes a source of variations in the (Blakeslee)_._ 431
Johnson, Representative Albert (regent)_.__.....--------------+----- x1, 161
Johrison®: Mrs:-Mie D..(Denoyer) 2 ars fac tye oa 8 el ea eae ae: 113
Johnston, Mrs. Charles H. L. (Birdie Abbott Johnston) _-_....__-__-__- 52
Jcotmnston;, Dri Bars 028 he te es eee lh ae AE Lee eRY fees x1, 117, 161
F. S. Brackett and (New researches on the effect of light waves on
the erowth:of plants): S225 8 ee ee Se Ue be agian 255
Bc ca Di (2S 1, ar eon ee ene ere ee epee autre a XII, 33, 42, 65, 68, 129
K
Kialmibach jHiRe beso eek Bole lel Ee wore SY pope el EE 85
Kevroliks (Mr, and!Mirs: (Maxim 3 20 ore ie. eae ee ae Ser ee 55
Keesom;.: Prof. Dri) We Hie. eet ate hentia Sah ye bea hppa EE 11
Kellers; Dr: H.C., United States Navy.-=22---<-----s2-beebsbe tet 29, 36, 85
Kellogpe? Dr Reming toms 5 ces a ite sage op te ee ae 30, 39, 40
Kelly2Rooseveltjexpedition 2222.52.25 2205 see 2eh <r 85
Kidder;DritA bViisl i. ott. te ecabeciias edtest eine) eeidens ere 61
Fea bs Basing Ps Sees AE as ella age i ee genera x11, 13, 29, 37
and Albert C. Smith (The use of fish poisons in South America) -_--._ 401
Kainoshita, Vii. 2s. er os Bee es a a ee eR ieee eae 60
Knowles, William A., property clerk, National Museum__..-_---------- XII
Wisrirer tA AS eb EE pre eee tt are ee i i a 113, 120
Kress, Samuceliouj seit) se) gee eal it Qe neltyn LE table peel re bemel po 85
Keriegert Herbert, Witte ci. Ser eR ie oie es eee eel X11, 13, 17, 28, 32, 44

(Aspects of aboriginal decorative art in America based on specimens
in the United States National Museum) -_...--------.-------+--- 519

INDEX 643

L
Page
Labor, Secretary of (member of the Institution) ....______...._.__.___- x!
NN a I SIDR Rien ndeeieibeithcd enna VOLUE LE ecu eeu 44, 126
Te rn eee Cite tae ae ee COPE ene 19, 66, 71
Lamont, Robert P., Secretary of Commerce (member of the Institution) _ xI
PIONS DOMIGURIONE 6. 6 ccinccdntnee dUEMUNE.. botees. acGUenwes Sale oe 45
eh.) MIN INN ai er on eke nono een adic dd 51
Langley aeronautical library.........-.-----.---------------- 15, 16, 126, 134
Langley gold medal for aerodromics- ----..---------------------- 7, 160, 162
Award of, to Charles Matthews Manly and to Commander Richard
en Jeera, Kuelied. senbon. NAS occ ck ce tL wuseaur cil. 2,7
Langmuir, Irving (Modern concepts in physics and their relation to
NN Pike tet ottiehia imac bet iwicnb adnan enews ae bd ssl ris 219
ne MOUNMANCTIINING oti ool eo ee ee ek x1, 3
Leary, Ella, librarian, Bureau of American Ethnology - ---------------- xII
I et eo, heise ens aeShs bie les 13
eeeees coe eendorink Beste inane). wsseeets wetews dead A eel la seed XII
A EN a ate tains be Juncus diay 60
Libraries of the Institution and branches__....--.-.....--------- 1, 15, 52, 58
Wee ese ittiet ads Do se leises: Letwetj ecb sce ah Si 126
I a in RPS 126
RS EO), a a eS Ae 136
Library of Congress_-_-_------ 15, 16, 59, 78, 126, 128, 131, 133, 134, 136, 187, 138
STD ee a ee eae 130
tee ee Se nw ee) SE Lies dk 12, 121
Light waves, effect of, on the growth of plants, new researches on (Brack-
INE MER RERIRGCSTT = So 8 ooscn cen ns memeds a abel a 255
PI 10R. CON A oS cette cactoocncmnc cece cctllbesl id i25 2, 7, 10
Loans accepted by the [National] Gallery [of Art]__.------------------ 50
Loans returned to the [National] Gallery {of Art]_._......-.------------ 51
Lodge, John Ellerton, curator, Freer Gallery of Art-_----------------- xu, 60
EN eS ee pee oe ae eee eee 11
I a ee cee cemen oe oo vember Ads 128
a ee ee ed ie eens nbd Je Beau 48
Luce, Representative Robert (regent)..----------.------- x1, 3, 159, 160, 161
M
Dennen. Tit. GA cc dnotnmonreny tht bape luis beviews ediawe 29
MacCurdy, George Grant (Recent progress in the field of Old World pre-
EEE = SEI ET As oct hs eee eer ee 495
ee Perr oo ea a lo es A 24
| a eee.) 395
Ee, BODREO i oewerernrneemormeseennadsith 7, 8, 162
Mann, Dr. William M., director, National Zoological Park.....-- xu, 102, 146
Marine Biological Laboratory at Woods Hole....--.--.-.------------- 138
I i eh eo can sodtdde tv assesadun tii 113
NO fae oe eee cccdcnce ccc twlistied3 ol buwestanes 128
ee Ceitns) Barter ne ods Ske Seo wedesspe cnn = ceeagld 40
nn RNS See cco ecetiosencecsocaeerence 12, 117, 122
Seen PN do PP oc ccc cc cc en newts anit as died au dstidsslase 45
es 2 nine nne ew ctteeed-phignasqoedls xu, 29
ieee, Tidee Fe Sento oy tindind) ~s0teu> denice J-sassewtwls on 129

enniee Ses J, Jl oie ee Se eee deel 31
644 INDEX

Page
MoeCormick; Robert Hallow! ol 209s 8h. ont eee ee 31
McGuire, Misa Maryotcles-2._csel veiw Dodd Jeo Se este 17, 31
MedKim,Miss: Frances. Gertrude..2.242 2222-25... onal A eee 42
MeMinley;:Presidentitcsrecel Sarees ee ey AE Raina al eae 22
Means, James2 zal olt lo sodomeO emeetews) ee grapes. Stele 3 134
Meetings and receptions, National Museum-_-_---.-__-.....----------L 41
Melchers,..Gari 1.5 sn ese ee oe 45, 48
Mellon, Andrew W., Secretary of the Treasury (member of the Institu-
tign))s 2b 2c eS ee ete 2 oe eee al Te bape ieee xI
Merriam, (Dri Tohm:@ss(regebt)i. fuse ue ue. vsculeelfedalted x1, 3, 158, 159, 161
Merrill, Drv. George Pie ee ee peti bev Riad 22, 42, 44
Merrill, George Perkins (1854-1929) (Schuchert).._...._...-_-__-__-_-__- 617
Biéschiter: Wage nest Beet ic eit eccemniiee ee bece eee 129
Michelson;,-.DrsEruman i coesvabvenn de uaeets. Siepe Baise x11, 19, 62
Miller; Gerrit)S:)-jreiuece egelendia cesieuth Jo ose c3aiserdil af x11, 129
Biinneapolis: Public ihibranprwsw0t Loo wee ke EE 29
Mint, Bureau of the, United States Treasury Department______.______- 31
Mississippi Department of Archives and History......._..-..---.--__- 32
Missouri Mistorical Society... see doug Aus snaibeal ait i ae 4
Mitchell, William D., Attorney General (member of the Institution) ___-- XI
PN EFT ET Wi ate tet eA eee een ee XII
Panégar, (George nn ewe ckkiened namin SC Gee 67
Moon ‘and Fadicactivityi, [The (Rorbes)i 64 1 iL... seen aeld Jee 207
Widore, KA Hee eee Se Eee eee ee aie ee ea 113
Moore, Representative Walton R. (regent) ....---.---- x1, 3, 158, 159, 160, 161
Moraes*Drslh do.ettosgse: yous cue. chet Rai eee 38
Biérrow,. Dwight) W.\égent) 2s. Doe eke ce ce ccccccenne ceil x1, 3, 159
Purihofet,. Elizabeth cJcee2 owe ccc ceded eect aD Jee 51
Minroe, Helen veel 3k ce Lie eel eet 2) arth ech betes 69
Myer fund, Catherine .Walden.iit4 el emlle fecolto add ab bed 4, 150, 155
N
Mational/Academy.of. Design owen eceeiciecunin icc ao See ee 18
Copnelliof thes costecectcndeeek Gites comes eee, ee 46, 48
Wational Aeademy of. Sciences.......2..2-2 see) 2b ov Bal aa t
National Acronautic Association 2. iusucs sce adedk ck eek eee eee 16
matiowal Gallery obArte i. oc wicein Pee cee eee eee meg, 1, 7
art works received during the year.........-.----.-2----- 2.21.2 49
commission 1 Sus up t seat eet Aone ered sng eh 18, 45, 49
MEP ORG Ae AL Bese ence CAE RE ite eae ees 160, 161
COPING PAINtINGs. oLoeccececcecccwcmeccimeende Re ee 52
Ler ret tt ae oe ee eer ee ene See yen ewe A x11, 18, 45, 53, 129, 135
@istributions a... cece cnn eedeetee cence een SUC ae 51
eventsof the:-yearies. .G2gamee ne) ie ee Uniiamey . e ae oh 46
Henry Ward Ranger fund. purchases__.._.....-.-21--2.----2----- 51
liblanye-S2 2 A SUSE REE Se ee Sd oe eee 52, 126, 128, 135.
loans:returned.to the-Gallery ..c.cccscceceene nec cceun Deh eoeeb se 51
publications =. c.ceecee ee deer ceed ce kee ek ee ee 52, 141
POPORts Mlb Pewee ede ctieees Hee eee eee Cee Cue eee ee eee reas nee 45
special. exhibitions. held in the Gallery_..........-.-..-G.. 22022044 48
National Géeographie Society - 2. 22k. Lette ee eee 17, 33, 36
National Herbarium, United States, Contributions from___.-------- 141, 144.

INDEX 645

: Page
nena) Nn slg lnm is oem eee iaine Silt bm otaetebhiathon 1,7, 16
RINE NIETO oo penne enan nse seu RS bh odhn etl 40
a eee ee ee eee) | oe 27
Ce een ee ees pease een ena nenes esa -ssanaenhee—= XII
Senos ane Held, work:..65 3+ - +65 inn vs ec--.d-ssesnb--« 40
Tee cared RL 15, 16, 126, 128, 131
IR MINE POORTARONN oii 85 opi dine Ho ee cht = one open dhinbw hee 41
Natural History Building, additions to_.......----.-------------- 8, 26
eeeeouemiaons for witigs Qn........-~--....<.-<-<.<4-4pssnsee 1, 16
a errata ol gee Sle nb le ahees 14, 141, 144
Te en cnnnepeb pee bebinen scant b eee 25
ne nw lta Ruth ld. bos aloctnee ubetain h pinbied XI
a) ae eee ae ea eerne te ea meee ert SY | 43
nn CRORE TOR 255 boil ash ab aetna ch eeeN—dden sh delg bees 1, 7, 20
SS Se ee ee ee ee en me GO 84
animals in the collection June 30, 1930__....-..----------==--.---- 90
0 ES er a en ee ee eee ery Se eer Se xu, 102, 146
mm (UiGG- Of ye. ech eee ee rebel oe a ides dies ateseeddGe-bae=s 85
IOUS 8 oe 2 ee Se Sie Ge Se ae baesb 100
RGN 8 ee el ee eS iseet shin alts 101
SEE ee See ee ee 89
a oe a hn men re ite i 84
ICO re ec et es ei pi XII
I I i ee a 99
Natural History Society of Northumberland, Durham, and Newcastle-upon-

I og cx Fins pre eee ep age mle a 129
i eremnre. United Semtes. oS wpa 138
i! Menee MeO. ko eo oon ees= = 29, 36
Navy, Secretary of the (member of the Institution) -_--_-------------- xI
a oe yi de SN EEN a Pp 21
Nesting habits of Wagler’s oropendola on Barro Colorado Island (Chap-

ee es re ee neste ese oe 347
ene ent aanbeaeekaas cue em 37, 131
i enentive. Waker i 2. 22 159

O
Old World prehistory, Recent progress in the field of (MacCurdy) - ----- 495
ge Za aD ONO CR raaeh epreiee ee a eyo Pe 34
Olmsted, Arthur J., photographer, National Museum---------------- xu, 129
Organic evolution, The mechanism of (Davenport) -------------------- 417
Oropendola, Wagler’s, The nesting habits of, on Barro Colorado Island
it rte we ne wien eine ete el aki wena Aha & 347
r
eno om sk ie wine seme erne mee > euaieeniaell 4
ne ieee ee we ann neaire & wires pe eie ee putes 35, 61
i OES UU ard a Wis om eelgrass genta ae ariel 35
als erm mk ul oh wg en ne a eal ws et cal 45
EN EO i a ea a eS 150, 155
lan cle ce sno ae aie pane ane ena Omelet 129
i Tle seam boda cess oan n ans hua saeaal 6a age manag 35, 85
Philosophical Society of Washington--....-..-.-------------------- 128, 138

Physics, Modern concepts in, and their relation to chemistry (Langmuir). 219
28095—31——42
646 INDEX
Page
Physics, modern, Waves and corpuscles in (De Broglie)---------------- 243 ©
Pierce, Dr. W. Dwight; ....+<-----<nede sl J eee 29
Palsbry,; -Dr.-H..).Aj sos nee se sr ee 35
Pinchot, Hon.-Gifford .. .~..- i ee 29, 35, 36, 85
Pitcairn, Harold F. (The autogiro: Its characteristics and accomplish-
mente) 22. see Soest ee ret 265
Plants, growth of, New researches on the effect of light waves on the
(Brackett-and- Johnston) its-222- 5291 Si ee ee ee 255
Poole, Arthur Joos ee re BO RS Sod Bre 13, 40
Poore‘fund, Lucy,T- and Georte (W =. )nce ere 4, 150, 155
Post. Office, Department, United States: +5. +=. 32 eee 31
Postmaster General (member of the Institution) __._._..__--_---------- XI
Bratt; An-G iso ses sed eo ees sea es ee eee 31
Prehistory, Old World, Recent progress in the field of (MacCurdy) _-_---- 495
Prellwitz;. Henry 924-2 see es sea ease eee 48
President.of the United. States..22.<Uuts Us 2GUb Moos fi) Oe Bese 2
Printing, allotments fors:.<= 2522+ -2sssessssse sed seestbesasseascleee 146
Printing and publication, Smithsonian advisory committee on____------ 146
Pablic Buildings.and: Parks, Office-of 1 40
Publications of the Institution and branches__------------------ 138, 40, 52, 68
Reports =e re re ee ee ee 141
R
Radiation and Organisms: “Division ol. 250-2. 2 on eee 1 oe
COOPELAUIONL ees ee Serta ak Si aye ae Se eet ae a ee ee 120
development of laboratory ares re ae ee 116
INI TiAtl ON Ol EXPEL eM GS yee en Aa eee nh eee Se ays
Mi) oy a Gy ek MC eel ale apy ME aa grab uaa a ea | dls 126, 134
RIOTS ORD Uo a ne ere ee ere epi ely Bee kd 122
DHGtO GrOPIe, CmDETUMETUS yee ee ene een ee ee ee eee 118
pliant growth experiments. = 5226 oS ee eo eee Lie
|S] 00) Gf enn eee ee a a eee ee eee eee a 115
BUai. Sew eee oe oe ee he Sena era eee ee See ee XII
SS RUTR UTTER Tye ee eer = my SB ed eae eg en 122
Radioactivity, =the moon and: Chorbes) sess a oo ee ee eee 207
Rains, The first, and their geological significance (Hadding) - ._--------- 285
Ranger beqtest;-Evenry “Wards oer eee ee ee ee ee ee eee 18, 42, 47
RET 1G aa eae Se Sr PORES TET ee 46, 48
TRU 016 Me ale ah a A ily oe etl Ak Ale eden ed ake Lalla ab cecal ete RD ke 18
j OND Wo 6) 02 15} 215 Ny te a Lee Na nace gh le eal eyepatch 51
RATT UT AVSS VIS yin cee eee ae een ee Ne tM ere ane PE gees One ae 129
Ravenel, William de C., administrative assistant to the secretary ____-- x1, 129
GCS Las TET WES ew 50 6 ie erage a ee pre ES See EC eo 45
Bred wo Osh irs MB rs CG tee ti Ne i ee ee a ie ah rg eee 31
Reeds;iChester A. (Weather and glaciation) © 22.202" = 22 = ss ees eee 295
Regents of the Institution, board ofe=2s—=" = "2 = 2 eae ae Sa 2, 7, 18, 48
annual mecting. "Mecember 2, VO20Se8 eee ua ee ee ee ee 159
executive committee: reports ss) sateec seer se ee eee a ee eee 149
meeting of Hebruary ls, TOs0e2e = os 2 ates eee eee cee 160
permanent-committees report__ 22222522222 a eee ee 160
PLO COCCINES OL arte. PL UII 65 yn on ilk ag aod eal A Rn ee ea 159

specialsmectine of May 29.1950. = ee Se eo eee eee 161

INDEX 647

Page
es 30s he allesddve bos subedos was cod siuswn wecalties andes 37
ES OS SE ee ee eC eee TT 4, 150, 155
I UNE MOI ao saat enn sattl nds men ni LNG LL eatae Shh hans cand ee A 41
Research Corporation of New York..---.--.-...--------- 4, 12, 115, 161, 162
OS ae oe es See ees a xu, 17, 30, 32, 38, 43
NIN, © SRNR FOUN oes mnssins inate mason mmotina supe naa cap mace. SR 32
Ee nn thi a6 deb da lisse. soli awe. . 4
Rhoades, Katharine Nash, associate, Freer Gallery of Art........-.---- xl
Deenason, tir. Eroest Cushing. on nnn nnnnnnnnann-sdenuniuuus lek 27, 123
Richarz, Stephen (The age of the human race in the light of geology).... 451
IT PR, MOTION WY oe cme annnnn dee BEAL xu, 43, 129
LE 7 ee aL) Se ee a eee ee oY ee meee tay! ee 129
CS EE! Le Fer em eee S 129
I a ems susan nan niemon CIEL le wl el hl 17, 28
Es SR ea ee ee X11, 19, 28, 61, 64, 65
John R. Swanton and (Jesse Walter Fewkes)...............---_-- 609
Robinson, Senator Joseph T. (regent) -_....-...--------------- x1, 3, 159, 161
nS TN) I eh NE, old ek Dee ee bc ekl 17, 28, 36
SEES S EE Te, nee 3 4, 17, 29, 38, 150, 155
NS SEE OC ae Te ERT eee. Fe a ee ee 4, 161
Ee eS re 24
Se LEN Is oe oe ee rh eae a) ae 85
INNER 3 es oe ok te ett) bs axloc2ct) is yooswee 48
en, Uertnes Lownsend, Paci eee 16, 31, 52, 128, 129, 133
SS)
St. John, Charles E. (Growth in our knowledge of the sun)___-__--_---- 177
keen ay ge om pp sg ae yt apes tesa papas de Pe heap sears 66
I re orn, oe Ot owner ot 2 rn een ale eS ee 4
i en eer a ee er eane ait cee eine ae 4
A an nn en ee CAPE hte xu, 129
Schuchert, Charles (George Perkins Merrill (1854-1929))_____-__------ 617
ns a ge ornare gee ge pemee —aeliaenpeeetapeegeyepemy fe rede febeeyey tei bey 104
a 2 ar ne nr a re ene ees eae 162
Searles, Stanley, editor, Bureau of American Ethnology ---------- xu, 145, 146
Seating furniture, ancient, in the collections of the United States National
ee peep ces Saeed font topper fare Fp pipe fal op ey §11
meeeuary Of the Institution--2--_- 2-2-2 <2 2. 111, x11, 10, 13, 18, 24, 45,
48, 53, 71, 83, 102, 113, 114, 122, 125, 129, 140, 146, 159, 160, 161
8 8 ek Ce ee eee fe imag Nes 139
LE allied ply tl Gnd app SPR cl i aap, JENS gE 37
Shoemaker, Coates W., chief clerk, International Exchanges_--.--. ~~ ~~~ xu, 83
Shu-Fan, Hon. Liu, Director General of Post of China_..-....-..------ 31
nao ddmbadianinbamenaodanae as 18
Soa pulreiy.) S20 eereise edizatous 5. eUOO) Sosuaiitevaeses soca 49
eee, Biss Aaeelicn Branees 2222 Ui). sseuliit doses 4 bess h-dsect is 52
RUMI Se SO to coed kvcdoewenonenuces se leemeeede 37
Ellsworth P. Killip and (The use of fish poisons in South America)... 401
IEEE Be ee oe wen tcnuncdadoanbnunun eed AemeL ek 17, 29, 36
Smith, John Donnell, botanical collection. ...........-....--.--.---- 132, 136

i a ceanreminc es bop iiesdanseiion icin pin al nel tw taalan Sm 2
648 INDEX

Page
Smithsonian advisory committee on printing and publication. __________ 146
annual reports=i senses etc Soe Ga Se 14, 15, 141, 142
contributions. to knowledge ...2. 22242 soseescse eee I Be 14, 141
éridowmelit fund... see ee oe IN eS eee 149
miscellaneous¢ollections2 J. 22... Le eae 14, 141
Scientific Series 2scssse te eu eect OE, TREE 2, 15, 159
James Smithson Memorial Edition of the._._.._______________ 1
Listof Subderibersitothezrcl _oleivves 004i 2euse ea 147
special publications ...s2=s2 cee oo ES So See ee 141, 143
unrestricted tfiund} 2/48 arti-ot seer samurLadt Joe |r) nese 4
Sinithsonisin- Parish expeditions. 5A Lh woe co cn Hf aol ai he 29
Sitioke Joh att al «ee ee Eo ee 67
Sinioot, ‘Senator Reed. regent) acisesncii te oe ae x1, 3, 160
wolorkano, Nine. Asctenigignve) Ulu IES 2 bop De ake ee a ae 63, 64
BORMAN OY JL osetia te nnn aE ye = Be AS age ae 113
Mise eT Lek oneal) ban. gotos eh cies 113
Special exhibitions held in the [National] Gallery [of Art]....___________ 48
Spectrum, Beyond the red in the (Babcock)__.......-.--___- 2ss22 ele 165
Spindéen, ir Uierbert Jilin Soa een ede he 42
Sprivper) Dr ram La Sa ah seco A 38
BRN epi i tc aN Pn nee 3, 4, 150, 155
puanley,, Miss (Virginian ee ee ee 117
State, Secretary of (member of Institution) _..._.....__...__.._.UXL-t xI
Scealn boatslnspection Service... 2... .beseewe wooed 40
Stein ie Adrel See ao Oe 8 nhs 32 eee ee 59
Siejnecer: Ars eomhands «4.52 i Ae en eee ee XI, xu, 146
Stimson, Henry L., Secretary of State (member of the Institution) ______ xI
Stirling, Matthew W., chief, Bureau of American Ethnology____ xu, 19, 71, 146
mtockwell. Seret- hi. Anne oko 2 ee ia ia Seca eee 33, 68
sturmer,.J...W. (Lhe moder: sun eult).2 52222) sob. bh ee ee 191
Sanh (abl hemeed MaeMreavore Cima (Sibiu sess ee EE Oe eee. 191
Sun, Growth in our knowledge of the (St. John) ....__._-----1----_-._ 1%
Trad Pere (PPl BParstCo (ol 0s. ls nn aa SRO ENE NO RUE TRON ae TER ae ty 29
prslesvelere: Mary FR suc) UN eh eh eae EO so Se ee 4
Swanson, Senator Claude.A.,(regent)..- 5. - =. =, ee en en x1, 3,159, 160
rent comms Dkr whe Bia ee eco ese 2g 8 ee gi De x11, 19, 61, 62
and F. H. H. Roberts, jr. (Jesse Walter Fewkes)--_---------+----- 609
SWANS IO R GOR 92 3. = a ae 2 A ne 122
Széchenyi, Count Liszl6, minister from Hungary__._--.--------------- 49
T

Taft, William Howard, Chief Justice of the United States (chancellor and
membermofithennstitution)i.2 2o_ ues We yee ees Hea 3, 21, 43, 159, 160, 161
ARarbellieb MOS. Meee ee eS le ROR e ee Gai oe eee ok 45

Tell en-Nasbeh excavations of 1929— a preliminary report, The (Badé)_--- 483
Thackery, Frank A., and M. French Gilman (A rare parasitic food plant of

the Soughwest)ewic ]AMee we Aa eee Se ee ete ee 409
Thompson, “Missi Mlednor_ oferta cg dei Joa ad bos. quiet aaa 60
Mowery Missvlisabelsins 6 tS. soe Lele ee eee tee ci ee ee 44, 126

Traylor, James G., appointment clerk of the Institution_.._._.-.-.------ xu, 45

INDEX 649

Page
ee a Se a. a 156
‘Treasury, Secretary of the (member of the Institution) -----..-..--._-- xI
‘True, Webster P., editor of the Institution. --_.--...--.------- x1, 31, 71, 146
EEE AS So A ay DT TE AS ea 71
a ES ee Se. Se ee ee re 31
U
Re RR es SC "SUE PES a 85
vV
I a asin ans arte ans Sime mw <n ineee 129
Vice President of the United States (member and regent of the Institution) _ x1,2,3
I CE, WR a sere ti wn ls tw op ald ena ee 29
le ea an cee ee ngpin nee 43
Ww
ee eo oe peoeuawanmahe 9
I i ee 129
oe 12 sud Mery VAUX... 5-2................-_- 3, 4, 150, 155
Walker, Ernest P., assistant director, National Zoological Park________ x11, 84
(Wild life protection—an urgent problem) -__.__.-._______________- 327
a asauenmnent, United States. ..........2......._.....-..-.-.._.. 68
War, Secretary of (member of the Institution)_..___._..____.________- xI
‘Ward, Robert De C. (The acclimatization of the white race in the Tropics). 557
ee ee en wenden cea 44
ES RE ISTE Se ee a 50
Ee Brenner MOOG Oe ee ne 17, 29
weaenmeton federation of Churches..............................-.. 49
RS A eee ee 135
‘Waves and corpuscles in modern physics (De Broglie) _______-________- 243
ni: TIMMGGH PUMEGR oo oe 104, 138
on me wmmation (teeds)_..-. 2. ........-..-..--.-.....- 295
Ee UES RE NPD SA ns Se 120
ERIE TES me 8 a a ES a eo 60
‘Wetmore, Dr. Alexander, assistant secretary of the Institution.._._____- i
13, 36, 44, 129, 159, 160
RSE oe ae AE Se a nn ere ee 85
EE EE I ES 23
EES OO ERS 2, a ne 135
RRS RI A oY a eS xu, 30
‘White race in the Tropics, The acclimatization of the (Ward) -_________-- 557
Wilbur, Ray Lyman, Secretary of the Interior (member of the Institution). x1, 42
Wild life protection—an urgent problem (Walker) _....--.------------- 327
ee wens anekennnenscackanbeee 4
NS DS i a a a 50
ee i nena nem newman hel 42
IIS, ee A hE Pea ee AOE 138
RN Oy ie ace ene mdoenenashG anche nats 44, 127
I ai Ns cel sien stin ll pin Gl i Sesh 7

EE ee ee ee eee 5 7
650 INDEX

Yaeger, Willd boise o- a2osn cote r ann cae ten eneree eee aan s see
Yale University~-o.2 25 cams esos we aoa ae en eae ae cee me coe
Younger fund, Helen WelCOulsa an tat ee eee oe eee ee

PGES k 21 2) ilo bed Mag eae A i ety and ey iil rns lpedpronsihe pa betes Bese onde bk 9 pap tet 9

Zoological Park “Nahiou al oe on eee tame ae ee ne
ACCESSIONS = ora os meee Se ee ee ee ee ee ees
animals in the collection June 30, 1930
CUTE) Gy (0) tae pled ty el penne gag ai ah fap eg Pat ts bs
GONOTE. Cust Clie =. Sas omer ato a ae eee a eee ae nae ee
PEED Copa 2 03 (21 1: tenga tee py ene tage lee a a
TECON Ole CIN LOO nore oo cies eee a a ee ee
GLEN OEY ON 6) (= ene phe te a acta ats oa in same a i att Seu hE ea

ie
»
ae

bales

en
aa}
°

.

4 @

ws
zz

is

iw a

«
'
3 9088 01421 7368

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES
WHUUIHI | |i\I| IH} | Wil
| WA AH Mi | HH] Il
yee A | a |

| LL |

hh halal ala et atetal Ce tt Um AL A Aon
68H Hehe hata eat cla” tetetetate aun
s tees hha! a OC) ye
| a ey aa wos ae . Af Cee ae Oe ae
BR he Oi Oe ae ‘ foc bck
Be ees a Bete eh vit tata “ey
18 6 ieee fete “4 ee ahehahe ite Sete
eae e ee) a « 446 4 4 8 iat
La aa qnraage ea ae <8 48
gata to CE ad ate! : Phe ae ee Ae
(hae a a OE a ene ua ‘eae ey eee
; * ‘
4 ee i On ; he ah ea qe eed
x Cee a ce an ee ‘C4 Cnt ; ‘as “aa
EEN Ge es eh kb “ ‘ NS ‘s. stat a4
ae « aa y "8 Ate #£ age ans "aw
eee “! Pee 4 « Shas a ws Sts wat! ce
be ae ea a. ‘iif ‘4. 4 eg ease aod vhs ete!
i¢dG@aeaeandt ade et take eae ana s “i a “e8
GGG ees a) Se < “es a8, wy
ees hh et ae hatha i € ane ehh
. a a |
Meee wtatatake ? eh, # ees -
BEGGS ‘ Sete Sahahahnat i
jee eat etete 6! eae es ove
Ui¢ @ “ttf, ‘ Pai <s eb & es it < see
ee ‘ta! te as * CON, ata’ <“e et atatat oe
caqeege *¢ rk San ase ae
 f &£ cas yer Pa
eee ‘ ae ‘ hatte 7 ce “ es es
Cece eR Wists ree rh “ce

a
i “c “a
a
cae :

- a «4 Bo |

a wee : rer arb yt WP 2S a" «6h i iw
5» 8 A. pi 3 i = he &
Cn ea tea ee aig te “ Ne eee

aaa Ps a YeUaqs coe e@ a 3
abate ta tata teta! Cane é ‘“ di aiain da aig a dia doi ¢
Ne ag ag ‘a's uw he eee a Odd a's
a ia 4 aw Gh hgh gh Mahghgh hhh" fe eo

ee @ &
A a. OO Oe aa hd “as "eee he a @

a
v
rhs
7 w
ve
Rd “
i >
.
%

”

