se
ces boas 255 nae

ce
“ = fect

&et
CE aL

, pare he
He Sere a hee pee ty
PE hat

2AM Oy
Sgiticriee nti
gaeene ee .
ee eat Wy a Oe MoT hoe
see ey

es aye

¢ MAS He IM RE AN
ARE patos NEE. aha
“it ora

a "

a Ne
ts
*

td
iran Yet

Reet Pay RA,
ae

frag
rene

io

*
ce

See

‘
a i
‘
<s
r
Bs,

ED Nene
ope) eee MX
(a

Sek He

Sr AY Pewee ee
peop Pet pe Nal itis readies te 6 ie

arn a i setae wah ales ‘
AL ‘ 7 Prats

bs AN i

tila Shae’
Riketoteibeee ,
4 mer

ae Ace
ye wie pants pn

eyes ate: are
oe PP gk OAT RS AF
oo
ee

.
he tn Cevann de Ae

Ca PT OE Ne te

velanerens

“nya

© ‘Sores ee

tet te aces OT ee

a

en

nm P :
Se ee ne
Sa a

- = =f ieee

RO nd

Siar

eer: its a
de ke Pa ze
: 2 : Se
ec e. = 4

TS re

FAVE

43D CONGRESS, } SENATE. Mis. Doc.
Ist Session. No. 130.

ANNUAL REPORT

OF THE

BOARD OF REGENTS

OF TIT

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

SHOWING

THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION
FOR THE YEAR 1873.

WASHINGTON:
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE.
1874.
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES,
February 13, 1874.
Ordered, That the annual report of the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution for
the year 1873 be printed.
Attest: ' GEO. C. GORHAM,
Secretary of the Senate.
LETTER

FROM THE

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

TRANSMITTING

The annual report of the Smithsonian Institution for the year 1873.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, February 13, 1874.
Sir: In behalf of the Board of Regents, I have thé honor to submit
to the Congress of the United States the annual report of the opera-
tions, expenditures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for
the year 1873.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JOSEPH HENRY,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution.
Hon. M. H. CARPENTER,
President of the Senate.
Hon. J. G. BLAINE,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR 1878.

This document contains: 1. The programme of organization of the
Smithsonian Institution. 2. The annual report of the Secretary, giving
an account of the operations and condition of the establishment for the
year 1873, with the statistics of collections, exchanges, meteorology, &ce.
od. The report of the executive committee, exhibiting the financial affairs
of the Institution, including a statement of the Smithson fund, the
receipts and expenditures for the year 1873, and the estimates for 1874.
4. The proceedings of the Board of Regents. 5. A general appendix,
consisting principally of reports of lectures, translations from foreign
journals of articles not generally accessible, but of interest to meteor-
ologists, correspondents of the Institution, teachers, and others inter-
ested in the promotion of knowledge. |
OFFICERS OF THE INSTITUTION.

JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary,

Director of the Institution.

SPENCER F. BAIRD,

Assistant Secretary.

WILLIAM J. RHEES,

Chief Clerk.

DANIEL LEECH,

Corresponding Clerk.

CLARENCE B. YOUNG,

Book-keeper.

HERMANN DIEBITSCH,

Exchange Clerk,

JANE A. TURNER,

Huchange Clerk.

SOLOMON G. BROWN,

Transportation Clerk.

JOSEPH HERRON,

Janitor.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

ULYSSES 8. GRANT......- President of the United States, ex-officio Presiding Officer
of the Institution

MORRISON R. WAITE...Chief-Justice of the United States, Chancellor of the Insti-
tution, President of the Board of Regents.

JOMHAE SONI Cso ses obs Secretary (or Director) of the Institution.

REGENTS OF THE INSTITUTION.

MORRISON R. WAITE.. -Chief-Justice of the United States, President of the Board.

HENRY WILSON ...-.-.-. Vice-President of the United States.

18[, JELAMODIINseskesecodeue Member of the Senate of the United States.
J. W. STEVENSON ..---- Member of the Senate of the United States.
A. A. SARGENT..---...-.- Member of the Senate of the United States.
flo tS CAD. a eee ate ret Member of the House of Representatives.
Tas RS BRON Sy eee een Member of the House of Representatives.
G. W. HAZELTON...-.--. Member of the House of Representatives.
JOHN MACLEAN .:.-.-.. Citizen of New Jersey.

PETER PARKER 2.22000: Citizen of Washington.

WILLIAM T. SHERMAN ..Citizen of Washington.

PAS Ave GR ARVO ne en ah Citizen of Massachusetts.

Mo, Dead DYSON Eee ee ee Citizen of Connecticut.

HENRY COPPEE......--- Citizen of Pennsylvania.

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

PETER PARKER. JOHN MACLEAN. WILLIAM T. SHERMAN.

MEMBERS EX-OFFICIO OF THE INSTITUTION.

LES Sex Gu ACN Tuy een ee eye President of the United States.
EEEINEYaWiall SON) ce. Sane: Vice-President of the United States.
IU lB NAVAN G0 Ol Deeley sia Chief-Justice of the United States.
EY SSO L GL0Ns SE ie Secretary of State.

Bele BRISTOW Pee. 2e Secretary of the Treasury.

W..W.. BELKNAP ..-....- Secretary of War.

G. M. ROBESON. .........-Secretary of the Navy.

Je ORES Wil ile a2 Postmaster-General.

€. DELANO) 22S 2252. S5.- Secretary of the Interior.

GEO. H. WILLIAMS...--. Attorney-General.

Men) Snr) G Gini eee Commissioner of Patents.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY, PROFESSOR HENRY, FOR THE
YEAR 1878.

GENTLEMEN: I have the honor herewith to present a continuation
of the history of the Smithsonian Institution, comprising an account of
its operations, condition, and expenditures during the year 1873. No
change in this time has been made in the general policy of the estab-
lishment. Congress has continued its appropriations for the support of
the National Museum under the charge of the Institution, and has thus
relieved the Smithson fund from a burden the support of which has
annually absorbed a large portion of the income. Freed from the ex-
pense of the support of the-museum, at the beginning of 1873 we
anticipated doing much more than we had previously done in the way
of advancing science without encroaching on the unexpended balance
in the Treasury at the close of 1872, but in this we were disappointed
by the failure of the First National Bank of Washington, which had
in its possession at the time of its suspension a considerable portion of
the semi-annual income received on the Ist of July, and which was
intended to carry on our operations during the remainder of the year.
Previous to 1867 the interest on the Smithson fund was deposited in
the private banking house of Riggs & Co., but at the session of the
Board February 22, 1867, I was directed, by a resolution suggested by
Chief Justice Chase, to transfer the money to the First National Bank,
an authorized Government depository. This was accordingly done,
and the bank faithfully discharged the duty which devolved upon it
until the 19th of September, 1873, when it failed to bonor our drafts.
The whole sum in the bank at this time was $8,224.87. On this sum
the Institution has since received a dividend of 30 per cent., amounting
to $2,467.46. In order to meet this unexpected difficulty a reduction
was made, as far as possible, in the accruing expenses, by stopping the
printing of various articles, and deferring for a time the prosecution of
various enterprises in which the Institution had previously embarked.

Hor paying the salaries and other urgent claims an application was
made to the Secretary of the Treasury to advance the quarter-vearly
interest which had accrued on the Ist of October. To this application
the Secretary, Mr. Richardson, gave due attention, and expressed his
willingness to grant the favor provided it could be done in accordance
with law. It was, however, decided by the comptroller that the inter-
est could only be paid semi-annually, as prescribed by the act organiz-
ing the Institution.
8 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Disappointed in obtaining relief from this source, an appeal was made
to Mr. G. W. Riggs to advance what might be required to pay the neces-
sary expenses of the establishment during the remainder of the year.
This he promptly consented to do at a time when loans of money could
scarcely be obtained unless at the most exorbitant rates; and this, too,
without charge for interest. Such liberality could scarcely have been
expected, especially after the deposits had previously been withdrawn
from Mr. Riggs on the plea of greater security.

To relieve the Board of Regents and the secretary in future from all
anxiety as to the safety of the semi-annual interest, I would advise that
hereafter it be placed in charge of the Treasurer of the United States.
T am informed that he is authorized to receive on deposit, from officers
of the Army and Navy, money which has been appropriated by Congress
to special objects, and as the Smithson income is the proceeds of a sacred
trust committed to the Government of the United States, the same priv-
ilege should be, and I doubt not would be, extended to it.

The Smithson fund since the war has been much diminished in effi-
ciency by the inflation of the currency, and the consequent high price of
labor and materials. It is true that the Government pays the Institu-
tion in gold, but the premium on this is by no means an equivalent for
the diminution of purchasing power of the money received: since
paper has been substituted as a legal tender, gold itself has become
an article of commerce, the price of which depends on the supply and
demand. While the premium on gold is, say, ten per cent., the difier-
ence of prices due to inflation is, in many cases, ahundred per cent. In
addition to the effect of the diminution of the value of the Smithson
fund by the inflation of the Government currency, is that of the gradnat
inflation of the currency of the world by the products of the mines of
California and Australia. It is estimated that this, during the last
twenty-five years, has made a difference in prices throughout Hurope
and this country equivalent to twenty per cent.

Yo keep up, therefore, the efficiency of the Smithson fund in the way
of producing new results in intellectual labor, it was necessary that ad-
ditions should be made to it; and from the following financial exhibit,
and those which have been shown in preceding reports, it 1s evident
that this consideration has received proper attention.

The following is a statement of the condition of the funds at the end
of 1873 or the beginning of 1874:
The amount originally received as the bequest of James

Smithson, of England, deposited in the Treasury of the

United States, in accordance with the act of Congress of

SUACUS US ROK ESAO. cs ir cer tee Be ean ria eastern emt cee! $515, 169 00

The residuary legacy of Smithson, received in 1865, de-

posited in the Treasury of the United States, in accord-

ance with the act of Congress of February 8, 1867..-.... 26, 210 63

Total bequest of Smithson 22.22.02. 0000. 541, 379 63
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. g)

Amount deposited in the Treasury of the United States,
as authorized by act of Congress of February 8, 1867,
derived from savings of income and increase in value of
TMVEStMIeN ES! BAGH! WA Wa 8 VOB OS OT aOR ren VLE ere $108, 620 37

Total permanent Smithson fund in the Treasury of
the United States, bearing interest at 6 per cent.,
payable semi-annually in gold.-.....--...--...- 650, 000 00
In addition to the above. there remains of the extra fund
from savings, &c., in Virginia bonds and certificates,
viz: Consolidated bonds, $58,700; deferred certificates,
$29,305.07—now valued at .....-........------ 2-22. 33, 000 00
Cash balance in United States Treasury at the beginning of
the year 1874, as a special deposit for current expenses. 12, 226 68
Amount due from First National Bank, $5, 757.41, (pres-
ent value unknown.)

Total Smithson funds January, 1874......... eo 695, 226 68
PUBLICATIONS.

Since the reports of the Institution are separately distributed to indi-
viduals who have not immediate access to the whole series, it is neces-
sary in each to repeat certain facts which may serve to give an inde-
pendent idea of the general organization of theestablishment. For this
purpose the following statement is repeated in regard to the publications:

The publications of the Institution are of three classes—the Contribu-
tions to Knowledge, the Miscellaneous Collections, and the Annual
Reports. The first consist of memoirs containing positive additions to
science resting on original research, and which are generally the result
of investigations to which the Institution has in some way rendered
assistance. The miscellaneous collections are composed of works in-
tended to facilitate the study of branches of natural history, meteor-
ology, &c., and are designed especially to induce individuals to engage
in studies as specialties. The annual reports, beside an account of the
“Operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution, contain trans-
lations from works not generally accessible to American students, re-
ports of lectures, extracts from correspondence, ete.

The following are the rules which have been adopted for the distribu-
tion of the publications of the Smithsonian Institution :

Ist. To learned societies of the first class which present complete
series of their publications to the Institution.

2d. To libraries of the first class which give in exchange their cata-
logues and other publications, or an equivalent from their duplicate
volumes.

3d. To colleges of the first class which furnish meteorological ob-
servations, catalogues of their libraries and of their students, and all
other publications relative to their organization and history.
10 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

4th. To States and Territories, provided they give in return copies of
all documents published under their authority.

5th. To public libraries in this country, not included in any of the
foregoing classes, containing 15,000 volumes, especially if no other
copies are given in the same place, and to smaller libraries where a large
district would be otherwise unsupplied.

6th. To institutions devoted exclusively to the promotion of particular
branches of knowledge are given such Smithsonian publications as
relate to their respective objects.

7th. The reports are presented to the metecrological observers, to con-
tributors of valuable material to the library or collections, and to per-
sons engaged in special scientific research.

The distribution of the publications of the Institution is a matter
which requires much care and_a judicious selection, the great object
being to make known to the world the truths which may result from
the expenditure of the Smithson fund. For this purpose the principal
class of publications, namely, the Contributions, must be so distributed
as to be accessible to the greatest number of readers, and this will evi-
dently be to principal libraries.

The volumes of Contributions are presented to institutions on the ex-
press condition that, while they are carefully preserved, they shall be
accessible at all times to students and others who may desire to consult
them. These works, it must be recollected, are not of a popular char-
acter, but require profound study to fully understand them; they are,
however, of immense importance to the teacher and the popular ex-
pounder of science. They contain materials from which general treat-
ises on special subjects are elaborated.

Full sets of the publications cannot be given to all who apply for
them, since this isimpossible with the limited income of the Institution;
and, indeed, if care be not exercised in the distribution, so large a portion
of the income will be annually expended on the production of copies for
distribution of what has already been published that nothing further
can be done in the way of new publications. It must be recollected
that every addition to the list of distribution not only involves the
giving of the publications which have already been made, but also of
those which are to be made hereafter.

At the commencement of the operations of the Institution the publi-
cations were not stereotyped, and consequently the earlier volumes
have new become scarce, especially the first, of which there are no
copies fer distribution, although it can occasionally be obtained at a
second-hand book-stall in one of the larger cities.

No copyright has ever been secured on any of the publications of
the Institution. They are left free to be used by compilers of books,
without any restrictions except that full credit shall be given to the
name of Smithson for.any extracts which may be made from them.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 11

This condition is especially insisted on, because the credit thus required
is an important evidence to the world of the proper management of the
Smithson fund.

Publications in 1873.—During the past year the eighteenth volume of
the quarto series of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge has
been published. The several parts of this volume have been described
in previous reports. It contains the following papers:

I. Tables and results of the precipitation in rain and snow in the
United States, and at some stations in adjacent parts of North America,
and in Central and South America. Collected by the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, and discussed under direction of Joseph Henry, Secretary. By
Charles A. Schott, 4to., pp. 178, eight diagrams, five plates and three
charts.

II. Memoir on the secular variations of the elements of the orbits of
the eight principal planets, Mercury, Venus, the Harth, Mars, Jupiter,
Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune, with tables of the same. Together with
the obliquity of the ecliptic, and the precession of the equinoxes in both
longitude and right ascension.. By John N. Stockwell, M. A., 4to., pp.
214,

III. Observations on terrestrial magnetism and on the deviations of
the compasses of the United States iron-clad Monadnock during her
cruise from Philadelphia to San Francisco, in 1865 and 1866. By Wm.
Harkness, M. D., 4to., pp. 225, with two diagrams.

IV. Converging series expressing the ratio between the diameter and
the circumference of a circle. By William Ferrel, 4to., pp. 6.

This volume consists of 643 pages, and is illustrated by five plates, three
large double charts, and numerous diagrams. ‘The distribution of this
volume to foreign societies has been nearly completed. As in the case
of the preceding volumes, it will tend to perpetuate the name of Smith-
son conspicuously in the records of the history of science, and will thus
form a more befitting monument to his memory than one of marble or
of bronze.

_ One of the memoirs accepted for future publication in the Contributions
is on the Lucernaria, by Professor Henry J. Clark. This memoir relates to
a class of animals which are more or less octagonal, bell-shaped, or rather
inverted umbrella-like, with tentacles clustered in groups at the eight
angles. They were in former times regarded as a group of the polyps,
that is, related to the sea-anemones, but in more recent times have been
associated with the Acalephs or sea-nettles and jelly-fishes, and either
combined with one of the more comprehensive orders, or regarded as
the representatives of a peculiar one. Such is the group which has
been the subject of Professor Clark’s latest studies, and which is con-
sidered by him as entitled to ordinal rank in the class of Acalephs.

His work is divided into two parts; the first devoted to the “ general
and comparative morphology,” and the second restricted to the “anatomy
YP REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

and physiology of haliclystus auricula.” In the first part are three chapters;
the first on “individuality,” in which are considered the questions re-
lating to “polarity and polycephalism” and “the hydroid and medusoid
cephalisms.” In the second the thesis that ‘the type of form is not ra-
diate” is defended, and the form is described as ‘‘the dorso-ventrally
repetitive type.” The third chapter is devoted to the consideration of
‘‘antero-posterior (cephalo-caudal) repetition,” and under the heads of
“the scyphostoma and ephyra varieties of the same morph” and “the
individuality of Pelagia and Lucernaric.”

In the second part are four chapters, the third to seventh of the en-
tire work. In the first (third of the work) are described the “ general
form and structure,” including habitat, habits, form, and size, the pro-
boscis, the umbella, and the peduncle. In the second is considered the
“‘ oreanography, including the walls,” ‘the muscular system,” “the tenta-
cles, the marginal adhesive bodies, or collecystophora,” “the caudal ad-
herent disc,” ‘the digitiform bodies, or digitali,” ‘the digestive system,”
“the nervous system,” and ‘the reproductive system.”

In a third are embraced the results of studies of the “embryology,”
or various stages of growth of the species, including observations on
‘‘the egg and the spermatozoa ;” on ‘a young haliclystus auricula, nearly
one-sixteenth of an inch in diameter;” on ‘a specimen three thirty-
seconds of an inch across the umbella;” on “a young specimen one-eighth
of an inch across;” on the “special development of a tentacle, a colleto-
cystophore, and a genital sac;” on the ‘‘young one-fifth of an inch
across;” and on the “young six twenty-fifths of an inch across.”

In a fourth chapter the tissues are considered in a “histology of hali-
clystus auricula” and in the several parts of the body—that is, ‘the um-
bellar and peduneular walls;” “histology of the tentacles;” “histology of
the collectocystophores,” (anchors;) “histology of the caudal disc;”
and “histology of the digitali” and “the prehensile cysts,” (nematocysts
and colletocysts.)

This enumeration of the chapters and their sections will furnish to
the naturalist an adequate idea of the mode of treatment of the subject
as well as of the different organs and parts represented in the animals.
Tt will suffice to add that the several parts are treated of in great
detail, and are illustrated in eleven quarto plates from drawings by the
author.

The plates for this memoir are in the process of being engraved, and
the work will be published as soon as the funds of the Institution will
permit. We have to regret, since the work was adopted by the Institu-
tion, that the author has been called from this life in the flower of his
age and the promise of many days of successful devotion to science.

The next memoir accepted for publication, and which will probably form
the whole of the twentieth volume of the Contributions to Knowledge, is
by Joseph Jones, M. D., professor of chemistry and clinical medicine in
the University of Louisiana. It gives the results of a very extended in-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 13

vestigation of the military, religious, monumental, and organic remains
of the ancient inhabitants of Tennessee. An appropriation was made
to assist Dr. Jones in an exploration of these ancient remains, and to
this work he has devoted an immense amount of labor. The results are
presented in a volume which, after considerable abridgment, still con- |
sists of over 600 folio manuscript pages, requiring about two hundred

wood-cuts and a number of plates for its illustration. The work was

submitted to Dr. Otis, of the Army Medical Museum, who has given

special attention to the subject of ethnology, and on his approval it has_
been accepted for publication. We think it is a valuable addition to

our knowledge of the ancient races which have inhabited this continent,

and well worthy of a place in the Smithsonian series of Contributions.

The following extract is made from the preface by the author :

“The explorations and researches were commenced in the early part
of 1868, and continued to the close of 1869. In the entire investigation,
and in presenting an outline of the explorations and researches, I have
endeavored to accomplish two results, viz: the accurate description of
the aboriginal remains, and the collection of facts which bear in any
manner upon the obscure history of the ancient inhabitants of this
region. With the limited means at my command, and with numerous
pressing professional duties and cares, I was unable to carry forward
the explorations upon the scale which their importance appeared to
demand, but it is earnestly hoped that these investigations, however
imperfect, will be found an addition to knowledge which may serve as
a point of departure for future explorers in this interesting field. They
will not be without practical result if they should serve to form a basis
for the comparison of the crania and works of art of the races of the
stone-age of Tennessee and Kentucky with those of other parts of our
country and of foreign climes.”

The following is a brief abstract of the contents of the work:

Chapter I1.—Inquiries regarding the name and history of the ancient
race which inhabited in past ages the fertile valleys of Tennessee and
Kentucky, cailed by early explorers the Chaéuanins.

_ Chapter 11.—Ancient cemeteries. The so-called “mummies” discov-
ered in caves. Mode of burial practiced. Stone graves. Inquiry into
burial customs of the Indians.

Chapter 111.—Mounds, fortifications, and earth-works.

Chapter 1V.—Sites of aboriginal towns or encampments surrounded
by earth-works. Description of contents of mounds. Indian traditions.
Relations of early explorers and missionaries to the aborigines.

Chapter V.—Works of art, religious relics, sculptures, paintings, im-
plements, weapons, vases, culinary vessels, idols, shell ornaments.

Chapter VI.—Crania of the mound-builders—comparisons with those
from Mexico, Europe, &c. Discussion of the causes which led to the
rapid depopulation of the American continent after its discovery by
Columbus. General conclusions.
14 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Another paper intended for the Contributions is on the Haida Indians
of Queen Charlotte’s Islands, by James G. Swan. These islands con-
sist of a group in the Pacific Ocean, lying off the northwest coast of
America, seventy-five miles northwest from Vancouver's Island, and at
a distance from the main-land varying from sixty to a hundred miles.
They are inhabited by a tribe of Indians who in manners and customs
are somewhat different from the neighboring tribes on the main-land
and from those of Vancouver’s Island. In general appearance they
resemble the natives of the northwest coast of Asia. Their distinctive
features are apparent to the most casual observer. They are as a gen-
eral rule of large stature, with better proportions and lighter complexion
than the Selish tribe of Flatheads, inhabiting Washington Territory
and British Columbia. This difference is particularly marked among
the females. Those of the Haida tribe are tall and athletic, while the
Selish women are shorter, with a greater tendency to corpulency. These
people are especially distinguished for their carvings in stone and wood,
and also for their tattooing.

The memoir is illustrated with drawings of specimens of these carvings,
some of which are colored, and also with samples of tattooing, the lat-
ter copied by photography from the bodies of the Indians themselves.
Some of the carvings. represent posts or pillars placed in front of the
houses of the chiefs, and are sometimes from 40 to 50 feet high. They
are not intended as objects of worship, but as representations of the
“‘toten ” or heraldic insignia of the family occupying the house before
which they are erected. As the house generally contains several fami-
lies, the carving may be said to indicate the family names of all the occu-
pants. It is important to state that these carvings have a general like-
ness to those found in Central America.

The paper will be an interesting addition to ethnology, as affording
data for the comparison of the imitative art among the present and ex-
tinct races along the Pacific coast of America. It is by the author of
the work on the Makah Indians, of Cape Flattery, published not long
since by the Smithsonian Institution.

Besides the eighteenth volume of Contributions to Knowledge, the
tenth volume of Miscellaneous Collections has been published. It con-
sists of 913 octavo pages, and contains the following articles :

I. The Mollusks of Western North America; by Philip P. Carpenter,
B. A., Ph. D., embracing the second report made to the British Associa-
tion on this subject, with other papers; reprinted by permission, with a
general index ; pp. 446.

If. Arrangement of the families of Mollusks; prepared for the Smith-
sonian Institution by Theodore Gill, M. D., Ph. D., pp. 65.

IIL. Instructions for observations of thunder-storms, by Prof. Joseph
Henry, p. 1.

IV. Circular relative to heights; by Prof. Joseph Henry, pp. 2.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 15

V. Directions for constructing lightning-rods; by Prof. Joseph
Henry, pp. 3.

VI. Queries relative to tornadoes; by Prof. Joseph Henry, pp. 4.

VII. Questions relative to the food-fishes of the United States; by
Prof. S. F. Baird, pp. 7.

Vill. Memoranda of inquiry relative to the food-fishes of the United
States; by Prof. S. F. Baird, pp. 5.

IX. List of the institutions, libraries, colleges, and other establish-
ments in the United States in correspondence with the Smithsonian In-
stitution, pp. 259.

X. List of Foreign Correspondents of the Smithsonian Institution,
corrected to January, 1872, (fourth edition,) pp. 96.

XI. Check-List of Publications of the Smithsonian Institution, pp. 22.

The first article in this volume having not previously been described, the
following account of it will here be properly in place. Itis one of theseries
published by the Institution for facilitating the study of certain branches
of she natural history of North America. It may be recollected that
Mr. Philip P. Carpenter, a distinguished conchologist of England, when
visiting the United States in 185960, was engaged by the Institution
to arrange and name the shells collected by the United States exploring
expedition and those collected by other parties on the Pacific coast of
North America. Mr. Carpenter had previously presented to the British
Association a report on the Mollusks of the west coast of North America.
On his return to England he made, to the same society, a supplementary
report on this subject, embracing materials principally derived from the
Smithsonian Institution. In order to facilitate the study of this class
of animals by the American student, the reports in question and other
materials have been reprinted from the stereotype plates of the British
Association, kindly furnished the Institution for this purpose.

The propriety of this publication by the Smithson fund will be evi-
dent when it is Stated that the materials on which it is founded are
chiefly in the collection of the National Museum, under the charge of the
Institution, and the report of the British Association forms a series of
_volumes which cannot be purchased separately, and are therefore inac-
cessible to the working naturalists of this country, to whom the work is.
more especially important.

“The principal object in preparing the works,” says Mr. Carpenter,
‘is to collect and compare the writings of previous naturalists, se
that it might be possible for students to commence where I leave off
without being obliged to waste so large an amount of time as I have been.
compelled to do in analyzing the works of their predecessors.” To render
this work more useful an index has been prepared at the expense of the:
Institution, which, besides its importance to the general student of con-
chology, will be of special advantage to those who desire to study the
specimens in the national museum. This work will be a valuable addi:
16 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

tion to the literature of zoology, and will fill a void in the descriptive
history of the mollusca of this country. One of its chief merits is that
in it are collected together from many sources notices of the labors of
all previous investigators, and in many cases extracts of all that is im-
portant from their works. How much the publication of such mono-
graphs has tended to the advancement and acceleration of our knowledge
of any group, the past history of zoology amply shows.

Another article in this volume not previously described is that drawn
up by Professor Baird relative to inquiries as to the food-fishes of the
United States. It has been used by him in his capacity of United States
fish commissioner, but will be useful for reference to all who may be in-
terested in this subject. The questions relate to the names, distribution,
abundance, size, migration, relationship, food, reproduction, culture,
protection, disease, capture, and value of fishes.

The circular on lightning-rods was prepared to save time in answering
the frequent inquiries as to the best means of protection from lightning.
On this subject it is proper to remark that the country is overrun with
patented inventions for alleged improvements in lightning conductors.
Most of these are founded on misconceptions of established principles of
electricity, and although they may in most eases, if properly connected
with the earth, serve to conduct a discharge which would otherwise be
attended by serious consequences, harmlessly to the ground, yet they do
not possess the character as to improvements which is claimed for them
by their vendors.

The instructions for observations on thunder-storms originated in the
desire to obtain special information as to the origin, direction of move-
ment, and other facts relative to these interesting meteors, which are
intimately connected with tornadoes. The latter phenomenon occurs,
perhaps, more frequently in the United States than in any other country,
and from the devastatious which attend its progress over the surface of
the earth, it becomes an object worthy of attention of the public gener-
ally as well as the professed meteorologist.

Another publication forming a portion of the Miscellaneous Collections
is the third and completing part of a series of monographs of the Diptera,
or two-winged insects, of North America, by Baron Osten Sacken, late
of the Russian legation, and Dr. H. Loew, of Prussia. The first part was
published in 1862, and included the families of Trypetide, Sciomyzide,
Bphydrinide, and Cecidomyide. The second part appeared in 1866, and
consists principally of a monograph of the Dolichopodida. The fourth part
was issued in 1869, and embraces a monograph of part of the Tipulidae.
The third part, or that in question, includes the families of the Ortalide
and Trypetine. In variety of forms, says the author, the family of Orta-
lide is scarcely surpassed by any other Diptera; at the same time it is
hardly equaled by any in the structural differences occurring among the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. mid

individuals. Hence, it may be considered as one of the most interesting
families of the order. Nevertheless, but little has been done as yet for
the exact definition of its limits nor for its subdivision into smaller
eroups. It was, therefore, impossible to attempt a satisfactory descrip-
tion of the North American species of the Ortalide without first settling
the question of the true limits of the family, of the relationship of it to
other families, and of the character upon which it is established. This
preliminary work the author thinks he has successfully accomplished,
and presents his reasons for this in an introductory chapter, in which is.
reviewed what has previously been done on this point.

The Trypetide given in this part of the general work may be con-
sidered as a supplement to that published on the same family in the first
part of the series. This supplement has been rendered necessary by the
number of species of the family which have been found since the date
above mentioned. At that period only twenty-three North American
species were known. Since then the number has reached sixty-one, be-
sides a number of species of previous authors of which information has.
since been procured. The author has, therefore, adopted the form of a.
supplement to his previous paper.

The following remarks in regard to the series, are by Baron Osten
Sacken :

‘¢ As this will probably be the last volume of the present series of the
publication of which I have the care, a few words with regard to the use:
and aim of these volumes may not be out of place here. ‘The diptera,,
from the minuteness of their size and the extreme delicacy of the charac-.
ters upon which their classification is based, are without any doubt the:
most difficult to study of all the ordersofinsects. Tothe general difficulty
of the subject, the North American diptera add another one in their analo--
gies with the European fauna on the one side and the South American
on the other. At the same time the dipterological literature in the Eng--
lish language is not a rich one. The only eminent Hnglish dipterist, Mr.
Haliday, published so little that his superiority was known to his cor-
respondents much more than to the public in general. Other English
publications which exist are utterly insufficient for any scientific pur-
pose, and more apt to mislead than to teach. Now the volumes of the
Monographs, although they embrace but an inconsiderable fraction of
the whole dipterous fauna of this continent, show at least how the sub-.
ject has to be treated, how descriptions are to be drawn, what charac--
ters have to be noted, what analogies with the European and South:
American fauna occur, and with what care they have to be studied in
order to distinguish analogy from identity. Moreover, three of those:
four volumes are the work of the first dipterologist now living, who,
after Meigen, may be considered as the founder of scientific dipterology.
For all these reasons, I hope that the labor and expense bestowed upon
these publications will, after a time, bring its fruit, although it may not

be immediately.”
28
18 i REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Another article intended for the Miscellaneous Collections is a synop.
sis of American vespide, or wasps, by Professor De Saussure, of Geneva,
translated from the original manuscript by Mr. Edward Norton, of
Farmington, Conn. This work was commenced a number of years
ago, but owing to the absence of Mr. Norton from the country and
other causes of delay, it was suspended and has only been resume
during the last year. It will now be completed as rapidly as the cor
rected proof-sheets can be received from Switzerland. The character
of the work is given in the following extract from the introduction,
which also contains suggestions as to the philosophy of points of natu-
ral history well worth the attention of the general students of this
branch of science :

‘¢T propose in this volume not to give a general history of the wasps
of America, but only to lay the foundations of the fauna of the
vespide, principally of North America. I leave aside whatever con-
cerns the habits of these insects, on which we have but insufficient in-
formation, and shall confine myself to speaking of them with respect
to the genera or species which shall offer me some salient peculiarities.
This work is not to be taken for a mere catalogue of species, of no fur-
ther use than to satisfy curiosity. I think that modern zoology ought
to tend toward another aim. The existence of species, the composition
of fauna, their relations with the parts of the globe which they inhabit,
are not merely accidental facts. In my opinion we must therein detect
the last material and tangible manifestation of physiological forces, the
study of which belongs tothe domain of the highest natural philosophy.
By him who adopts this view of the subject a far-searching study of
species ought to be considered as one of the bases from which the
search after the origin of species may start.

“It would seem that in zoology we ought to take for a starting
point the actual existing forms in which life manifests itself, to ascend
thence up to the primitive stock, just as in geology we start from
the actual existing structure of rocks, and from the external configura-
tion of the soil follow up the concatenation of the ancient events which
have brought about as a last result the present state of the earth’s crust.

‘‘The study of species ought especially to serve as a means of reveal-
ing to us their variations and the affinities between them. These affini-
ties point to a common relationship which is to be explained only by a
direct filiation of the types. The study of forms, combined with that of
their geographical distribution, comes afterward to throw light on the
cause of the filiation which the graduated resemblances of the species
seem to reveal tous. It shows that this filiation obeys laws which have
also their regularity in so far as they are intimately connected with the
physical laws which hold sway in every region of our globe.

“Toward these grand philosophical questions zoology ought in our
time to tend, and species ought to be studied with a view to the solu-
tion of such questions. As in geology the study of the actual existing
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 19

state of the earth’s crust and the appreciation of the phenomena that
there take place, of the intimate transformation of rocks, of the
mechanical destruction of the layers, of their reconstruction under
new forms, allows us to draw an inference by analogy as to the more
ancient transformations and the agents which have produced them; so
the study of species and of their actual existing transformations seems
likely to enable us to follow up the chain of these transformations to a
point more or less close to their origin. The definition of the first di-
vergences observable in the permanent varieties, which may be consid-
ered as nascent species, in order to ascend afterward to the relation-
ship of species separated by the divergences more and more profound,
such is, we deem, the point of view under which we should never neglect
to study species.

“Zoology only when considered from this point of view is philo-
sophical. It has not its aim in itself; it serves only as a means to sift
questions of a higher order. Now, entomology is precisely the one of
the branches of zoology in which the study of the filiation of species
may become the most fecund in results, either on account of the multi-
tude of ramifications of general types and of the multiplicity of forms
under which each type appears, or on account of the smaliness of the
breaks which separate genera and species, or also on account of the
immense variety of forms and of the facility with which species seem to
become modified in proportion as they spread over the surface of the
globe in following diverging ways. Thanks to all these causes, it is not
difficult to find examples of every kind of filiation; not difficult, either,
to follow over latitudes certain modifications still recent which allow us
to draw an inference by analogy as to other modifications more profound
because they are more ancient, and as to others of a degree still more
advanced. .

‘¢ Unfortunately in our times the greater number of entomologists have
deviated too far from this philosophical path. They have turned ento-
mology into a sort of amusement, which has for its object the discovery
of new species; which loses itself in minutiz, and at the bottom: of
which there exists no thought. Thanks to this tendency, collecting has
ceased to be the means, and has become the object. In becoming an
amusement entomology has gradually lost caste; it has fallen into the
hands of dawdlers, and thus lost a part of its scientific character. This
transformation has led men who aim at reaching an elevated rank in
science to be too much inclined to withdraw from the field of entomology.

‘As may be anticipated from what precedes, my intimate purpose in
producing this work is to study the American fauna with a view to its
origin. But this is a work of time which cannot be completed off-hand.
The first thing to be done is to study carefully the species, to arrange
them according to a good classification, and to describe, while proceed-
ing, their affinities. That is the fundamental preparatory labor. 1
have not the pretension to overstep those limits in this monograph.
20 REPORT OF TUE SECRETARY.

The knowledge of the American fauna is, not yet advanced enough to
_ allow us to draw with certainty an inference as to the affinities of the
species between them so as to prejudge their filiation. However, I
have made more than one remark on this topie, and I will hazard a few
words on the matter when speaking of genera and species. But I re-
serve for another work the statement of comparisons which seem to me ~
to cast some light-on the dispersion of the vespide on the surface of the
globe and on the modifications which have been worked off under
diverse latitudes; in other terms, on the origin of actual existing faune.

“The complex affinities of species, and still more the filiations which
arise from these affinities, become obvious to the eye only when one
has acquired a perfect knowledge of the species and genera of a fauna.
To seize them in all their extent, it is necessary to know, as it were, all
the species of the group by heart in order to be able to take it in at a
glance, or to examine at pleasure each part in the picture that one has
formed in one’s memory. Only when one has attained this point in the
study of the group is it possible from the inspection of a species to feel
its affinities, for they do not always appear in the more easily appreci-
able characteristics. They often discover themselves in certain charac-
teristics of appearance which are, at times, of great importance, but
which are not seized at a glance, or in certain relationships of form,
which a long practice teaches one to distinguish easily, though they can
searcely be defined.

‘The first basis of philosophical zoology is the profound knowledge
of the detail of faune. To give an idea as complete as possible of the
faunze of the VESPID.a of America is the purpose of this volume.

“The plan which I have decided on, in drawing up this work, is the
following:

““T give as far as possible the complete deseription of the species
which belong to the fauna of North America, considering as such all
those which people the new continent to the north of the Isthmus of
Panama, including likewise the Antilles. This work is, therefore, more
especially a monograph of the vespidee of the United States, of Mexico,
and of the Antilles. Besides, I have added, as a complement, the catia-
logue of all the species known till now in the rest of America, and I
have found ita great advantage for the classification, the method becom-
ing thus more complete. Moreover, this plan allows me to enunciate
views on the geography of insects, on the dispersion of the species, and
on the modifications which take place under the influence of diverse
latitudes.

‘“T have confined myself, for the species of South America, to making
a.catalogue of them, not having materials sufficient for a monograph.
For those, however, of which I had the types under my eyes, I have
given Latin diagnoses, in order to present them in a comparative
manner with respect to the surrounding species and also to complete
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 21

my previous studies of these insects, as well as to resume them and
render their use more easy.

“T think myself bound to add here that as to my method of descrip-
tion, I describe as much as possible the species in a relative manner.
Descriptions made in an absolute sense have always appeared to me less
useful, because they insist on many useless eharacteristics and omit
often the most important. The reader will not, therefore, he surprised
at my not repeating, with respect to genera, the characteristics proper
to every species or to the greatest number. In short, there are still
other characteristics which I pass over, considering them rather useless,
either on account of their constancy (such as the presence of silky hairs
on the tibiz) or on account of their variableness, such as the color of
the lower surface of the abdomen.

“¢ Descriptions are often made tedious by means of these superfluous
indications and thus the essential characteristics are drowned in useless
developments. In this way, precision is impaired instead of being
inereased. Doubtless, here again nothing is absolute. Certain isolated
species may be sufficiently characterized by some salient traits, while
others, surrounded by very closely connected species, require minute
descriptions.

‘Absolute and very detailed descriptions ought, in my opinion, to be
employed when one describes a species isolatedly without knowing the
most closely connected types, (for instance in the publications of geo-
graphical expeditions.) It is the monographer’s duty to eliminate from
these descriptions both the common-place and the useless. But in a
monograph, the species are to be examined in a comparative manner
and relatively to the adjacent types.

“ The first condition of good comparative diagnoses resides in a wise
co-ordination of the species which by way of exclusion may lead to
choosing only between a small number of species. Though I do not
like to find fault, I cannot, however, on this score, help complaining of.
the works in which the species, though described in an absolute manner,
(that is by themselves and not comparatively with others,) are jumbled
up together, without order, without division of genera, often in defiance
ot the most salient characteristics.

‘¢ Such works, got up ina hurry, the plansof which are laid down with
a view to the convenience of the authors and not for that of the readers,
cause the latter to lose much valuable time with no great result. They
do not come up to the precision now required by the progress of science,
and they are, therefore, behind their time. The reader cannot occupy
bis mind with incomplete works, nor can he waste his time in striving
to find out species which are not to be found out; for there is no doing
im possibilities. 4

“Tn most of my descriptions I have been especially attentive to the=
forms and characteristics of the form and marking, attributing to the”
color only a secondary importance, on account of its frequent variable-
DD, REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

ness. However, there is nothing absolutely fixed in nature; the forms
aud the marking, likewise, vary within certain limits. Therefore, the
descriptions can only be averages deduced from a certain number of
individuals.

‘“ Theoretically, the description ought to represent, as it were, the alge-
braical formula of the species or its ideal type. It is not required that
the description should tally with the individual, but, on the contrary,
that it should represent the average of the characteristics of the en-
semble of individuals. But in practice the description can never be so
perfect, since it is drawn from a certain number of individuals and not
from the ensembleof theindividualsthat represent the species. It is for
the reader to know how to seize the connection that exists between the
description and the even heterogeneous individuals which he may have
beneath his eye. In a word, my method of description aims above all
at generalizing, and requires that the reader should generalize likewise.
It cannot suit much the amateur inclined to lose himself in a multi-
plicity of details, for whom the collection takes the place of nature, and
for whom the determination of an individual is the final purpose of the
study of a species.

‘“‘Hrom the principles just laid down it follows that, in the extreme
subdivisions of genera, | have usually preferred the characteristics
taken from the form to those taken from the color. Undoubtedly it is
less convenientfor the reader, for the natural method is always less easy
to follow than the empirical system ; nevertheless I think that it is pret-
erable to proceed in that wise, for whatever may be done to seek the
natural method a large portion of empiricism is sure to remain,as I shall
endeavor to show, in the study concerning the filiation of the species.
We cannot, therefore, eliminate too carefully from classification, empiri-
cal elements.

‘¢ Tt is necessary to observe on this head that no absolute rule can be
laid down as to the insubordination of characteristics. To be sure,
forms varying less than colors, they offer, in general, characteristics
more important than the latter; but there is, however, now and then a
case in which the colors are more fixed than certain forms, and assume
a real importance; for instance, as being the stamp peculiar to a certain
geographical zone. Thus, the division Hypodynerus, (genus Odynerus,)
which depends greatly on the colors and facies, and which comprises the
most divergent forms. In this case the livery becomes the casket of a
fauna, and is very important. In the succession of species it is gener-
ally observed that the colors vary much even when the forms remain
fixed (or vary less;) but there are other cases in which it is color that
remains stationary while the forms vary.”

In the Smithsonian report for 1858, a paper was published on the
method of collecting and preserving isects, prepared by Baron Osten
Sacken, of the Russian legation, with contributions by other eminent
entomologists, which has rendered valuable serviee in the way of
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 3,

awakening an interest in entomology, and in facilitating the collecting
of specimens. It was, however, not stereotyped; and as the methods
of gathering and preserving insects have been much improved since the
date of its preparation, it has been thought advisable to request Dr. A.
S. Packard, jr., a leading authority on entomology, to furnish a new
treatise on the same subject. In compliance with this request he has
prepared a work corresponding with the present state of our knowledge.
This work was published during the past year, and forms an octavo
pamphlet of58 pages, with 55 illustrations.

Two other articles, which will form parts of the eleventh volume of
the Miscellaneous Collections, and will constitute a part of the series
for facilitating the study of certain branches of natural history, are
a continuation of works previously prepared by Dr. John Le Conte,
of Philadelphia, on the North American Coleoptera, and published by
the Institution. One of these consists of a description of new species
of coleoptera, described since the publication of the first work on the
same subject, and the other a supplement of the ‘‘Classification of the
coleoptera of North America.” The object of these works, as far as they
relate to the genera of coleoptera, is to enable those who have a desire
beyond that of merely collecting specimens to acquire sufficient infor-
mation to enable them to consult with profit the various works in which
are contained the descriptions of the species. The parts now printed
comprise one hundred and forty pages, and will be followed by other
supplements, descriptive of such other species as may be obtained from
Smithsonian collaborators and other sources.

In the report for 1856, is given a plan by the late Mr. Charles Babbage,
of London, of a series of tables to be entitled the ‘“‘ Constants of Nature
and Art.” These tables were to contain all the facts which can be ex-
pressed by numbers, in the various sciences and arts, such as the atomic
weight of bodies, specific gravity, elasticity, specific heat, conducting
power, melting point, weight of different gases, liquids, and solids,
strength of different materials, velocity of sound, of cannon-balls, of elec-
tricity, of light, of flight of birds and speed of animals, list of refractive
indices, dispersive indices, polarizing angles, &e.

The value of such a work, as an aid to original investigation, as well
as in the application of science to the useful arts, can scarcely be esti-
mated. ‘To carry out the idea fully, however, would require much labor
and perhaps the united effort of different institutions and individuals,
devoted to special lines of research. Any part of the entire plan, may,
however, be completed in itself, and will have a proportionate value to.
that of the whole. The Institution commenced about fifteen years ago.
to collect materials on several of the points of this general plan, under
the direction of Professors John and Joseph Le Conte, then of the Uni-
24 ' REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

versity of South Carolina, now of the University of California. The
occurrence of the war, however, interrupted the work, which has not
Since been resumed until the present year, when an offer was made by
Professor F. W. Clarke, of Boston, of a series of tables on specific gravi-
ties, botling-points, and melting-points of bodies, compiled from the
best authorities. This offer was accepted, and the work has been printed.
It embraces all the reliable material in the English, French, German, and
Italian languages on the foregoing subjects, with the exception of the
Specific gravity of solutions, for which reference is made to Storer’s
Dictionary of Solubilities, a work which will form part of the same gen-
eral plan and ought to have been published by the Institution, but un-
fortunately at the time it was offered for this purpose our funds were not
in a condition to defray the expense of printing. It has since been pub-
lished as a private enterprise, and is highly prized by the working
chemist.

Professor Clarke is still engaged on the same coma subject, and
proposes to extend his compilation of tables to include those of specific
heat, conductivity of heat, thermal expansibility, and thermo-chemical
equations for solids and liquids. This, beginning we trust will induce
other members of the corps of the Smithsonian collaborators to under-
take other parts of the general plan of the constants of nature and art,
to be published, from time to time, as they may be prepared. The work
being stereotyped, the several parts can be finally combined and arranged
as portions of a whole, whatever may be the order of their publication.

Among the ‘“‘ miscellaneous” publications during the year was the first
lecture of the course founded by Dr. J. M. Toner, of Washington, by
Dr. J. J. Woodward, assistant surgeon, United States Army, ‘“ On the
structure of cancerous tumors, and the mode in which adjacent parts
are invaded.” In the report for 1872 an account was given of this fund
established by Dr. Toner, the interest to be applied for at least two lec-
tures or essays annually, relative to some branch of medical science,
and containing some new truth fully established by experiment or obser-
vation. As these lectures are intended to increase and diffuse knowledge,
they have been accepted for publication in the ‘¢‘Smithsonian Miscella-
neous Collections.”

It was stated in the last report that Congress had adjourned without
ordering extra copies of the report for 1871. At the beginning of the
next session, however, a resolution was adopted directing the printing,
as usual, of 12,500 copies. An equal number of the report for 1872
was also ordered at the same session; 2,500 for the use of the Senate,
5,000 for the House of Representatives, and 5,000 for the Institution.
This volume contains, besides the report of the secretary on the opera-
tions:of the Institution for the year 1872, the report of the executive
committee and journal of proceedings of the Board of Regents, the usuat
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 25

appendix of scientific papers, communications, translations, &e., of
special interest to the meteorological observers, teachers, and scientific
correspondents of the Institution.

Among these articles is a lecture by Prof. A. P. Peabody, on the
scientific education of mechanics and artisans; aboriginal trade and
North American stone implements, by Chas. Rau; optical mineralogy,
by Brezina; the troglodytes of the Vézére, by Paul de Broca; organic
bases, by Bauer; boundary of geology and history, by Suess; phe-
nomena observed in telegraphic lines, by Donati; nitrogen. and its
compounds, by Kletzinski; biographical notice of Lartet, by Fischer ;
eulogy on’ Ampére, by Arago; lecture on the meteorology of Russia,
by Dr. Woeikof, and a large number of original communications rela-
tive to antiquities in various parts of the United States, &c. In this
volume may also be found a full account of the Bache bequest, the
‘Tyndall trust-fund for the advance of science, the Coreoran art-gallery,
the Toner foundation, and the Hamilton bequest.

EXCHANGES.

The system of international exchanges, which has now beeu in opera-
tion for upward of twenty years, has been prosecuted during the last
year with increased efficiency. It now includes 2,145 foreign institu-
tions to which packages of books or specimens are sent and from which
others are received. In the case of the system of exchanges, as in all
the other operations of the Smithsonian establishment, the tendency is to
an enlargement beyond the means at our command. Although, through
the liberality of the several steamship companies, the packages are
transmitted across the Atlantic free of cost, yet the expense of sending
them to New York and from the sea-board to the centers of distribution
in Kurope, together with the payment of the several agents, has become
so great that a much further extension of the system cannot be made
without aid from other sources. :

The system is, however, of so much importance, not only in rendering
known what is done in the United States in the way of advancing liter-
ature and science to the world abroad, but also in diffusing a knowledge
extensively through this country of the progress of science in the various
parts of the Old World, that any check in its natural increase would
be greatly to be deplored. It has, therefore, been suggested that an
appeal be made to the various parties most interested in the contin-
uanee and enlargement of this system for a small annual contribution
toward its future support and still more efficient management. Indeed,
the benefit which the Institution is conferring, through this system, upon
the parties most interested, appears in many cases to have ceased to be’
properly appreciated. They receive the advantages which flow from it”
as a matter of course, as they do those of the free air, and not asa gratuity ”
onan REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

from the Smithson fund, the importance of which can only be properly
appreciated by a deprivation of it for a short time. We infer this from
the fact of the character of the complaints we frequently receive on ac-
count of accidental delay in packages reaching their destination, al-
though in some instances the delay may have been occasioned by a want
of proper directions on the part of the senders of the packages.

The centers of reception and distribution of European exchanges still
continue the same as given in previous reports, viz: London, Paris,
Leipsic, Amsterdam, St. Petersburg, Milan, with the addition of one at
Brussels. The agency at London has for many years been in charge of
Mr. William Wesley, whose fidelity and unremitted attention to the trust
entitle him to an appreciative acknowledgment of the Board of Regents,
and the same may be said of Dr. Felix Fitigel, of Leipsic, and Mr. G.
Bossange, of Paris. The center at St. Petersburg is under the charge
of L. Watkins & Co., booksellers, and that at Amsterdam under Mr.
red. Miller, who have efficiently contributed to the success of the
enterprise in these countries. The center in Italy is under the charge
of U. Heepli, as agent for the Royal Institute of Milan.

The expense of transportation is very much increased by sending single
packages separately, and therefore, whenever possible, without undue
delay, economy is consulted by transmitting the exchanges at regular
periods in larger numbers. Arrangements have been made so that
invoices of packages are forwarded from this country at least once a
month, except in the months of August, September, and October.

The following table exhibits the number of establishments in each
country with which the Smithsonian is at present in correspondence :

Sweden 1 NEN ee 25°) Burke yest ess Pi aeese/ eee 11
ENOLWay 7 fen tees eater ew tee Q37 A BriGae soe Sere ee eee 18
CUA Kee Me aN DOA Sia SOME LS re LOO 36
IOUS STA HR ORES se ate ay POT) CATS traligeer Sa Seer ee 26
Ebola? Pie Bae eo iY 65 | New Zealand .-...-2..---2 iL
Germany sees Eee DSt | AP oOkymesiahs eects fees ee 1
Switverland os ool sey 68 | South America.....--..... 33
Belen Von Vee egal ws 197) Wiest’ Indies: oo. Ayes dell
RMrance sees ee i Os BEE DOT NOx COM a craeic rs ete Semen 8
Neary see SO ELE 167 | Central America ........-- 1
POT EU Sal enn aed ets 21 | British Ameri¢a.-.-....-.- 27
SPAM) 2 ey A ee ds ee 12 | Generali eos e2. 6s eae 5
Great Britain and Ireland... 412

Greece! oo. seas 22k f Totals 22273'i. I aaa 2,145

As in previous years, the Institution has received important aid from
various steamer and railroad lines in the way of free freights, without
which the expense of carrying on the system would be far beyond the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 27

means at command. Acknowledgment is again due for the liberality
of the following companies :. ata

Pacific Mail Steamship Company, | Hamburg American Packet Com-
Panama Railroad Company, pany, Fa
Pacitic Steam Navigation Comp’ny, | French Transatlantic Company,
New York and Mexico Steamship | North Baltic Lloyds Steamship

Company, _ Company,
New York and Brazil Steamship | Inman Steamship Company,
Company, Cunard Steamship Company,

North German Lloyds Steamship | Anchor Steamship Company.
Company, ;

We present the foregoing list with much pleasure, not only as an
acknowledgment of the liberality of the companies mentioned, but also
as a very gratifying illustration of the high appreciation of the opera:
tions of the Institution.

LIBRARY.

The union of the library of the Institution with that of Congress still
continues to be productive of important results. The Smithson fund
is relieved by this arrangement from the maintenance of a separate
library, while at the same time the Institution has not only the free use
of its own books, but also those of the library of Congress. On the
other hand, the collection of books owned by Congress would not be
worthy the name of a national library were it not for the Smithsonian
deposit. The books which it receives from this source are eminently
those which exhibit the progress of the world in civilization, and are
emphatically those essential to the contemporaneous advance of our
country in the higher science of the day. The collection of books
now in the library of Congress is over a quarter of a million, and, with
the present rate of increase, in less than twenty years will be double
that number.

To accommodate this immense collection, Congress has in contempla-
tion the construction of a new building, and has authorized a commis-
sion to select plans and to supervise the location and erection of an
edifice.

tatement of the books, maps, and charts received by exchange in 1873.

Volumes:
Quarto orlarserseerg hs. 4 nea k ek ee Sepeine Ao 200)
Octavororilessese anes ste eee Lees ree Boe 3 633
889
Parts of volumes :
Quarto tor larger? Wise 9s. Ae Ae EIN SO Le SBuOg. 1, 467
Octavowor lessees joie etic etal e cs Cesseiesicbeie 1, 407%

2, S74.

28 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Pamphlets :

Quarto, or Jarger.............- old avGusteier Sh aleve tars. st oretenae 326
Octavolomless sac 00, 22 tae eee Ce nn 2 sists » 1,154
1, 480
Maps amclieharts i525 ele Fe Na ea ea eae goalie anne acc 454
Potal receipts ye ee eye ee ree eee ere 5, 697

Some of the most important donations received in 1873 are as follows:

From the Emperor of Germany: The fresco paintings of W. von
Kaulbach in the interior stair-case of the Royal Museum at Ber-
lin; 12 parts; imp. folio; oblong ;. 1853-1871. Schasler, (Dr. M.,) Die
Wandgemalde Wilhelm v. Kaulbach im neuen museum zu Berlin; 1
vol., 4to. Schneider, Der Kénigliche Kronen-Orden; 1871, 4to.
Schneider, Das Buch vom Schwarzen Adler-Orden; 1870, 4to. Schnei-
der, Das Buch vom Hisernen Kreuze; 1872, 4to. Schneider, Das Ver-
dienst Kreuz; 1872, 4to. Schneider, Die Kriegsdenkmiinze fiir den
Feldzug; 1870, 1871, 1872, 4to. Haack, Skizzen aus dem Feldzuge ge-
gen Frankreich ; 1870, 1871, 4to. Schneider, Der Rothe Adler-Orden;
1868, 4to. Hans Burghmaiers Turnier-Buch. Diirer-Album, Herausge-
geben von W. v. Kaulbach and A. Kreling ; folio.

From the Royal Academy of Sciences, Lisbon: 45 vols. and 12 parts;
continuation of memoirs and other publications of the academy.

From the Catholic University of Louvain: “Annales,” 10 volumes,
4to.; “Annuaire,” 3 volumes and 17 theses.

From the government of Bengal: Descriptive ethnology of Bengal,
illustrated by lithograph-portraits copied from photographs. Calcutta,
1872, Ato.

From the War Department, Vienna: 384 charts.

From Prof. Edward Morren, Liege: Bulletin de la Fédération des So-
cietés d’Horticulture, 1860-1871, 13 vols.; Journal d’Agriculture pra-
tique, vols. I-X; Bulletin de Congrés International de Botanique et
@ Horticulture, 1865; La Belgique Horticole, 1871, 1872, Se.

From His Highness, Ismael I, Khedive of Egypt: Album du Musée
du Boulaq, comprenant quarante planches photographiées par MM. Dé-
lié et Béchard avec un texte explicatif rédigé par Auguste Mariette
Bey. le Caire, 1871; folio.

From the National University, Athens, Greece: Catalogue of Ancient
Coins; voi. 1, 4to. (Greek.)

From the University of Halle: 77 pamphlets; inaugural disserta-
tions.

From the University of Greifswald: 70 inaugural dissertations.

From the University of Erlangen: 27 inaugural dissertations.

from Prof. K. Koch, Berlin: 50 inaugural dissertations.

From the Italian government, Rome: 41 volumes, 62 pamphlets, gov-
ernment publications.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 29

From the government of Belgium: 16 volumes and 3 pamphlets, gov-
ernment publications.

From the Société de Géographie, Paris: Voyage @Exploration in In-
do-Chine, 1866, 1867, 1868; vols. 1, 2; atlas 1, 2, 1873; folio, and “ Bul-
letin” for 1873

From Mr. William Blackmore, London: Portfolio of photographs of
some of the principal objects in the British Museum.

From Mr. Charles Harrison, London: Chaldean account of the deluge,
from terra-cotta tablets found at Nineveh and now in the British Mu-
seum.

Amon g the donations of special interest during the past year is the pho-
tographic album of the museum at Boulaq, Egypt, containing forty folko
plates with an explanatory text by Auguste Mariette Bey, printed at
Cairo in 1871, and presented to the Institution by the Khedive of Egypt,
through the Mei cahen of Gen. Stone. This museum is situated on
the borders of the Nile, near Cairo, and consists of a collection of all the
antiquities that have been discovered of late years in Egypt.

After the immense number of antiquities which have been taken from
that country to enrich all the principal museums of the civilized world,
itis astonishing to observe how much remains, and how much by the
enlightened munificence of the present ruler of Hgypt has been preserved.

Ten of the plates of this album exhibit the statues of the Egyptian
gods, nearly four hundred in number. The next division, consisting of
seven plates, illustrates the funeral monuments. The next division is
that of the civil monuments; these relate to their every-day life, their
manners, customs, and arts. The next illustrates the historical remains.
The last division is that of the Greek and Roman monuments.

Another work of great beauty and interest is that published by Mrs.
Caroline E. G. Peale, the widow of Franklin Peale, of Philadelphia, as a
memorial of her Pivented husband. It consists of a series of beautiful
photograph illustrations of specimens of the stone age of the human race,
collected and arranged by Mr. Peale himself, with a catalogue and intro-
duction, and a reprint of the various communications made by him to
the Ae ican Philosophical Society.

This work is a valuable contribution to the ethnology of the United
States. The photographs are among the best specimens of the art
which have been produced in this country, and exhibit the specimens
with such minuteness and fidelity as to serve to the student in archzol-
ogy almost as a complete substitute for the specimens themselves.
This work is truly a refined and intellectual tribute by an affectionate
wife to the memory of her deceased husband—a tribute far more appro-
priate, and far more interesting to the public, than an unattesting mon-
ument of marble or of bronze. As human culture advances, the material
mementos which only address the eye are replaced by those which are
almost purely of an intellectual character.
@) REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

SE)

METEOROLOGY.

In 1850 the Smithsonian Institution published an extended series of
investigations in regard to the winds of North America, by Professor J.
H. Coffin, of Lafayette College, Kaston, Pennsylvania. In the produc-
tion of this work Professor Coffin was assisted by the Institution in
furnishing materials from its collections, and funds to defray the expense
of the arithmetical calculations from the income of the Smithson bequest,
the labors of the professor himself being gratuitous. Since the publi-
eation of this work, which has been largely made use of by the British
board of trade in constructing its wind charts of the northern oceans,
and by different authors in compiling and elaborating special treatises
on meteorology, the Institution has continued to collect new materials
in regard to the winds of the earth, and instead of elaborating from
these a supplement to the previous treatise on the winds of the northern
hemisphere, it was concluded to adopt the plan proposed by Professor
Coffin of making a discussion of the winds of both hemispheres. The
materials for this discussion are: First, all the observations reported to
the Smithsonian Institution from 1856 to 1870; second, all those made
at the United States military posts; third, all those at sea collected at
the United States Naval Observatory by Capt. Maury; fourth, all those
taken at sea in the Arctic and Antarctic regions; fifth, those at several
hurdred stations in other parts of the globe.

The greatest labor of the work was principally finished by Professor
Coffin, when science and humanity were called to mourn the death of
this most highly esteemed collaborator of the Institution. The continu-
ation, however, of the tables was undertaken by the son of our lamented
friend, Prof. 8S. J. Coffin, who has completed this work with that con-
scientious sentiment of filial reverence which well becomes the appreci-
ative successor of so worthy a father. Very little, however, was finished
by the elder Professor Coffin in the way of expressing, in general proposi-
tions, the results contained in the vast amount of numerical tables which
he had elaborated. To supply this deficiency, fortunately, the Institu-
tion was enabled to avail itself of the assistance of Dr. Woeikof, member
of the Geographical Society of Russia and late secretary of its meteoro-
logical commission, who, visiting this country for the study of its climat-
ology, cheerfully undertook the required work. This gentleman is now
engaged in adding the result of some new materials to the tables and in
preparing the deductions from them for publication. The work, when
finished, will do honor to the industry and scientific reputation of Pro-
fessor Coffin and to the policy of the Smithsonian Institution.

The work of the reduction of temperatures has been prosecuted during
the past year as rapidly as our means will permit. The labor, however,
is very great, and consequently the work must be slow, unless a larger
force be put upon it. The observations are not confined to those which
have been made immediately under the direction of the Smithsonian In-
stitution, but also include all those relative to North America which
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 31

have ever been published in this country or in Europe. But as these
are made not only at different hours of the day, but also at different
numbers of hours, to reduce these ail to a fixed number of hours, and to
deduce from them thus reduced the mean temperatures required, in-
volves a far greater amount of labor than if the observations had been
made in accordance with one system. It was to facilitate this reduction
that the preliminary tables mentioned in the last report.were constructed.

Complete tables have been prepared of temperatures for the following:
Iceland, Greenland, British North America, Alabama, Alaska, Arizona,
Arkansas, California, Colorado, Dakota, Delaware, Idaho, Indian Ter-
ritory, Illinois, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire, New
Mexico, New York, Maine, Oregon, Utah, West Virginia, Washington
Territory, Wyoming.

In addition to this work, tables showing the latitude, longitude, and
mean annual temperature of all the stations in the United States were
prepared for the Census Ojfice.

It has been from the first a part of the policy of this Institution to
devote its energies to no field of research which can be as well culti-
vated by other means; and the United States Government having
established a system of meteorological observations, and having made
liberal appropriation for its support, it has been thought, as was stated
in the last report, for the best interest of the science to transfer the
system of meteorological observatious which has been so long continued
by the Institution to that of the War Department, under the Chief Sig-
nal-Oflicer, General Myer.

The propriety of this transfer will be evident from the fact that the
Institution has not the means of paying for printing blanks, postage, and
the calculation and monthly publication of the results, especially since
the assistance which has heretofore been rendered in this way, by the
Department of Agriculture, is now discontinued; furthermore, General
Myer can combine these observations with those made with standard
instruments now under his charge, and out of the whole form a more
extended and harmonious system than any at present in existence.

This transfer, which has just been made, we trust will meet the appro-
bation of the observers generally, and we hope they will continue their
voluntary co-operation, not with the expectation of being fully repaid
for their unremitted labor, in many cases for a long series of years, but
from the gratification which must result from the consciousness of hav-
ing contributed to increase the sum of human knowledge. We trust
also that the observers will continue to cherish an interest in the welfare
and progress of the Smithsonian Institution, while, on our part, we shall
in all cases, and at all times, be pleased to continue to answer any com-
munication which may be addressed to us by them on scientific subjects.

We shall retain all the records of observations which have been ac-
cumulating at the Institution during the last twenty-five years, and
continue the work of their reduction and discussion up to the end of
the year 1873.
oe REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.
TELEGRAPHIC ANNOUNCEMENTS OF ASTRONOMICAL DISCOVERIES.

During the past year a very important arrangement has been con-
cluded between the Smithsonian Institution and the Atlantic cable com-
panies, by which is guaranteed the free transmission by telegraph be-
tween Hurope and America of accounts of astronomical discoveries, .
which, for the purpose of co-operative observation, require immediate
announcement. :

Among such discoveries are those of planets and comets, or of bodies
which are generally so faint as not to be seen except through the tele-
scope; and which being in motion, their place in the heavens must be
made known to the distant observer before they so far change their posi-
tion as not to be readily found. For this purpose the ordinary mail-
conveyance, requiring at least ten days, is too slow, since in that time the
body will have so far changed its position as not to be found except
with great difficulty; and this change will become the greater if the
body is a very faint one, for in that case it could only be discovered on
a night free from moonlight, which of necessity, in ten or twelve days,
must be followed by nights on which the sky is illuminated by the moon,
and all attempts to discover the object would have to be postponed until
the recurrence of a dark night. Indeed, even then the search often
proves in vain; and it is not, in some cases, until after a set of approxi-
mate elements are calculated and transmitted, that the astronomers on |
the two sides of the Atlantic are able fully to co-operate with each other.

These difficulties were discussed by some of the principal astronomers
of Europe, and an application was made to the Smithsonian Institution,
through Dr. C. H. F. Peters, of Hamilton College, New York, to remove
them, by transmitting intelligence immediately through the Atlantic tele-
graph cable. For this purpose the Institution applied to the New York,
Newfoundland and London Telegraph and to the Western Union Tele-
graph Companies to be allowed free transmission of this kind of intelli-
gence, and it has received, through Cyrus W. Field, esq., and William
Orton, esq., with that liberality which has always attended applications
of a similar character by the Institution, the free use of all the lines of
these companies for the object in question.

Similar privileges have been granted for transmitting the intelligence
between the principal centers of astronomical research in Europe and
the eastern ends of the Atlantic cabies.

Although the discovery of planets and comets will probably be the
principal subject of the cable-telegrams, yet it is not intended to restrict
the transmission of intelligence solely to that class of observation.
Any remarkable solar phenomenon presenting itself suddenly in Hu-
rope, observations of which may be practicable in America several hours
after the sun has set to the European observer ; the sudden outburst of
some variable star, similar to that which appeared in Corona borealis
in 1866; unexpected showers of shooting-stars, &c., would be proper
subjects for transmission by cable.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. So

The announcement of this arrangement has called forth the approba-
tion of the astronomers of the world; and in regard to it we may quote
the following passage from the fifty-fourth annual report of the Royal
Astronomical Society of England :

“The great value of this concession on the part of the Atlantic telegraph
and other companies cannot be too highly prized, and our science must
certainly be the gainer by this disinterested act of liberality. Already
planets discovered in America have been observed in Kurope on the
evening following the receipt of the telegram, or within two or three
days of their discovery.”

To carry out the proposition, the following arrangements have been
adopted:

Center of communication in the United States :

1. The Smithsonian Institution, Joseph Henry, director.
Centers of communication im irropels
1. Greenwich Observatory, Sir George B. Airy, sen HUeIEROROR
2. Paris Observatory, M. Leverrier. director.
3. Berlin Observatory, Prof. W. Foerster, director.
4, Vienna Observatory, Academy of Sciences, Prof. von Littrow,
director.
5. Pulkova Observatory, M. Struvé, director.

Telegrams received at the Smithsonian Institution from observers in
the United States will be forwarded immediately by Atlantic cable to
Greenwich, Paris, Berlin, Vienna, and Pulkova, and thence by telegraph
to other observatories in Europe.

Directions.—Discoveries made in Europe of new comets, planets, &c.,
will be announced without delay from Greenwich, Paris, Berlin, Vienna,
or Pulkova by Atlantic cable to the Smithsonian Institution, and thence
by telegraph to American observatories and the Associated Press.

The telegraphic dispatch announeing a discovery should be as brief
as possible; and, after conference with astronomers, the following form
has been agreed upon:

After the single word “ planet” (or “‘ comet”) is given,

(1st) its right ascension in time, hours and minutes only; next,
separated by the word

(2d) north or south, is given its

(3d) declination to the nearest minute.

In the case of a planet, in addition to the foregoing follows finally the
magnitude expressed by the nearest ordinal number. In the case of a
comet follows the word bright or faint, and it is well to add the direction
of motion, requiring at the utmost two words combined, of S. W. N. E.;
and also, if rapid, the quantity of its daily motion, the latter to the
nearest whole number in degrees. For example, the following dispateh,
“ Planet twenty-three thirty-five north twenty-one forty-six eleventh,”
would be interpreted: A new planet is discovered in 23" 35™ of right
ascension and +21° 46’ of declination; eleventh magnitude.

Ora Mapatch like the following : “‘ Comet twenty-two forty-three north

Ss)
34 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

sixty-five thirty-one bright southeast three,” would announce the diseov-
ery of a bright comet in right ascension 22" 43™; declination + 65° 31;
the declination decreasing, right ascension increasing, daily motion about
three degrees.

The preceding examples contain the greatest number of words re-
quired for any one dispatch, if composed according to the rule adopted.
Usually they will not exceed ten. Sometimes, however, the dispatch
thus composed would become equivocal, and it has therefore been estab-
lished as an additional rule that the number expressing the minutes of
right ascension or declination shall always be expressed in words, even
when zero occurs. Therefore, 23" 0™ should be written “ twenty-three
nought,” while ‘‘twenty three” will be understood to mean 20" 3". In
a similar way 0" of right ascension or 0° of declination are to be dis-
tinctly expressed by the word “nought.”

The right ascension and declination in the dispatch will be understood
to give the position (by proper motion approximately reduced) for the
midnight following the date of the dispatch : Washington time for Amer-
ican discoveries, Greenwich time for European.

Since, in conformity with the preceding article, only an approximate
estimate of a later position, and not that of the first observation itseli,
is given, the dispatch is not to be considered asa document for deciding
the question of priority of discovery.

We trust the time is not distant when, with the completion of a tele-
graphic cable between Japan and the United States, this system will be
extended to the eastern part of Asia, and the astronomers who are now
in process of education in the United States, both from China and Japan,
will be able to participate in the facilities thus offered for co-operation in
the advance of astronomy. In connection with the publication of this cir-
cular, the National Academy of Sciences, at its meeting on the 15th of
April, adopted a resolution recommending that amateur astronomers de-
vote aportion of their time to sweeping the sky for the discovery of comets.

The following is.a list of the announcements during 1873:

i=
Discovery. pe From whom. Place. ae Declination. Magnitude.
A
1873. h. ™. One
Planet... Feb. 18 | Peters --.-.- Clinton, N. Y.-..--- TOWAO RNG 13 40 | N. | Eleventh.
Planet ....- May 26 | Peters --..-- Clinton Navan e cet 16 14] S. 21 18 | W. | Eleventh.
Comet ..-.-. July 5 | Tempel..--. AVAlemM a ea eee OY Se 4 34
Planet. ..-: July 14 ‘Watson..... Ann Arbor, Mich - 1716] §&. 21 43 | N. | Eleventh.
Comet ..... July 27 | Borelli.-.-.. Marseilles .-....-. 114] 8. 7 32)5.E
Planet ...-. Aug. 17 | Watson..... Ann Arbor, Mich . 23012) ats. 240) 8 Eleventh.
Comet ..-.. Aug. 21 | Borelli...-.. Marseilles ......- 2 Ne 38 45 | §
Comet ..... ENTRY OPH eB soso es ae NAG Ny Sse osoodaae R29 eG 3655) 8
Comet .-.--. Aug. 24 | Henry .----. JebhelS \Sadeacaboose rgaoiden ase 59 30 | E.
Planet... ... Sept. 27 | Luther ..-.-. Diisseldorff .....-.- OFRie | PEN: 753) S. | Tenth.
Comet .---- Nov. 11 | Coggia-.-.-.- Marseilles ......-. 16 23] N. 27 26 | S.W.
Comet ..... INOvagl oulbamenccaewuene Videptia, 3. tegen: 16 4] N. 22 6 |S.W

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 35
NATIONAL MUSEUM.

The appropriation by Congress of $15,000 for the support and exhibi-
tion of the museum was continued last year. This appropriation, how-
ever, was scarcely sufficient to defray the expenses; ‘but as Congress
within the last two years had also granted $12,000 for heating-apparatus,
and $25,000 for the fitting up with cases of additional rooms for the
accommodation of the collections, a larger sum than $15,000 was not
asked for the care of the specimens. During the last year a steam-
heating apparatus has been introduced under the direction of Lewis
H. Leeds, of New York, heating and ventilating engineer. ‘The contract
for the work was awarded to Messrs. Blake & Shotwell, of New York,
who have faithfully carried out the plan adopted.

We regret to say, however, that the boilers, placed as they are in the
middle of the length of the building, are scarcely sufficient in size to heat
the extreme ends, and that during the coldest weather additional
apparatus will be required. In the appendix is given a report of the
engineer, with a plan of the several stories of the building.

The contract for making cases for the mineralogical department was
given to John H. Bird, who has executed the work to the entire satis-
faction of the Institution. The contract for constructing the cases for
the large room of the upper story was awarded to John W. MeKnight.
These cases are of pine, veneered with walnut and bird’s-eye maple,
with large panes of English plate-glass, and are covered at the top
and bottom with zine to render them dust-proof. They are much more
elaborately finished than museum-cases usually are, and this too at amuch
less expense than that of the various cases in other public buildings of this
city. The plans and specifications of these cases, with a model case, were
prepared by Prof. H. A. Ward, of Rochester, N. Y., with some modifica-
tions by Mr. A. Cluss, who has for several years been the architect of the
Smithsonian building. The construction of the cases by Mr. McKnight
was completed to the entire satisfaction of Mr. Cluss, the architect,
not, however, without a complaint on the part of the contractor that
his estimate of the cost of the work was far from being at a remuner-
ative rate. The appropriation was sufficient to complete the cases, but
not to furnish them with shelves. For this, an additional appropriation
will be required. It is proposed to devote the large room, which is 200
feet long and 50 wide by 25 in height, entirely to ethnology, this being
a branch of science attracting perhaps at the present time more attention
than almost any other, and of which the illustrations at present in the
general collection of the National Museum are nearly sufficient to fill the
entire space and are rapidly increasing in number.

The appropriation of $15,000 for the care of the museum has provided
for the employment of an additional assistant to take charge of the
mineralogical collections. The person appointed to this position is Dr.
. M. Endlich, of Reading, Pa., who has lately completed his scientific
36 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

studies in Germany, at the Mining Academy of Freiberg, having paid
special attention to the blow-pipe analysis of minerals. Hehas rendered
efficient service not only in the arrangement of all the minerals of the
museum, but in making up sets from the large number of duplicates for
distribution to colleges and academies. Previous to the employment of
Dr. Endlich, the duplicate minerals and geological specimens were sent
to the School of Mines of Columbia College, New York, where they were
examined and made up into sets for distribution, the minerals by Profes-
sor Egleston, and the rocks by Professor Newberry. In this line the
Institution has done good service to the cause of education, and has
the capacity of doing much more, provided the small amount of funds
required for the purpose be granted by Government.

The appropriation of Congress has also enabled us to add a perma-
nent taxidermist to the establishment, Joseph Palmer, from England,
who has not only much improved the condition of the mounted speci-
mens previously in the Institution, but, under the direction of Professor
Baird, has added a large number of new specimens, especially a series
of several hundred plaster casts taken from fresh fish and painted to
represent the colored appearance of nature.

. Few persons have any idea of the amount of manual labor necessary
to properly sustain a museum in a condition fit for public exhibition.
Heretofore, with the limited amount of money which could be expended
from the Smithsonian fund, in addition to the $4,000 allowed by Con-
gress, it was impossible to keep the specimens in the best condition
either for critical study or for popular exhibition. The museum, there-
fore, although it has been an object of great interest to the public gen-
erally, has not been what we trust it will be in the future.

The following report of Professor Baird, of the additions to the
museum, and the various operations connected with it during the year
1873, presents satisfactory evidence of prosperity.

Condition, progress, and operation of the National Musewm during the year
1873.—“ The record of the National Museum for 1873is highly satisfactory,
showing valuable additions from many parts of the world, and consid-
erable progress in the way of reducing its contents to order, and making
them serviceable to the cause of science. In no previous year has the
number of distinct donations been so great, while the bulk of the parcels
received has been almost inconveniently large. The total number of
entries is 441, from 241 donors, and embraces 680 packages of different
kinds, the similar figures for 1872 being 315, 203, and 544, respectively.

A list in the appendix will show in detail what has been actually
received, including the names of contributors and the nature of their
donations; the increase being in large part from the collections of
different Government exploring expeditions, which by law of Congress
are transferred to the Smithsonian Institution for safe-keeping, and also
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 37

from the contributions of special correspondents of the Institution, and
by exchange. Nothing has been added in the way of direct purchases.
While most large museums, such as the British Museum and those of
Paris, Berlin, and Cambridge, Mass., &c., depend principally upon pur-
chases for increasing their collections, the National Museum, without
funds at its disposal for such purpose, has not yet felt the need of them ;
the collections received from the sources mentioned, free of cost other
than that of mere transportation, being quite as great as the means of
preparation and preservation will allow.

In addition to the number of donations, the entries in the record-
books of the museum during the year 1873 will indicate approximately
the extent and nature of the increase; the total number of entries dur-
ing the year amounting to 10,604, or 33 per cent. more than those
of 1872; the largest number, that of birds, amounting to 3,232 spec-
imens; of fishes, 2,756; of ethnological specimens, 1,475; and of min-
erals, 941. This, however, does not represent accurately the num-
ber of separate specimens, as many objects of the same kind and from
the same locality are often included under a single entry. Many addi-
tidns during the year, especially of shells, minerals, and fishes, are yet
unrecorded.

The total number of entries to the end of the year amounts to 187 453,
filling thirty large folio ledgers. As might be expected, the principal
sources of supply have been from American localities, the United States
especially, although some objects of interest have been received from other
parts of the world. The special object has been to bring together as com-
plete an exhibition of the natural history and ethnology of America as the
available means would permit. Should Congress at any future time de-
cide to inerease the scale of operations so as to enable the establishment
to vie with such museums as those of London, Paris, Berlin, Vienna, &c.,
the framework of the present organization can be readily expanded so
as to cover a much wider field. At present the available space for
exhibiting specimens is occupied to its utmost extent, and but a portion
of the collections actually within the walls of the Institution can be
exhibited to the public. The remainder, however, are in such a condi-
tion as to be available for the study of specialists whenever they may
find it necessary to examine them.

For the.better understanding of the character of the collections re-
ceived in 1873, a general sketch is given with reference to the regions
whence they were derived, to be followed by an enumeration, in syste-
matic sequence, of those of the.most importance.

Of comparatively slight extent, yet perhaps of greater interest from
their historic associations than any others, are the collections made
during the eventful voyage of the Polaris, under Captain Hall, to
the northern regions. This expedition, fitted out by the Navy Depart-
38 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

ment in pursuance of an act of Congress, left the United States in
the summer of 1871, and succeeded in reaching the latitude of 82°
16’, the most northerly point ever attained by civilized man. Little
was done in the way of collections until after the expedition went
into winter-quarters in October, 1871; and most of the specimens
gathered were secured during that winter and the following spring and
summer. The death of Captain Hall interfered, of course, materially
with the scientific work, but did not interrupt it, and at the time of the
damage to the vessel by the ice, in October, 1872, very extensive col-
lections had been made under the direction of Dr. Bessels, the chief of
the scientific corps. These embraced specimens of the minerals, rocks,
and fossils of Polaris Bay and other localities, large numbers of skins
and skeletons of the musk-ox, (a great desideratum in public museums,)
and other species of mammals, such as lemmings, seals, &c.; some
birds and their eggs; many specimens of marine invertebrates, and a
complete collection of the insects and plants met with by the party.
Most of these collections were lett on board the Polaris when the party
remaining with the vessel went into quarters on shore during the winter
of 1872~73; and when the vessel was found to be unseaworthy, and it
- became necessary to build boats to move southward for the purpose of
trying to meet the English whalers, it was found impossible to bring away’
more than a small number of the objects that had been gathered. Dr.
Bessels, however, in the limited amount of space allotted to him, sue-
ceeded in packing a representative series of the fossils and rocks, and
some specimens of insects, as also a few objects preserved in alcohol, all
of which at present occupy a special case in the mineral-room at the
west end of the Smithsonian building.

The absence of fishes in the collections of the Polaris party is very
remarkable, no specimens of this class of vertebrates having been seen
by the expedition in the northern portion of their journey, with the ex-
ception of a few small fishes in a fresh-water stream, which could not
be caught, but were supposed to be young salmon. Cetaceans, too,
were equally absent, the marine mammals being represented only by
one or two species of seal.

Proceeding southward, the next region from which interesting mate-
rial has been received during the year is that of the Pribylov or fur-seal
islands of Behring Sea. Here the collections begun in 1872, on the
jsland of Saint Paul, by Mr. Henry W. Elliott, assistant United States
Treasury ¢gent, were continued by him on the adjacent island of Saint
George, and embraced a complete representation of the birds, especially
the aquatic species and their eggs, the skeletons and skulls of the seals
and some marine invertebrates. hese are accompanied by very inter-
esting sketches of the animal life of the island, especially of the seals
and walruses, adding uch to our knowledge of the habits of this inter-
esting group of mammals.
(3)

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 39

The westernmost portion of the chain of the Aleutian Islands was
thoroughly explored during the year by Mr. William H. Dall, while
engaged in making a survey of the islands in behalf of the United
States Coast Survey, his leisure time having been employed in securing
a wonderfully complete series of specimens for the National Museum.
These covered all departments of natural history, such as various
mammals, birds and their eggs, insects and plants, and more es-
pecially marine invertebrates, of which it is believed that many new
species have been obtained. A very prominent feature, however, in Mr.
Dall’s collections, consists in the extensive series of pre-historic objects
obtained by the exploration of certain burial caves in Unalaska, which
throw much light upon the past relationships of the Aleutians. Ineclud-
ing the ethnological collections made by Mr. Dall during previous years,
it is believed that no better illustration of the anthropology of that part
_ of Alaska could be brought together than is now within the walls of the
Institution.

A collection of carvings made by the Haidah Indians, of Queen Char-
lotte’s Island, a tribe remarkable for their skill in this branch of art and
for the variety and grotesqueness of their designs, has been received
from Mr. J. G. Swan, whose contributions alsoembrace numerous ethno-
logical and other specimens from Washington Territory, and is accom-
panied by a memoir, previously noticed in this report.

From Oregon we have a very remarkable collection of pre-historic
remains, many of them of exquisite beauty of workmanship, consisting
of arrow-points and pestles, bone-carvings, &c., presented by Mr. Paul
Rh. Schumacher, of the United States Coast Survey.

Another valued addition from this part of the country consists of a
number of specimens of the showt/l, both in skins and entire in alcohol,
furnished by Mr. S. C. Wingard, the United States district attorney at
Olympia. This mammal, the Aplodontia leporina, is like a muskrat, but
with a very short tail, and although abundant in .a very limited
locality, is still little known to naturalists; while its peculiarities of
form render it of great interest as an object of study. After many years
of special effort directed toward securing a supply of these animals for
the purpose of meeting some urgent calls, the object was finally accom-
plished by the aid of Mr. Wingard.

The coast of California has been well represented by the collections
of Captain C. M. Scammon, of the United States Revenue Marine. This
gentleman, an active and efficient officer of the service, has, in the inter-
est of science, made use of the opportunities furnished by the necessary
cruises along the coast, devoting himself especially to a careful scien-
tific and practical study of the marine mammals, including the whales,
porpoises, seals, sea-otters, &c. With commendable enterprise, he has
commenced the publication, in California, of a large work on this sub-
ject, which, with its well-executed illustrations, promises to be a complete —
AO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

treatise upon the whale-fishery and other similar interests on the Pacific
Ocean, and one that will doubtless be a standard of reference in the
future.

The collections made by Captain Scammon for his studies im this de-
partment have been transmitted by him from time to time to the National
Museum, where they constitute one of its most unique and important fea-
tures. Too much cannot be said in praise of gentlemen like Captain
Scammon, who, in addition to the routine of their ofiicial work, labor
for the advancement of science, and especially where such labor can be
turned to practical account as in the present instance.

The United States steamer Tuscarora, under Commander G. E. Bel-
knap, has been engaged during the summer in making soundings in
the Pacific, from San Francisco toward the Aleutian Islands, with the
object of determining the proper line for a cable between the United
States and Japan; and numerous specimens of sea-bottom, with its
microscopic fauna, were secured, and have been recently transmitted by
Com. Ammen, of the Bureau of. Navigation, in behalf of the Navy De-
partment, with the request that the Smithsonian Institution would have
them properly investigated and reported upon.

_From the main-land of California collections have beep received from
Dr. J. G. Cooper, of San Francisco, Mr. W. A. Cooper, of Santa Cruz,
and Dr. Hays, of Santa Barbara, consisting of specimens of birds,
mammals, &e., of much interest.

By far the most extensive collections received by the National Museum
during the year have been the result of Government expeditions in the
regions west of the Missouri.

The first of these in geographical order, beginning at the north, is that
of the survey of the boundary between fie United States and the uc
territory, prosecuted under the auspices of the State Department,
and under the direction of Mr. Archibald Campbell as commissioner.
The proper determination of this boundary, in which Great Britain
takes part, requires careful astronomical and geodetic work, this being
conducted by Major Twining in behalf of the United States Engi-
neer Department. The region traversed is one very little known,
and the commissioner, therefore, as was the case during his survey of
the western end of this line, took pains to secure the assistance of a
competent specialist to make the necessary examination in regard to
the natural-history resources of the country. - Dr. Elliott Coues, assist-
ant surgeon, United States Army, who has had much experience in simi-
lar duties, and who occupies a high rank as a naturalist, was chosen
as surgeon to the scientific party, and succeeded, with the assistance
given him by the commissioner, in making a very large collection of
specimens in many branches of natural-history,.and one especially rich
in the department of ornithology.

The line surveyed during the year extended for several hundred
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. Al

miles west of the Lake of the Woods, and will be continued in 1874, it
is hoped, under the same auspices, to the summit of the Rocky Moun-
tains or to the junction with the line which, in 1860, had been extended
from the Pacific Ocean eastward.

The next Government expedition, in geographical position, was one
sent out by the War Department to protect the exploring and construc-
tion parties of the Northern Pacific Railway, and placed under the com-
mand of Gen. David S. Stanley. This consisted ofa very large force of
men, some two thousand in all, as being necessary to protect the rail-
road parties against the threatened attacks of hostile Indians. Recog-
nizing the propriety of utilizing so favorable a service in the interest of
science, when it could be done at so trifling an expense, the Secretary
of War authorized the appointment of a corps of naturalists for the expe-
dition, and Mr. J. A. Allen was placed in charge of this, with several as-
- sistants. The expedition proceeded westward from Fort Rice to the
Upper Missouri, and crossed some distance beyond the Yellowstone.
The results of this expedition are very interesting, and would have
been much more extensive but for the necessity of moving in constant
apprehension of hostile attacks.

The geographical and geological exploration of the Territories, under
Professor Hayden, furnished the next source of museum supply, the
researches of himself and parties having extended over parts of Colorado
and New Mexico. These furnished very large collections of fossil re-
mains, of minerals and rocks, and of objects of natural history generally,

The exploration of the region west of the hundredth meridian, under
the direction of Lieut. George M. Wheeler, of the United States
Engineers, has also furnished a large mass of material, equal in extent
and general character to that of Professor Hayden, the twe parties
together contributing a very large proportion of the general. results of
the year. Thousands of birds and hundreds of mammals, with tons of
fossil and geological specimens, are counted in the aggregate received
from these two expeditions.

Hrom the explorations of Maj. J. W. Powell, in the cafions of the Colo-
rado, most extensive collections have also been received; his survey
being unique in the great extent and completeness of its ethnological
representation. In these and the collections of the previous summer,
the National Museum now owes to Major Powell’s exertions a most inter-
esting and extensive representation of the habits, manners, and customs
of the Ute Indians, including every form of dress and personal adorn-
ment, of weapons of war and of the chase, of household and agricultu-
ral utensils, specimens of their food in different stages of preparation,
and whatever else may throw light upon the habits and characteristics
of one of the most primitive people on the American continent. <A
special feature of this collection is the number and variety of stone
implements used for various purposes, properly mounted, and showing
A? REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

the mode by which the knives and arrow-points are attached for every-
day use. ;

New Mexico, Arizona, and Utah, are represented largely in the collec-
tions of Lieutenant Wheeler, and of Major Powell; and a collection of
skins and eggs of birds, gathered in Southern Arizona, and presented
by Capt. Charles Bendire, of the United States Cavalry, has also proved
a very important addition to the treasures of the museum. Captain
Bendire, while stationed near Tucson, embraced the opportunity to make
complete collections of eggs of the Arizona birds, and among them are
many previously unknown to naturalists. With commendable liberality,
he has presented a series of these to the National Museum, which, from
their beauty of preparation and rarity, constitute a very acceptable
donation.

Among the collections received from the West must not be omitted:
specimens of the salmon, trout, and other fresh-water fishes of the
Upper Sacramento, gathered by Mr. Livingston Stone, deputy United
States Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries. This gentleman has been
engaged for two years on the McCloud River, near Mount Shasta, in
obtaining eggs of the Sacramento salmon for supplying the rivers and
lakes of the United States with this important food-fish, and he com-
bined with his other duties the securing of material for a complete
monograph of the salmonidae of the American continent. He has also
furnished some interesting ethnological specimens.

The collections in the regions between the Mississippi River and the
Atlantic, although from no one point of very great extent, have fur-
nished a considerable aggregate, and are especially rich in objects of
ethnology, to which special attention has been given during the year.
The number of donations in this department is very great, and will be
found recorded in detail in the accompanying list.of contributions, the
principal States represented being Michigan, Ohio, Indiana, Maryland,
Rhode Island, Maine, &c.

Among the additions in other departments, we may specially men-
tion the collection of fishes by Mr. James W. Milner, also an assistant
of the United States Fish Commission, who has had special charge of
ascertaining the character of the fish, and reporting upon the fisheries
of the great lakes, and of the upper tributaries of the Mississippi. In
connection with this inquiry, Mr. Milner secured a very complete collec- |
tion of food-fishes of the Jakes and of the Ohio River, which, in accord-
ance with law, have been sent to the National Museum, and, it is hoped,
will form the basis of a work upon the subject.

Having referred to the additions to the collections of the National
Museum from the Pacific coast, we have to record also very important
contributions from the labors of the United States Commission of Fish
and Fisheries.

Of these full series are preserved in the National Museum for investi- ~
gation, and the great number of duplicates gathered for that special
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. “43
as
purpose are in the process of being made up into sets for distribution

to colleges and academies throughout the country. No greater aid can
be given to the cause of scientific education than to furnish such series
as these; and accompanied as they will be by the report of the ccm-
mission, in which these objects are fully and systematically described,
they will be much sought after by institutions such as those referred to.

As in previous years, the facilities of the commission were eagerly
embraced by scientific specialists, who spent a greater or less time with
the expedition. Among these may be mentioned Mr. G. Brown Goode
and Professor Rice, of Wesleyan University, Middletown; Professor
J. Hi. Todd, of Taber College, lowa; Professor Nelson, of Delaware Col-
lege, Ohio; Dr. P. P. Carpenter, of Montreal; Mr. 8. J. Smith and Mr.
Thatcher, of Yale College, and many others on the United States steamer

Biue Light, furnished by the Navy Department.
In addition to the collections made at Peak’s Island, many interesting
objects were secured under the commissioner’s direction, by Dr. A.S.
Packard, on the United States steamer Bache, which the superintendent
of the coast-survey kindly supplied to the commission for a month, for
the purpose of deep-sea exploration at points of the New England coast
too remote for the services of the Blue Light. Mr. Vinal N. Edwards,
an agent of the commission, at Wood’s Hole, Massachusetts, also secured
great numbers of fishes, several of them previously unknown to our
waters.

Other collections of the coast-fishes of great interest were furnished
by Messrs. Middleton, Carman & Co., of New York, including a species
of perch, Promicrops guasu, taken in Saint John’s River in Florida,
weighing 750 pounds. <A series of the Virginia coast-fishes was also
received from:Mr. Sibley, of Norfolk.

Mr. Samuel Powel of Newport, R. I., furnished some very rare species
of fishes from Narragansett Bay. Others from Staten Island have been
presented by Mr. Charles Copley.

In the completion of the account of collections received from the east-
ern coast of North America, we may mention specimens of the salmon
family, as salmon, salmon-trout, and white-fish, from the United States
salmon-hatching establishment, under the charge of Chas. G. Atkins of
Bucksport, Me.; from H. M. Stilwell, fish commissioner of Maine; from
Mr. J. B. Blossom, of Brooklyn; from Mr. Rutter of Frederickton, New
Brunswick ; and of capelin, from Mr. Delaney of Newfoundland. Of even
greater interest than any of these, however, were specimens of a gigantic
cuttle-fish, presented by Archibald Munn, of Harbor Grace, Newfound-
land. For some years past there have been traditions of the occurrence
of giant cuttle-fish, or so called ‘devil-fish,” on our eastern coast, although
the stories communicated in regard to them have been cousidered rather
fabulous. During the year 1873, however, several well-authenticated cases
have occurred, and in one instance an animal of this family attacked a
fishing-boat by throwing two of its arms across it, which, however, the
4A REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.
e

occupants of the boat promptly severed with an ax, and the portions thus
secured were brought into port. One of these pieces of an arm meas-
ured 18 feet in length, and it was estimated that an equal length
remained attached tothe body. An entire animal was afterward taken
ina net, with arms about 30 feet inlength. Another ofa similar size was
thrown upon the shore, near Harbor Grace in the winter of 187273, the
beak and suckers of which were forwarded to the Smithsonian Institu-
tion.

The collections from Mexico received during the year have continued
to be of much importance, especially such as are covered by the contri-
butions of Professor Sumichrast, who is a resident of the Isthmus of Te-
huantepec, and has been for many years a valued correspondent of the
Smithsonian Institution. From this gentleman we have received large
numbers of birds, mammals, and reptiles, the object of most interest
being the skeleton of the Mexican tapir, an animal until rec euily but
very little known.

From Guatemala an interesting addition consists of a specimen of
the ocellated turkey, presented by Mr. Sarg, being a species of great
rarity, and very much superior in beauty to the wild turkey of North
America.

A very noteworthy addition to the collection of the Institution was re-
ceived from Prof. William M. Gabb, who has been engaged in exploring
certain regions of Costa Rica, in the service of that government and of
the Costa Rica Railway. This contribution contains many specimens
illustrative of the habits and manners of the native tribes of Costa
Rica, with a large collection of the birds, mammals, reptiles, fishes, We.,
the whole forming a very full representation of the zoology and ethnol-
ogy of that country.

Additional contributions, in the way of specimens of the natural his-

_tory of the United States of Colombia, have been received from Gen.
Stephen A. Hurlbut, late United States minister to that country, and
_ from his son, Mr. George H. Hurlbut. To these gentlemen the National
Museum previously owed the contribution of a skeleton of the tapir of —
the Andes, a species till then known only by a skull in the Paris Mu-
seum. The more recent donations consist of birds in great variety, and
other objects.

Several collections have been received from more southern portions
of South America, among them an interesting contribution of Peruvian
antiquities, presented by Mr. W. W. Evans, and a stuffed specimen of
the tapir of the Andes, from President Moreno, of Ecuador.

From the West Indies an important contribution consists in skeletons
and alcoholic specimens of the fish of Cuba, presented by Prof. F. Poey,
of Havana. Professor Poey is an eminent naturalist, whose writings
upon the fishes of the West Indies are standard authority, and he has
kindly undertaken to supply to the National Museum a complete series
of Cuban fishes, properly named, to correspond with his own publica-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 45

tions. Of these, over one hundred species have already been received,
and others are hereafter expected.

The fishes of Bermuda are represented in a collection made by Mi.
G. Brown Goode, in behalf of the Wesleyan University at Middletown,
by which institution it was presented.

Other notable additions to the collection of fishes consist in speci-
mens of the turbot, the sole, and the brill, of Europe, obtained through
Messrs. Middleton and Carman, of New York, for the purpose of show-
ing the relationship of these well-known food-fishes with our own.
These specimens have been cast in plaster, and will shortly be placed
on exhibition.

Quite a number of single specimens of various kinds have been re-
ceived in exchange from European museums, although nothing specially
noteworthy, with the exception, perhaps, of a colleciion of minerals
from the salt-mines near Cracow, in Austria, presented by the Univer-
sity of Cracow, through Professor Att. Of contributions from other
regions outside of North America, by far the most interesting represen-
tation is that of New Zealand, as furnished by the Canterbury Museum
at Christ Church, in charge of Dr. Julius Haast. This embraces sev-
eral complete skeletons of the giant fossil-birds of New Zealand, spe-
cies, in comparison with which, the ostrich is but as a chick to a hen, a
height of 15 feet, with other dimensions proportionate, being attained
by several of the species. There is also in this collection a very good
series of New Zealand birds and many specimens of ethnology in the
form of implements of stone and bone, and other objects from the shell-
heaps of the ancient Maori inhabitants, who were cotemporaries of the
giant birds, (the moas,) and the remains of whose feasts contain frac-
tured moa bones in great numbers.

Systematic summary.—Having thus given an account of the more
important collections received during the year in their geographical
relationships, a brief recapitulation by systematic arrangement may not
be uninteresting.

The department of ethnology is one which has received the most va-
ried and extended contributions during the year, due largely to the fact
that special effort has been directed by the Smithsonian Institution in
the way of circulars to correspondents, and otherwise, to induce the
making of such collections, while in preparing instructions to the Gov-
ernment expeditions this subject has been dwelt upon particularly.

Reference has already been made to the prehistoric remains collected
by Mr. Dall in Alaska, and by Mr. Schumacher in Oregon, and to those
of more modern times furnished by Mr. Swan from Washington Terri-
tory and Queen Charlotte’s Island, while the objects brought by Major
Powell from the Colorado River, are of unusually great extent and
value. Every State in the Union, however, has been represented to a
greater or less extent in the form of stone-axes, pipes, pottery, &c. The
AG REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

shell-heaps of Casco Bay were explored by parties connected with the
United States Fish Commission, and those of Hastern Maine by Lieu-
tenant Slamm of the Revenue Service. From foreign localities the most
interesting contribution is that of the remains from the shell-heaps of
the ancient moa-hunters of New Zealand, referred to as contributed by
Dr. Haast. The interest of these localities is heightened by the fact
that they embrace remains of the gigantic fossil dinornis, or moa-bird,
proving that this was hunted and eaten by the Maoris.

Of the mammalia, a special prize has been a complete skeleton of the
grizzly bear, killed by Lieutenant Carpenter, of Professor Hayden’s ex-
pedition. Of this animal it is difficult to obtain good skeletons, and
the one received was therefore especially acceptable, as it enabled the
Institution to meet an urgent request on the part of the British archae-
ologists. Among sundry fossil bones of bears found in Great Britain
and elsewhere in Europe, are remains which cannot be satisfactorily re-
ferred to any European animal; and it has been suggested that prob-
ably the American grizzly was at one time an inhabitant of Europe,
and since then exterminated. The loan of this-specimen to a commit-
tee of the British Association, charged with the investigation of the
subject may enable them to determine this point. For its better il-
lustration, however, the Smithsonian Institution added to the grizzly
a specimen of the barren ground bear of the Arctic region, a very rare
animal, and of which the only specimens preserved are in the museum
at Washington. It is possibly the Arctic species, rather than the griz-
zly, which will be found to have the closest relation to the European
fossil, or cave bear, in this respect exhibiting a parallel to the musk-
ox, which once inhabited Central Europe, and after the glacial period
was driven back to the northward by the increasing temperature of the
continent, and finally entirely exterminated from the Old World. It
is now only found living in America and Greenland.

Two very complete skins of the musk-ox, from Arctic America, have
been forwarded to the Institution by Mr. William L. Hardesty, of Fort
Simpson, and their arrival is expected at an early date. The collections
. of the remains of cetaceans, such as the skulls of whales and the skins
and skeletons of porpoises, &c., from the California coast, as contri-
buted by Captain Scammon, have been already mentioned; as also
that of the Aplodontia-leporina, or showt’l, which has been received from
Mr. 8. C. Wingard.

To Professor Sumichrast, of Tehuantepec, the Institution owes the
contribution of a skeleton of the tapir of Mexico.

A complete series of the mammals of Costa Rica and their skulls, fur-
nished by Professor Gabb, is of great value.

Among the rarest of mammals is ineluded the hairy tapir of the
Andes, from South America, the only representative of the species
heretofore being a skull in the Paris Museum.

To the Hon. S. A. Hurlbut, at the time United States minister to
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. AT

Bogota, and to his son, George H. Hurlbut, the Institution owes the
first complete skeleton of this animal ever obtained; and during the
year 1873 it received a mounted skin, presented by President Moréno,
of Ecuador. :

The Museum of Comparative Zoology at Cambridge has furnished, in
exchange, casts of several crania of mastodons.

Among the most important contributions in the way of mammals are
the specimens received from Mr. P. T. Barnum, consisting of animals
which have died in his extensive menageries in different parts of the
country, and transmitted to the National Museum from time to time by
his agents, in compliance with his instructions. Among these may be
mentioned a Malayan tapir, a Bactrian camel, a dromedary, an African
panther, the Florida manatee, the Indian rhinoceros, the mandrill and
other species, all of them of extreme interest, furnishing both skeletons,

and skins fit for mounting. 2

Of birds the most important collections are those from the Aleutian
Islands, received from Messrs. Dall & Elliott, and from the region-west
of the Missouri, from the different Government expeditions already
enumerated. Dr. Haast has also supplied many rarities from New
Zealand. A special acquisition is that of the ocellated turkey from
Honduras, presented by Mr. Sarg. This is extremely rare in public
museums, with a market-value, for a good skin, of about $200.

Other notable contributions are the skin of two species of tern or
mackerel gulls, one the Sterna longipinnis, from Portland, Me., by Mr.
Franklin Benner, and the other Sterna leucoptera, from Wisconsin, pre-
sented by Dr. T. M. Brewer, both of them the first specimens of their
respective species hitherto detected in North America.

A collection of eggs of birds from Arizona, by Captain Bendire,
has also been referred to, and is of special value.

Comparatively few reptiles have been received during the year; these
consisting mainly of specimens brought in by the Government expedi-
tions. We may, however, mention several valuable species from the
Isthmus of Tehuantepec, sent on by Professor Sumichrast, and from
Costa Rica by Professor Gabb.

The list of fishes is very extensive, composed mainly of those brought
in by the United States Fish Commission. These embrace a very great
variety, including specimens of sharks, rays, and many notable fish se-
cured on the coasts of Maine, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, &e., as well
as of sea salmon, lake salmon, white-fish, smelts, capelin, and other va-
rieties from the waters of California, the Great Lakes, the Eastern
States, and the provinces. Many fishes were brought in also by the
Government expeditions, and some have been received from Costa Rica
through Professor Gabb, and several interesting species from Europe,
through Messrs. Middleton & Carman, of New York.

Of special interest in connection with the study of the fishes of the
United States, is a series from Cuba, contributed by Professor Poey, of
A8 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Havana. This gentleman has contributed more than two hundred spe-
cies, and others have been promised.

The fish of Bermuda, collected by Mr. Goode, also tend to complete
the list of the Atlantic species. Dr. John Edward Gray has presented
a large number of species of fish, particularly from the Indian Ocean.

Of the fishes from the interior of of the United States, collections
have been made of most of the prominent kinds by Mr. James W. Mil-
ner, of the United States Fish Commission, while Mr. George Spangler,
of Madison, Indiana, has furnished specimens of the paddle-fish, shovel-
headed sturgeon, and other conspicuous varieties.

Of marine invertebrates, such as star-fishes, shells, crustacea, worms,
&e., immense numbers were gathered by the fish commission on the

eastern coast, and extensive series have BUS been supplied by Mr. Dall
from the erie Islands.

Many plants have been received, including a small but very interesting
collection made by the Polaris party in high northern latitudes. In ac-
cordance with an arrangement entered into between the Smithsonian
Institution and the Agricultural Department some years ago, the plants
and insects received at the National Museum are turned over to the
last-mentioned establishment for proper care, as rapidly as is consistent
with the duty of securing reports upon those collections made by the
Government expeditions.

In a similar manner human crania received are turned over to the
Army Medical Museum, the object in both cases being to avoid dividing
series, by combining all the specimens of the same general class in some
one of the various Government establishments in the city.

The collections in paleontology, mineralogy, and geology, as already
mentioned, are of great magnitude, and alone have filled many hundred
boxes. These represent the most important results of the Government
exploring expeditions.

It will be seen, from what has been already mentioned, that the col-
lections made during the year represent an enormous aggregate of
material, and one requiring the utmost exertions of the limited force
connected with the National Museum, for its propertreatment. Ofcourse
a strict record must be kept of everything received; and when the
packages are opened and the contents assorted, the work of registering
and recording begins. Sometimes this requires the identification of
the species; and even the mere manual labor of numbering and label-
ing every specimen, and marking the corresponding record in the registry-
book, is one of very great magnitude.

After the respective collections have been properly investigated, and
in many cases elaborate reports written concerning them, the selection
of a reserve series for the Museum begins, which are then either placed
upon the shelves or packed away for future treatment. The duplicates,
which constitute a large percentage of the whole, are set aside for ex-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 49

change with other museums or for distribution to educational institu-
tious.

Special effort is directed on the part of the Smithsonian Institution
toward carrying out this feature of the plan in the most thorough
manner; and while the distribution thus made in 1873 has been very
extensive, that for 1874 will be even greater still.

It is in this particular feature that the National Museum of the United
States differs from almost any other in the world, excepting, perhaps, -
in a single direction only, the Government Geological Museum at Vienna.

In most other museums single specimens only of objects are offered
or accepted, especially of such as are rew to the cabinet, the labor of
digesting the results of great expeditions being accomplished under
other auspices, no plan being adopted to utilize any surplus, in any
other interest than that of the establishment itself. The British Mu-
-seum, for instance, which stands at the head of all institutions of this
kind, never parts with a duplicate, and is oppressed by the weight of its
surplus material, even though in small proportion to the reserve collec-
tion.

It is a question whether any museum in the world is in receipt of so
great an amount of material as the National Museum at Washington;
and were the rule of the British Museum to prevail it would be crushed
by the weight of its own riches. The constant effort, however, on the
part of the Smithsonian Institution to utilize this material in the interest
of science and education, tends to keep down the mass, though it is
only at the expense of the incessant activity and constant labor of the
Museum force that this object is in any measure accomplished.

In most public museums there is a corps of specialists whose business
it is to supervise all the collections received, the British Museum havy-
ing a large force of such officers. The funds available for the National
Museum of the United States do not authgrize the appointment of such
officers, although some of the present assistants are prominent special-
ists in certain branches. In order, therefore, to secure the prompt de-
termination of the material received, and the consequent speedy dis-
posal of the duplicates, the offers of assistance from eminent scientists, so
frequently made, are gladly accepted, and the material placed in their
hands for investigation. During the year this labor has been performed,
always gratuitously, by a number of gentlemen, among whom may be
- mentioned Prof. E. D. Cope as employed in the investigation of the fos-
si mammals; Dr. Coues, Mr. J. A. Allen, and Mr. Ridgway on that of
the birds; Professor Cope, of the reptiles; Dr. Gill, Professor Goode,
and Mr. J. W. Milner, of the fishes; Mr. P. R. Uhler, Mr. William H.
Edwards, Dr. A. 8. Packard, Mr. Cyrus Thomas, and Dr. L. Le Conte,
of the insects; and Mr. William G. Binney and others, of the shells.

Professor Verrill has undertaken the determination of the collection
of marine invertebrates obtained from the waters of the east coast of
the Daited States, with the assistznce of Mr. S. J. Smith, Dr. Packard,
50 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Professor Hyatt, and other gentlemen, while Prof. D. Haton has identi-
fied the marine plants. To these gentlemen, the thanks of the Institu-
tion are due for their extremely valuable services in the connection re-
ferred to.

On the transfer of the large number of ethnological objects from the
lower hall and the connecting range to the new room in the second story,
much space will be gained for the re-arrangement of the zoological
collections, and an opportunity will be given for introducing many
species which are now necessarily kept elsewhere, for the want of accom-
modations. It may, however, be proper to state that for the exhibition
of the full series of objects now in possession of the Institution, and not
including any unnecessary duplicates, much ampler accommodations will
be needed than can be had in the building, and if these are to be displayed
as they should be it will be necessary at no distant day to provide
means for extending the space, either by a transfer of the entire collec-
tion to new buildings or by making additions to that of the Smithsonian
Institution.

In illustration of this statement, it may be remarked that, of sixty-
seven thousand specimens of birds entered in the catalogues of
the museum, and of which more than forty thousand are on hand,
(the remainder having been distributed,) less than five thousand are
mounted and on exhibition, these occupying fully two-fifths of the pres-
ent hall; the rest are preserved as skins, in chests, drawers, and boxes,
and of them fifteen thousand, or three times the number at present on
exhibition, require to be displayed for the proper illustration of even
American ornithology.

The urgency for additional room is still greater for the mammals.
Here, out of some five or six thousand specimens, less than so many hun-
dred are exhibited, the remainder alone being almost sufficient to occupy
half of the hall. Of many thaqusands of skeletons of mammals, birds, rep-
tiles, and fishes, a very small percentage is shown to the public, while
exhibition-room to the amount of thousands of square feet is required
for specimens that now occupy drawers in side apartments.

Of the very large colleetion of alcoholic specimens, which constitute
the most important materialin every public museum, scarcely anything
is on exhibition, although the selection of a single series for this purpose
is very desirable.

The new ethnological gallery, already referred to, even now is scarcely
adequate to accommodate a complete series of the ethnological specimens
on hand, without taking into consideration the number that the explora-
tions of the past few years may lead us to expect for the future.

It is, however, very gratifying to be able to state, that if the proper
plan of a national museum for the United States should be to make it
an exponent of the ethnology, and of the animal, vegetable, and mineral
treasures of America, this can be considered as in a great measure
already accomplished, especially for North America, and to a very con-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 51

siderable degree for the middle and southern portions of the New
World. All thatis now required by the Institution for the presentation
of such a series is proper accommodations and the means necessary to
prepare and exhibit the same.

With the vast number of duplicates on hand it is always easy to
secure, in the way of exchange with foreign collections, nearly all the
objects desired from other parts of the world, and it will probably never
be necessary to ask for funds, to any extent, to secure such articles by
purchase—an expense which constitutes the principal outlay of most
foreign museums.

Mineralogical Collection.—The following is an account of the mineral-
ogical department, by Dr. F. M. Endlich, who has charge of this branch
of the museum:

The mineralogical department of the United States National Museum
(placed by Congress under the charge of the Smithsonian Institution)
comprises four divisions:

I. Mineralogy. Iif. Ores.
Il. Lithology. IV. Metallurgy.

The collection of minerals occupies twelve cases, and numbers upwards
of 3,000 specimens, belonging to 230 species. These minerals are col-
lected from al] parts of the globe, obtained to a considerable extent from
the United States Government expeditions, and by exchange and dona-
tions. Dana’s system of mineralogy has been chosen to serve as a basis
for the arrangement of the different species and groups, and, in order to
render the collection of use to the visitor or student, a very elaborate
system of labelling has been adopted. Every specimen, unless too large,
is placed in a paste-board tray, which contains, at the same time, a label
giving the name of the mineral, the chemical composition, crystalline
form, if any, locality, and the name of the donor. At the beginning of
each species in the continuous row is placed a printed ‘ species-label,”
giving the name and chemical composition, and distinguished from the
rest by a red border. To the front edge of its tray every specimen has
attached a printed label with black border, showing the name and _lo-
cality. In case the mineral is not contained in a tray this label is placed
in some conspicuous position near it. The printed labels are so distrib-
uted as to be easily read by the visitor, at the same time disposed in
such a manner as not to obstruct the view of the specimen. Large
printed “ division-labels” are placed at the head of each of the six divi-
sions adopted by Professor Dana.

This system of labelling will enable the student to see at once the
name, composition, and locality of any mineral, and will show him its
position in the adopted system of classification. Besides these precau-
tionary measures, to preserve the history of every individual specimen,
a number is written on every specimen, corresponding to one in the
mineral record, in which the labels are entered.
52 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Several very rare and valuable specimens of meteoric iron and other
minerals are contained in the collection. In the appendix is given an
alphabetical list of species at present represented in the museum. The
enumeration of the species is based upon the catalogue of minerals pub-
lished by the Smithsonian Institution in 1863.

The lithological collection occupies thirteen cases, and comprises
about 2,300 specimens. Of the various species and variety of rocks
thus far known and described the greater part is represented. An ar-
rangement has been temporarily adopted by which the specimens are
arranged according to their collector, at the same time, however, retain-
ing a certain lithological classification. A large quantity of these speci-
mens has been brought in by the expeditions exploring the Western Ter-
ritories, and thus a very valuable and unique collection has resulted.

A full suite of Saeman’s (Paris) rocks is contained in the collection,
besides a suite from Freiberg, Saxony, and other European specimens.
Eventually the collection is to be arranged according to locality, follow-
ing, within these bounds, some definite lithological system. A system
of labeling analogous to that adapted for the minerals will be intro-
duced. The size of the lithological specimens is that of similar ones in
a large number of European collections—3 inches by 4 inches—giving
the collection a pleasing, uniform appearance, and facilitating the ar-
rangement.

Three cases are occupied by the collection of ores, which comprises
about five hundred specimens. The object of this collection is to present
a characteristic specimen of ore from every worked lode in the West-
ern States and Territories. Every year comparatively large additions
are made. These ores are labeled, giving the name, the value as
ore, (if known,) the name of the mine, its locality, and the name of
the donor. If this collection be completed successfully it will prove to
be a very valuable addition to the mining statistics, and will justly
illustrate the mineral wealth of the United States.

A collection of metallurgical products has been organized, proposing
to show the ores, fluxes, slags, raw and commercial products, illustrating
the various processes in operation in the United States and other coun-
tries. As yet this collection is small, but it may be hoped that as soon
as its existence and object becomes more generally known, the neces-
sary contributions of specimens will not be wanting.

Besides these collections, representing typical specimens, the museum
contains a very complete and handsome series of the geyserites and
other similar deposits from the United States National Park. Series il-
lustrating various localities famous for their yield of minerals, such as
Wieliczka, in Polish Austria, Girgenti, in Sicily, and others, have been
obtained. The mineralogical and geological material collected and res-
cued by the North Polar Expedition, under the late Captain Hall, forms
one of these interesting suites.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 53

Altogether there are upward of 6,300 specimens on exhibition; over
800 are on hand, to be incorporated during the present year, and almost
daily new material swells the collection.

In connection with the mineralogical department is the mineral ex-
change. A large number of mineral duplicates, upwards of 10,000, is
on hand, and these, having been classified and arranged in series,
will be distributed to institutions of learning or disposed of in exchange
in order to increase the main collection. A limited number of good
duplicates is kept on hand—deposited in drawers—to serve for foreign
exchange and to afford material for study, should it be required.

Photographs of antiquities in the British Museum.—Among the additions
to the museum is a Series of photographs of the most valuable contents
of the British Museum, systematically made and arranged with the defi-
nite object of showing man’s gradual advance and the development of
civilization from pre-historic to medizeval times. These were made by
S. Thompson, with the consent of the trustees of the museum, for W.
A. Mansell & Co., of London, as proprietors, and have in part been pre-
sented by them to the Institution. Theseries consists of nearly a thousand
plates and is grouped in seven parts:

I. Pre-historiec and ethnographical series.
Il. Egyptian series.
IIl. Assyrian series.
IV. Grecian series.
VY. Etruscan and Roman series.
VI. Antiquities of Britain and foreign medizval art.

VII. Seals of sovereigns, corporations, &c.

They will be placed on exhibition at the Institution in the large hall
as soon as the cases are prepared to receive them. These photographs
are a valuable contribution to the means of diffusing a knowledge of the
largest ethnological collection in the world, and will serve as original
materials for the use of the historian, scholar, and art-student. The
publication of a work of this magnitude has necessarily caused an enor-
mous outlay, and the proprietors are obliged to seek the support of men
of culture, for whom it has been prepared. It gives us pleasure to
recognize the importance to art and science of this new application of
photography, and to recommend it to public institutions and gentlemen
of fortune. It is not necessary to point out how valuable such a work
would be to any library or museum, particularly in a country where but
few can have the opportunity of’ seeing and still fewer that of studying
the originals represented.

CORRESPONDENCE.

An immense amount of labor is every year devoted to correspondence,
which includes subjects relating to almost every branch of human
54 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

thought. Among the communications are many which relate to supposed
scientific discoveries and proposed new theories of the physical phenom-
ena of the universe.

There exists, especially in this country, in which there is a greater
amount of popular diffusion of scientific knowledge than in any other,
a class of persons who, without previous scientific training, attempt to
solve the most difficult problems of general physics. Among these are
men of considerable literary culture and much general reading, but
wanting in the special kind of logical and mathematical training neces-
sary for successful scientific investigation, they dissipate a large amount
of mental energy in unproductive speculations. The correspondence
with this class of persons is not only very onerous, but difficult to man-
age, Inasmuch as the rejection of their propositions is generally attrib-
uted to prejudice or a kind of scientific oligarchy. The general
method which has been adopted for dealing with them is to insist
upon their deducing from their hypotheses some new results which
can be immediately verified by experiment and observation, as a test
of the value of their speculations. This demand is made on the ground
that any hypothesis of value must not only explain what is already
known, but must also lead to results which have not previously been
observed.

Another class of correspondents write for information as to scientific
principles on which to found inventions for special purposes. Among
this class we have had within the last few years a large number of gentle
men of intelligence in the Southern States, who seek to retrieve fortunes
lost in the war by inventions which may become remunerative through
the sale of privileges for using them. Unfortunately, in most cases the
problems they essay are of too expensive a character to be brought to
the test of experience without the outlay of a large amount of money,
and frequently of too indefinite a conception to warrant success even
under the most favorable circumstances. The most remunerative inven-
tions are those of very simple character, and of general use, such as a
sewing-machine, rather than a steam-engine.

Another class of correspondents consists of those who ask for the
information as to minerals, plants, and other objects of natural history.
In the answers to these the Institution has done great service in the as-
sistance of students, and in the diffusion, unostentatiously, of a large
amount of knowledge.

In carrying on the correspondence and other parts of the general
operations of the establishment, much assistance has been rendered by
the collaborators of the Institution, among whom, during the past year,
our thanks are due to Prof. S. Newcomb, Prof. W. Harkness, and Prof.
Asaph Hall, of the Naval Observatory; Prof. J. E. Hilgard, C. A. Schott,
and Prof. William Ferrel, of the Coast Survey; Dr. Woodward and Dr.
Otis, of the Army Medical Museum; Prof. J. P. Lesley and W. E.
Dubois, of Philadelphia; Prof. W. D. Whitney and Prof. J. D. Dana,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 55.

of New Haven; J. H. Trumbull, of Hartford ; Prof. F. L. O. Roehrig,
of ithaca, New York; Dr. Henry Wurtz and Prof. Raymond, of New
York; Dr. L. D. Gale, Kdw. Clark, esq., W. Q. Force, Prof. C. Abbe,
of Washington, and others, especially in natural history, mentioned in
connection with the operations of the museum.

WORK DONE IN THE INSTITUTION AND IN CONNECTION WITH OTHER
ESTABLISHMENTS.

The Secretary, in addition to the general direction of the scientific
operations of the Institution, has continued during the past year his
investigations in regard to fog-signals and other aids to navigation, and
has discharged the duties of chairman of the Light-House Board, visitor
to the Government Hospital for the Insane, president of the National
Academy of Sciences, and trustee of the Corcoran Art Gallery.

Professor Baird, the assistant secretary, in addition to the arrange-
ment of the materials received by the museum, making up duplicates
for distribution, and the general direction of the system of exchanges,
has continued the duties with which he was charged by the President of
the United States in accordance with the law of Congress, namely, that
of prosecuting an inquiry into the present condition of the fisheries of the
coast and lakes, and the suggestion of methods for their improvement.
As in 1871 and 1872, he spent the principal part of the summer season
in carrying on his mission. He established himself on Peak’s Island
in Portland Harbor, where, with a large force of volunteer naturalists,
he was engaged from July until October.

The law of Congress under which his work is carried on directs the
departments of the Government to render him all the aid in their power,
and in pursuance of this the Secretary of the Navy placed at his dispo-
sition the United States steam-tug Blue Light, under Commander L.
A. Beardslee, United States Navy, properly fitted for her purposes and
provided with all the apparatus necessary for deep-sea research; and
with the co-operation of Prof. A. E. Verrill, an eminent zoologist of
Yale College, his associate in this work, he succeeded in solving many
of the problems of the inquiry, as well as in securing at the same time
a great amount of material in the way of specimens of marine animals
for the National Museum, embracing a very large uumber of species,
among them numerous forms entirely new or previously unknown on
our coast.

In addition to the examination and classification of the minerals which
have been received at the Institution, and making up sets for distribu-
tion, Dr. Endlich has made a qualitative-examination of a large number
of specimens of minerals which have been submitted for that purpose
to the Institution. For purposes of education the Institution furnishes.
qualitative determinations of mineralogical specimens, but in no case:
will it undertake to furnish percentages of the different components ot
56 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

specimens, or give certificates for commercial purposes of their value.
In regard to work of this class, the following rules have been adopted:

1. All applications for the examination of specimens must be made
by letter, addressed ‘Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.”

2. The specimens examined, or a part of them, will be retained by
the Institution.

3. All specimens are to be delivered to the Institution free of expense.

Mr. Meek, who still retains his connection with the Smithsonian In-
stitution, has continued during the past year his paleontological inves-
tigations relative to the specimens collected by various State and Gen-
eral Government surveys. He spent last summer in Colorado in the in-
vestigation of the geology of the region, returned to Washington in
October, but on account of the weak condition of his lungs he thought
it prudent to spend the present winter in Jlorida, carrying with him a
part of his library and a series of specimens with which to continue his
work.

Dr. Theodore Gill, who has special charge of the Smithsonian deposit
in the Library of Congress, and devotes his extra time in the Institution
to natural history, has been engaged during the past year in the study
of the vertebrates generally, the results of which have been partially
published in a memoir on the number of classes of vertebrates and their
natural relations. . He has also revised the nomenclature of the marine
fishes of our eastern coast from Greenland to Florida, and prepared a
catalogue.of them for the report of the United States Commissioner of
Fish and Fisheries, and has, at the request of the same officer, investi-
gated the genus Micropterus, comprising the black-bass, &c., and defi-
nitely established its species and nomenclature.

The Institution in 1870, fitted up a photographie apartment, under
the charge of Mr. T. W. Smillie, in which photographs are taken of
specimens of archeology and of natural history for illustrating the pub-
lications of the Institution, and for distribution to other museums.
During the past year a large number of food-fishes and prehistoric re-
mains have been photographed.

The specimens of the Institution are open to all investigators for
study, and no work of importance on natural history has been published
within the last twenty vears in this country which has not been in-
debted to this establishment for the use of materials and other facilities
in its production. The same privilege has been granted, under certain
restrictions, to the officers of the Institution, and Professor Baird has
availed himself of this by employing his leisure time for several years
in the production of an extensive work on North American ornithology.
In this enterprise Professor Baird has associated with himself Dr. Thos.
M. Brewer, of Boston, and Mr. Robert Ridgeway, of Illinois. The work
is published by Messrs. Little & Brown, of Boston, who have printed
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 57

three volumes, quarto size, embracing the land-birds. A second part,
that on the water-birds, is in an advanced state of preparation, and the
whole will be published within the year 1874. The work is fully illus-
trated by engravings finely executed in wood-cuts and in colored plates,
and it is believed will meet a want long felt and expressed as to a man-
ual of American ornithology.

CONCL OSION.

From the foregoing statements it will be evident that the Institution
is still in a prosperous condition ; that it is continually increasing in
usefulness and reputation ; that, although the current operations will be
somewhat impeded during 1874 by the failure of the First National
Bank, yet the effect of this loss will be but temporary; and that, with
the appropriation from Congress for the care of the museum, the
legitimate objects of the Institution can be prosecuted with more energy
than heretofore.

Respectfully submitted.

JOSEPH HENRY,
Secretary,
WASHINGTON, January, 1874,
APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY,

Table showing the number of entries in the record-books of the Smithsonian Museum at the

close of the years 1872 and 1873, respectively.

¥

1873.

Class. 1872.

Skeletomsramd okra si yc) ee ae See NES Pe a Aan ee rae ee COs 12,450 | 13,290
INE cal caveel RS eateatarg Sele nteear oie inael hand AE a eit cba a edie, let cea eine ‘by PILI, 2S
Binds} sous. uaz Poa ree sama sual UE xe ee Gib ake UE Duka eons 62,718 | 65, 950
IRE ee SE aOR aInU mene eee Smarr RE A A es 7, 729 8,222
MEISHG Siecle hE PE aa a er Cec yar ect Perea terre a eer a RRB 9758 | 125514
Hees of birds iecenasth. aie. ees sec We eed. Sees eA) WOR Oa eR a.
Crustaceans: sos aes he eee eee ce oe een ere eal aera ates ap beers heaegegett a nas Day Wer? 2, 194
Mollusks sac ce ctoe fos Sse hs ee Se ALG SOM TaN 24,792 | 24,792
Radilates Abs x8e6 55 ces if Se GREG See eee CR os Be ec aN 3, 107 3, 139
HATA = HCG He spencer men ene aD ne PH AA a SORE EVES Oe Ean 100 100
Fosstlsyinvertebrate Yi 2h Sik 2 SEs Ne Ue as ae 7,715 hohe)
AIVESTIA re SAS Nee ey ers, PS BNE ae I STEVE eel ae ay ie aC NER 7, 167 8, 108
Eohwolocicalyspecimensi ec saeieaerieeee) “cele eee eee eee ere 11,609 | 13, 084

Motalies 2 ciisseemppsts sed cepiohe es seccpe me | eens ces nares ae ON AO aS
INCREAS Sib Os MST ies see ses eee ea ae aap eat aU RI Ue 10,704

Approximate table of distribution of duplicate specimens to the end of 1873.

Distribution tothe} Distribution | Total to end of
end of 1872. during 1873. 1875.

Class. 2 az a

2 : Se ae 8 :

Sy S iy a a a

oD) 2) D oD) oD D
Skeletons and skulls ..---.---- 344 864 45 250 389 1,114
Mammal sv eerie eins aes Sills aan 963 1, 890 75 | 1,100 1, 038 2, 990
BIG S eee eee eee eerie 24,069 | 37, 095 511 790" | 24,580) 37, 885
Reptiles) 2e2 - eR OL ey 1, 841 2, 970 134 250 1,975 3, 220
ishesip areca eee we ae 2,517 5, 398 200 350 Be, le 5, 748
Hees of bind sess. eee eee 6,627 | 16,720 49 50 6,676 | 16,770
Sells ree ee ea. loi 84, 6i7 | 187, 192 20 100 | 84,637 | 187,292
@xrustaceans wee ee uae ewe 1,078 PANO) Ui bSeeycae elaine aes 1,078 2, 650
VACA TES Messe eyes ae 583 TOSI on Seed [pee tee 583 773
Other marine invertebrates... 1, 544 SLOOP ee By eecet 32 1, 844 5, 160
Plants and packages of seeds . 20,370 | 29,705 | 3,000 | 10,000 | 23,3870 | 39,705
Fossils .......- Soe 4,112 TO AAs eee ens RAE eros 4,112 10, 141
Minerals snd rocks........ -- oe 5,313 | 10, 702 140 450 5p 453 a ell a2
Ethnological specimens a NN 1, 676 1,739 210 230 1, 86 1, 969
Insects ... IN ESE ie ep ete 2, 248 4,294 500 | 2, 000 2, 748 6, 294
Diatomaceous earths .......- LE 58 - 662 25 150 3 812
otal Soles. I 5S, 260/31 GB GEO Set Oe GBM OOs | oan0o0

ADDITIONS: TO THE COLLECTIONS. 59

ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION (UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM)
IN 1873.

Abbott, Chas. C.—One bottle specimens, fish, (Hybognathus osmerinus,)
from Trenton, N. J.

Addison, Mr.—Skin of plover (Charadrius Azare) from Brazil.

Agassiz, Prof. Lowis.—(See under Cambridge.)

Aiken, C. H.—A collection of birds from Colorado.

Alcorn, Hon. J. £.—One Indian pipe from Coahoma County, Miss.

Alden, George J.—Skins of blue heron (Florida cerulea) and avocet
(Recurvirostra americana) from Manatee, Fla.; one specimen (tcetal) of
opossum (Didelphys virginiana) from New Smyrna, Fla.

Allen, Prof. J. A.—(See under Washington, War Department, U. 8. A.,

Yellowstone Expedition.)

Alth, Dr. Alois.—(See under University of Krakau.)

Ames, James T.—A collection of minerals from the: Chester, Mass.,
emery-mines.

Anderson, H. G.—One box of minerals from Wisconsin.

Anderson, W.—Indian stone implements from Brownsville, Ohio.

Andrews, Prof. H. B—A meteorite from Concord, Ohio.

Armitage, J.—(See under W. F. Wheeler.)

Ashbaugh, Dr. A.—Five Indian skulis, three stone axes, three pipes,
and one stone pestle, from the West.

Atkins, C. G.—Four boxes of fresh fish for casting from Bucksport,
Me.

Austin, H. P.—Indian stone implements from Michigan.

Avery, Dr. W. H.—One skin, pigeon hawk, (Falco columbarius,) from
Greensborough, N. C.

Baird, Prof. Spencer F.—(See under Washington, Interior Department,
United States Commission of Fish and Fisheries.)

Baker, Isaac C.—One Indian stone implement from Scarborough, Me.

Ball, J. W.—One stone pestle from Ball’s Bluff, Va.

Barnum, Phineas T.—Specimens in the flesh of Malayan tapir, (Rhino-
cherus sumatranus;) Bactrian camel, (Camelus bactrianus ;) Drome-
dary, (Camelus dromedarius ;) African panther, (Felis, sp.;) mandril,
(Cynocephalus ;) rhinoceros; manatee, (Manatus americanus ;) and a
Shetland pony ten days old.

Barringer, Paul.—Nest and egg of blue yellow-backed warbler (Parula
Americana) from Mebanesville, N. C.

Batty, J. H—One mounted specimen ruffed grouse (Bonasa wmbellus)
from Bloomfield, N. Y.; two boxes of birds from New York. (See
also under Washington, Interioy Department, United States Geological
Survey.)

Belknap, Commodore G. E., United States Navy—(See under Washing-
ton, Navy Department, Bureau of Navigation.)

i
60 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

Bendire, Capt. Chas., United States Cavalry.—One box of birds’ nests
and eggs, from Arizona.

Bessels, Dr. Hmil.—(See under Washington, Navy Department, Polaris
expedition.)

Bissell, Geo. R.—Specimen of hair-worm (Gordius, sp.) from Iroudale,
Mo. .

Blaine, John H.—One box of minerals from Montana.

Blossom, J. B.—One box of salmon from Bathurst, N. 8S.

Blunt, Capt. A. P., Quartermaster’s Department, United States Army.—
Head and horns of mountain sheep, (Ovis montana.)

Boardman, Geo. A.—One box of salmon from Calais, Me.; one bird-
skin.

Boisnuier, Hdward.—One box of white-fish from Sandwich, Ont.

Bonsall, J. Vincent.—One box of minerals from Rising Sun, Md.

Booth, H.—Shells from the west coast of North America.

Boyd, S. H.—Specimens of crade salt from Lincoln, Nebr.

Bradley, Prof. F. H.—(See under Washington, Interior Department,
United States Geological Survey.)

Breed, H. H.—Eggs of duck-hawk (Falco anatum) from Embarrass,
Wis.

Brendel, F.—A collection of plants from Peoria, III.

Benner, Franklin.—Skins of laughing gull (Larus atricilla) and Tern
(Sterna bairdii, n. 8.) from Portland, Me.

Brooks, T. B.—One box of minerals from Marquette, Mich.

Bryan, O. Ni—Human bones from mounds in Iowa; stone implements
from Maryland.

Cambridge, Mass., Museum of Comparative Zoology, (Prof. Louis Agas-
siz.) A series of casts of the crania of Mastodon giganteus from the
Wyman series.

Campbell, Archibald.—(See Washington, northern boundary survey.)
Carpenter, Capt. W. L.,United States Infantry.—(See under Washington,
Interior Department, United States Geological Survey.)

Case, J.—Quartz arrow-heads from Troy, Pa.

Case, R. A.—One box of birds’ eggs from North Lawrence, Kans.

Casey, T. L., jr—Collections of shells from Florida and Cuba.

Caton, Hon. J. D.—Skins of mule-deer, (Cervus macrotis ;) black-tail
deer, (Cervus Columbianus ;) and hybrid deer, from his park in Ottawa,
Il.; specimens of petrified wood from California.

Cheney, Simeon F'.—Skeleton of sea-seal (Hrignathus barbatus) from Grand
Manan, N. B.

Chicago, Academy of Sciences, Dr. J. W. Velie-—Twelve eggs of ‘‘ man-
of-war bird,” (Zachypetes aquila.)

Christ Church, New Zealand, Canterbury Museum, Dr. Julius Haast.—A
collection of bird-skins ; a collectiort of stone implements of the Moa
hunters; a collection of Dinornis bones from Kjoekken-moeddings;
complete skeletons of Dinornis giganteus and Palapteryx elephantopus,
ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 61

and the leg-bones of Dinornis gracilis, Dinornis casuarius, and Dinornis
didiformis, all from New Zealand.

Clark, Dr. EH. J—One Indian stone maul.

Olark, John M.—Specimens of Indian pottery from Milledgeville, Ga.

Olarke, Stephen.—One box of minerals from Virginia.

Clements, Mr., United States surveyor-general for Utah.—One package
of ores from Utah.

Ooe, W. W.—Nest and skin of warbling fly-catcher (Vireo gilvus) from
Portland, Conn.

Cole, Seward.—One seal-gut coat from Alaska.

Coleman, Geo. S.—One specimen of clay from Kosse, Tex.

Cooper, Dr. J. G.—One box of bird-skins from California.

Cooper, W. A.—Skinus of king-bird (Ceryle alcyon) and Cassin’s fly-

- eatcher, (Tyrannus vociferans,) and eggs of Gairdner’s woodpecker,
(Picus Gairdneri,) and chestnut-backed tit, (Parus rufescens,) from
Santa Cruz, Cal.

Copley, Charles L.—Two tanks of fishes in alcohol from Tontplinevill
Staten Island, N. Y.

Coues, Dr. Elliott, United States Army.—Bird-skins from Arizona; skins,
skeletons, and skulls of mammals; birds from Fort Randall. (See also
Washington ; Department of State; Northern boundary survey.)

Oowdrey, Dr. S. G., United States Army, (through Army Medical Mu-
seum.)—Cast skin of black-snake (Bascanion constrictor) and rattles of
rattlesnake (Caudisona confluenta) from Fort Larned, Kansas.

Crawford, J. A.—Indian pottery from Davenport, Iowa.

Cushman, Doctor.—Indian stone implements from Wiscasset, Me.

Dall, Wm. H., Coast Survey U. 8. A.—Twenty-seven boxes and kegs of
general zoological and ethnological collections from the Aleutian
Islands.

Day, Mr.—Specimens of sandstone and lignite from Maryland.

Delaney, Hon. John, postmaster-general of Newfoundland.—Bones of
(Phoca, sp.) and great auk, (Alea impennis ;) two bottles specimens
of capelin (Mallotus villosus) from St. John’s, Newfoundland.

Dille, I.—Specimens of tourmaline and lignite from Washington, D.C.

Douglas, Charles.—Two specimens, in the flesh, of evening grosbeak
(Hesperiphona vespertina) from Waukegan, Il.

Hbaugh, David.—One box of minerals from Maryland.

Edmunds, M. C.—Specimens of smelt (Osmerus, sp.) from Lake Cham-
plain. :

Edwards, Vinal N.—(See under Washington ; Interior Department ; United
States Commission of Fish and Fisheries.)

Elliott, Henry W., special agent Treasury Department United States—Five
boxes of bird-skins, nests, and eggs from the Prybiloy Islands, Beh-
ring Sea.

Elliott, Capt. Jas.—One specimen dyinefish (Exocotus, sp.) from Brazil. ,

Endlich, Dr. F. M.—A collection of minerals from Europe. (See also

=
62 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS,

under Washington ; Interior Department ; United States Geological Sur-
vey.) |

Evans, W. W.—One box of pottery and silver articles from Peru.

Feuchtwanger, Dr. Louis.—One box of minerals.

Fitzhugh, D. H—Specimens of grayling (Thymallus tricolor) from Au
Sable River, Michigan.

Foreman, Mrs.—Chipped flints from Hot Springs, Arkansas.

Fortin, P—One skin cod-fish (Gadus morrhua) from Canada, (type of
Gadus ductor, Fortin.)

Frellick, Capt. John.—One specimen sea-horse (Hippocampus, sp.\ from
Saint George’s Banks.

Fuller, A. N.—Two nests and six eggs Bell’s pe catcher (Vireo Belli)
from Lawrence, Kans.

Gabb, Prof. William M.—Seven boxes general collections from the Tala-
manea expedition, Costa Rica.

Garland, William H.—A specimen in the flesh of western red-tailed
hawk (Buteo calurus) from Amherst County, Virginia.

Gatch, S. H.—One paekage of plants from Oregon.

Giles, Norwood.—One box of birds’ nests from Wilmington, N. C.

Gizer, B. F.—One Lepidopterous larva from Stoyestown, Pa.

Glover, Lieut. Russell, United States Revenue-Marine.—Fossil-shells from
vicinity of Baltimore, Md.

Goode, G. Brown.—(See under Middletown ; Museum of Middletown Uni-
versity ; also under Washington ; Interior Department ; United States
Commission of Fish and Fisheries.)

Gorman, Cook.—One box of minerals from Talladega County, Alabama.

Gray, Dr. John Edward, British Museum.—A colleetion of fishes.

Green, H. A.—One specimen of arragonite from Atco, N. J.

Green, Seth.—One box of fish from Rochester, N. Y.

Haast, Dr. Julius.—(See under Christ Church, Canterbury Museum.)

Hale, Dr. J. D.—One Indian arrow-head from Fentress County, Ten-
nessee.

Hamlin, Dr. A. C.—One specimen of meteorite from Searsmount, Me.

Hammond, Dr. John F., United States Army.—Two alleged asses’ skulls
from Texas.

Hanna, George B.—One box of minerals from North Carolina.

Hardenburgh, L. h., United States surveyor-general for California.—
Ten packages of minerals from California.

Harford, G. H.—One box of ethnological specimens from California.

Harrington, C.—One egg of blue-tailed kite (Rostrhamus sociabilis)
from Florida; one egg of Allen’s towhee, (Pipilo Allen.)

Harris, N. H.—One pox of minerals from Claiborne County, Missis-
SIppi.

Hays, W. W.—One skin of rail (Rallus Virginianus) from San Luis
Obispo, Cal.

Heaton, J. C.—One specimen of beetle from Victoria, Tex.
ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 63

Henshaw, H. W.—(See under Washington; War Department ; United
States Army surveys west of the one hundredth parallel.)

' Holden, Prof. William.—(See under Marietta ; Marietta College.)

Hollenbush, H. W.--One large stalactite from Crystal Cave, Berks
County, Pennsylvania.

Hoopes, William A.—Specimens of native silver from Isle Royale,
Mich.

Homer, Dr. Frederick, United States Navy.—A. branch of a tree injured
by hail.

Hough, Dr. F. B.—One box of ethnological specimens.

Howard, A. M.—Specimens of Indian pottery from New Mexico.

Hurlbut, G. H.—One skeleton of pinchaca or danta, (Tapirus pinchaque,)
one banana in alcohol from Costa Rica; two boxes of bird-skins from
Bogota.

Jewett, Col. H.—One box of ethnological specimens from Florida.

Johnston, CU. H.—One specimen of horned toad (Phrynosoma, sp.) from
Saint George, Utah.

Kelly, F. X.—One nest of tarantula spider.

Kelly, Robert.—One specimen of pyrite.

Krakau University, Dr. Alois Alth.—A series of minerals from the
Wieliezka salt-mines.

Lanman, Chas.—A collection of minerals from Virginia.

Leaming, Dr. F.—One cast of Indian stone implement from Jefferson
County, Indiana.

Lee, Mary J.—A collection of minerals from Bremond, Tex.

Leonard, H. L.—One box of land-locked salmen, (Salmo sebago,) fresh
specimens, from Lubec Pond, Maine.

Lente, W. K.—A collection of bird-skins from the West Indies.

Lockhart, W. T.—One specimen of cinnabar from Oakville, Cal.

Love, W. C.—Specimens of fossil-shells from Marlborough, Md.

Ludington, C.—Specimens of oyster (Ostrea Virginianus) from the Po-
tomae River.

Luptor, 8S. &.—A collection of minerals from West Virginia.

Lyon, Hon. Caleb.—One package of eggs.

McFarlane, R., Hudson Bay Company.—Skin of fetal eight-legged beaver
(Castor Canadensis) from Fort Simpson, Hudson Bay Territory.

Mckinley, Wiliiam.—Ancient Indian funeral-urn from Miliedgeville,
Ga.

McRae, John, Hudson Bay Company.—One skin of black marmot (Are-
tomys monax, melanistic) from Athabasca.

Mains, M. P.—One box of fossils from Bull River, 8. C.

Marietta, O., Marietta College, Prof. William Holden.—A collection of
reptiles and fishes from Hastern Ohio, (deposited.)

Marshall, U. S.—(See under W. F. Wheeler.)

Marvin, A. R.—(See under Washington, Interior Department, United
States Geological Survey.)
64 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

Maynard, C. J.—Sternum of martin (Progne subis) from Massachusetts.

Meigs, Gen. M. C.—Spoons made of buffalo-horn from the Yellowstone,
one package of Indian implements from Arizona, skin and head of
mule-deer, (Cervus macrotis,) one Indian stone-chisel, a collection of cre-
taceous fossils from Heart River, Mo., a specimen of terebratula, sp.,
from Ingleton, Ala., two packages of seeds of the “sujaro,” or giant
cactus, from Arizona.

Merriam, O. Hart.—A collection of birds from Florida, six skins of pine-
creeping warblers, (Dendreca pinus,) from Florida. (See also under
Washington, Interior Department, United States Geological Survey.)

Middleton, Carman & Co.—(See under Washington, United States Com-
mission of Fish and Fisheries.)

Middletown, Conn., Museum of Middletown University, G. Brown Goode.—
A collection of fishes from the Bermuda Islands, a collection of min-
erals from Connecticut. (See also under Washington, United States
Comission of Fish and Fisheries.)

Moore, C. k.—A living specimen of salamander (Amblystoma vigrinum)
from Johnstown, Va.

Moore, Col. James M., United States Army.—Skin of puma (Felis con-
color) from Wyong Territory.

Moore, W. H.—A collection of fossils from Topeka, Kans.

Moses, F. K.—One Indian stone implement, from Bucksport, Me.

Mann, Archibald.—The jaws of giant cuttle-fish (Octopus) from New-
foundland.

Minn, Dr. O. H., United States Army.—Specimens of infusorial earth,
Fort Woodworth, D. T.

Moreno, President, (through Hon. Rumsey Wing.)—Skeleton and mounted
skin of pinchaea (Tapirus roulint) from Ecuador.

Newman, Joseph, (through Department of Agriculture.)—Arrow-heads,
from Woodlawn, Md.

Nichols, Dr. C. H., Government Asylum for the Insane—A fresh speci-
men of Huropean tame swan.

Ogden, Mr.—One bottle of insects from New Orleans.

Ogle, David G.—Minerals and ethnological specimens from Maryland.

Oudesluys, C. L.—Specimens of asbestos from Virginia and Maryland.

Owsley, Dr. J. B.—Specimen of fossil-wood from Butler County, Ohio.

Packard, Dr. A. S—(See under United States Commission of Fish and
Fisheries.)

Paine, W. W.—Sword, &ec., from the wreck of the British vessel Rose,
in the Savannah River, Ga.

Palmer, Hdward.—(See under United States Commission of Fish and
iisheries.)

Pattison, H. A.—One box of fossils from Flint River, Ala.

Patton, A.—Ethnological specimens from Indiana.

Paxton, Capt. J. W., (through J. W. Milner.)—Ethnological specimens
from Alpena, Mich.
ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 65

Peale, Dr. A. O.—(See under Washington, Interior Department, United
States Geological Survey.)
Peck, P. P.—¥ossil shark’s teeth from Richmond, Va.
Peelor, David.—Specimens of stickle-back (Gasterosteus, sp.) from Johns-
town, Pa.
Perrine, T. M.—Photographs and casts of Indian implements.
Pickett, John T.—Cast of fossil (Cucullea gigantea) from the Hocene of
Montgomery County, Ala.
Pike, Capt. Nicholas, United States coasul.—A collection of shells from
Mauritius.
Plummer, EH. J.—Specimens of silver ores from California.
Poey, Prof. Felipe, University of Havana.—One keg of alcoholic tishes
and one box of skeletons of fishes from Cuba.
Powell, Samuel.One specimen of file-fish (Monacauthus setifer) and
other fishes, and eggs of Raia, from Narragansett Bay.
Powell, Maj. J. W.—(See under Washington, Interior Department, Smith-
sonian Institution.)
Putnam, J. D.—One box of insects from Iowa.
Quarles, B. M. pe Peciics of calcite from Healing Springs, Bath
County, Va.
Ray, G. H.—A collection of minerals from Arkansas.
Reeder, H. J.—Specimens of fish (Percopsis guttatus) from vicinity of
Easton, Pa.
Reese, J. W.—Specimens of bark from Visalia, Cal.
Khees, W. J.—Specimens of lignite from Fourteenth-street road, Wash-
ington.
fthoads, Dr. #.—Two specimens of fish (Dorosonia cepedianwn) from
Shawneetown, Ill.
Rhoads, Thomas.—One box of ethnological specimens from Ohio; one
skin of Savannah sparrow (Passerculus savanna) from Florida.
Ridgway, Robert.—A collection of birds and a specimen of mole (Sealops
argentatus) from Mount Carmel, Ill.; specimens of Dermestes, sp.
Rinker, James T.—One insect.
Robertson, M. B.—One box of ores from Lynchburgh, Va.
Robertson, &. S.—One box of Indian bones from mounds in Fort Wayne,
Ind.
Rockwell, H. H.—Specimens of vermiculite from Millbury, Mass.
Rothrock, Dr. J. T.—(See under Washington, War Department, United
States Army surveys west of the one hundredth parallel.)
Royal College of Surgeons, London, England.—A mounted skeleton of
jackal (Canis aureus.)
Rusk, Hon. T. M.—One box of minerals from Virginia.
Rutter, H.—One box of fish from Fredericton, N. B.
Saint Paul, Minn., Academy of Natural Science.—Eggs of marbled god-
wit (Limosa fedoa) from Saint Paul.
D8
66 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

Salisbury Musewn, Salisbury, England. W. Blackmore.—Four boomerangs
from Australia.

Sanborn, J. K.—Minerals from Vermont.

Sarg, #.—One skin of Honduras turkey (Meleagris ocellata) from Hon-
duras.
Scammon, Capt. C. M., United States Revenue Marine.—Seven boxes of

cetacean skeletons from the Pacific.

Schlottmann, Dr. A.—One package of insects from Fayette County,
Texas.

Schlienann, Dr. Henry.—A plaster-cast of Pheebus Apollo.

Schuermann, Carl W.—Larva of hickory-moth (Ceratocampa imperialkis)
from Fairtax, Va.

Schumacher, Paul.—Ethnological collections from the Kjoekken Moed-
dings in Oregon. ;

Seyboth, Robert, United States Signal Service, (through United States
Signal Office.)—One specimen of Bohemian wax-wing (Ampelis gar-
rulws) in the flesh from Pike’s Peak.

Shepard, Prof. C. U.u—One box of minerals.

Skillings, Robert F.—Indian stone implements from Peak’s Island, Me.

Slamm, Lieut. J. A., United States Revenue Marine.—Collection from
shell-heaps, Rogue’s Island.

Smith, [saac D.—Specimens of Tarantula and nest from Arizona.

Sinith, S. W.—Specimens of sandstone frgm Brookville, Pa.

Smith, W. H.—Specimens of mica from Alabama.

‘Snow, A L.—Indian bones from caves in Hastern Tennessee and West
Virginia. .

Soriano, M. S.—A series of bismuth ores from San Luis Potosi.

Southwell, J. H.—A collection of arrow-heads from Port Byron, IIL.

Spangler, George.—Three boxes of minerals, fossils, and Indian stone
implements from Madison, Ind. Four specimens of shovel-nose stur-
geon (Polyodon foliwm) from the Ohio River.

Spencer, Charles W.—One box of birds’ eggs.

Stanley, Col. D. S., United States Army.—A living specimen of kangaroo-
rat (Dipodomys ordii) from the mouth of Powder River. (See also
under Washington, War Department, Yellowstone expedition.)

Stevenson, James.—One skin of Neosorex from Mount Elbert, Colo.

Stille, Caroline B.—A. specimen, in the flesh, of cliff-swallow (Hirundo
lunifrons) from Washington, D. C.

Stone, Livingston.—(See under United States Commission of Fish and
Fisheries.)

Stuart, James.——One bottle of alcoholic orthoptera from Winnipeg,
British America.

Sunichrast, Prof. F.—One skeleton of Baird’s tapir, (Hlasmognathus
Bairdit,) one box of reptiles, and two boxes of skins and skeletons of
mammals from Tehuantepec.
ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 67

Swan, James G.—One box of ethnological specimens from Port Town-
send, Wash. Terr.

Taylor, Charles M.—One box of minerals from West Virginia; one per-
torated stone disk.

Thayer, Abbot H.—One skin of Traill’s fly-catcher (Himpidonax trailt?)
from Brooklyn, N. Y.

Thompson, A. H.—(See under Washington, Interior Departnent, Survey
of the Colorado.) sj.

Toner, Dr. J. M.—Specimen of intestinal worm.

Townsend, J. L.—One skin of green finch (Pipilo chlorura) from Salt
Lake City.

Trefethen, W. S., G@ Oo.—(See under United States Conmission of Bish
and Fisheries.)

Turner, Dr. S. S.—One specimen, in the flesh, of American magpie
(Pica hudsonica) from Dakota.

Turner, Samuel.—A deformed head of fox squirrel (Scirus ludovici-
anus) from Mount Carmel, Ill.

Velie, Dr. J. W.—(See under Chicago Academy of Sciences.)

Verrill, Prof. A. H.—(See under Washington, literior Department, United
States Commission of Fish and Fisheries.)

Vetromile, Rev. Hugene.—A collection of Indian stone implements from
Maine and New Brunswick, (deposited.)

Ward, Prof. H. A.—One skeleton of moose, (Alce Americanus.)

Washington, D. C.:

Department of State, U. 8. A., United States survey of the honhee
boundary, (Hon. Archibald Carpal! commissioner. )—Zoological,
botanical, and ethnological collections, made by Dr. Hiliot Coues,
naturalist of the expedition.

Treasury Department, U. S. A.—(See under the name of H. W. Hlliott.)

United States Revenue Marine.—(See elsewhere, under the names
of Capt. C. M. Scammon, Lieut. Russell Glover, and Lieut. J.
A. Slamm.)

War Department, U.S. A.:

United States Army.—(See under the names of Gen. M. C. Meigs,
Col. D. S. Stanley, Col. James M. Moore, Capt. A. P. Blunt,
Capt. Charles Bendire, Capt. W. L. Carpenter.)

Surgeon-General’s Office: United States Army Medical Museum;
(Dr. G. A. Otis in charge of division.)—Two Indian jars and
one arrow-head from Florida; one Indian spear-head from
Madison Barracks, N. Y. (See also under the names of
Drs. J. F. Hammond, James F. Weeds, Elliott Coues, C. E.
Munn, S. G. Cowdrey, and H. C. Yarrow, medical ofiicers,
United States Army.)

Surveys west of the one hundredth meridian, (Lieut. G. M. Wheeler
in charge.)—General zoological and botanical collections,
68 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

made by Dr. H. C. Yarrow, Mr. H. W. Henshaw, and Dr. J.
T. Rothrock.)

Engineer and Quartermaster’s Department : Yellowstone Hxpedi-
tion, (Col. D. S. Stanley in charge.)—Eighteen boxes general
zoological, botanical, and geological collections, made by
Prof. J. AL Allen.

Signal Service, U. S. A.—(See under the name of Sergeant Robert
Seyboth.)

Navy Department, U. 8. A.: Bureau of Navigation, (Commodore Dan-
iel Ammen.)—Specimens of deep-sea dredgings and of water from
off the coast of California, United States steamer Tuscarora,
Commander G. Belknap.

Polaris Expedition, (Captain C. F. Hall.)\—Zoological and geo-
logical collections from Greenland, made by Dr. Emil Bessels.

Interior Department, U. 8. A.—Specimens of minerals from Cali-
fornia.

General Land-Office—Iiron pipe from Cherokee County, North
Carolina. (See also under the names of Surveyors-General
Clements, L. k. Hardenburgh, and John Wasson.)

United States Geological Survey of the Territories, (Prof. F. Vv.
Hayden in charge.)—Twenty boxes general zoological and
geological collections from Wyoming, Utal, and Montana,
made by Dr. A. C. Peale, Prof. F. H. Bradley, and C. H. Mer-
riam ; thirty boxes from Colorado, by Dr. A. C. Peale, Dr. F
M. Endlich, A. KR. Marvin, J. H. Batty, and Capt. W. L. Car
penter.

United States Commission of Fish and Fisheries, (Prof. S. F.
Baird commissioner.)—Sixty boxes general zoological col-
lections from Casco Bay, Me., and vicinity, by Prof. A. H.
Verrill, G. Brown Goode, and Hdward Palmer; nineteen
boxes of fish, &c., from the great lakes and the Ohio River,
collected by J. W. Milner ; five boxes of fish from the Sacra-
mento River, collected by Livingston Stone ; dredgings from
the coast of New England, United States steamer Bache, by
Proj. A. 8. Packard ; nine boxes of fishes from Wood’s Hole,
Mass., collected by Vinal N. Edwards; three boxes of fish
from Norfolk, Va., collected by W. H. Sibley; specimens of
groper (Promicrops guasa) from Florida, and of turbot, (Ahom-
bus maximus,) brill, (Rhombus levis,) and sole, (Solea vul-
garis,) from England, from Middleton, Carman & Co. ; model
of fishing-boat (dory) from Portland, Me.

Smithsonian Institution. Survey of the Colorado, (Maj. J. W.
Powell in charge.)—Seventeen boxes of ethnological and
geological collections from Southern Utah, made by Maj. J
W. Powell and A. H. Thompson.

Department of Agriculture, (Hon. Frederick Watts, Commis
ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. og

sioner.)—A collection of African implements; a fresh speci-
men of lizard from South America; one specimen of arrago-
nite from Suisun, Cal.; a collection of arrow-heads trom
Charleston, S. C. (See elsewhere under other entries.)
Wasson, John, United States surveyor-general for Arizonad.—Six pack-
ages of ores from Arizona.
Wevb, John S.—One box of shells, minerals, and fossils from Virginia ;
fangs of banded rattlesnake (Caudisona horrida) from Kent’s Mill, Va.
Webber, Mrs. F. P., (through Agricultural Department.) One jar of
alcoholic reptiles from Marietta, Ga.
Weber, H.—Specimens of minerals.
Webster, T. Si—Two white eggs of blue-bird (seat sialis) from Troy,
N.Y.
Weeds, Dr. James F., United States Army.—A collection of lepidoptera
from Fort Randall, Dakota.
Wellborne, W. #.—A collection of minerals from Forest City, Ark.
Wheeler, Liewt. G. M., United States Army.—(See under Washington,
War Department, U. S. A.)
Wheeler, W. F., United States marshal, and J. Armitage.—One skin of
mountain sheep, (Ovis montana.)
White, ¥. 7.—Minerals from Weldon, N. C.
White, D. Morgan.—Specimens of bitumen from West Virginia.
Wing, Hon. Rumsey.—Specimens from Ecuador.
Wingard, S. C.—Seven specimens of *“showtl” (Aplodontia leporina)
from Olympia, Wash. Ter.’
Wood, &. J.—Specimens of copper ore from La Grange, Ga.
Woodman, H. T.—One barrel of oolite from Key West, Fla.
Worth, H. M.—Three bullets from Braddock’s battle-ground, ene,
County, Pa.
Yarrow, Dr. H. C., United States Army.—Three boxes of fish, and a col-
lection of shells, fossil and recent, from Fort Macon, N. C.; Egyptian
_ Signet-ring ; a necklace of sea-shells from Fillmore, Utah. (See also
under Washington, War Department, Surveys west of the one hundredth
parallel.)
White, Mrs.—Specimens birds’ eggs from Mebanesville, N. C.
Whitehand, Kk. A.—One skin of boa, from South America.
Whitman, G. P.—One box of fish from Rockport, Mass.
Witter, D. R.—One box ethnological specimens from Mansfield, Pa,
Williams, H.C.—Indian arrow-heads from Fairfax County, Va.
Winans, James.—One specimen insect in alcohol from Xenia, Ohio.
LIST OF MINERALS IN THE NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1873.

A lbite.
Allanite.
Allophanite.
Alum and var.
Amalgam.
Amber.
Amphibole and
var.
Analcite,
Anatase.
Andalusite.
Aneglesite.
Anhydrite.
Anorthite.
Anthophyllite.
Antimony.
Apatite.
Apophyllite.
Aragonite.
Argentite.
Areguerite.
Arsenic.
Arsenopyrite.
Atacamite.
Aurichailcite.
Azurite.
Barite.
Baritocalcite.
Beryl.
Biotite.
Bismuth.
Bitumen.
Boracite.
Borax.
Bromyrite.
Brookite.

By Dr. F. M. ENDnEICH.

Brueite.
Cacoxene.
Calamine.
Calcite.
Cancrinite.
Carpholite.
Cassiterite.
Celestite.
Cerite.
Cerusite.
Cervantite.
Chabazite.
Chalcanthite.
Chaleocite.
Chaleodite.
Chalcopyrite.
Chlorastrolite.
Chlorite.
Chloritoid.
Chondrodite.
Chromite.
Chrysoberyl.
Chrysocolla.
Chrysolite.
Cinnabarite.
Clinochlorite.
Clintonite.
Cobaltite.
Columbite.
Copiapite.
Copper.
Copperasite.
Coquimbite.
Corundum.
Cryolite

Cryptomorphite.

Cuprite.

’Danburite.

Datholite.
Deweylite.
Diamond.
Diallogite.
Diasporite.
Dolomite.
Domeykite.
Embolite.
Enstatite.
Hpidote.
Epsomite.
Krubescite.
Krythrite.
Euchroite.
Kuphyllite.
BKuxenite.
Fergusonite.
Fluorite.
Forsterite,
Franklinite.
Gadolinite.
Galenite.

Garnet and var.

Gehlenite.
Geyserite.
Gibbsite.
Glauberite.
Gold.
Gothite.
Graphite.
Greenockite.
Gypsum.
Halite.
Harmotome.

Hauerite.
Hausmannite.
Hauijnite.
Helvinite.
Hematite and
Var.
Hessite.
Heulandite.
Hydromagnesite.
Hydrotaleite.
Hypersthene.
Idoerase.
Ilmenite.
lodyrite.
Tolite.
Tron, (meteoric.)
Iserite.
Jamesonite.
a.erareyrite.
Fermesite.
kKerolite.
Kyanite.
Labradorite.
Lanarkite.
Lapis lazuli.
Laumontite.
Lazulite.
Leonhardite.
Lepidolite.
Leucite.
Liebethenite.
Limonite.
Linneite.
Liroconite.
Magnesite.
Magnetite.
LIST OF MINERALS IN NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Malachite.
Manganite.
Margarite.
Meerschaum.
Meionite.
Melaconite.
Millerite.
Mimetene.

Mineral coal and

VON.
Molybdenite.

var.
Natrolite.
Nephelite.
Nitre.
Oligoclase.
Olivenite.
Opal and var.
Orpiment.
Orthoelase.
Ozocerite.
Pectolite.

Museovite and

Peridot and war. Sassolite.

Pharmacoside- Scapolite.
rite. Scheeletine.
Phlogopite. Scheelite.
Pickeringite. Schreibersite.
Picrophylite. Scorodite.
Pitehblende. Serpentine.
Polybasite. Sillimanite.
Prehnite. Silver.
Psilomelane. Smaltite.
Pyrargyrite. Smithsonite.
Pyrite. Spinel and var.
Pyrolusite. Spodumene.
Pyromorphite. Stannite.
Pyroxene and var.Staurolite.
Pyrrhotite. Stephanite.
Quartz and var. Stercorite.
Quicksilver. Stibnite.
Realgarite. Stilbite.
Retinite. Strontianite.
Rhodonite. Struvite.
Rutile. Sulphur.

Sal ammoniac. Sylvite.

Tachydrite.
Tale.
Tennantite.
Tetrahedrite.
Thomsonite.
Titanite.
Topaz.
Tourmaline.
Trona.
Turquois.
Vivianite.
Wad.
Wavellite.
Whitneyite.
Willemite.
Witherite.
Wolframite.
Wollastonite.
Wultenite.
Zincite.
Zircon.
Zoisite.
| LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

Table showing the statistics of the exchanges in 1873.

3 “4 gf g
& RS S 543 a
Ho = 2 wo as
i) SH SH ©)
Agent and count Fa ans soa encoun pace ssact es
gent and country. B g FS 20 H 442 Re 5
QH 2 os} 2 os qe
SL otis eg | 4B.) ee
5 =) 5 Bo om
A A ao} E
ROYAL SWEDISH ACADEMY OF SCIENCEs, Stockholin:
Sweden access cee cee te Oe ee eee eae eee Rene 30 45 3 29 710

ROYAL UNIVERSITY OF Norway, Christiania:
EOE W, BY ioc saseieie Notes tate eie ete st aa RUNS LG NR A at ae et

* ROYAL DANISH SOCIETY OF SCIENCES, Copenhagen :
Henmarlgandylcelan dyes eee eae eee eee eee eee

L. WATKINS & Co., Saint Petersburg:
PRUUS STEYR CNUs Ia At A Ao 2 Ae eR Ta

FREDERICK MULLER, Amsterdam:
TEI ENNG Le cobouocua beau uobabe Undo deDEdobE SoocooREEiaoes
IBeloiumss assesses sess Cea ee Me eee Geieieniens

Dr. FELIX FLUGEL, Leipsic:
GOT Ia ay es spapne teeters Systee oro cuban ieee ora ay ate Fai el Esra
SwaAezerlan d'-.< fee sees Mee eeemel eta ee loan eee somos

GUSTAVE BOSsSANGE, Paris :
dE EOL ELS le ee A eh ON as Ie en he a lal.
PANG TOr Sie wees ike Yes Da el etal ti Werte am Na

REALE ISTITUTO LOMBARDI DI SCIENZE E LETTERE, Milan :
Ga yc a re ae eel in ee Reet ae ER ps LC Cae ah ars

RoyaL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES, Lisbon:
JeWeNNe SL Sas SouGno oe dace ccaesoosesanaoboadnbasasaneacde

Roya ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF MADRID:
PS] Oe TONES Bess Gee iee aA Unie seine PES Sr crs oe mins oem ie

WILLIAM WESLEY, London :
GreateBritain ian duireland ecu eee eee ens eee anlee

Buenos Ayres ....-..-.- Hin 7d aye joes lapels eich seitcicis ek eee eee
a Be Wev Uae a SI ase A realy ry meiner es dea att MAD RS
Cp] 63) fess en ses ce al ee mo pale mca AL See Dy | PO NI eB
Government exchanges to German Empire, Prussia, Bavaria,
Wirtemberg, Baden, Austria, Switzerland, Greece, Norway,
Denmark, Holland, Belgium, France, Italy, England, Russia,
IEEE LE tyonboy Olle seneparicecceadasne Gaceedsousueascoulocs

Grand total 22sae ae seees cae se eee ctois oe Scorer ee a nee

28 110 6 45 | 1,430
35 50/ 9 15 480
100| 260] 8 60 | 1,990
60 180 |= 8 60 | 1,920
120| 2290/5 35| 1,216
180°} °° 400° | ae ee
590| 900] 47] 3501] 11,200
ao) iol) 2 30 960
660] 10201. 51| 340+]. 12,160
250| 270| 16{/ 120] 3,840
3 6) 2 7 210
160| 180] 8 60 | 1,920
20 Supfimenoells > 15 430
12 5Oeleaat 28 740
350 | 470) 34| > 255) eco
3 Shea i 210

4 iy | soe 1B 400

3 On eee 7 210

6 is 3 18 540

Q mall GF 6 120

4 Pon 7 210
re eae ae 38 230] 7,300
i856 | 2)735 |) 196 | ea ave | 4a O36

LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

13

Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution from Europe in 1872 and 1873 for distri-
bution in America.

Address. 1872.

ALBANY, N. Y.

Albany Institute: ..-...-.--.....--.- 20
Dudley Observatory.---. .----- ------ | 36
Medical Society of the State of New
WOK. cocsosccse eeeeeause Seesou seee 1
New York State Agricultural Society} 25
New York State Cabinet of Natural
TEUIRMIOIAT <soncmsseen ugdsogoneaesiacn 14
New York State Library ...---.----- 35
New York State University.....--.- 4
Superintendent of Insurance.--.--.--|------
‘Hon. Francis C. Barlow ..-.--.------- 1
iIProfdames) Halle 25-2. 2- o-s-ie - 20
TM IR. OMG et eee onaconneesooRgD5 1
Prof.iG. W. Hough..........-..--=-- -|------
ChBIO1Callaghan- . 7. 25--<-2-.2----- 1
ALFRED CENTRE, N. Y.
Observatory...-..- coepececouetanonbe 2
ALLEGHENY, PA.
Allegheny Observatory...--.-..--..- 4
AMHERST, MASS.
Agricultural College .........--.---- 1
Aamnerst College .\/- |) 22-22 cnc- =~ 1
Geological Survey of Massachuseits. 1
izinoy Jel dls Olen nessa nn seseals see saes| | coseeo
PROD ekes PIMETSON m= clcics sees ees if
iRromO soa shepard secemecses oes. |-siae
Profeh eine kerman! tease alps 1
ANNAPOLIS, MD.
Saint John’s College...-......--..--.|------
SUES IGN yeaa deeme aeeceH ee aseseese|| ssoous
United States Naval Academy ...---. 2
_ ANN ARBOR, MICH.
Geological Survey of Michigan...--.|-.--.-
WSELVALORYE wesc ae tael eno cicicmisiore 5
University of Michigan............-- 1
DocvouPRoninee reset seereeerse eee 2
PTOL ICH NWiAUSOD! =\--+ cineca essen = 2
Prot Aca Wane he lesa smmisenicisclsotoene 6
APPLETON, WIS.
Lawrence University...-...-----.--- Ae eae
ARMSTRONG, IND. T.
Ar mastrone PA cagemiy +3). nies cinlelni|-\e\se ==
ASHLAND, KY.
Agricultural and Mechanical College. tal
ATHENS, ILL.
Protege eal lee ras tae eee com [Semele
ATHENS, OHIO.
OhiogWUmiversityenccesscciecwece eee 1
AUGUSTA, ME.
Commissioner of Fisheries .....----- 2
SUELS IBID ihAys scab doabosessee ceadeallssooen
Jel, VEN KED KES GeogonnoocdessooKue 1

AUSTIN, TEX.

Institution for the Deaf and Dumb
Sais JOT enAy ceo oood uepboEss soomeal Genego

1873.

Wor

rw)

|| State Library

|| Territorial Agricultural Society

‘| Massachusetts Historical Socicty- ---

Address,

1873.

BALDWIN CITY, KANS.

Baker University
BALTIMORE, MD.

American Journal of Dental Science.
College of Pharmacy........-.-.-----
Mayor of Baltimore.....-...---.--.-
Maryland Academy of Science...--.
Maryland Historical Society...-..--. 4
Marylan dim stitutesss.. seas) 1
Mercantile Library.-....------------

Peabody Institutesscs se -- 5-1 <a---- 2
State Avricultural Society 1
University of Maryland........-.-..
DBA eCy WO PeR Zs oSo se bsssacdcaess
Lawrence B. Thomas..-..----------- 1
PRs Uhler. es) ces sees. yee ee 1

BARNET, VT.

Vermont Historical and Antiquarian
Sucienyereee-soaece scna= Fas eet Be

BATON ROUGE, LA.

Institution for the Deaf and Dumb.-|----z-

State University

| Proterlerrclen sco ols gaa 1

BELLEVILLE, CANADA.
W.d:Palmer-..-- EE TO 1
BLOOMINGTON, ILL.

Illinois Natural History Society. --.. 1
BLOOMINGTON, IND.

Indiana University.........---....--

BOISE CITY, IDAHO.

BONHAM, TEX.

State Geological Survey

BOSTON, MASS.

American Academy of Arts and Sci-
ences=-2--- a al Pai te catia oh ee tye ane
American Christian Examiner: ..-.-.-
American Social Science Association.
American Statistical Association ---.
American Unitarian Association .--
Association for Improving the Condi-
TionsotethewLocre +o scee ens oes
Board of Education
Board of State Charities
Boston Athenzum
Boston Society of Natural History...
Bowditelhedeibrarye ee ice ee aise arena 2
Bureau of Statistics of Labor
Christian Register Association ..-.-. 2
CitygHospitallececteer ees seer 1
Commissioner of Insurance. --..-.---- Weer
Day School for the Deaf and Dumb..-|.-----
Good Health Journal ‘
Gynecological Society

Massachusetts Asylum for the Blina
Massachusetts College of Pharmacy

00 OOS et et

=

Bea Oe er oeEowURe
(4

LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution from Lurope, §¢.—Continued.

Address. 1872.
Boston, Mass.—Continued.
Tee Cau Institute of Technol-
ogy Bodo stectoooosoosme cu oUpodouous|soo000e
Mayor of the city of Boston ......--..|..---
WIGAN GAN CHEN) coocas tosacceeccosaslodsoos
Mercantile litbnanyaeacas -eeseincrs fee) |ecertal-
New England Historic Genealogical
Society so neede sad oreacoseasendecces 3
North American Review -.----------- 4
Perkins’s Institution for the Blind -- 2
Public Library of the City .-...---.- 14
State Board of Agriculture....--..-.. 11
Sanne Joan ay sccascbucosooosoduadaG] 7
Dye, DUI IBEW Eeaccdbocuespasauuoe. 1
IBlyeAGl IBWWORES oa556e50ds0500 deeoas||5o5000
Drs Dawid Wi Cheeverr ee. . senses eset
PNivaniO@lankemeecncee cer eee aoe eee
Ola ish OllhnakG) Se esserooeoodnodees seasons 3
[Ores Seromnel MOOG Soe obobGoookadudeesallocooon
Mrs HOW eye see etstanncice eiselemerniaeiee il
PSG pHOWwem assce eee eeCneer 1
Profil Sterky, ELUM bas seeaaeiaeee sree esc
JN nS wis) J8WyEhIE SoS Soc pap Ddo gues sesaue 1
CM MNORGOMe =a sem eemeesiee see ans a
IDE MoO WOWiacas abo uasosedouoduedes sessed
Dey Alyse (Oredhwenysbaoscosos cedocose 1
Protessom Pickering) - 5. see ae a= 1
TAU InE dp MOC KewiellS a seereyeeletel= rele eee 5
JETRO WN IBS INOS) GooonoonesasseusE> 1
Uo SHINTO SopSKbos poodbe secaaeaden 2
S186, Stomelélein, .cocoecocosepanencaaues 5
IDYB, Elo 18, SHHOWeIes csncodcancaud boo boae J
TES Wis WWiakOD Sefer ee neieen tse 1
GUnos; ISL, WY OlDsosccsooboasouneesedec 1
dobertiCaWanGhnropeeeneeeteeierecne 1
Wo Os Wiyaovdllvealexe Beco eee cheno ss sllecosac
BRATTLEBOROUGH, VT.
State Lunatic Asylum............--- 1
BROOKLINE, MASS.
Wh eod lym ant se iervetarereetaiererterere 3
BROOKLYN, N. Y.
King’s County Medical Society PIOSAE HSE
Long Island Historical Society ....-- 2
Mercantile Libr ary Association ..22.]....--
Statistical Society of Brouklye SAS 827
Thonras Bain dees erterpeperettereisietsis er tesa
BRUNSWICK, ME.
Bowdoin College .---...-.....-)..25- 3
MistGnical\SocieLy ance ieee ene sae 4
Prof,)P: Al Chadbourne ei ejpi- i -7- 1
BUFFALO, N. Y.
Buffalo Historical Society ..-..--.--. Q
Buffalo Society of Natural Sciences: -|..----
Medical and Surgical Journal ....---. 1
Society of N: atural Histor Viseinvsieisenee 1
BURLINGTON, IOWA.
Iowa Historical and Genealogical
TMStitmbois oo sae sos eee sere 1
BURLINGTON, N. J.
MWA GUBinney ceose os. oe oe eee 5
PACH DES UEOM ee eristal-jeietelsisicyalaleieleieioiete 1
BURLINGTON, VI.
Orleans County Society of Natural
SCIEN COS see eee eS eye seh Plea
University of Vermont......-..-.-.. 3

1873.

Bp Hwee

nw

—
HORE ER OUdW

WwW Oe

Roe

| University of Virginia

Address.

CAMBRIDGE, MASS.

Cloverden Observatory ...-----.-----
Dana Librar
leben! COU. cosecoanaosadabeace
Harvard College Observatory
Herbarium of Harvard College
Museum of Comparative Zoology. --.
Philosophical Soeciety...--....--.- pate
Alexander Agassiz
Prof. L. Agassiz
Dr. T. A. Allen
io Cr ANMUINOMNY 5 ooo nono co sedcosnaease
E. Bicknell
CharlessBiryantheseesmeneeceeste see
IER Nig IMO REles comanscaseasaaccruTe
Prof. Asa Gray
Dr. H. Hagen
Dr. T. Lyman
Dr. G. A. Maack
Prorjwles Marcoubensseisessee seers
Dr. Albert Ordway
IEVROINEINOE JB}. IEA) ooaanbdascodeance
Prof. John B. Perry
1G, 181) Cle) Roba co oGdobasodseesaes
Prof. R. Pumpelly
Dr. Steindachner
Sereno Watson
BRO dig JOS Wylmhnaeyrs aesesedasos osu
Prof. J. Winlock
Prof. Jeffries Wyman

CARLISLE, PA.

Dickinson College. .....-....--.--.--

' Society of Literature.-.---....-..---

CARSON CITY, NEV.
Statewluibramryss sees octets serene
CAVE SPRING, GA.
Institution for the Deaf and Dumb...
CEDAR SPRING, 5. C.
Institution for the Deaf and Dumb --
CENTRAL CITY, COLO.

Miners and Mechanics’ Institute. - -.
CHAPEL HILL, N. C.
University of North Carolina...-...-.-
CHAPPELL HILL, TEX.

Soulé University ..-..--..--.0222220:
CHARLESTON, S. C.
Charleston Library Society.----.-....
Eliott Society of Natural History --
South Carolina Historical Society...
Wife IDESMUESWIRS cas bonbboosasssodcses

CHARLESTON, N. H.
Samuel Webber

CHARLESTON, W. VA.
Stabewuibranyeeeareccecseee mecca

CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Teoh I Dey DUNE aaa a6 bosnadasaadencen

CHARLOTTESVILLE, VA.

Prof. J. W. Mallett

1872. | 1873.

wecoce

=
LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES,

Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution from Europe, §¢c.—Continued.

Cc)

Address.

CHEYENNE, WYO.

Territorial Library

CHICAGO, ILL.

Chicago Academy of Science.--...--.
Chicago Astronomical Society
Chicago Boardiot Dradel soe e aan
Chicago College of Pharmacy
Chicago Historical Society
Chicago Medical Times
Dearborn Observator V
Mayor of the city of Chicago
J2MOli@ ILM ANA ~esoeos ceoneus aoauoasee
State Natural History Society. -.-..---
Young Men’s Association Library -

TBC, IBY IB eCOVe) eae am ete ee an
Prof. T. H. Safford
Dr. William Stimpsen
_ J.Q. A. Warren

CINCINNATI, OHIO.

Academy of Medicine
Astronomical Observatory
Astronomical Society
College of Pharmacy
Dental Register
Historical and Philosophical Society -
Mechanics’ Institute. --...--.-22.2-.
Mercantile Library Association..-..-.
IPMIDING IMEI Teodaosocodessesosse oak
Western Academy of Natural Sci-

CLIFTON, CANADA.
United States Consulate............-.
CLINTON, N. Y.

iElamnlitoniCollegenteccecess sass se-
Litchficld Observatory of Hamilton
Coles Ds EGY GSE UNS erawitis BOSS

COALBURGH, W. VA.
W. H. Edwards

COLUMBIA, MO.

Agricultural College
Geological Survey ‘of Missouri
Univer sibyotaaissounieeee ese ese
DriGy Ci Swallow. {2-e3e. Loe sss.

COLUMBIA, PA.
Profs staldemaneeseoeeeesemece a
COLUMBIA, §. C.
University of South Carolina......-.

South Carolina College
State Library

COLUMBUS, OHIO,

iBurcaukot Statistics eee see
Geological Survey of Ohio.........-.
Tustitnution tor the Deat and Dumb..

Ohio State Board of Agriculture.....
Slarbep len rar yas ee einen
roils. Wesqueremx: 99) oooh e see oe
Gov. E. F. Noyes
W.S. Sulliv aa

CONCORD, N. H.

New Hampshire Historical Socicty..

1873.

op)
rt 0

a

a
RPOoOrROCAWWwwW

rw)

A. ddress.

1872.

1873.

Concorp, N. H.—Continued.

New Esnpsiire State Lunatic ae
Taare eee ;
State Library. ane el ee a Ai ea

a

COUNCIL BLUFFS, IOWA.
Institution for the Deaf and Dumb...
CROW WING, MINN.

Rev Hrancis(Pierziys-sess eee ee ee
DANVILLE, KY.
Institution for the Deaf and Dumb..-
DANVILLE, PA.

Northern Hospital for the Tusane: is
DECORAH, IOWA.

Norwegian Lutheran College..-.--.-.
Prof. L. Larsen

DELAWARE OHIO.
Wesleyan University...-..--.2-22.2:
DELAVAN, WIS.

Institution for the Deaf and Dumb...

DENVER, COLO.

Territorial Mibrary -s<i <2 ese e\lan 5
Gov. W. Gilpin

DES MOINES, IOWA.

Governor of the State of Iowa
State Library

DETROIT, MICH.

Historical Society of Michigan
Michigan State Agricultural Society.
Public Library
Review of Medicine and Pharmacy ..
Orlando B. Wheeler

DORCHESTER, MASS.

Dr. Edward Jarvis

DOVER, DEL,

State Library

DU LUTH, WIS.

Scandinavian Library

EASTON, PA.

Iafayette College... - o-. ocioe enna:
Northwestern University
Prot. J. H. Coffin
Prof. T. C. Porter

ELMIRA, N. Y.

Elmira Academy of Sciences

EVANSTON, ILL.
‘DreienryepanmMi steremeserseececeee
Prof. Oliver Marcy

by

ao

dist

Hoe
76

LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution from Europe, §-c.—Continued.

Address.

1872

1873.

FARIBAULT, MINN.
Institution for the Deaf and Dumb..
FARMINGTON, CONN.
dwardeNorton\ease-eeeesteeeeeee ree
FLINT, MICH.

Institutien for the Deaf and Dumb. -

FORT EDWARD, N. Y.
Reva GaOlnisteadwesasspeeeeeecee
FORT ERIE, CANADA.
United States Consulate...........-.
FORT RANDALL, DAK.
IDG ISMN Oy§ COMES cao dododooossdeo dace
FOUNTAINDALE, ILL.
MASHBSD Dstt Gee ee eaer nee
TRANKFORT, KY.
Geological Survey of Kentucky....-.

Public Library
State Library

FREDERICK CITY, MD.
Institution for the Deaf and Dumb. -
FREDERICTON, NEW BRUNSWICK.
Legislative Library
University of New Brunswick

Prof. L. W. Bailey
Hons iW bry den Sacks. secre eee

FULTON, MO.

Institution for the Deaf and Dumb..
GALESBURGH, ILL.
Lombard University ----.-------.---
GALESVILLE, WIS.
Galesville University........-...-.--
GAMBIER, OHIO.
I<enyoniColleseenescn--seeeaeeee er
GENEVA, N. Y.

APRON Jab JOy SMO Condcondaaseoceaenee

GEORGETOWN, D. C.

Georgetown College
DreArthur Ss chottess=ceeeceeeeeeeeee

GEORGETOWN, PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND.

United States Consulate.............
: GLOUCESTER, N. J

Colgan shinyateee a eesneciene cee ser

GREENCASTLE, IND.

Indiana Asbury University........-.

vw

— CO

to

|| Madison University

Rev. S. T. Rand

| State Library

Address.

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA.

Nova Scotian Institute of Natural
Sciences

Lieut. Gen. Sir Hastings Doy eae
T. Matthew Jones

HAMILTON, CANADA.

| United States Consulate............-

HAMILTON, N. Y.
HAMPDEN-SYDNEY, VA.
Hampden-Sydney College ...-.--....

HANOVER, N. H.

HANTSPORT, NOVA SCOTIA.
HARRISBURGH, PA.
Medical Society of the State of Penn-

Spl wala see ae ae Mie en eto
State Agricultural Society..--..-.-.-

State Lunatic Hospital
HARTFORD, CONN.

Connecticut Hospital for Insane
Historical Society of Connecticut. -..
Institution for the Deaf and Dumb ..
State Agricultural Society........--.
State Library
Rriniby Covese pies sooo eee
Young Men’s Institute

HELENA, MONT.
Historical Society of Montana. -.-...-

HILLSBOROUGH, N. C.
Rew. MEAN Cuntisseenesceeeneecccece

HOLLY GROVE, ARK.
Literary Distitute

HOT SPRINGS, ARK.
Dr. Edw. Foreman

HOULTON, ME.
Forest Club

HUDSON, OHIO. .
Western Reserve College.........--.

HYAuTSVILLE, MD.
State Agricultural College

INDIANAPOLIS, IND.

Geological Survey of Indiana........
Indiana Historical Society...---..-..
Institute for Educating the Blind ...
Institution for the Deaf and Dumb ..
McIntyre Institution for Deaf Mutes

1872.

he 0D 1D ad

1873.

Ree eR

sssece
ra
LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES. 4
j Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution from Europe, §¢.—Continued.
Address. 1872. | 1873. Address. 1872. | i873.
INDIANAPOLIS, InD.—Continued. LANSING, MICH.
SiatieIO NDAs b CopSscoucooedsdeKEsoocd|ecoose Ages tatoplnbranvareeeececest kerries ossae Q
Of Jel, 1ayevebleay s sees as Seba sd ee eats oe Die Aes
John W-Bytkit - ..-..2-...-j00- e080 HOA. LAWRENCE, KANS.
1B, 18, (COX cob beduacousoDsesaueRehoes 18 a
df. MIB en NAR) | So6 be soaooe saSeeeeoe 1 1 || Kansas Historical Society......---.-].--.-. 3
(Gr WL JUGMEMIG)s oss oeeoeseLeoeesasuee Day), hoes Universityaot Kansas me oaeeene serene 3
INMANSVILLE, WIS. LEBANON, TENN.
Wisconsin Scandinavian Society..-- |.----- 1 || Cumberland University.- -...-..... 1 1
¢ Prof. James Safford .......--...--.-- 2 1
IOWA CITY, IOWA.
LEAVENWORTH, KANS.
Geological Survey of Iowa..-...-.--- Q 1
Institution for Deaf and Dumb .-..-. Pi es9es) 1Collerelot Pharmacy s-)ese-ioe al eiaee 1
Iowa State University. ..----.--..--. 26 24 || Kansas Academy of Sciences. ....--.! 2... 4
State Historical Society -...--....-.-]------ 3 || Mercantile | ibrary Association .....|.-.-.. 3
PRO Cr, ebiAAKH Ne oosoocomooHEaeRoDae 21 14
Proti@ AR IWihitOs acnac- sees oe ee 6 & LEWISBURGH, PA.
ITHACA, N. Y. lUmivensityeseseseceresetreercecereree 1 2
Cornell College... 0.2. nce cee ected [elo 5 LEWISTON, ME.
2 oye IN. Ja: IDWS) cenceeoESEoseeOn eee VAleerSass
Anéroscoggin Natural History Soci-
JACKSON, MISS. Ciitvicnc anes orcsnedoe SoerOnCecOnoEHed bsserE 3
Institute for Deaf and Dumb .......].----. 1 LEXINGTON, KY.
State Historical Society .......----- |.----. 3
lates LAT YA Meer e cic -sarrtersejererereiee vie eae ey. 1 || Eastern Lunatic Asylum.-.......2-. abel seseeay a
Kentucky University and State
JACKSONVILLE, FLA. Acriculturall Society *222:-2 2-222.) ss... 3
» Transylvania University......-...-. 1 1
Young Men’s Christian Association .|..-.-. 3
. LEXINGTON, VA.
JACKSONVILLE, ILL.
WG 18, NEWAydotooopdodsadesubusdose- 3 2
Institution for the Deaf and Dumb. - 1 1
State Hospital for the Insane......-. Qhilssaeece LIBERTY, VA.
JAMAICA PLAINS, MASS. WEL Cuntiss* treme tcecetien cence Le Soci.
Bussey Institution ........--.-.-.--. 15 19 LINCOLN, NEBR.
JANESVILLE, WIS. Statewmibnabyeteerrese cere eseaetee oleae 3
Wisconsin Institution for the Edu- t LITTLE ROCK, ARK.
cation of the Blind........./222 2] .2 22 2
Governor of the State of Arkansas-.-|...--. 1
JEFFERSON CITY, MO. Institution for the Deat and Dumb..|.-.... 1
, StatenGeologistas esessnae mele erci| oeeralee 1
Governor of the State of Missouri ...}....-. Tll| Suan IlmAiay Goocsosodudesonscobesaallacoqe 19
Historical Society of Missouri ....-.. 1 40|| ‘State University, \...20- acs. sclne- =| cc<- 2
Stabevbilbrary, aeensee eee ecisoc seisete| ae ote 1
LOCKPORT, N. Y.
JERSEY CITY, N. J.
(OWL 29) UOwGus suscccsadosncousonsedne 3 1
SPAlOSSen asa tecieisiccaciemiciocisc eee cee | eee 1
LONDON, CANADA.
KANSAS CITY, MO.
OL IS} INCE). 356 soobaoooneasosdeCGOsoauE) | bacse> 1
Young Men’s Christian Association |...-.- 3
LONG VIEW, OHIO.
KEYTESVILLE, MO.
Long View Asylum......--.--------- iseoaba
WharlesmVentchtmce ce cee eneaces sees be aes
LOUISVILLE, KY.
KINGSTON, CANADA.
College of Pharmacy ..--------------|..---- 1
Botanical Society of Canada........- 1 4 || Kentucky Historical Society ....-.-..|...--- 3
KaneisiCollege tio Lee ea aE 1 || Louisville and Richmord Medical
Queens! College seeks eee tees eeelluae cee 1 TOuTN Al el sae ee OS a 1 3
Public Library of Kentucky. ......-.|---.-- 4
KNOXVILLE, TENN. University of Louisville............. Q 3
East Tennessee University-......-..|.....- 2 LYNCHBURGH, VA.
Institution for the Deaf and Dumb ..}.....- 6
Prof i.e Bradley, ust Seseiay 1 2 \| Medical Society of Virginia........2- TN seGooe
=I

LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution from Europe, §-c.—Continued.

Address.

LYNN, MASS.

Society of Natural History
MADISON, WIS.

Agricultural Department
State Historical Society of Wiscon-

sin
Geological Survey of Wisconsin. ....
Office cf Emigration....-.-.-...---.-
State Library
University of Wisconsin
Wisconsin Academy of Sciences,

Amtsvandewebterseescereeee ee eeeee
Wisconsin State Agricultural Soci-

MANCHESTER, N. H.
Cityaliibrony eee eee eee eect oee
MANITOBA, BRITISH AMERICA.
Library of Saint John’s College ...-.
MARQUETTE, MICH.

Bishop Ignatius Maak...-..-...-. ee
MIDDLETOWN, CONN.

Wesleyan University.............--
MILLEDGEVILLE, GA.

State Library
University

MILWAUKEE, WIS.

Natural History Society......-...--.
W. Engelmann

Dr. L A. Lapham

MOBILE, ALA.

Charles Mohr

MONTGOMERY, ALA.
Statoduibranyeesseceneecceiscceeeee:
MONTPELIER, VT.

Historical Society of Vermont. .....-
State Library

MONTREAL, CANADA.

Agricultural Society of Lower Canada
Geological Survey of Canada
MeGill College
Montreal Observatory
Natural History Society
United States Consulate-General
Captain|S. C. Bagg.-- 02.232 .. soe ane
Prof. E. Billings

H. Chaveau
BP. P. Carpenter
IPROL ID We Da wSOD = j+5 scceeeetcisanc
Lord Dufferin
T. Sterry Hunt
Sir W. E. Logan
MOSophUMiclKhaycesaesecosseee neater
David A. P. Watt

MOUNT FOREST, (ONTARIO,) CANADA.

Wyaubbienmn WWavlblgacgoadesscaaceuc asance

1872.

woe

1873.

Bon

Address.

NASHUA, N. H.

Dr. B. K. Emerson

NASHVILLE, TENN.

Geological Survey of Tennessee. --..
Staterknbramy pees ere seen
Tennessee Historical Society..-..-..-
University

NEENAH, WIS.

‘Scandinavian Library Association...

NEWAPK, N. J.
Historical Society of New Jersey....
NEW ALBANY, IND.

Society of Natural History

NEW BEDFORD, MASS.
pete hon SOT eee eee eae
NEW BRUNSWICK, N. J.

Geological Survey of New Jersey....

Rutgers College so --s-- ese see

Prolidn Ca SMO Cke meee pease
NEW COELN, WIS.

Ise hyo dbs ANG JesH INIT, OS ono a aecdsaasoges
NEW HAVEN, CONN.

American Journal of Science and
ARG 2 tei aoe eee ee ee eae coeee
American Oriental Society

"Connecticut Academy of Arts and
SCIENCES tees Awe eee
Mercantileiibranysss-=-a-255 eases
Wolei@olle cetera ssa scee sree ree
Prot. WARE Blake ens o0 seo ee eee
Jee do Cr ISHN saeco qandesndasanac
Prof. J. D. Dana

Prof. EK. Loomis
IPTOn CaS siy manera setae eee eee
Prof. 0. C. Marsh

Prot. Sidney Smith
Prof. A. E. Verrill
Prof. W. D. Whitney
Dr. T. D. Woolsey
Doctor Voungersas-eeeeee ea eee eee:

NEWPORT, VT.

Orleans County Society of Natural
CIONCESSassteee nr eaee reer ee eee ees

NEW ORLEANS, LA.

Mayor of the city of New Orleans -..
Mechanies’ Society Library..-..---.
New Orleans Academy of Natural
SCien C6See se ee
University of Louisiana---.--...----
Dr. J. G. Richardson. ~~... 2-252 -2-

NEW YORK, N. Y.

American Bible Society
American Bureau of Mines.-....-----
American Christian Commission....
Amencani @hemistime- esses ceceeeeer
American Druggists’ Circular.....-.

1872.

1873.

Wwe aD

oP

rw)

oes
Swwow mn

=
LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution from Europe, §e.—Continued.

Address. 1872. | 1873. Address.
New York, N. Y.—Continued. New York, N. Y.—Continued.
American Geogtaphical and Statisti- Dye, Ay 10h Iu IBah SB SGaneedseenboSous
Gall SWCIGIY <ededeosadooesescogessas 4 450 ||PerofsaCharlessRaweyes a-ha taleee
American Institute.......-.-.-.---.- 25 SUL yl Dyes Det, Wi IRA MONG! Soo ooodSHHaSeoSeE
American Institute of Architects -.- 2 Pl} Dye, de IRON oo GaoeoonSSoonSsenons
American Journal of Mining ..-.-.. Qeleaerstr: RE MRO blnwie lleva ce mistrsceiaae
American Microscopical Society. - -- - 1 I SamuelpBakugclesisssssaeeeesaeeee
American Museum of Natural His- JOIN E IRMA Aryl Co scaoaaceusessoasee
HIN = doSans eecacoaseupeeoedacsdddtc 19 USE Woubins Sehiiitersaerecs-nialeehe sce e
American Society of Civil Engineervs.|.--.-- a | 1B INE Syelnernare) tens sbesceaasoceacessac
Anthropological Institute of New L. W. Schmidt. :-25.-- BSNS 28 fone Peis
WOK LJ .42s5eeSceunsquscsonece 23 aia Charles!Stephaniissssa5 5 s.r es) sice =
AND OREMUNCES) LON Ay ease ssooessaee lpocess Ibo NOs (ers te ebiee LAS ea Sccqooesoodsaueade
AMSDIE JUDY 5 = Sc oseeoceenoeeooeeueE 7 Ue | Die, di@lain Aor oseacssosassassudeas
Christian Inquirer Office.........-.. Di oaudaais Western & Co., Journal of Mining -.
ColleseiotPharmacy = eee n- secs <2 2 == = = 1, || Gen. Prosper Wetmore ---:.:255-----
Columba Colles ee essee re seme nee 2 Tiff) Dye; TBA Ou Anatase oe Gdcoosscasoaucene-
Engineering and Mining Journal. ... Ut |oooacoe Charles F. Wingate ........---.--..-
Institution for the Deaf and Dumb.. 1 1
_Institution for Improved Instruction NILES, CAL.
of the Deaf and Dumb.:--.--.--...)---.-- 1
Journal of Psychological Medicine Mr OrenzO/ Gea bes laters asters cisiaeiais re elel=1t
and Anthropology-.-.-...---.------- 3 2
Hmipera@hristiameee ss -snclcacie cise 6 NORTHAMPTON, MASS.
Lyceum of Natural History. ..-..--- 107 104
Mayor of the city of New York....-. 1 2 || Clarke Institution for Deaf Mutes. --
Wieoligall Gevalia’, osoconeopoudeccoenes Tiecodaes State Lunatic Hospital .......--.....
WieGhicall DOWMO Gasgaessecocdasaases 1 3
Mercantile Library Association -.--. 3 9 NORWICH, CONN.
Metropolitan Board of Health.....-. 3 3
National Board of Underwriters. ---. ecceacs Hon. David A. Wells ....-..-.--..--
New York Academy of Medicine -... 6 5 j
New York City Lunatic Asylum... Qi aes aee OAKLAND, CAL.
New York Historical Society.-. ..-.. 5 6 i
New York Hungarian Society. ...--.].--.-- 1 || Institution for the Deaf and Dumb..
New York Medico-Gistorical Society] -.--.- 3
New York Prison Association. ....-- i El eae OLATHE, KANS.
Numismatic and Archeological So-
CIC bye nen Menace aee ee ce cmosiee Imleasewice Institution for the Deaf and Dumb..
Office of the Sanitarian. ....--..-2-+-)----.- 1
Sreln@ell orF INTHE Yoseee suaosconoeneses 5 ri OLYMPIA, WASH.
SeienbiieyAanenicam = js25-- ses o a Al esc
Society tor the Protection of Animals}.-..-.-- I a Rerritorial libratyees scecise ssi eee
State Commissioner of Public Chari-
WES. 65 SEs Ha SARS ee ee ale epeuas a leg heals aes ca OMAHA, NEBR.
United States Sanitary Commission. 2 11
University of New York..-.--..--.-. 5 8 || Institute for the Deaf and Dumb ....
William Angermann ...-...-.--.---. 1 |.......|| Nebraska Historical Society -.--....--
ProfphpActe Vw Barnande eae eeeeceoc. 1 3
DryHordycer Barkers sccssssseec cee 1s ees reso ORONO, ME.
Ada SE BICRINOKsy snoedaacoucopesour Gees Atel estes
pliromasiPlan dees cise ieee saree Qi eerste Maine State College of Agriculture. .
DD rekin CyBoltonee ec caeesssncccsecre: (all ies eee
RevNapbane Brow sone sse eee eee Dh | Peg sts OTTAWA, CANADA.
irofsaCnke Chandler=-2- sce. sees -ec 3 ut
DAnIeMMrapereeetecre ce sees ee ee fee 1 || United States Consulate......-...---
ye, let, IDPH Nee sp eceso pose Saseasese= 3 (7) dibrary.of Parliaments: 2.222. 2/1...
1etHonis be JB OeaaAconaaeaeoaobaaee 1 Phil AMO Ne Tnss 4 NEdiGl 55 66 dooce neaHeaDosees
AMMUOM JBMNG= | saeneaoAoaoSUDoaScoase ape see
Captydiohmebricssons.- 222-452-5405 2 1 OTTAWA, ILL.
DAVideDudleyeHieldeee ee emee ceases altace 1
Greorgentolsomiysenee see eeeena see eece 3 2 || Ottawa Academy of Natural Sciences
SH Uo Clas ee creee Gusts te ce eenee ale eee eg
ennyaGainnelleesee eee eee eee 2 4 OWEN SOUND, CANADA.
Weer Ate bliaim 6g 70 8 i iiale eA en elt 1
Dry Hlisha)Marris. = 5..---2-- Soa Seee Th Sees || MrsxJiessieW Roy *20--222--2-2- see:
William B. Hodgson....-....---.---- 1 2
rote OlianlesvAta OVeecsseaeacee ee 1 1 OXFORD, MISS.
Dr ames ee Kimballee sateen coe acc lesan oe 2
UGS Chie Roe OOe mse ete nest eee oe oes 1 || University of Mississippi.-.--.-..--..
ID) PME ORO AD Ds. -(- 2) emcee sea tl eaccee 1.|| Eugene W. Hilgard .-.2-:..222.5.5..
George N: Lawrence .-.--......----- Si aa aes
INbasy (Ch Ate Tb Onl boosoapecoudades aa laseese 1 OXFORD, OHIO.
ID es ae SHINES Bey? Boob asnmocnoees a 9
Dre PNObbee ees ae Scie e nese 3 1 eMiaminWiniversity;sasaseeeiisceccsceas
BRotWAGYReCk 2. oun sen ee ase aD ere eee
PRemmpleyPrimciern nee c eee 1 Q PENN YAN, N. ¥.
/\ HERS GL IEC hel eaeleayrr ses eran tess Qulsgaeek
Baron! Osteusacken=- 2-055. 225)-o5ene slsllaerenraie Dr SEM Wiriehtessscmentscmscesonse

1872.

Lait <2)

79

1873,

ROR

Oe rw)

w
80

LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution from Europe, §c.—Continued.

Address. 1872.| 1873. Address. 1872. | 1873.
PEORIA, ILL. PITTSBURGH, PA.
Mercantile Library Association....-.|.----- 5 || Pittsburgh Day School for the Deaf
ID ye, Ja, Jems se ssoossaosoouoconces 1 1 and Dum bspeeeeeee eee ee nien eee ene pesos 1
PHILADELPHIA, PA. POMARIA, S. C.
Academy of Natural Sciences ....... 203 193 || William Summer.................... alallscuarstie
American Entomological Scciety - - 17 8
American Journal of Conchology .-. 4 3 PORTLAND, ME.
American Pharmaceutical Agsocia-
(KF lid Unoeneueoese use seeomoreloscors 31 27 || Portland Society of Natural History.| 43 65
American Philosophical Society. ---- 131 132
Central/Hich School?) - 2.2). ~~~ 2 len 3 PORT HOPE, CANADA.
Central High-School Observatory....|---.-- 1
@ollescvotpeharmacyese eee ea eee 1 || Rev. Ci JS: Bethume: 222522225. 2.8. pal bac
Collese OfeRhysicianseeesse eee eee leeceee 1
Mental Cosmosieeee seen eee eee eee 3 1 PORT SARNIA, CANADA.
Wental Waboratoryeeen-cciseeieeicseae BMIBE Aas
Mental Mimess sess kacs eae eee 3 |.--- 1 || United States Consulate.......--.-..|.-..-- 1
Mranisdinelarstitubemecesseeeeeees eee 30 30
GinardyCollese esse ecneere eee sere 4 1 PORT TOWNSEND, WASH.
Historical Society of Pennsylvania. 6 11
Library Company RS Seen eee eee 3 Sil dienes (Ea Sie Nocoosadacsadodcocasous iba eee
Mayor of the city of Philadelphia --|...--. #1
Medico-Chirurgical Review....-..-.- 3 2 POUGHKEEPSIE, N. Y.
Medical and Surgical Reporter .....- 2 jecasens
Medicallitim essere eee ecaeeeeee 6 LOG WassarmColleseme-e- sec ce cceneccce 3 Q
Mercantile bilbramye cemeteries 1 || Miss Maria Mitchell............-...-. lel easces
Numismatic Society.....-......----- 8 Isocbode
Pennsylvania Institution for the PRESCOTT, ARIZONA.
BLM ee Sasa hee eames Sse tees Sem eee Deaeeseas
Pennsylvania Institution for the MoereltonialymibraLnyeeees tae cece |eeeeee 3
DentwandeD mimibeeess sees kee 2 3
Philadelphia Society for Promoting PRESCOTT, CANADA.
JA GGUS) + so sos0.coceaaeuassoaons|lboococ 1
Polytechnic College. .... apegre cesses 1 1 || United States Consulate........-.---|.----. r]
IPMplichSchoolsty ses -ceeeenee ene see aleeeeee 2
Society for the Protection of Animals|. .-.--- 1 PRINCETON, N. J.
Univer sity of Pennsylvania ..-..... Q 1
Wagner Free Institute of Science . 16 15 || Agricultural Society ........-....--. IR esas
Rev, Dr. E: R. Beadle. .2).7..0.22-02 3 4 || College of New Jer-ey.-.-...-...----- 5 17
Towel IBlNCEXWSacosdoosbausoosneuces Wilesocace (Vebrotas: Allexan der 2c: -) ite a aey eames 1
IWetBrotherheadmesnt asec srecere fl lascooe EAT) BLOWS msieieteiereieletiae eteetet eras Meas
LOVE, Sh Nie IEW Ro Sec dobSsoouSs once 1 iW Terrors AUS (CnbbyONGeSoou bagoaKodosHoeues|) aooes 6
18h Ob OBireh7 a obho once 2 IP] serene, (OL lakers) 6 abo Sb Asacecooauonose 3 1
Pliny E. Chase ...-..-. hillaecoas.c
George W. Childs TY eo0d6s0 PROVIDENCE, R. I.
Teo, Ai Ae OMT -obecanoascdsecccr 1 3
IPA, Js, 1D), Coys sasnaccauduoadosasce. 5 3 || Atheneum). soo teosccess seen bese eee scene 1
SH eR ORESSOMM aera sie ecene ceieicte 1 1 || Brown. University. .-.-.2.22--).222-- 6 4
IUSRRON INE Sade SoabesuSsacsorosesocslssaoce 2 || Rhode Island Historical Scciety -.-.. Q 7
181 OERVHO os cos cuMooomGeostE cauTeGoe Ik Weooodes Statevdhibrany 226.2 -2eetee ee eee eee 3
IBADVe Mo ML EMM Sb5 soGdacesooo OS 3 2.) John Bartlettscsss-asseeee eeeeee Oi leedaes
IDTEMEGINU hs Seco ne noSEopootscTeooesser tiecaas Q5 MSs Olney iacic- Adee sais seis icine De ees
MELO See ae ee ist setic ne raisia eisieya siele ia ciate leis TT Dios JORIS NO Ra qasacoeddosonoccoudasssous 5 11
DriilisaacwWeas jee. ae. seca ceseeet 12 16
Dr. John L. Le Conte ............... 7 10 QUAKERTOWN, PA.
Dr Joseph Weide eececisyseemacseccee 13 16
db Mbesloye eae ceceensteeesseaee 1 PAP rinse MOY. OL rctateslesetaterlsjaiaieisialeie || eset 1
Onl Oa ahha Beeaes Demet ecemrna ap Stocco seers 1
Bi Siliymant — oes eee ees 2 Se ous 2 QUEBEC, CANADA.
Dri. Aitken Melos ie sees santero 4 1
‘Professor Matches sseseeee eee ce cen neceee 1s || aval (Omiversit ystems ett alse 1
HranihinvRealennessmeecctiencmaceecicte Thi Geb sas% Literary and Historical Society.-....}.----- 26
Henn yeehillipseeeeceeseeeeeeeeeeeeee Talkaee eee United States Consulate ......-......).-.--- 1
Drs Gwkichardsoneceeeeps eeeenose 1 3
Benyaminismithe sasscceeeeeeeeeee Pu ERGSOse RALEIGH, N. C.
George W. Tryon, jr.-...-...-- Sod 2 6
INTs SE ao Nee an nt eerste Statewwibranversseeeseee eee Se eee ee essere 4
Prof We Wiaeners ss sac ca0neeeeeeeee 8) Hoodoo: Institution for the Deaf and Dumb .. 1 1
Dr. Horatio C. Wood, jr. ......-.-..-. 4 PY ee Wio On INGOs SSA soesasoodcoooucEs||aooees 1
PICTOU, NOVA SCOTIA. RICHMOND, VA.
United States Consulate.............|.....- 1
Medical Society of Virginia.........|.-.--- 3
PINE LAKE, WIS. Stateguibraby Se seeesee ceeeeseescee 3 €
Virginia Historical Society.....-.--. 1 4
Wisconsin Scandinavian Society .--.).-- 1 || Thomas H. Wiynne! ese seeses ee ee i Waaocao
LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

81

Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution from Europe, §¢.—Continued.

Address.

1873.

ROCHESTER, N. Y.

University
Prof. Henry A. Ward

ROMNEY, W. VA.
Institution for the Deaf and Dumb-.
RUTLAND, VT.

Vermont Pharmaceutical Association
SACRAMENTO, GAL.
Geological Survey of California .......
State A ericultural Seciety

State Library
,

SAINT ANTHONY, MINN. ¢

University
Dr. A. Robertson

SAINT AUGUSTINE, FLA.

Historical Society of Florida

SAINT JOHN, CANADA.

United States Consulate
SAINT JOHN, NEW BRUNSWICK.

Mechanics’ Institute
Natural History Society..-..---.---.
United States Consulate. ...0.....--.
G. IF. Matthews.

Gilbert Murdock
Prof. Alleyne Nicholson

SAINT JOHN’S, NEWFOUNDLAND.
United States Consulste....-.-.-..--
SAINT LOUIS, MO.

College of Pharmacy
Institution tor the Deaf and Dumb-.
Mercantile Library
Missouri Dental Journal
Public School Library.....---.......--
Saint Leuis Academy of Sciences. . -.
University of Saint Louis
Dr. Louis Bauer
Ernst Von Engelbrodt.....-....-....
Dr. G. Engelmann
N. Holmes
Dr. M. L. Linton
Dr. H. A. Prout
Prof. R. Pumpelly
OMVErRleye CeCe week Se REE RAE Re
Maurice Schuster

SAINT PAUL, MINN.

Academy of Natural Science.........
Chamber of Commerce
Institution for Deaf and Dumb
Minnesota. Historical Society.-....-.
Stiane IGib pays eee ee Ee
J. R. Kloos

SALEM, MASS.

American Association for Advance-

ment of Science
American Naturalist. 0. 222cs522 55
Essex Institute, Salem
Peabody Academy of Science

6S

oO
Bee ROR ee pee

_
BR ORO

WO, (Gad iet MiG) ye sccnudcooc GE eRotes

Address.

1872. | 1873.

SALEM, Mass.—Continued.
IDbIsh IW Kay ee\s) Goo boo Cob EoooBuceEosnSsosae

SALEM, OREG.

Institution for the Deaf and Dumb. -
Stateduibrabyreseeseecpeces sae eeecese

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

Territorial Library

SAN FRANCISCO, CAL.

California Academy of Natural Sci-

ences
Institution for Deaf and Dumb
Mayor of the city of San Francisco -
Mercantile Library Association
Pharmaceutical Society..-----.-------.

| Society for the Protection of Animals

Henry: A Bolanders-ss--c5-2-s5 15
IDEs ds Cra CoMnersadsss obebsesdaeaesee
Doctor Johnson
Its Ib Oe tUSENO Me posoesocomonoGnasaac
Frederick Whymper
F. Benton :
EE Gp Bloomersecas--este eseseieoeiee

SANTA FH, N. MEX.

Historical Society of New Mexico
Territorial Library

SAVANNAH, GA.
Historical Society of Georgia......-.
SCHENECTADY, N. Y.

Jonathan} Browil.-1-i22 cae eee ee
Union College

SEAVILLE, N. J.

SING SING, N. Y.

SOUTH BETHLEHEM, PA.

Lehigh University

SPRINGFIELD, ILL.

Illinois State Agricultural Society. --
State Library
Prof. A. H. Worthen

STAUNTON, VA.
Institution for the Deaf and Dumb..
STOCKTON, CAL.

State Lunatic Hospital ---........--.
SYRACUSE, N. Y.

Prof. rAs vam Chelle eee seeereeleeeiae

TALLADEGA, ALA.

Institution for the Deaf and Dumb

ae

OO

82

LITERARY AND

SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES,

Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution from Europe, §-c.—Continued.

Address.

1872.

1873. Address.

1872. | 1873.

TARRYTOWN, N. Y.
General J. C. Frémont...'...-.-.-.---
TAUNTON, MASS.

State Lunatic Hospital

TOPEKA, KANS.

Kansas Natural History Society... --
SUES) JD Pb AVo po coosuEsodoeeouoRanoKe

TORONTO, CANADA.

Canadian Institute
Chemists’ Association
Literary and Philosophical Society --
Observatory
Pharmaceutical Society.......-.-.-..

University of Canada.......-.--..... E

Dr. A. Milton Ross
Rey. Daniel Wilson

TRENTON, N. J.

Statepluibranys asc e-. eee see emeete
State Lunatic Asylum...............

URBANA, OHIO.
Urbana University. .-.25222--22:.-.-
UTICA, N.Y.

American Journal of Tnsanity......-
State Lunatic Asylum...............

VANDALIA, ILL.
. Historical and Archeological Society.
VICTORIA, VANCOUVER’S ISLAND.

United States Consulate

WASHINGTON, D. C.

-American Annals of the Deaf and
Dumb

, Board of Indian Commissioners. ....
Bureau of Navigation...............
“Bureau of Statistics........2......-.
- Census Bureau
Clinico-Pathological Society
‘Columbian Institution for the Deaf
ands Dumibssese ieee eee ee

) Department of Agriculture..........
Department of Education
Engineer Department
: General Land-Office
Governor of the District
Howard University...-.-:...-.....--
- Hydrographic Office
Library of Congress
sLicht-House Board 22232522 2 en
Medical Society of the District of
Columbiase es eee see ee
National Academy of Science
National Deaf Mute College........-
Nautical Almanac Office..-..-.....--
Navy, Department. --....+-.2.......-
OrdnanceyBureau 2 oosee een
Pharmaceutical Association
President of the United States....-.
JEWS SEO) oc sos ososeeubeonadsaout
Secretary of the Navy ...........2...
SION AO Commerce eee eee eee
State Department

4 || Surgeon-General’s Office. .------

Treasury Department

United States Geological Surve

Patent Office

Dr. Cleveland Abbe
A. W. Angerer
Prof. A. Ashley

a
m OO

WERE RODE A

Vincent Colver
Prof. J. H. C. Coffin

W. H. Dall
Maurice Delfosse
Israel Dille
Capt. Du Pont

Prof. J. R. Eastman
E. B. Elliott

1 || Don Antonio Flores
Don Manuel Freyre

Baron Charles Lederer

Com. Stephen B. Luce

1) ProfiGyAqiMatilers--sschasscees
Elon Heh ain @reeeen epee eee

Capt. Foxhall A. Parker
Hon. k. C. Parsons

Don Antonio Perez
Count Luigi Porti

ROT 6 Ord

Prof. T. Gill
Prof. A. Hall

a
= c=
WW Or

Dr. F. V. Hayden
Prof. J. Henry
Prof. J. E. Hilgard

—

»
COREE RRO GUN R BOO

T. Peesche
Joseph Saxton

Hon. H. von Schlatzel

=

W. H. Seaman

WASHINGTON, D. C.—Continued.

United States Coast Survey. --.-

United States Naval Observatory. --.

War Department........--..-.---.--

BlacqueyBeyeeeeen- see eee ee one
DCs Bille veka oem ceee es eects

Dr. Hdward Curtis...........-.

EER Dodcokee (ot eeu

Seftor L. A. de Padua Fleury. .--

Don Manuel R. Garcia........--

1 || Hon. H. R. Hurlbut ..,.-..-.--.-

Chevalier de Lansay obese

DriCh€ PaLrryeesqisceeeeeeecees

Prof. B. Peirce. eS e en

Count L. F. de Pourtales.-.--..-.-
Com. W. Reynolds......-.------
Robert Ridgway...-.-.-.--.-.--

Prof. W. Harkness. ....---------

ProfJbs Ssloldeneess-c 4-22-22 =
Jn CiGuitennedyeeeeeeseeee tee
Miss Emma Marwedel..-.-.-..--

George C. Schaeffer.......---.--

Charles A. Schott...---.---:-.--

Hon. John Sherman............-

ww

NMWONWARPARPURDRE WOR Rwy
LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES. Q2

Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution from Europe, §:c.—Continued.

Address. 1872. | 1873. Address. 1872. | 1873.
WASHINGTON, D. C.—Continued. WILLIAMSBURGH, VA.
OlafStenerson.-----2.2----2-.-<.-s<- 1D eSa05a0 Eastern Lunatic Asylum .-...-....../..-.-- 1
James Stephenson......--.--.--.---- Poe ieae ;
Osmiond!Stone eee esc saa. eee sees aaliee ase 1 WILMINGTON, DEL.
Hon. Charles Sumner ...---.-.-------|------ 1
Prof. Cyrus Thomas .....--.--.------ CU Renoobe Agricultural Society -....-...--.---.]------ 2
Sir Edward Thornton............---- sg es 8a a
J0ye; dy WE MieyVeres 53 Sdcaooeecoossoodass esate WINDSOR, CANADA.
LeMay? ONG) =o koooscodoouoodUeuBeEsee 23 Issodace
Hon. W. H. Upsoxz........-..---.---- I bkeaooe United States Consulate ............|------ : 1
ae. Gens G. K. Avarren ce attretejeteeoe ele feris Fe 1
on. H. Westenberg...-------------.| | 1 |-----.- WINDSOR, NOVA SCOTIA.
MON OnaWioodwandens crn ce elles Te 5
Clarence Bp Own yaaa aa —- S = Library of King’s College ...........|------ 1
WATERVILLE, ME. H. G. Hind ...------.- 22-2 22+2-22-2-/2e02+- 2
Waterville College .....-........---- PSA tenia WORCESTER, MASS. “4
WATERVILLE, OHIO. American Antiquarian Society -..... 10 15
State Lunatic Hospital -.-........... LS |ReR Ne
Otterbein University ...............-|-..--- 1
: WYANDOTTE, KANS.
WESTCHESTER, PA.
Tr, Ti, ONT en ee ee les dies Wyandotte Library Association .....|-...-- 3
WESTFORD, CONN. YONKERS, N. Y.
TONG We ALLY emesis ciclersrere'sieiscinisie sais |[sisieiste c 1) PE Schieftelonmenssaasteasenae eealseee ce 1
RECAPITULATION.
Packages received, &c. 1872.) 1873,
Motaladdressesiofainstitutions: os s- Se ccc see see se ccc sce cieeslaiciecececcarcjeiasctsemacutiee eee 300 463
Rotaltad dressestotindividuals seas ccicc ce cet aA cieie nee eee see nec nines tae seeeeeeenee 287 226
587 689
Total number of parcels to institutions ©. 02... oc. coc w cee w ence cc ctecceccccccsescececccs 3, 694 | 3, 876
Total number of parcels to individuals..............-.c20cce-e---eeeee aA Ea ve nae 941 906

CLASSIFIED RECORD OF MONTHLY METEOROLOGICAL REPORTS
PRESERVED IN THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. |

=

Name of station.

Period.

Name of observer.

NORTH AMERICA.
BRITISH AMERICA.

JN ontmlort JRO SoSedb boss sSoaess
Fort Anderson ;
Fort George
Hog IMENT! Se Cooks eose cob6 de
Fort NOE COL Ee east IS a ir
Fort Norman .
INOW IEEE), Gacaoo osc
Fort Rae, Great Slav e , Lake...
Fort Simpson, Great Slave
EH eae ee eee ORs HALOS ie
Kenoqumissée) 2525. Sac sseee
Little Whale River.......--.
Moose Factory. - 4
Moose Factory to Lake Su-
perior
Red River Settlement. .....-
Rigolet, Labrador....-.-:---
Vv ictoria, Vancouver’s Tela,
Winnipeg

CANADA.
New Brunswick.
Sic OM Ges Soa seu new He
Nova Scotia.

NTailitare cio ey Mesa Oe

we eo ee eee ee pee eee we ee

GME Sore Good woos aonaaS
Michipicoton senna ea nentyan
Mount Forest ..... Dae.
Niagara io... .sse ean.
Toronto

IOP aR ae SoG5 Gece
1859-1860... ----
SOUS C Ae eer

1848-1861.-..-.--.-.
1861-1863 ...-.-25--

1857-1861...-......
1859-1860..--..----
1863-1864......----
1869-1873...-...---.

1859-1873

ESOC concn coe
1863-1865 ......-..-.

1843-1855 ...--. 2...
1857-1862...-..-..-
ISO7—1873 25 22 eae
TOBA eee ee
Ikebe ICE ooo oo5 cous
1855-1858... 2.2...

TEARS) cosso coos
1860-1866...--....-
WSUS ecscoocses
IS6ISLS632ea sos ae
1856-1868 ...-......

James Lockhart.
R. Macfarlane.

R. Kennicott.

H. Connolly.
Andrew Flett.
Lawrence Clark, jr.

Mrs. Lawrence Clark, jr.

B. R. Ross.
Thomas Richards.
Walter Dickson.
J. Mackenzie.

Colin Rankin.
Donald Gunn.

H. Connelly.

Dr. David Walker.
James Stewart.

Gilbert Murdock.

Royal Engineers.
Col. W. J. Myers.
Board of Trade.

R. J. Nelson.

Henry Poole.
King’s College.

D. F. Higgins.
Acadia College.
C.F. Hart.

Prof. A. P.S. Stuart.

W. Martin Jones.
Dr. W. Craigie.
J. Williamson.
Colin Rankin.
W. Wylie.

H. Phillips.

Magnetic Observatory.

Capt. J. H. Lefreoy.

Dr. A. Hall.

Observaticas published in Natu

raliste Canadien.
MONTHLY METEOROLOGICAL REPORTS.

Monthly meteorological reports preserved in the Smithsonian Institution—Continued.

85

Name of station.

Sto WlenebiS Gessecoscouseasee
SHEIM DENIER SS Boob Sccoco coooSe

OLA TTORGsee cee see ieise cero
NEWFOUNDLAND.
lBlene bore (GRRE) 5 Gooeoe oode eooD

Stavohmiguemeses oc access ea oe

UNITED STATES.
Alabama.

PNG livilllemiaaeac os so accises cee
AOU 655 casa See eee
IBOTbON beets es oe cs EUR kp
IBIDHE SHORING oeoseKoad o sec.
IBONGGEy GiaBae Baeaaeoe Ea
IBOMVSCCOULS Has see cee see nee
Calvabaveeee se oe eee Ee

LEX. GSS eS t Gee Seine eerie eae

IBLE) Saee See eae Ee eras

Havana, six miles east of ....
tumbsvallieeesces oaisate see aoe
ILA ASTOD, Sooo dacccouosaose
McMaths, Post-Office --..-...
IMI OMI Se este siete en ae eee eke eS
IMO oil Caer atic oS eee ae Ue
IMODIG see cena se ce ae

Monroeville 5-25 ste sses 222
IMontgomery).2 2. se eee

Moultomere esses So Oe eee

Opelika 2s. 22 5 ees ee,
Orville ic 2 7 ci eee kee

raiierbluitien aes eee

SDLING SHE ss ene es
PROV see ores Mae es ye

Period.

1852-1862......-.--
TSMC oo oo Goce
1868-1873... --=.---
18611862 eee eae

NSWAK187 2252 so 5 see
Wee coKecH cae
1857-1864 soo ns soe
NSTI ANS73 355 ote
AO Sees Oe wien
NSGSHLSCO Tess sn cree

USSG“ 18600100 27 el

TUS Tse ane Ate)

1853,1859-1861,1866-
1873.

sete seal oe

egies ey eet ec

1859-1860 255 55-

Name of observer.

Dr. Charles Smallwood.

J.C. Baker,
A. H. Gilmour.
C.J. Macgregor.

Henry A. Clift.
Archibald Munn.

John Delany, jr., E. M. J. Delany.

John Delany.

.-| H. B. M. military post.

Rev. R. C. Caswell.

Thomas M. Barker.
Prof. John Darby.

Dr. Charles F. Percival.

W. W. Wilson.

Col. Horace Harding.
W. J. Vankirk.

Dr. Matthew Troy.
Dr. H. L. Alison.

W. B. Sommerville.

Dr. Samuel K. Jennings.

Dr. T. C. Osborne.
A. Winchell.

W. J. Vankirk.
Robert B. Waller.
N. T. Lupton.
Prof. H. Tutwiler.

Dr. 8. K. Jennings.
Dr. E. L. Antony.
Rev. 8. U. Smith.
R. T. Meriwether.
D. H. Sumner.

Dr. S. B. North.
Rev. J. J. Nicholson.
Lewis B. Taylor.

8. J. Cumming.
Rev. J. A. Shepherd.
W. LL. Foster.
Andrew J. Harris.
Thomas J. Peters.
Prof. J. Shackelford.
Ashley D. Hunt.

J. H. Shields.

Dr. 8. K. Jennings.

T. A. Huston and J. A. Coleman

William Henderson.
R. M. Reynolds.

Dr. 8. K. Jennings.
C. Cadle, jr.

Dr. C. F. Fahs and Miss Deans.

Dr. H. 8. Hudson.
A. Cornette.

D. P. Hurley.
Prof. M. Tuomey.
George Benagh.
J. L, Moultrie.
BG

MONTHLY METEOROLOGICAL REPORTS.

Monthly meteorological reports preserved in the Smithsonian Institution—Continued.

i; Sanaa
Name of station. Period. Name of observer.
t
Uniontown .----.-.--- seh ihe 1859-1860........-.. Rev. R. A. Cobbs.
Wetokaville .--.-..----.---- 1849, 1851-1854... - Benjamin F. Holly.
Alaska.
MOLtIVOUKON =e sceteseece eee SO eee eeemcrer R. Kennicott.
INDIE NRO Meee GAS ebaoos sae S66—1SO7eealeaee W. H. Dall.
Saint Paul’s Island......---- LSTO=NS7 lees Charles Bryant.
Sitka 5, GR ht 1867-1868 .....----- Dr. Alexander H. Hoff.
1868-1870......---. Charles Bryant.
Saint Michael’s -..---------- ISO5-1SOOssoeeseree H. M. Bannister.
1865-1866...-...--- _J. W. Bean.
Unalakleet <- 2.5 oc. aces 1866-1867 .....----- F. Westdahl.
Arizona.
Hort Whipple. 2222 see... NEGD)s SSascagsooanlée Dr. E. Coues.
Arkansas.
Arkadelphia..---...---.---- 1859)- 002... --. 22-4) Dennis Barlow.
WW sooseos cssbeo se Female College.
Bentonvillessecesso se oes ee eos SS Olea ere Paul Graham.
IBrOWwNSValle sc osceeee wesc 1859-1860..--.-.... B. F. Coulter.
BUCKHORN tee eo4 seer ee ere ISBY) s Soneuc coeeades Armistead Younger.
Clarkswalllec os .se eet es en MS Mel PO seco wocaas E. Greene.
Doadksville 222555 ses. s-- | 1860-2. ---- --2.--), Miss, S. McBeth.
Fayetteville .....22. 5..----.) 1870- Tego St Charles L. McClung.
Horest City. 22225 10se eee WS72-1873). -- 22: =e William F. Wellborn.
HoroySmithsesceeeeoeeeee 1866-18672 2-3 Rey. Francis Springer.
Gainesville 2. 22 h2 eee cee NSB OU ek arene aaa James T. Davies.
Green Grove: -. 22222225. 4224 TEOOe Sek ee Seas Dr. Robert Burris.
Helena. 222 2.ccen eee ea| LEGS IS (ae eee eee O. F. Russell.
Jacksonport 222-82 beeen sce 1859-1860. .---. =... Dr. G. A. Martin.
Dag Alle Ieee ees eA Coke TSAO Rie pee nne cere Philip L. Anthony.
Mico ess5 bs 228 See ee HSGQE Ee een Rev. H. F. Buckner.
Mineral Springs. .-..--.....- 1870-1873... .--.-- Harmon Bishop.
Sea sose ------| Prof. D.C. Cowling.
PSO see a eee es J.G. P. McLenden.
Mountain Home .-.--...----. PSO ee ee eee J.S. Howard.
Mount Wdayjjo2.2 teehee Iker Pas 55aaasous Granville Whittington.
Pernyvallle cei. aes ee IS59-1S6N eee eee W.#H. Blackwell.
SSO ee eee eee eee eel Ene lard,
Pocahontases-.s-- +2 ses eee ey Ss acasacoae Joseph P. Martin.
Spring will eee eee MEG Os Aico a ees P. F. Finley.
Sera LSGQRe een wees J. Reynolds.
Se iach suk P. F. Finley and J. Reynolds,
Waldron oeectee see cmeesean iee8 ele) o eS eso asoe George W. Featherstone,
Washinetoneeass cee toners dhol Oy Seer as anes ca Dr. Alexander P. Moore. ;
1849-1861..---..... Dr. N. D. Smith.
DRS ee eis scrcrea Charles White.
leis acce sec eeree J. EK. Borden.
Mellville: 2225222 eae TBS59=1S60 22 222 ei J. W. Weast.
1S59=1SGOR ee ee | W. B. Flippin.
California
AMDUTI 226. So cose 1E59=18602-- 22. See Robert Gordon.
@ahta.o 2. oo BRR O Sl aie 1869-1872... 2 Doctor Thornton.
Ohicovs see SOS ee 1869-1872). 2.2. coe Dr. W. Fitch Cheney.
Clayton .2 06 os. OURO BAO Neate on nee eat Charles L. McClung.
Wolumbias - 2. =. eee ees 1857-1860.......... Dr. Silas Earle. .
Crescent City. so... seus 1859-1860....-...-- Robert B. Randall.
Downieville ..2 2 oss TSGOLS ae eee homellies Dr. T. R. Kibbe.

MONTHLY METEOROLOGICAL REPORTS.

87

Monthly meteorological reports preserved in the Smithsonian Institution—C ontinued.

Name of station. Period. Name of observer.
Montes. sasse tease BUPalsBsecas= a5ce George H. Peck.
HROMS OME tay ais yes Uys sc DSO) oe sees easels Rev. 8. V. Blakeslee.
lion, Witimteiecooessos dees ones USO oN ree leyeyatstnnal Meise istaleate Matos eerie AN se au
TOM CUILE ye oer see Tene esis LOO yaks eo ae James Slaven.
1SOO 2s see sete J. Slaven and Mrs. E. 8S. Dunkum.
1SO1=1S65" oases Mrs, E. 8. Dunkum,
MovdiianeViallleyse ec smres == tees Si OS ale eee Miss M. E. Pulsifer.
Reale Vis ooomoe see Mrs. M. E. P. Ames.
Way) Gravee gas ee = \eae ejasjninic USI SE ese RST nO Joseph Domenici.
Mare Island ......,.....-+-.-- ISGSHIS7 3 sae United States naval hospital.
Marsh’s Ranche-...-......--- NBO7ANSCS = ay eis. Francis M. Rogers.
Mianbumezprmia. eS Giga e te THEG{0) eres eas ona a Edwin Howe.
Many swale says ier 52-962 esi 1857-1859, 1861-1863,| W. C. Belcher.
Meadow Valley -.----- .----- 1860-1862.....----. James H. Whitlock.
VEGA ee ee See Dr. Colbert A. Canfield.
IOS allel telco coo. cae M.D. Smith.
Mendocino City-.----.------ Dey Pd 5 ies oer ea eee eae Doctor Thornton.
Mokelumne Hill.-...--..---- IebO ilies sees Bose Wesley K. Boucher.
WIOMCHOWGocaseonGon daes Gene 1859-1860, 1864-1872} Dr. Colbert A. Canfield.
Miumphiy Ss \-scesy=ssseisclesietssie ISGS—NSO9 See eee Ephraim Cutting.
National City. ..---.-------- Ibe tcviessesouooe J. M. Asher.
ATAMISCLCUbye me aes ee NSO ES oe W.A. Wright.
Presidio of San Francisco....| 1869...........-.-. Dr. W. W. Hays.
1863-1864...--..--. D. F. Parkinson.
Pes2-1SGl es ae eee Post surgeon.
Sacramento...-.-.-----.---- TBA eee ess AG Ce Dr. F. W. Hatch.
1855_ - eae Drs. F. W. Hatch and T. M. Logan.
IBAO UT BGS). 08! aay Dr. T. M. Logan.
USO ye a Sika y Charles Craft.
Salimag) Cltyicecesse-eeeeces ISIS 73a seen eer Dr, E. K. Abbott.
SHIM IDI 25 Sodaakidtea sauces ISVS Oe eae Dr. G. W. Barnes.
Sanvlirancisconeescen ss ee nee 1856-1863, 1865-1868) Dr. W. O. Ayres.
test! S550 8 Dr. H. Gibbons.
Santa Barbara.....--.-----. BOA Cie Lee eee Dr. W. W. Hays.
Semin Oley. soo5 6 chao aboode IS SMG eae coon Prof. O. 8S. Frombes.
IRS ES sy shee oe eet Lewis A.Gould. °
Samba @nuzijses.o oases INS/BMs oa eocdce doocas|| Aol len dlare.
Santa Rosa ......-----.----- US e is ale Some 5 Prof. W. B. Hardy.
Spanish Ranche.....-...---- 1862-1863" 225 ee: M.D. Smith.
1864-1866 .......--- Mrs. M. D. Smith.
SWOCIRIOIN. cacasgassecee cased Ike SSIS Oe 5 5 o6o Seen Dr. Robert K. Ried.
IBSKe CRM eigenen sets: Walter M. Trivett.
LOM ROM see saeco eee TUS KAIS eae aay A ee Doctor Thornton.
Union Ranche 5...-.5-a. <.-- dCi ps Rs Ai W. LL. Dunkum.
Wacawallle sass Sees oem ass LSO9=1S870 eee ace Prof. J. C. Simmons.
AVaiSal ae ee a? TEGO SIS (ee eee J. W. Blake.
Watsonville seepeeeene arses WOM soccau case Dr. A. J. Compton.
Colorado.
CWanyontC@ityre- es seeos aoe SEO A Oi ss yee a Thomas Macon.
Clentneal Ciivccse duces Sse) dao alist eee eee eas W. D. McLain.
Coloradol@ibyases- esse sees NS rAlel ears peel A.M. Merriam.
Colorado Springs - --...----. SIP aociaa soak K.S. Nettleton.
ISPS Bacroomeson K.S. Nettleton and E. Cropley.
WenvenCity soe eee oe SSO M See Means D.C. Collier.
LSTA saace cease W.N. Byers and S. Y. Sopris.
HontaCollimsyene seer ee NS NSW oiasa ees _R. Q. Tenney.
Hountainye 2-2 eke hae 1866-1867 .......-.. Arthur M. Merriam.
Sal = VOWS eee _Clayton J. Croft.
(Cralien Ouimny Gus soh Gaclboomuse SS yar Ne eee E. L. Berthoud.
NSW 187(Sis22 = ea George W. Davies.
Mas Amimas 22.5: cee ec sees Ie Baacoue ose seal ia aie! de lbp rere
Montgomery 5/3 238s ca0c32 a2. IS65— 1860" ose 4- James Luttrell,
88

Monthly meteorological reports preserved in the Smithsonian Institution—Continued.

MONTHLY METEOROLOGICAL REPORTS.

Name of station. Period. Name of observer.
Mounitain @ity2- -.-22222---. 1e60=1S62NS seen Dr. William T. Ellis.
Bebo eee i ee eee RSIS aera a ig et 2 K.S. Nettleton.

Connecticut.

isiROORMNENCLAS So6gcassaooaoSse 1868-1870... ......-- Sanford W. Roe.

Canton ae eee ae eee eee 1S6I=1863 Geese Jarvis Case.

Colebroolkees eee eeeeee 1860-1873.......--. Miss C. Rockwell.

Colts ssoysseccoese ae IS5O=1873 s55see eee W.G. Yeomans.

East Windsor Hill .....----.. S52 Aa eee pA @hadibounrnes

Georsetow i e-s5s. seosee cre: SSO T NSO Teese see Aaron B. Hull.

GEOGG Me ee 2 cae SO 1866-1868 .........- Rev. E. Dewhurst.

JaleienORl G64 boeadaqodca Hass 1849185 eee ees Charles H. Hoadley.

Middletowmtccseeoasie cece 1854-1858, 1659-1868) Prof. J. Johnston.
ite SI. oa Case Prof. A. W. Smith.
ISGS IS (3 eran eee Prof. J. Johnston and H. D.A.Ward.

INOWeElaVienerc= sae se ce imac SS OMe Ee ee eee H. G. Dubois, jr.
1862-1864.......... D.C. Leavenworth.
Ice Gi SoG bees Prof. EK. Cutler.

New london 2-2-2 ease eee 1849-1851, 1852-1855) Rev. Tryon Edwards.

North Colebrook...-....---. Ice ss So eaa eoas M. H. Cobb.

North Greenwich ......----- HCVADMSas5so5 Ab oso6 Rey. W. P. Alcott.

INOEWAICHEM Somos cece eee ee NB55—LB58ree es eee N. Scholfield.

Plymouth yc cesses eee 1862-1864... 2-2. Dwight W. Learned.

IR OMELEG Gee eee ee ee te eee S531 SOO eee eee Rev. Daniel Hunt.

Salisbugyeeeee on seeseeees oes 1849-1851, 1853-1854] Dr. Ovid Plumb.

San LOOk. <4 -eioesmesee | ae ISRO sess osoaas James Rankin.

USBI aes aie Aug. Barnes.

Southinetomiaence seneeeneee iterADElteViais 25655 6aoc Luman Andrews.

Wrailllimstordii eee ciseee ISSO—1862E See eee Benjamin FE’. Harrison.

Wiaterbuny esis. 4 eee 1867-1869... - 2-2. - Rev. R. G. Williams.

WiestiCornwall 2325222 Tot be ene ee T.S. Gold.

Windsor sce ccu 2 eee Ds fag) a  eeels R. H. Phelps.

Dakota.

BoniHommewacencseee ee eee HS Oe RCN iis ee eam re H. C. Greene.

Cheyenmense sen eeeser eee TST 2 ven Bee Rae A. R. Baylis.

AES OS eso Sates Seek US Y Pa eteetes ee ena Henry Ambrose.

NOW. WhMNOMs sa Sh5o onseasae | Uebyleie Soo Sod5h. F. G. Riter.

Greenwoodl so see 1859-1 SO aa see Freeman Norvell.

Ponka Agency... --.--.---- Sma vee Sates eee Bae Rev. J. Owen Dorsey.

Mamksbomiieicc terse see ae OUTS) aes emai iH 20d)? M. Kk. Armstrong.

VRS OP os Se eres ai ae G. D. Hill, G. W. Lawson; H. G.
Williams.
BGS as re See Raye H. G. Williams.
Delaware.

Delaware City...-..-------- HSOC—1SGUez eee aeees L. Vankekle.

DOVER eee ee BOA EAA ses J. P. Walker.

; CROSS Bs55 cusecc J. H. Bateman.

Georgetown 5) eee eee NSO Sus Bes a Lee Dr. D. W. Mauld.

Lewes.....-.- HRs ec San SAG Nik ge Soi at Mi laa John Burton.

IVI Ror di) (es Sea see el ae Ices SoS eee ss. R. A. Martin.

S69 SSO R eae eae Mrs. A. C. Whittier.
NSZOSNGT es eee as Mrs. W. R. Phillips.
Itsy syiGise oust kGe R. H. Gilman.

Newari se so tos eee SAD sores Ree a eae Prof. W. A. Norton.
SH Qe seas ee Prof. KE. D Porter.
fey eames Prof. W. A. Crawford.
SG ee ss Ae aa Prof. W. A. Crawford, R. A. Martin.
SSO Seeks Soe Prof. W. A. Crawford, R. A. Martin,

T. J. Craven.
WSS seySecrsatsia eee Thomas J.Craven, Mrs. E. D. Porter.
MONTHLY METEOROLOGICAL REPORTS.

Monthly meteorological reports preserved in the Smithsonian Institution—Continued.

Name of station.

NOWHBE scsaeedcueucoquecess
\ GUT oN Boece coo aecose
District of Columbia.

Georgetown <2 --2-).-52-42---
Wars muiniotiongeetarsi=2lniels/ eae ote

Florida.

Wedarikiey se. seis) satya
Chattahoochie Arsenal .:....
Chestnut Halle sso. 22252222
IDEN TICMER SE Soo) Seas meee aera

HOGG George 225.74 2ee es ee
Gainesvalll@ion 2 255 6h ses
Gorndonepecce ssc see eee

Green Cove Spring.....- fajeku
Isl O@IenIb)< ceclae eens aeebde

Key West, (Salt Pond) ..---..
(Mag. obs.) .----.

linen JE ES ease eames
ILAIRG: Omi cososonosaueus coos

Manaheeion 22s Se cjoss cee ose
MiayipOLtintsee ee dae se wee Tau
INUCANO DY sobs candace suc cous
ING WOTU ee ace eae fhe
New Smyrna ...---..--.----

Ocalayee=-=- Sere Nar FI aN
Orange Grove. ...-.--- Besos
Oneye® Jamls co56 sbesGeasoos
IRONS ACOA as eoea aes cee Sees

Pilatkaeen sos cece ase Sais
JE ORME osohes cGaqudecuas

Sor otiel dias esse see ete
Saint Augustine ..........-.

Mallalhasse@e. sos slen cesses

Period.

1860-1863...-...-..

Name of observer.

Mrs. E. D. Porter.
Robert Crawford.
Urban D. Hedges.

Rev. C. B. McKee.

89

1852-1860, 1864-1867} United States Naval Observatory.

Isls elaGeeau asa
1854-1874......-.--

ebilaleme sa sceonecs
1869-1870.....---..
betas Wate mere Src eoe

18531-860, 1866-1872
1854-1864....- wee
1860-1861 .:2.222---

NOG icses sa eke es A

NCTE ees Some n nA
1871-1873... 0222 -

J. Wiessner.
Smithsonian Institution.

Edward R. Ives.

Aug. Steele. ,
Benjamin F. Whitney.
Charles F. Powell.
W.#H. Hunt.

K. T. Sturtevant.
Aug. Steele.

M. Martin.

John Newton.

S. N. Chamberlin.
Henry M. Corey.
John F. Rollins.
James Bb. Bailey.

Dr. P. C. Garvin.

H. B. Scott.

G. A. Boardman.

F. L. Bachelder.

Dr. A.S. Baldwin.
W.C. Dennis.

George J. Allen.

G. F. Ferguson and J. G. Oltmans.

John Newton.

Edward R. Ives.

Galen M. Fisher.

Rev. W. W. Keep.

B. A. Coachman.

W. F. Keeler.

Dr. James B. Bean.

Rev. Charles Beecher.
George J. Alden.

Edm. K. Lowd.

Edward Barker.

W.J. Clarke.

John Newton.

United States navy-yard.
J. Pearson.

J. Pearson and Jos. Fry.
Jos. Fry.

Jos. Fry and J. W. Hester.

Lieut. J. W. Hester.
Gen. George D. Robinson.
W. Mz. L. Fiske.

Dr. J. M. Hawks.
Edward Barker.

Dr. John E. Peck.

Dr. P. B. Mauran.
George W. Atwood.
Benjamin F. Whitner.
W.S. Bogert.

Lardner Gibbon.
Truman S. Betts.
W.F. White.
90

MONTHLY METEOROLOGICAL REPORTS.

Monthly meteorological reports preserved in the Smithsonian Institution—Continued. »

Name of station.

Uchee Anna
Warring tonyeeeees cesses
Welborn --..

Veer eee = wees ee ee

Comingtonee 2. oe un eee 2
Culloden
Cuthbert
Dalton
Marien ee es se erate
Factory Mills..-.........-..
Gainesville cos. . 22 oe ees

ll Shoroue lies ae eaee
MWakiayebtess aoe nee sae
Macon

Se i i i

OTT ee etc ese aes eee ab bese
Powellton

Quitman ee eee ees
SHH WAY o es con Soelakonse

Sandersville
Savannah

Sparta eee eee eee eae
Summerville

Thomson... ee

Whitemarsh Island
Zebulon

Idaho.

Cantonment Jordan......_--
Fort Benton
HOR Ealleekis ewes eee see
Fort Laramie... oes oe ae

Period.

Name of observer.

S57 1859 sae es
1859-1860..---....-
1865-1873.......---
ISGBsesoeco &
1854-1857 ..---. ----
eg uSOy ae See eae

USWISIE7 Sees sess
USOSE ise senna

esem  :eercece

1851-1852 .-.-..-2--
ABST Woes ses Sea sha

ILO SSG nas She Gece
SGI SNS TOR aaeeeeee
1871-1873.-.--...-.

1849-1858. ...-.-.--.
1857-1859 ....--.-..-

John Newton.
Thayer Abert.
George R. Thralls.
R. W. Adams.

Prof. John D. Easter.
J.G. Westmoreland.
Fred. Deckner and son.
G. W. Walker.

William Haines.
William Schley.

Dr. W. H. Doughty.

H. L. Hillyer.

Rev. W. Blewitt.

A. Colvard.

.| James M. Shannon.

Jarvis Van Buren.
Col. J. R. Stanford.
Benjamin F. Camp.
John Darby.

Charles C. Seavey.

J. R. McAfee.

Charles Grant.

F. T. Simpson.

Dr. M. F. Stephenson.
W.T. Grant.

Eli S. Glover.

A. R. MeCutchen.
Miss L. J. Whitney.
John A. Rockwell.

J. F. Adams.

Miss 8. M. Proctor.
Prof. William D. Williams.
J. M. Cotting.

Prof. C. W. Lane.
Prof. J. E. Willet.
Prof. Shelton P. Sanford.
Dr. George F. Cooper.
James M. Reed.

P. C. Pendleton.

John L. Cutter.
Ebenezer Barker.

H. L. Hillyer.
Horatio N. Hollifield.
Dr. John F. Posey.

R. T. Gibson.

Dr. E. M. Pendleton.
S. E. Habersham.

Dr. James Anderson.
Rey. W. Blewitt.

Dr. W. T. Grant.

Dr. F. M. Smith.

R. T. Gibson.

Mrs. J. T. Arnold.

W. W. Johnson.
M. C. Rosseau.

J. H. Fintrock.
Col. W. O. Collins.
Dr. A. F. Ziegler.
MONTHLY METEOROLOGICAL REPORTS.

91

Monthly meteorological reports preserved in the Smithsonian Institution—Continued.

Name of station.

Period.

Illinois.

Albion

eeeces eee s Vee se coer

PAE WONS|satrec laine Se isiais=.2.0) 2/35
Augusta

Batavia

Bellville

eeecceec ere secece ceecee

Belvidere
Bloomington -..---. ..-.---.
Brighton
(Chvenyorm (Citi® 5685 pasceoce cscs
‘Carthage

eer eee cece ece Coucee
eee ec es coe eet coe eee

e@ces eess cee se bee eee

Centraliayte ate ee eae
Champaign
Channahan

@harleston <o2ccse wabeee oe a
(ClNCAERD osu ds cadsicooses Gas

DMD OIG as ho ee eos che
DW @ WOME Fo cies cele apts
Edgar County ...-....------
doime tom = 225. «seb ses.
Effin gham AAR S ey ene beer fy ews

Harmibrid ge) <-> ates) seer
Fremont Center... .....--.

1866-1873 ..-.-..-.-
1851-1858... 2-2.
NBAQATS TS 2s cjcclscee
1857-1861 ..-...----
1865-1868 ..--..----
1868-1873... ...--.

1853-1854..-.-.--..
1857-166) ---- 22...
Hees eee) esis SSNS

1859-1861... - 2.5...

PSO sh ssecielolee see oer
(S56 s1867) ae
Ite UsViBieasdo0 coce
i Ke\6\0)=51 Ko) 0) See
1860-1861, 1863. ....
1862

1859-1863, 1867 .. .-
1861-1862

Name of observer.

Warren Olds. 2

Edgar P. Thompson.

S. Y. McMasters.

Norton Johnson.

Dr. E. H. Bowman.

Joel Hall.

Dr.S.B. Mead. __

Andrew J. Babcock.

Dr. Abiram Spaulding.

Dr. A. Spaulding and Mrs, E. D.
Spaulding.

Prof. William Coffin.

Dr. Thompson Mead.

E. Capen.

Frank Crandon.

N. T. Baker.

Dr. John J. Patrick.

Dr. J. J. Patrick and N. T. Baker.

G. B. Moss.

Jesse Allison.

William V. Eldridge.

Mrs. William 8. Thomas.

Samuel J. Wallace.

Mrs. E. M.A. Bell andS. J. Wallace,

H. A. Schauber.

A.P.S. Stuart.

Rey. D. H. Sherman.

Dr. Joseph Fitch.

Charles Gramesley.

Henry Falcott.

G. D. Hiscox.

Samuel Brookes.

M.C. Armstrong and J. H. Roe.

Gustave A. Boettner.

A.M. Byrne, J. H. Roe, and others,

John O. Donoghoe.

Arthur M. Byrne.

Isaac A. Poole.

John G. Langguth, jr.

C. H. Moore.

Timothy Dudley,

John D. Parker.

J. Thomas Little.

Ralph E. Meeker.

William C. Spencer.

Dr. E. H. Bowman.
Dr. Wesley Thompson.
John B. Newcomb.

1862-1863, 1865-1873) Orestes A. Blanchard.

1864-1871. 22-22 2c:

eeecce cece eoee

cece eee see eee oe

W.H. Adams.

H. G. Meacham.
Charles E. Smith.
A. D. Langworthy.
W. H. Morrison.

H. W. Scovill.

Jos. H. Gill and others.
Frederick J. Huse.
Prof, Oliver Marcy.
Elmer Baldwin.
Isaac H. Smith.
92

MONTHLY METEOROLOGICAL REPORTS.

Monthly meteorological reports preserved in the Smithsonian Institution—Continued.

——

Name of station.

Galena -.-.-- PGCE SOC
Galesburgh
Geneseo
Golconda
Granville

Havana
Hazel Dell
Hennepin

Highland
EM Sboroughyey ee see cee tel
Hoylton

wee ee ee ee ey coees wece

Jacksonville

Lacon.

Moammi-) 22.
Louisville
Magnolia.

Marengo

eceees oe cee ees ae cece

IMatboonesince seca meee etee
MOnTOeR Aaa tera ween

Mount Sterling ....-........
Naperville} yee eve epee ere eres

se eens eee eee cee eee coe cee

lymoubhy ye seen te nes
Quineyee ease ee ees

Ridge Farm, Vermillion Co..
Rile

Rochelle, (Alta) - .....
Rockford. .

Sandwich

Period.

e2ee cote oe
eee eee wees

Lee eee NA
1870-1873
1863-1865

wc ee eee eee ween

1856- 1858, 1868. ....
1859-1863, 1865-1866
ISGSSIS 69a eeee
USIP Bacce Sogou
1871-1873
1869-1871

1859

1857-1865 .-..2--.--
NSSS STS es cee eee
1861-1862

eee e ote een ec eee

eee ees ec ee ee cece
Wescerce ene

1866-1871....2.....
1849...

1872-1873...
1873- - Se a
1872- 1873.
1873...

1859-1870, 1872- 1873

Name of observer.

Emil Hauser.

Prof. William Livingston.
W.F. Allan.

Rev. William VY. Eldridge.
L. G. Edgerly.

J. L. Jenkins.

Joseph Cochrane.

Henry Griffing.

Smiley Sheppard.

Ethan Osborn.

A. F. Bandelier, jr.

John 8. Titcomb.

J. Ellsworth.

O. J. Marsh.

Prof. William Coffin.
Timothy Dudley.

Mrs. Margaret Hamilton.
A.H. Thompson.

Prof. N. EK. Cobleigh.
Timothy Dudley.

D. H. Chase.

Henry K. Smith.

John Grant.

John Grant, Miss Ellen Grant.
John and C. W. Grant.
John and Maggie Grant.
Peter Murray.

O. P. Rogers.

O.P.and J.8. Rogers.

F. Rogers.

J. W. James.

A. W. Puffer.

W. E. Henry.

Silas Meacham.

Rey. Alexander Duncan.
Lewis Ellsworth.

Milton S. Ellsworth.
Rev. William VY. Eldridge.
C. H. Bryant.

Rev. H. H. Brickenstein.
H.N. Patterson.

Dr. J. H. Pashley.

Dr. J. O. Harris.

Dr. George O. Smith.
Samuel L. Shotwell.
Mrs. Emily H. Merwin.
Dr. Thomas Finley.

C. Leving.

J. H. Riblet.

Dr. Frederick Brendel.
M. A. Breed.

Dr. J. B. N. Klinger.

Rey. G. B. Giddings.
Frank J. Hearne.

B.C. Williams.

EK. Babcock.

Dr. E. Brendel.

Daniel Carey.

William Holt.

_...| James H. Blodgett.

F. A. Ticknor.
Thomas D. Robertson.
W. A. Burdick.

Dr. Nahum E. Ballou.
MONTHLY METEOROLOGICAL REPORTS.

Monthly meteorological reports preserved in the Smithsonian Institution—Continued.

Name of station.

South Pass

Springfield
Sweetwater
Tiskilwa

Wiapellaee tise ss c)aasa clot es
Warren's bun ghee pees se
Warsaw
Waterloo

Waverley
Waynesville
WiestiSallemss-. 22-52) aol see
West Urbana
Wheaton
Willow Creek
Willow Hill
Winnebago Depot.......---.
Woodstock
Wyanet

eee eee tee eee eee

Aurora
ACC re see ee ieee Bee

emcee te tee ete wees

Period.

Name of observer.

Carthagecns. 5. e e
Columbia

wees cece eee ee ee oe ee
eee ee fee es coe ene

Greencastle..........--2-1..

Harveysburgh
mca an olisls sane ee see

Jalapa

Ike Melos’ caooccee
1862-1866-.....---.
pe eo Peace

1862, 1867, 1868)...
1869" 16708 ests
ISH aleiBincea cacao
NS7O-1N872 5222 ce

IlchY-teB ye Aeeeed Goce
1858-1861..--.....-
1859-1863). 22-2 2...
oe

1865 ISVBesHseo chee
1864-1865.........-.

1854-1863...-..--..
1856-1861 Sete aoe

1869-1870 SEAS oes
1864-1865..----.--:
1864-1865.---..---.
1866-1867......--..

1866-18685. 22
Ike ales es sese esas

1868-1869.....:..-.

Frank Baker.

S. C. Spaulding.

H. C. Freeman.

G. W. Brinkerhoff.
Frank V. Alkire.
Verry Aldrich.

Prof. P. P. Brown.
Dr. John James.
Anna James.

Mrs. Anna C. Trible.
T. Louis Groff.
Timothy Dudley.
Benjamin Whitaker.

.| H. Kunster.

Francis Sinn.

W.H. Houne, sr.

Dr. C. Jozefe.

Dr. William Joslyn.
Timothy Dudley.
Joshua E. Cantril.
Henry A. Fitze.

Dr. John Swain.

Prof. George H. Collier.
E. E. Bacon.

Henry Griffing.

J. W. Tolman.

George R. Bassett.
E.S. Phelps.

E.S. Phelps and Miss L. E. Phelps.
V.P. Gay.

Mrs. Dr. B. C. Williams.

Dr. George Sutton.

Miriam Griest.

W.S.Clark. .

W. H. Hobbs.

Miss M. A. Hobbs. :

Prof. C. M. Dodd, T. H. Mallow, and
others.

William Dawson.

Hamilton Smith, jr.

Palmer Smith.

Aaron Evans.

Charles M. Hobbs.

Dr. F. McCoy and Miss Lizzie Me-
Coy.

John F, Crisp.

Sebastian Henrich.

Prof. A. C. Huestis.

Miss G. Webb.

R. I. Robertson.

Prof. Jos. Tingley.

William H. Larrabee.

Mrs. Dr. B. C. Williams.

Royal Mayhew.

W. W. Butterfield.

W. W. Butterfield and Mrs. Butter-
field.

W.J. Elstun.

G. V. Wooley, E. Hadley, and R. D.
Craighead, (city hospital.)

Albert C. Irwin.
94 MONTHLY METEOROLOGICAL REPORTS.

Monthly meteorological reports preserved in the Smithsonian Institution—Continued.

Name of station. Period. Name of observer.
Kendallville: 322. seein: IkeBy Se pe bb on coou eens W. B. Coventry: -
VEGAN eget eee. J. Knauer.
Kentlandiss. eaeyete cette Wetec coon beak Daniel Spitler.
Kanightstownl 5222 ceeee-/- cle te/Sieoe cee cose D. Deem.
Mmaconiaie osc cee eee 1869-1873 ...-.. 2226 Adam Crosier.
Wan Wayetbecese = = saacrerne. MSG Seco sobteo Stee A. H. Bixby.
Wb4= 222555555525. H. Peters.
1865s 222 ssa sseeeas- Isaac E. Windle.
1869-1870....-..--: J. W. Newton.
La Porte -. sch abet NEN eee | ABAD cag 2 ras Bele R. M. Newkirk.
1869-1871-.22..-..- Fred. G.-Andtre.
Wes 2c Gec eo. Os UNNOae Ses EE ABGW ss vao.35 se bintes Dr. W. W. Spratt.
MiVvoniaa. .. cess Leelee eae Nef les hey Dyan Mee J.R. Howard.
Wogansponbs.s= soaceeeeener 1857-1858 ..---..-.-- Charles B. Laselle.
1859-1861.......-.- Isaac Bartlett.
WS63use< seancckeas Thomas B. Helm.
Madison o\s5... 0 Seba aes B54 Soar ke assteshe! C. Barnes.
1864 scse555 558 55% ‘.|.Rev. Samuel Collins.
1865 se2sescsees S532 Oliver Mulvey.
Meroml cae eee eters 186G=18 73545545 5452 Thomas Holmes.
Michigan City.....:--.- s.4.| 1857-1858. 225..22-- C. 8S. Woodard.
1859-1860 ..-...-2..: W. Woodbridge, B. D. Angell, H.
Blake.
Moltonvys s2c.ee eee eet 1853S=1855- 552222 Dr. V. Kersey.
WER RYE ee a Ose Aes GSeS on|, Leow Ss cosccoasee caus George C. Munfield.
Mount Carmel ...--:-... 2... 1869-1873... 53s. .: J. A. Applegate and daughter.
Muncie. a2 See ie ee 1863-1864... 222 2.... K. J. Rice.
1866-1870... 2.222. -.| G. W. H. Kemper.
New Albany: S22so2ss4seacsee 1855-1858). 325522 C. Barnes.
1 eta y9 JW eee eee eae op ca Dr. Alex. Martin.
1863-1865, 1869... .. Dr. E. S. Crozier.
New Castleso. eee ee: AOE yee espe eee Prof. Jos. Tingley.
1863-1865... 222: Thos. B. Redding.
New Garden? 22232 eee S54 eee Dr. H. Roberts.
New Harmony.----.-2-.---- 1852-1873 ...22. 22-2 John Ohappelsmith.
1849-1851, 1867. .... Dr. D. D. Owen.
ING WiPODb: S22. 5. sacs. Steel oeiele Pebt sas ees Daniel H. Roberts.
North Wiberty’ 222.2820: ey PAR eas Bt een ees E. L. Halleck.
IP At OK sistas ire toe cere eee VE59 esse oro A. P. Turner.
Pennville oss 2so Shee, W864 soso John Griest.
IVENSSClAeH Gian hae esi ieteet: 1864-1865, 1867-1871] Dr. J. H. Loughridge.
Richmond ss. ess aS AAG AVS ey ee Dr. John T. Plummer.
1851-1855, 1859-1861] W. W. Austin.
IS50—1859 eee ieee Joseph Mocre.
1859-1863. 2.22. 222. John Haines.
1862-1632 cece ee Edward B. Rambo.
1865-1868...-.. 2... John Valentine.
RISING SUN: emitsereicice oa TSM SUSTS iste eee Thomas E. Alden.
Rockville sec asso see 1859-1866...... 2... H. H. Anderson.
W859. ee tiae J. M. Tenbrock.
Shelbyville 0-352) Seales 1859-1862.......--- J.T. Bullock.
South Bend eee ae ee CSS] Gs a ee eh Prof. Gardner Jones.
1858-1859... ---- Prof. Thomas Vagnier.
SSO eee eete cee Miss G. Webb.
1860-1863... .--... James H. Dayton.
1863-1865......---- Reuben Burroughs.
South Hanover:...........2. S49 ce EER Prof. S. H. Thomson.
Spicelandiaso22. oe eee 1863-1873....-. 2... Wm. Dawson.
Sweetser’ 125 52 225 20 2S STi cs ee Albert C. Irwin.
Valparaiso. ssc i ane SOO cee cas ee ee Rey. Robert Beer.
VGVaj- 2c. s eee ee BOT 1864-1870...02....- Charles G. Boerner.
Walnut Hills 22s peo OAD oper soe ee | W. W. Austin.
Warsaw oo acct cent otk 1870-1871......----- Geo. R. Thralls.

J. W. Curtis.
MONTHLY METEOROLOGICAL REPORTS.

95

Monthly meteorological reports preserved in the Smithsonian Institution—Continued.

Name of station.

Indian Territory.

Armstrong Academy
IDGRIKEWMNIGS o6 booese caee beae
Mahlequah2 eps sse cess 222

Ames

ROMEO. oo4ecc oes berEee beoe
Bellevue
Boonsborough
Borderpelainseosesee see eee

Bowen’s Prairie..-......---.
Burlington

Ceres

= eee Cee ewe ee ee eee

es see eee eee eee Cece we

Cresco .--
CoOumen! [hint sseeest ees coos

Davenport). 5.4 chee eecs-

Des Moines. ...-......------
ID DRG WS esate noecsuesaese

Fayette
Hontanelilen a. 22-20 eee

ae ccee cee eee eons coe e

Period.

Ike MSrAl 55 pecose

1867-1868). -5222 2:
HO58 kc cicee eee

1851-1855, 1857-1858,
Iichie— evils eke caas

Lea Dalene Daas
1859-1860... ...-.

Name of observer.

Prof. A. G. Moffatt.
P. P. Brown.
T. B. Van Horne.

Dr. F. McCoy.

F. McCoy and Miss E. McCoy.

Philip Dorweiler.

James H. Warren.

Ernest Adams.

B. Carpenter.

A. M. Russell.

Isaac M. Gidley.

John C. Forey.

E. Babcock.

G. C. and W. K. Goss.

Wm. K. Goss.

Samuel Woodworth.

John M. Corse.

Louisa P. Love.

Mrs. James Love.

John M. Hagensick.

Dr. 8. H. Kridelbaugh.

Kridelbaugh and Peterson.

Nathan H. Parker.

P. J. Farnsworth.

Gregory Marshall.

Benjamin Talbot.

William O. Atkinson.

Nathan H. Parker.

A. J. Finley.

H. 8. Finley.

H.S. Finley and W. P. Dunwoody.

J. Chamberlain, W. P. Dunwoody,
H. H. Belfield.

Dr. Ignatius Langer.

H.H. Belfield and W. P. Dunwoody.

J. Chamberlain and W. P. Dun-
woody.

J. Chamberlain.

George B. Pratt.

G. B. Pratt and Sydney Smith.

D. 8S. Sheldon.

Rev. J. A. Nash.

Dr. Asa Horr.*

Rev. Joshua Phelps.
Dr. W. W. Woolsey.
F. A. Ross.

Dexter Beal.

J. M. Shaffer.

Miss Sue McBeth.

.| John M. McKenzie.

A. F, Bryant.

A. F. and Mrs. Julia A. Bryant.
Daniel Sheldon.

Daniel McCready.

Dexter Beal and W. W. Beal.
Dexter Beal.

C.N. Jorgenson.
96

MONTHLY METEOROLOGICAL REPORTS.

Monthly meteorological reports preserved in the Smithsonian Institution—Continued.

Name of station. Period. Name of observer.

Fort Madison....-.-..------ 1868-1872 ..---. .... Daniel McCready.

a 1872-1873. 225 54.56. Miss Lucy McCready.

Gierins Giiy ookeccosanuosacce WAGES Bscoo06 6sss Edwin and Mrs. Rosina Miller.

Groveretille oes cs ee 1859-1860....-...-- Dexter Beal.
1861...............| Dexter Beal and W. W. Beal.
18625e2 3 ee eel MirssC@elianBbeals

Gubtenburgy scene. soeeeeaoee 64-1 36024 ie eae Philip Dorweiler.
1866-1873 22.2 12S James P, Dickinson.

larris) Grover: ease see ee 1866-1873.......... Jacob F. Stern.

HET S WOT Meee va arya ie LL USSD os 65566 H. B. Williams.

Flop kamtoneees aes NEN 8o4 os cooase T. H. McBride.

Iindependencere cere taesreee USD 55566 on 6c D.S. Deering.
1862-1866......-.-. A. C. Wheaton.
1866-1873 ...... 22222 Mrs. D. B. Wheaton.
1867-1873. - -| Dr. George Warne.

Towa (City.-. 35 os. aehen ees 1356 Fee enn =| Elormann ha Hlairallls
1857-1858 -. ----| W. Reynolds.
1861-1873..........| Prof. Theodore §. Parvin.

MO waa Sie eee a er SG3—1S7 2h eae Nathan Townsend.

Keokuike cs eerie Bi seit lis Basasccogcos oada|) Die dig Jay lal,

TSC Oe ee eo ee eleroreiue Me chalors

Kossuth ieee soo sei une ae 1862..-............| William P. Leonard.

UST B ee eis aes ors eto eye 1860-1861.......... Tsaiah Reed.

NST eS aie A. P. Gilbert.

WAZ RG lis Sierras acre Oia ei Ua el WO) o cassces .| J. J. Bruce.

IDWONEane sone baaseo Baca ets ISU casces coos Dr. A. T. Hudson.
1862-1865... 2222: P. J. Farnsworth.
SOG eee eee eee Drs dpvliessman:

Manchester: 3.222525 -eene ee 1865-1866..........] Allen Mead.

Maquoketa). <2 (treo tyes 1857-2. =... 222) Edward PF. ohare

MarblelRocke 32s oesateare 1867-1973... .....-..| H. Wadey.

Mineral Ridge ..........--.. 1869-1870.......22. J.F. Sullivan.

Monticello see asa yeaeie 1864-1866 .-.2..-- --| Chauncey Mead.
1866-1870.......-.. M. M. Moulton.

ISON oon6 soo ces Rufus P. Smith,
1372... z .| J. EK. Janes.

Mount Pleasant. .-.-... .-- aot 1868 1864 oe ye KE. L. Briggs.
1871... ............) A. A. Mansfield.

Mount viernonse es ees aee 1857 wee ee eee |) Prot. Bo WaSimithe:
186021873. -........| Prof. Alonzo Collins. :

MQOOEHTING Gao5 sdecoo Goon bode 1849-1852, 1855-1859, T.S. Parvin.
1853-1854..........| P.G. Parvin.
1860-1864..........| S. Foster.

SOO pare ea T.S. Parvin and Rey. John Ufford.,
1861-1862... ..- 8. Rev. John Ufford.
1863-1873.........-| Josiah P. Walton.

Newton. eece sac 5 oes 1869-1870........- A. Failor.

Onowa so ease sede 1864...............| Richard Stebbins.

Osage reas eae oft SDE 1866-1867... ........| Rev. Alva Bush.

Cla, cea eee 1854-1856 ...-..-... KK. H. A. Scheeper.

Pieasantielaineseeee eas 1855-1865... .. 22-3. Townsend McConnell.

Pleasant Spring .--..-...--- 1858 pees eve bat Odell:

Plum Spring sees eeseereree [eboreve cee eae B. F. Odell and Mary G. Odell.
IS speeee esse Sass] Teeny. 18, 10. Ovdlell,

Rowltney sta. 6 fs veer ISSS 1854 yas aes Dr. B. F. Odell.

Quasqueton 2 icyxe sae eee 1S53=18565 oleae Dr. E. C. Bidwell.

Red Oak Junction... 2.2... 1872. Sdddo Godel Jd Als laleheatey,

ROMO ees a ys Le: VS 1868-1870... ches any Oscar L. Strong.

Rossville ss 8222 ace eles Icy oles) aa Beane ase Carlisle D. Beaman.

SEV0, Oni pgeCoe mene sae en ay) 1870-1872_.........| Daniel B. Nelson.

Siousy City: ae bea ere

Saint, Mary’s=- - 2662/23 Jo2.2
Vernon Springs: 3254-336.

1857=1858.. 22.522 --
1861-1863... .....--.
1853... ae
epi oteoakoe wean

Dr. J. J. Saville.
A. J. Millard.

..| D. E. Read.

Gregory Marshall.
MONTHLY

METEOROLOGICAL REPORTS. 9

co |

Monthly meteorological reports preserved in the Smithsonian Institution—Continued.

Name of station. Period. Name of observer.
WAND OMY lacs ajc n= Seen Sees 1869.....,..-......| James Wood.
Wea GUO 666580 ceeicns Bo IO Seep k oe sd Se C.R. Boyle.
Wiaterloost fea eOst iss fe 1859-1864 ..........| T. H. Doyle.
1864-1870 .......--. T. Steed.
Weakcomletea 02 poe. fe. Las HACI=1 8702 I. M. Hancock.
Weltsi@e Citic ceo ssccissaden|| Husk erases ee ees c. Clayton J. Croft.
West Branch -...22022 220. POV —NS7Q Sse ee A.M. Russell.
Whitesborough -...-...--- WADE Basan bocce David K. Witter.
\Wwasu Witton Jse4 oa co4saotodol dice aileyeeeeus nace Frank McClintock.
Kansas.
ANTICS 3665 Cac ORE eS ee tas ses ols saanoo rede John M. Cotton.
PNT CIISOMMe ee eee 1865-1873......---. Dr. H. B. Horn and Miss Clotilde
Horn.
PAO Mba y: aa See AR See 3 1866......-......-..| Allen Crocker.
Baaxiaie Syoesoas s6 5 esekso se LSGR— EVO Rs, Ingraham & Hyland.
Baxter Springs ...-.--...- 1871-1873.-........| William Hyland.
HeWlevilles. 2.8. pase a 132 pean es OPA AN Gardner:

: eFC /Sie ee oecos J. W. Raynolds.
Buttalo Creek222 =22. en. 8 NSU STS eee R. I. Eagle.
leunbinwrnne -ooe Asoo bodeee CBRL ooo aoeace Lucian Fish.

171-1873. R. M. Hoskinson.
Burbino tombs sess eee 1869-1870. .2..2...- Allen Crocker.
SGD iim cs ata Aah barca J.D. Parker.
(CANE soscenosaso oueedoos 1858 | ree W. H. Gilman.
Celestvillle- 22... eS s2Vee P59 -1S60R ees Rev. J. H. Drummond.
Centreville ...-..-.....--. 1873-. - Dr. J. M. G. Beard.
Councili@ity S25 ss2- 5-528 1857—1858.2.-. 108 Edmund Fish.
@Woumeil Grove) 2.2 es se: NGS SSB ooo Addaoe Dr. A. Woodworth.
Crawfordville......-...-.- Meteo aitey/a oss caaose Perey Daniels.
WoUgTaS) case. 2 2 BN 1EZO-NS(32t= eee Dr. W. M. Lamb.
ISHN KOGA, soso oboe esorsoseeS USGS teak 200S C.F. Oakfield.
[ore Jah ee SA eeeome Hae 1859-1860. 2.2228 Rev. David Clarkson.
1862-1864.......... Dr. Fred. P. Drew.
1865. . ----..----| Post Surgeon.
18662 .-<2 22k 2 J. M. Shaffer and E. P. Camp.
Gardner. s2-5 22. oes Rae 18602 Lesa eee a F. Merriam.
1861-1862.......... James Scott.
EVOMGOM Se 3. a ERO OS ES 1867-1873... 22 2-252. Dr. James Watters.
utichinsoms..--.22- 25.222 S72 eee ee ees ACS TL unmnts
Iimdependence. 222. 325-222 Tey Nor sien ee Dr. W. E. Henry.
Junction City ...--.--..-- B62" tense ns ene ees Dr. E, W. Seymour.
NGAWEOMCE Gs; LG aa is ay 1857-15922 25 22S e228 G. W. Brown.
1860-1861........-- W.J.R. Blackman.
1862-1864.......... A.N. Fuller.
1863-1864......-.-- W.L. G. Soule.
1867...........---.| George W. Hollingworth..
1268-1873.......--.| Prof. F. H. Snow.
Leavenworth ...... Hse pueele --| 1857-1859, 1868. ---- H.D. McCarty.
1858-1860........-. EK. L. Berthoud.
1861-1862 ...:.....- M. Shaw.
1866-1572.....----. Dr. J. Stayman.
ROGB ws hes eee Mad T. B. Stowell.
Lecompton....-...--..4-- 1859-1860.....----. Dr. William T. Ellis.
; 1860-1861........-. William A. McCormick.
SOG Se sas es Se se: David G. Bacon.
MU CTOVjsoe'e oes sss SU 1867, 1869-1873. .... J. G. Shoemaker.
Metta Jos pH RELRR CE le 1@57=1862- 2. 22225: Isaac T. Goodnow.
Rev. N. O. Preston.

78

I. T. Goodnow and H. L. Denison.

Henry L. Denison.

Agricultural College, B. F. Mudge,
and others.
98

MONTHLY METEOROLOGICAL REPORTS,

Monthly meteorological reports preserved in the Smithsonian Institution— Continued.

Name of station.

Moe apuene scents Se

Olatha
JPAOIN Sea teen Basanti cu oes
Plum Grove
Ridigewayieemacs beeciseceae

awe eee ee ee ee oe ee

TROBE A et tha estan ne Se

Mopekare sos cate eee
Williamsburgh
Williamstown

WAINCOWD S66 665000 s0n0 6600

Kentucky.

1ByyerelN INOS say one dadaus Soas
Ben WMS cccses cocodo seeds
Bowling Green...-.--...----

Chilesburgh
Clinton
CrabiOrchardees eee
Danville

Drennon Springs..----.----.
Georgetown

a i

Harrodsburgh
JUGINGRIOM 555 oo sossSh cache

eee eee oe ee ee we eee

Maysville
MilWersbo ume hy se see terse
Millersburchiteeesreeee aren

Newport
Nicholasville
Nolin
Paducah
IRarisene ie Dieses epagone sage
Pleasant Valley. Ee i ao
Prospect Hill. sae tiatty
Russellville-
Springdale, near Louisyille..
Taylorsville sSae eg ceeee aeesen
Wanchesterses-. sr ape ares

Lowisiana.

Benton

Isha s seco cs se

Period. Name of observer.
Ieee nod osa coc Dr. S. O. Himoe.
ICH). bSoSe ..--.| J.O. Wattles and Celestia Wattles.
e599 S186 lee B. EF. Goss.
1868-1870.......... Mrs. E. M. Groesbeck.
NPRM 545 sooo] W. Neiswender.
1864-1872 -.2...-.-- W. Beckwith.
S69 1SBE ese eee L. D. Walrad.
BOS SS us Sele waaay el O. H. Brown.
PBOSles fe oS eel Glee O. H. Brown.
ETO sain tie Bap WAT John M. Cotton.
QE SS ee es W. H. Cotton.
BSB) es Mee sh cis ween FE. W. Giles.
Isl oMsiBesss socooo D. Fogle.
USPOSNeGBscss ceacce John M. Cotton.
1859-1860 SERIE eS John H. Miller.
1869-1872 .......--. Howard Shriver.
1853-1856, 1860-1862) D. John Swain.

1858. - --.------| John H. Luxemann.
1859. - -c..----.| J. H. Lunemann and Thos. H. Niles
1860-1861 - Siu .--| Thomas H. Niles.
MXN. Ss So 5555555550) Iie, OC ID), Casa,
NSIC Boogo6go5os Edward W. Horr.
1849-1852......---. J. E. Younglove.

ISH ee Sete ee aver F.C. Herrick.

1865-1873......---.| Dr. Samuel D. Martin.

1LS68=1869R ss eae Rev. T. H. Cleland.

ISSUE. os6 cesco6 John I. Tarrant.

1853-1862, 1865-1873] O. Beatty.

PEGA wis eta steal R. H. Caldwell.

TCHR US Pree aaa ees ere Ls Prof. S. Y. McMasters.

TCG ee A ee oe Rev. J. BE. Letton.

eRe ste eaas ope sot Mrs. Mary A. Walker and J.
Barbage.

NEGO SISGI eens Joshua C. Barbage.

TSH /PAG er iG it ona et Rev. J. E. Letton.

1 ea esti oy J.D. Shane.

1859, 1867- 1869. oe Rev. S. R, Williams.

1865-1866 SN Reet W.S. Doak.

NS5C8=1359RA es aeee eee Rev. S. R. Williams.

1860-1863 .......--.- i. N. Woodruff.

WD Seas 665 dooadal ID Sp 1D), Mlanalhy.

1870-. Sees ces Dray Blackburn:

1852-1854. See ett KE. L. Berthoud.

HESS ss REC eS a Rev. J. Miller.

LSS4 Bess Sse Rev. J. Miller, Rev. G. 8. Savace

Wels}s—eloMeeoe aead se Dr. George 8. Savage.

HSOls secs as eee Le Prof. M. G. Williams.

1861-1863........-. Dr. Jos. MeD. Matthews.

icone Sees oS J. Grinnell.

TCA US 3S SauSse Andrew Mattison

Hel SO 5 Opes eee L. G. Ray. -

1853. Aeanbe oul) ANG Lely BSlONy

1849- 1851... .| O. Beatty.

1860. - .| E. M. Murch.

1849- 1855, 185 7 1872 Mrs L. Young.

1866 - .| H.C. Mathis.

187221873-...0m8 James M. Ogden.

J. H. Carter.
MONTHLY METEOROLOGICAL REPORTS.

99

Monthly meteorological reports preserved in the Snithsonian Institution—Continued.

Name of station.

Cheneyville
@leanvialke} cakes tersacecece he
Delhi
AN VieDn eee eerie ae eee
Grand Coteau
Independence

see ese eee ew ee ee

wees ee eee ee ee ee

Pomtipeleasaminaseescese ee:
Ponchatoula
Shreveport
Saint Francisville .-....-..--
INES cook So neisd

* Vidalia Plantation.

Maine.

IEAM G558 Gane Be OSE O Bae Sae

Ibeliastiemacicnn a2
Bethel

Brewer Village
Brunswick
IBWUChSPORb=).. cise caiaatk 2 <eb

Castine

Dexter
Mashwbyxetem ooceresbeice oo.
East Wilton

Exeter
Foxcroft
Freedom .... Seis
JNAELUDE dene eos smears eee
Gardiner

Hartland

EVOmItOM: Besos sacs ee eee

Period.

EVOBIEV Se aLabeel.
US O9ANS 72 eee

Tiley SHE SA aes He 3

LEO NSO2 Baa. ees
1849-1853 - -
HRT SS a ans a at
1854-1855......----
NS G4 ess cea
Weve Mone soseks-
MONS) s 355 cotacc
SAO AS 52 eee ee
ikea ssSae she
1872.

Name of observer.

R. 8. Jackson.
George N. Leoni.
Rey. T. H. Cleland.
Dr. A. W. Jackson.
B. F. Anthonios.
Col. C. B. Swasey,
Mrs. M. J. Mankard.
Prof. W. P. Riddell.
George N. Leoni.
Dr. E. H. Barton.
Lewis B. Taylor.
Dr. 8S. P. Moore.
Harrison Thompson.
Robert W. Foster.
E. L. Ranlett.

Isaae Stathem
Ernest Turner.

H. C. Collins.

Dr. J. L. Moore.

B. R. Gifford.

Dr. A. R. Kilpatrick.
Dr. Edward Merrill.
Rey. A. K. Teele.

tephen Gilman.
C. L. Nichols.
G. Emerson Brackett.
Rey. A. G. Gaines.
J. G. Garland.
F, A. Small.
Rev. S. H. Merrill.
H. H. Osgood.
HE. D. Mayo.
Prof. Parker Cleaveland.
Rufus Buck.
Willabe Haskell.
James Coison.
J.J. Bell.
Dr. J. L. Stevens.
G. W. Guptill.
Silas West.
B. F. Wilbar
Stephen Gilman.
Henry Reynolds & Lauriston Rey-
nolds.
Dr. Henry Reynolds.
Dr. J. B. Wilson.
M. Pitman.
i. A. Buller.
G. B. Barrows.
Hon. R. H. Gardiner.
Rev. F. Gardiner.
Rev. F. & R. H. Gardiner. -
R. H. Gardiner.
E. E. Brown, 8. W. Hall,
Strickland, and othors,
Milton Welch.
Charles H. Fernald.
Bevjamin H. Towle.
i. Pitman.
W.G. Lord.
J.S. Crehore,

SLES
100

Monthly meteorological reports preserved in the Smithsonian Institution—Continued.

MONTHLY METEOROLOGICAL REPORTS.

Name of station.

Lisbon
Milibrid eee eee eee ener
Monson

New Castle
New Sharon

i ir es

North Prospect
Norway

Oldtown
Orland
Orono

Perry
Portland.

Rumford Point
Sebec
South Thomaston.
Standish
Steuben
Surry
Thomaston
Topsham
Vassalborough .
Warren! 22220. Cu ear eaten a
Webster.

ere ece =~ cece eee

Whitehead .
Williamsburgh
Wyndham

Maryland.

Agricultural College, Prince
‘Geor 2e’S County .
Annapolis

Baltimore

Bladensbureh
Catonsville gs... ssassneeee

Cumberland’. 22 a.ueeeest le
Ellicott’s City
Ellicott’s Mills
Emmittsburgh

Period. Name of observer.
Ieee oe G5 Asa P. Moore.
el Py serra ee tA ot M.S. Pinkham.
NG5O—1S5 9a eee B. F. Wilbur.
eM ee ssoos cscs J.R. Clittord.
SUSE 5s So55 A. J. Clifford.
NEVIUS oo nos case B. C. Wentworth,
INCE Rae eee = C. L. Nichols.
1860-1862 .......... Oye; dia 1, JERR
1859-1860.........- A. H. Wyman.
1860-1861.......... M.Gould. ,
WO s Coeaosaecassoe Wineaill Gh, dation,
SOO SUS Gil aene ees G.Wie Vercillllt ayn:
BAGG Bye ey ane Rev. S. H. Merrill.
1872-1873..........| Freeman H. Chase,
1870-1873...... ...| M.C. Fernald.
1868-1873 ..........| Howard D. Smith.
TES VANG) Rune anaes Ea S. Eveletb.
1862...............| Rev. E. Dewhurst.
1853-1865........../ William D. Dana.
1855—1S60R eee Henry Willis.
E5986 ene John W. Adams.
Ney PMG s ase oboe W. H. Ohler.
1866-1869 .......... Waldo Pettingill.
ISO ASKA Ee ae Ree ce eg Edwin Pitman.
B58 —1B54e eee ‘Joshua Bartlett.
1865-1873 .... 2-2... John P. Moulton.
1849-1873\......0222. J.D. Parker,
WeVOmNSBocss ccsacs Oscar H. Tripp.
1849-18520 22.2... George & Chr. Prince.
LE59=1861_... 222... Warren Johnson
1859-1863..........| James Van Blascom,
E59 —1S60 Eee Calvin Bickford.
1865-1867 ....2. 2... Almon Robinson.
NOSED oo 556 oae5 B. F. Wilbur.
Tic ES ich5y) oe Joshua Bartlett.
MEGS UCBs oo oo. Edwin Pitman.
A915 6e 222 oe eeen Samuel A. Eveleth.
1861-1862.......... Dr. Montgomery Johns.
Testa UE ech an Ae eee sei Prof. W. I’. Hopkins.
155 1850s esas Dr. A. Zumbrock,
IS5O—187 2 ssa5 eee W. R. Goodman.
eNOS ceoco use. Naval Hospital.
lie, WSR sooo Gos. Dr. Lewis F. Steiner.
NSS (1859 Wane eens Prof. Alfred M. Maver.
1854-1864 -..2..22.. Benjamin O. Loundes.
1865-1867... . 2. S222 George S. Grape.
Wels Coa cooues James A. Pearce, jr.
HBOS Sa Ger es Saeed Prof. A. W. Clark.
1B59=18605 3. 522; Rev. A. Sutton.
1861-1864.......... Prof. J. Russell Dutton.
HBAQ Tes bE Ree T. C. Atkinson.
eyieaMeryBeee Gkase E. T. Shriver.
Is eyBe eb ooucke H. M. Shepherd.
SOA reso ersy a yaa Philip Tabb.
1866-1869 ...... 2... Eli Smith.
1867-1873 ......22-. Prof. C. H. Jourdan,
NEVO S73 os aes G. G. Curtiss.
I HeSkay Wk) RRR rabope a ese ei ok Dr. Lewis F. ‘Steiner.

1852-1854, 1856, 1863,
1869- 1872

Henry E. Hanshew.
; (

MONTHLY METEOROLOGICAL REPORTS.

LOL

Monthly meteorological reports preserved in the Smithsonian Institution—Continued.

Name of station.

®
Frederick
Green Spring Furnace. .-.. -.
Hagerstown
Leitersburgh

ILGOMENGOM AN So6 couemoeoeSses
Linwood
No mmiGyAWIEy eee la-i= te se1- i.
New Market

Nottingham
Oakland -
PO We COS aode see ease nes
IMEISHELUSOWAG Ss. ae Soe tseraer ae
Ridge
Sandy Hill
Seine) Cheeehes Cua aeerescee seas
Syikesvillese.-) Seen tele

~ Skubits Ihmiexoess G5S85 Sone nsesee
WinioneBrideer ss. -ceseeee =:
Walkersville
\woodllanwil oo c6aseasn
Woodstock College

Massachusetts.

INiminenstise “2 Aten eh see
Baldwinsville
IBaGNSta lems esac
Boston

eee ee tee eee ee eo eee ee ee

Cee Wal tO om aeetsacieieal sail

Brookline
Byitielde: 22 jnaats cpeiseerasis acs
Cambridge

IDwEslyNiy SGeee aoe
Fall River.. f
Wiiela UF Sees esou cuca soe
Moria sos 2a Lacie see

Framingham .
Georgetown

eee es eee eee Bee ot coor

Kingston -
Lawrence

Period.

1865-1866) 4. 2 eae
MSP PMB casscodso
GSZ-Ne5 4 ee Gee
1852. MUS eae" 8
12858 Bie 62... Brera, sade. v

1873...

18 49 Wee Pagaege mass

1853-1854
S55 oS Geese ree
IE Isle so soease

1849-1873 .....-----.
el 1865 eee ees

1S65 86622227455"
USGS=NS69 Bass see eee
IS69-18G1 ee seer
SWS 722 ess

Name of observer.

Miss H. M. Baer.
E.G. Kinsell.

Rev. J. P. Carter.
Lewis J. Bell.

Jacob E. Bell.

Dr. Alexander McWilliams.
Charles F. Hanshew.
E. A. Vannort.

H. H. Hopkins.
Prof. J. P. Nelson.
Prof. J. F. Maguire.

.| A. P. Dalrymple.

L. R. Cofran.

Henry W. Thorp.

Rev. R. Heber Murphy.
T. G. Stage.

Isaac Bond.

FE. J. Devilbiss.

Prof. Wm. Baer.

Prof. W. Baer and Miss H. M. Baer

Miss H. M. Baer.

Rev. James Stephenson.
Jas. T. Ellicott.
Warrington Gillingham,
Josiah Jones.

James O. McCormick.
A. X. Valente.

Prof. E. S. Snell.
Rev. E. Denhurst.
B. R. Gifford.

E. L. Smith.

EK. L. Adams.

F. H. Appleton.
Marshal Conant.

L. A. Darling.

C. W. Felt and others.
Normal School.
Rey. John B. Perry.
Martin N. Root. |
W.C. Bond.

Harvard College Observatory.

Augustus Fendler.
Rey. Jobn B. Perry.
Mrs. J. B. Perry.

Mrs. 8. H. Perry.

D. H. Ellis.

Naval Hospital.

Dr. George M. Morse.
A. W. Mack.

James Ritchie.
Charles C. Terry.
George Raymond.

L. F. Whitcomb.
Jacob Davis.
Gustavus A. Hyde.
Henry M. Nelson.

S. Augustus Nelson.
Rev. William G. Scandlin.
Rey. E. Denburst.
Guilford 8. Newcomb.
John Fallon.
102

MONTHLY METEOROLOGICAL REPORTS.

Monthly meteorological reports preserved in the Smithsonian Institution—Continued.

Name of station. Period.
ME OWie ieee aces sec ecole ania 1B49= 185i see eee ee
Ieunenbure hie. 2 5 = es er 1866-1873..-...--..
TUAW sadaou ob =a SS pogsed'sese 14921352 eee
Mendon cce ets ac ete eens SAG Ua aire lane siya
; ONE B sagas esse
TN ED eee ys al eg SS I NGG Be os ba5 555,
INGINHNC Es sso cscuoueoese fess sO oosose ae55
Nowy leabiort) G4acaccocuesseas SAO SS yi
NGDBSNSTBe6s6os sane
1866-1867, 1871-1872
NSPIEMNSIB 56855 Gabe
IN@MIDUUAY coaknGkesoose boGode 1865-1873... .. venaye oes
Newburyport .-----...--2---- SSSA 4S S45 soos
INCAS Sa) fear ee aie unten,
North Adams,(Hoosac tunnel)) 1871-1873....-..---
North Attleborough. -.-...--.-- ISH EMSHS oo o5 cocebe
North Billerica..-..-.2-.-. -- NSTC AMSIB ss b560 6hs6
laintield sees eee I SES Ae eA eB Sagi Be Ae
IPIMNGEUOM Sooees ddeccun6usec SSIS Soohos S456
Inpyadkoloin Cot ees o5So5 sosSuse SOUS G2 Bese eeeeee
IRCA OMOh SSS Soeobo bess Gade 1849-1863, 1865-1872
IBOCRVOR Soassocubosdecdogee Te Roy: Sei aoa se
Roxbury elec cee Sees SAG eo ine A Nee

Salem ea ave eee crater ate NEB Sees
SemohwiOll -Sodo0 ba56e boouae S63 COD ree eee
Somerset oo Steere eeceatcre so WSIS Gesadccae
South GrotonGsece-aeeecre ce ASIC) ies ae res re mee
Southwick esses UMMM) oobbca Seoe
Sprinodhieldeeeesae eee aeeeee 1853-1856... 22222. .
RS 5s Oey Mee MEU ale I
Stockbridie) eee n25 sacra SAO Tayo hee
PPM GOI) se ccs eae eee oes NCES Caceso sac
Mopsiield joV.o. sess 8 Hees 1860-1862...... 2...
1863-1864..........
1864-1866......_.--
IKK Booe 5 coasss
Wesbmidioeneiscce-cyaemere eee S54 Meee ee ae Nee
WiestmD emis es ewer I GY se calla GUD A
Wiestivelid’s Sec ee eres Sages Mev 56 ososes
WiestiNewbone .52 see eee UiSorSilsyessosoeses
Weymouth seers ees 1856-1857, 1859. _...
Wilhamstown «.2.-5-55.<-.- SSIES Soha aneeee
USS ANE Atte ay Cae
iste GaSe sSebds
S515 Oke sae eee
1860-1868... 222. 222.
sy at EGON sad ccc 5e
Wiens slo oascodsso osoods shy SIGH D oso 665 Sone
IWiOLCESteR =e cease See eee S49 S185) eae eeee
1853-1856, 1865. ....
USES ea ee AS ae
Lewes ko Skee ss6
1359 S104 Waa ee
1866-1868... ....-.
1868-1869.........-
ISOS BLS Sess 6sbe

Michigan.

YANCGUTTSE Wa epee AS Dy Oe ewer Ae YH STAC) Wa AN Ae ics Pay
TRS (eae A eee ana BS

Name of observer.
janie leone

Charles J. Gilliss.
Geo. A. Cunningham.
Jacob Bachelder.
Henry Rice.

Dr. John G. Metcalf.
Rev. A. K. Teele.
Hon. Wm. Mitchell.
Thomas Bailey.
Samuel Redman.
Kdward T. Tucker.
George 8. Hart.
John H. Caldwell.
Dr. H. C. Perkins.
A.S. and M. C. Jones.
Benj. D. Frost.
Henry Rice.

Rev. Elias Nason.
Francis Shaw.

Hon. John Brooks.
Orrin A. Reynolds.
William Bacon.

R. D. Mussey.
Benjamin Kent.

.| E. 8S. Cassino.

Dr. N. Barrows.
lisha Slade.

Alfred Collin.

Amasa Holcomb.

Lucius C. Allin.

Francis A. Brewer.

Abraham S. Peet.

Albert Schlegel.

Nathan W. Brown.

John H. Caldwell.

Arthur M. Merriam.

Sidney A. Merriam.

Dr. James Robbins.

Eugene Tappan.

Rev. Dr. E. Davis.

John H. Bixby.

Dr. N. O. Tirrell.

C.M. Freeman.

Prof. P. A. Chadbourne.

D.J. Holmes, Jas. Orton, Lavalette
Wilson, and others.

J. McGee, C. J. Lyons, M. L. Ber-
ger, and others.

Astronomical Observatory.

Prof. Albert Hopkins.

B. R. Gifford.

S. F. Haven.

Dr. E. A. Smith, T. H. Rice, and
others.

Dr. Geo. Chandler.

John 8. Sargent and others.

Dr. H. C. Prentiss.

Dr. Joseph Draper.

Dr. Alfred EK. Walker.

D. T. Morrill, M. Bemis, and Daniel
Lovejoy.

Miss S. M. Holmes.
Jacob Breedon.
MONTHLY

METEOROLOGICAL REPORTS.

103

Monthly meteorological reports preserved in the Smithsoniau Institution—Continued.

Grand Traverse
Holland

Homest

Houghton

Howell

CAGE aye ects terete ee

eet ewe - eee eee wee

DANKE COD ERES ae SES ere.

Lansing

Litchfield

Lower Saginaw-.----.2-----

Macon

MI Onn tie eeee e Sa aa

Monroe

1857-1860, 1870-1873
1860-1861
ce

see ee te ee ee eee
erent ee eee

1800- 1863, 1865-1870
1564-1867, 1869, 1870

e405 5 ak es
1864-1867

ISO3=167 See ae
1865-1873... 2. 2...

18: 5

eee ee woe

Name of station. Period. Name of observer.
PAID OMAN els ors aio ccis cre menses SGD NS (Sree epee J. W. Paxton.
SPATIMUAGDOL <2 esc asses seis iae PESO ES Aa eee Dr. H. R. Schetterly.
EH DS ase ee ee L. Woodruff'and 8S. Winchell.
Neves ooksc sas Mrs. N. H. Winchell.
Battle Creck..--.. .------+-- 1849-1860... 22-2 2-2. Dr. W. M. Campbell.
PO TAET Se Sah SNe L. E. Wells.
IBENZOMA eae see ate ees TONS casccscece Wm. Wilson.
IBS oaads SSCSEe ESE aes US4B=1854 222222 ee. Dr. Thos. Whelpley.
Brooksdymeeeen. | eee ce cess PCo2=le54s 224 eee: Dr. M. K. Taylor.
JBXeMETe (ORES Sea eee ee eae 184918525 2s eee ee Charles Betts.
Wena Mim eye aes oe aay oe Isle Meee esse 8. H. Whittlesey.
Chintiorat s Se a ee cretkicae pape: NSO 21S OSs see eae Wm. Van Orden, jr.
(CIMMCI, Goo ooS wee sae umeeen Ich SIKhy Se ous See Elmore Wainwright.
Coldiwater-.3 22.5655. 52522. 1868-1871 .......--. N. C. Southworth.
WOOpereeees ss some Notes cree 1854-1858, 1860-1862) Mrs. Octavia C. Waller.
Copper Hallistarssesec- ae SHOU Gacses Sane Chas. S. Whittlesey.
Cornunmaies. 22s ss eee eee WISH Sis Sa tants Ne Heber Crane.
IDAHO S Ca coco CASES SEeSEaIne M4 Gs Ny elt ee Wim.S. Raymond.
1849-1856........-.- Rev. Geo. Duffield.
SSS TSO OER Ee nary: Dr. Zena Pitcher and L. S. Horton.
IISGOSLEO3 ese seecce United States Engineers.
NSGISVEGQE Ee pene Dr. Zena Pitcher.
WSS acssccosec I. W. Higgins.
BAGG ININWGP oob555 cbecs0 cece LE5Gs2 2 ee See Mrs. M. A. Goff.
East Saginaw...---.-------- ULI AES ee i eS ee Dr. S. F. Mitchell.
TET Sis see eae itchy Sites ijsoo5 oscooe Dr. D. Clark.
Morestivllliemye seme eee ee 1858. - ee Lieut. C. N. ‘Turnbull.
Worein CheNnO sss5o5 seoceG sos5 1858-1859... Tena Sasol Lieut. C. N. Turnbull.
Granehiichkaese aa or eta cs SOA sme te eee oka Dr. Edwin Ellis.
Gramaghlavenyce. 0c.) = 1859=1863%----- ---- Heber Squier.
Grand Rapids.........------ NSAOe ues sew ees Franklin Everett.
ICs esses case Dr. J. Hollister.
fey SMe ooosu6 cae Alfred O. Currier.

L. H. Streng.

Edwin A. Streng.

J. B. Parker.

E. S. Holmes.

H. R. Schetterly.

L. H. Streng.

George E. Steele.

J. B. Minick.

Dr. H. B. Schetterly.

Harmon M. Smith.

Milton Chase.

Frank Little.

J. H. Foster and Edward Perrault.

Cleveland Abbe.

J.C. Holmes.

Prof. R. C. Kedzie.

R. Bullard.

James G. Birney.

David Howell.

Dr. F’. M. Reasner.

Peter White.

Dr. G. H. Blaker, jr.

Dr. G. H. Blaker, jr., and F. M. Ba-
con.

Rev. L. M.S. Smith.

Thomas Whelpley.

Capt. A. D. Perkins.

Miss H. I. Whelpley.

G. W. Bowlsby.

Miss H. I. and Florence Whelpley.

Miss F. E. Whelpley.
104

MONTHLY

METEOROLOGICAL REPORTS.

Monthly meteorological reports preserved in the Smithsonian Institution—Continued.

Name of station.

Period.

Monroe Piers
Muskegon
New Bufialo
Northport
Old Mission
Olivet

wee ees eee eee ee ee

Ontonagon

Ottawa Poimts 2 22)-ejsea 1
Otsego) 22s) see ee
Oshtemo and elsewhere
Pennsylvania Mine
Pleasenton

Romeo

Saugatuck
Saint James

South Haven
Sugar Island
‘ikasmis) Citives soceas asec csugse
Thunder Bay
diraverse City. syqsey-e ecto oe
Ypsilanti. eee tee ee

Minnesota.

Afton

ISCANTEe IBEYs coca aauedoooLeT

Bonniwell’s Mills
Bowles’s Creek
Buchamany sos sf oe e eee
Burlington -
Cass Lake

EXCELSIOR. ee tee uien) Sepe es.
Fond du Lac. --.-.. Ey
HorestiC@itiyens seer re eee:

Hortikipley. sc seew se | eee
Grand Portame age: a5 snes
Hastings -.
Hazelwood sie ere eae
Hennepin County. -----.-22.
Holding’s Ford

wee eee eee ewe

MCAS CAs See ee NUE
BackgquilkParlesees sas see

Lake Winnebagoshish. ..-...
aphame ease ke Re

1865-1873
1850-1661... ean
18590-1862... wane
1861, 1868-1870... ..
1864-1873
1868-1869
1868, 1870
NGA aie
NERVE ACEO) Aspe
1860, 1873
ICTS aan A is

we wm ww ones

1855-1857
1854-1856

TY IC) sa beoe oser
1872-1873
1859

eww ese eee

1865-1867, 1869-1870
1871-1872
1858-1859
1859-12860
1860

1872-1873
1865-1866
1857-1858
1858-1860
1852... A
We Dossens Gabocoore
1859-1861
1368
LTS a sae eS
1849-1851
1859-1861
1862-1866

WHBUIGHS 2 oc5
1864-1865
1869-1873

seer ee -- -e

1860-1861, 1863... --
NB52 S53 2e eae

Name of observer.

John Lane.

H. A. Pattison.

J. B. Crosby.

Rey. Geo. N. Smith.
C. P. Avery.

Prof. A. F. Kemp.
Prof. O. Hosford.

H. Selby.

Dr. Edwin Ellis.
John Oliver.
Matthew Coffin.

Dr. Milton Chase.
Henry H. Mapes.
Richard H. Griffith. .
Joseph D. Millard.
James A, Weeks.
James Allen, jr.
George A. Stockwell.
Dr. Charles C. Smith.
Isaac Stone.

Seth L. and G. P. Andrews.
Dr. 8. L. Andrews.

L. H. Strong.

James J. Strong.

O. C. Lathrop.
United States Engineers.
United States Engineers.
I. I. Malden.

8S. E. Wait.

Miss G. Webb.

C.S8. Woodward.

Dr. B. F. Babcock.

A. L. Roe.

Thomas Clark.

Henry Wieland.

Thomas Clark and C. Wieland.

C. Wieland.

Solomon Pendergrast.

Andrew Stouffer.

Stephen Walsh.

A. A, Hibbard.

Alouzo Barnard.

Rev. B. F. Odell.

T. F. Thickstun.

Thomas A. Kellett.

O. O. and M. E. Jaquith.

Rev. Joseph W. Holt.

A.C. Smith.

Henry L. Smith.

Rev. S. W. Maundy.

Richard Bardon.

T. F. Thickstun.

S. R. Riggs.

J.B. Clough.

Thomas M. Young and Mary H.
Young.

O. H. Kelley.

Rev. 8. L. Riggs.

S. R. and A. L. Riges.

Rev. Benjamin F. Odell.

K. M. Wright.
MONTHLY METEOROLOGICAL REPORTS.

105

Monthly meteorological reports preserved in the Smithsonian Institution—Continued.

Name of station. Period.
IL@yOlNeWN 5eS65 eeoboacobon Eee IsiS ooSSooode Geac
Wheeehplbake eae 58s sees eee RRO

SB 7ete es in a
vibeltiel de a saec eles cee ei 1S7TO1872 eee eee
Mier oleliiay saa pcjesa ee ee. N69=1LS7 ORS
MIG RAWOY Sec BoSA Oo OEHOe MS OAL piel oo a ele alt
Manmeapolistasces ssss-cee oe SGA SNS Sia eee
ING we Wilmer a= = ee ttet Stee) S64 1873) eee
Qpike ILAIKG So heoe SeeeerO ce eers EOS levi@assooece Ge

IP AUS) 65465 co ueuncpeeeee
PENN se Sebe Ses eoEeanoos
IPTINCELOM «<0 o2 ee eee
Red Lake
Red Wing

Rochester
Spmchy ILAIKOs caso ecosousnsace
Sauk Center
Sibley seciociva ae Mose eee

Smithfield
Stillwater
Saint Anthony.-------------
Saint Anthony’s Falls
Saint Cloud

Saint Joseph
Saint Paul

Tamarack
Traverse des Sioux..-.--
Wabashaw
VViAveTIOLGs «22st ee ses
Whitewater

eee eee Pee eee ee oe ee

Mississippi.

Clinton
Columbus

ere cee cee eee eee oe -

Como
Early Grove
IM bELPTISC as sees eee
Fayette

Gainesville
Garlandsville-
Grandville
Grenada a2 eBay

~ eee eee ee ee eee ee
wlelslelwishe m= ea ale

Hernando
Holiy Springs
Jackson :

eee eee wee ew cee eee eee

McLead’s- ALLS

1859-1862. -..------

TUSSI) Soe cae
Peto Tee Bm eto acon
WHASSUS/Bccag cessec

1854. ines
1861- 1862, 1869. AVENE As
1853-1855
ISGVRSIS Tannese.
1866-1867 ......_---
ISOS SECA eee
lee 1851

CVA scccu ones
SOIC eee eee
WEG 0 oc -codecee

ie Tey PRG Bee Hess

ER UG Boosccc cose
1866-1867

1859-1860, 1866-1870
1870 .. eo ees
Ta70- 1873. Seba CANO he
SEOs MTOR oo ese
US GO Mey ass séseos
1S49-—1852 Soo" aoe
1854... Epes
HOO 1867.

Name of observer.

J. F. MeMullen and D. F. Short

well.
Samuel Locke.
H. MeMahon.
H. L. Wadsworth.
W. W. Murphy.
W. Kilgore.
W. Cheney.
Charles Roos.
Dr. D. Pyle.
Rev. 8. R. Riggs.
Charles Cavileer.
O. E. Garrison.
S. M. Byers.
Rev. E. W. Carver.
Rev. Jabez Brooks.
Prof. A. M. Stephens.
Prof. J. W. Beaman.
Alfred Milmine«
Samuel Spates.
Smith Bloomfield.
C. W. Woodbury.
C. W. and C. E. Woodbury.
B. C- Livings.
A. Van Voorhies.

Prof. and Mrs. N. H. Winchell.

C. F. Anderson.

O. E. Garrison.

Rev. D. B. Spencer.
Rey. A. B. Paterson.
John W. Heimstreet.
Mary A. Grave.

Rev. R. Hopkins.
Spencer L. Hillier.
J.S. Nichols.

J. K. P. Winters.

Dr. 8. H. Jennings.

T. J. R. Keenan.
Thomas B. Moore.

R. S. Jackson.

James S. Lull.

John F. Tarrant.

E. W. Beckwith.

W. M. Abernethy.
Rey. E. S. Robinson.
Rev. T. H. Cleland.
Rev. G. C. Armstrong.
Charles A. Folsom.
Rev. E. S. Robinson.
James H. Vincent.
Wiiliam Henry Waddell.
Prof. Albert Moore.

R. 8S. Ringgold.

J.S. Payne.

William M. Johnston.
Thomas B. Coleman.
Thomas Oakley.

.| A. R. Green.

J. Edward Smith.
Dr. T. W. Florer.
David Moore.
106

MONTHLY METEOROLOGICAL REPORTS.

Monthly meteorological reports preserved in the Smithsonian Institution—Continued.

Name of station. Period.
Momticelloe2ess2a. seeeerene 1860-1861 ..--......
ININWOINE, Seas oleuesosue becuce 1849-1851..........

[S50 ae aa
1858-1861, 1864-1866
866=)870 eases
Oxford’ Sincce es 2s eee 1e54=18562 22 ee eee
PASS CluBi HENS coca sccoubovsl WAN) ccss6 soce seo 5
Raulldime ec es see e eater ea coo SO eae ee raere
eluiladeliphiaysaseceee eee lod OSS 7 lasses
IPOH (EMOIKO) Goosen soesbo coos) diewMpollichy/ 3 tok
Peale) WIVNs cob cosa soc osos|| MeO oIG oe oo
Wicksburghe 225.25 e oe 1BAQA1 852 se anes
WiaSSOM)osica srs Ber Sue 52 i seaalnlSi2isee ey eemaupam
SiGe a Aaa ae
Wrestwille ..2. sab eceestee ees 1859-1860 .... 22...
Yazoo: City. 24 eee es: LECOS1EGI Res ee eeee
Missouri.
Allenton: geeks eee 1B65=187d ae eee
AGO neice ie dees sere a TRS TSMR LS oe
AGHENS «A -G aye. ree ees Lee 1864-1866........-.
Ach ania baeepe ste avs 2 Se aire e/a ae Ne 7/eaiee SU Noa gas or
AORN Hs cooasa dena nbeo cose! ucbMs pascad soo4 base
Bethany 25...) seeasseesch- 1859-1860... ..22-.
BOLIVAR ASS 3 See se ee E59 Sollee
1868-1570 ......2-2--
Boonewilles.sossseceeeceee ne 1859-18 OIe es eee
C@amtome eek a sae a sei eters S61) S692 se peeeee
ISG BR eee sca) mame
Cape Girardeau. ...--..---2- ISI AMEO 5555 ches
Carrolltomieces.s eee eee IIH to So onan BAAN UIE Sati oi
PS Oe ee peo
MSG Oeil ee ae UR
Casswillle:jcse5 52.5. eR Sees 1859=186 ae eee
Caviel Sprille sss eeeeee ees ISG 555 cacoce
Corming 22 s-Sieseeceehe eee WeGWaUSiBoscsos cose
JDray Jedles eas ooeebe cobs. 1854-1855.-.....--.
Mund ees soe cee ee S59 SNS Ole
WAShOM! 25 seen ye SS 1864-1866 .....----.
ISAC IPMS S556 G4 poodecloboe TIS Yog Ne eee Rare ny Th
Jadhinlibdeal Cosemeacceses case 1866-18672 eee
J BOUTS hy eae ere re rr OL 1E59=1866s2 2 eee
JH IDGRWAEO so 545 hoooee SoGoee WEI uae ee aren
TONSA ENON SO mies ty ener a RCH} S Papa NCE ae
Harminietom seas ase en ICO a Ge aa eae rst tic
Horteierresns 2 eee ae GAS) Sa eee epee
Galllartimy eee ese ae MSEC soca sacoo.
Greeniiel eee eee ed ai S59 NSO 2 see
Greenville Yssea see S59 S1860 5 eee
Jalen YN  AS5 6 Seas seo Hood TSS S an ie aE Nee ata
S55 SaGOee eee
Harrisonville. sss seeeeeeee 1591870 se ee
lematitey: 2a ae mean SOS Si Silla saerene
Jelena eawe ete sy LES O=1EOO Maes ease
IFlermita cele ac enews NSC(oNS69 Se eaane
Jebyeln aR NDS ee is ie Srey sates a
Flore rsivalllle pees) emerge 1859-1861 eae
Jettersony Cityeec 54 e seeeee Net sooo coacks
U<amsasi Citys eae eee SOME Baccss soscbe
Wey teswilleyes ee sete NS GOMES. Soo yee
TESA Siete eee eeaenmerere! 5)
Miah Ne es
KSirksvilll epyyseee eo erie eae NSS Ole oe ets pte de

Name of observer.

J.R. Cribbs.

George L. C. Davis.
J. Edward Smith.
R. McCary.

W. McCary.

Prof. L. Harper.
Rev. J. 8. Sheppard.
Rev. E. 8. Robinson.
L. A. Bowden.

Prof. J. Boyd Elliott.
Rey. E. 8. Robinson.
A. L. Hatch.

James 8. Fithie.
Joseph Peake.

J. R. Cribbs.

Col. C. B. Swasey.

Aug. Fendler.

J.B. Rideout.
John T. Caldwell.
Kentner and Muscott.
Conrad Mallinckrodt.
D. J. Heaston.
W.J. Vankirk.
James A. Race.
Norris Sutherland.
‘George P. Ray.
Dr. J. M. Parker.
Rey. James Knoud.
John Campbell.
S.J. Huffaker.

D. J. Kirby.

M. L. Wyrick.

T. W. Coltrane.
Horace Martin.

O. H. P. Lear.

8.8. Bailey.

P. B. Sibley.

Adam Miller.
John E. Vertrees.
J.C. Agnew.

R. P. Edgington.
W.B. Kizer.
Nathan P. Force.
Frederick Behmer.
Arthur H. Weston.
Dr. S. B. Bowles.
O. D. Dalton.

O. H. P. Lear.

Dr. Edward Duffield.
Jobn Christian.
John M. Smith.
Philip Weber.
Miss Belle Moore.
W.S. Chapin.

W. H. Horner.
Nicholas De Wyl.
8. W. Salisbury.
Charles Veatch.
John P. Jones.

H. H. Mann.

Dr. Robert Byers.
MONTHLY METEOROLOGICAL REPORTS.

107

Monthly meteorological reports preserved in the Smithsonian Institution—Continued.

Name of station.

Kirksville
Maiborville.= CNR bask vt oO"
- Lancaster
Lexington

IDOI 6 Soe Ao aoccee AAG yoo

INGRTRAOE, Seo se anes aA eee
sone psause deuce case

Springfield Par ee nnd:
Saimbmosephiqnasoe esse ae

Saint Louis

ecesoeaeeeeen See cece

Stockton
Stoutland
Sycamore Springs... .--..--.
MoronmbOencen sone Bye pee StH A EN
Trenton

(WTO Meee ose Sie oor eS AEE

Waynesville... 280u Sf 22.
Westport
Wet) Glazeno2 55. .c2U hs sae
Wallards2s., 25222 G ate eis

Montana.

Benton Citiyi-sss45 see eee eee
Camp Cooke..-.-- 0222222...
Cantonment Wright
Weer Wodge City s-ss ee
iEVelenay City. .2- 45.202
Missoula

Virginia City

Nebraska.

Beat Ono cea ke aL.
Bellevue

Period.

LSTAS1S 7 dee seeeeees
Ike Mey Boces oooose
1873 -
18671872 ese
1S59=1862 3555 ses
Ike) oe Seb eSe

1853-1857, 1859-1867
TE5GniCi 7 eeu

WBS Brey es es ss
oe PAGAL ee ee

1&60- 1862, IS G4eeee
1861 Uy nea lb ate RA ee
ISGSNS6See eee ee
1868-1869 .... 25...
HSVO=1S7Q ee
A UeV pose Re Ae AeA
USUI ssoanosuss
1859 -18blas eee
fia aes a eee
LS pee ese
1S59=1860E-
PSS QE Rie ee ee MOSEL
WS59s cee eae eS
IS6GE2e 220. 2. euak
HEGZs aw sis ose AROS
1868-1869. .......-.
VE7 Ose skews sd ese
eae GA eine es, MURS

859216632 2.802)
eed suet en Seem
S51 aea sn 5 Ses Nae
USP Basnscsoese
VEV0=1872): 525 soe a2:
VBG68s es 25 Sea awe ba:
[BOO Nees Shes ss eGaee
HBGVs2 se esshsUNOs

18b1-1862::55:-- -

IOUS 450 onbGad
1866-1868 ....------
1870

Name of observer.

J. H. Myers.

William Muir.

John M. Weatherford.
Joseph A. Wilson.
George W. Wilson, jr.
B. P, Hanan.

Wyatt Harris.

P. J. Bond.

Rev. R. B. Foster.
William Kaucher. *
W. FF. Maxey.
Charles Vogel.
Spencer L. Goodwin.
R. W. Finley.

Dr. C. Q. Chaudler.
Homer Ruggles.

J. A. Stephens.
Edward B. Neely.
Rey. Henry Bullard.
Dr. George Engelmann.
Dr. A. Wislizenus.

Drs. G. Engelmann and A. Wislize-

nus.
Augustus Fendier.

J. H. Lunemann.
Rev. P. W. Koning.
Rev. F. H. Stuntebeck.
Rey. I. Straetmans.
A. Averbeck.
Bertram D. Kribbin.
C. J. B. Leib.
William Wells.

E. D. Denny.

A. T. Hubbard.

B.D. Dodson.
Thomas J. Conkling.
William M. Lumpkin.
Dr. W. Moore.

Miss Belle Moore.
Rev. J. E. Pollock.
S. Kk. Hall.

Marion F. Hamaker.
Mary A. Tidswell.

B. G. Lingon.

Rev. N. Searritt.

A. Y. Carlton.

R. H. McCord.

Dr. H. M. Lehman.
S. V. Clevenger.
Dr. H. M. Lehman.
T. Koleski.
Granville Stuart.

Alexander Camp Wheaten,

J.P. Reinhard.
J. M. Minesinger.
Edward N. Goddard.

W. i. Ware.
D. E. Reed.
108

Monthly meteorological reports preserved in the Snrithsonian Institution—Continued.

Name of station.

FENG resale rea heal")

WakovayOitye-n = syste eee
Decatur

De Soto ee a ee

Fort Pierre
Fort Union
Glendale

JOMIN eo Saeiees ees oy Hosea

Norfolk

CURTIS ON Ow SY A

Peru

Rock Bluffs.
SambteeAocency- ce). 2 j54 55h 8
South Pass Wagon-road ex-

OCHO esses ees NOR Ie

Nevada.
Suen ey Citina Ssaccse A mini wali!

New Hampshire.

@laremontge ss see ee.

/

Concord a ae ee anfee

Dahiya Sa
Dunbarton
Exeter

KHarmine tomy ace ada Nae em
Francestown Sp RR

Gorham

Period.

MONTHLY METEOROLOGICAL REPORTS.

Name of observer.

1867-1873). 222). eee
SUS sai ANC aa

187 1-1873 REE en

1360-1861 eee eee nee
1854

1860-1861 HaSCROR Sela
SoG) Sos Gaccoc
WeT/AUSI). 55a6 bose
1873

PESOS Nee ae OLR

1849, 1851-1852. -.--
ISGSSIST Sposa eee
1849, 1851-1852. ....
LSOLNSC Sean
I SO0SN S61 5. as eae

Rev. William Hamilton.

Henry M. Burt.
Miss E. E. Caldwell.

Rev. Willam Hamilton.

P. F. Peterson.
Charles B. Smith.
H. H. Brown.

Dr. G. C. Case.
Maj. Thomas S. Twiss.
Charles Seltz.
Anna M. J. Bowen.
John §S. Bowen.
William Dunn.
John Evans.
Henry Gibson.

M. C. Rousseau.

E. T. Denig.

Dr. A. L. Child.

Dr. A. C. Child, Miss J. E. Child.

L. J. Hill.

Bela White.

G. A. Goodrich.
Edgar E. Mason.
P. Zahner.

J. M. Pettenger.
Lewis H. Smith.

.| Lewis Sessions.

R. O. Thompson.
William N. Byers.
John G. Rain.
James P. Allan,

C. B. Wells.

J. M. McKenzie.
A. J. Clark.
Edward Kellogg.
H. C. Pardee.
George S. Truman,

C. H. Miller.

R. C. Johnson.

Rev. William Hurlin,
F. N. Freeman.
Arthur Chase.
Stephen O. Mead.
Linus Stevens.

Dr. William Prescott.
H. E. Sawyer.

EK. P. Colby.

John T. Wheeler.
James C. Knox.

Rey. L. W. Leonard.
Alfred Colby.

Rev. L. W. Leonard.
Rev. Elias Nason.
Louis Bell.

Dr. Martin N. Root.
A. H. Bixby.

KE. S. Mason.
MONTHLY METEOROLOGICAL REPORTS.

109

Monthly meteorological reports preserved in the Smithsonian Institution—Continued.

Name of station.

Great Falls.
Hanover -
elevate SWOalses scene see eee
Laconia and Lake Village- --

Littleton
Londonderry
London Ridge
Momchestemssssni cee cca sacs
Mount Washington .......-.

North Barnstead

North Littleton
IPOMIITMOWIINS So55 coon eeretoE

eee c cee eee eee

Sammtulhomas. ...-.-.-scee-+
Sills owinyssoGepecd co aaemace:
Salmon Falls
Shelbourne

Stratford
South Antrim. ....22 222.2222
Tamworth

= 2200 ceca tec see eee
et eee es tee mes tee ewe

- eet ese cn eee ==

Atco

eee eee cee es ewe ew oem ewe

Cc amden

Haddonfield

Haddonfield
wersey City... 291230 Nis

ese ecc coe ece wae -

Lambertville

Long Branch

Morristown.....- AARON teh

Name of observer.

Prof. Ira Young and A.S8. Young.
C. and

Period.
Iebys ake) Sas So oube Henry E. Sawyer.
1853-1854.......--.
1849... ---.----| Thomas b. Laighton.
(O57 18612, ae J. W. French, agent L. W.

W.M. Co.

SOS SIS Gdn ewer seers Robert C. Whiting.
849-185 7e ee eee eee Robert C. Mack.

Tones

[B70 1573 et
1853-1854, 1856. .-..
1856-1873.
Hel ee not tery

1867,
ia

1869-1873. ....

1849-1858, 1862-1863
1849-1854

1859-1860
1864-1866...-......
1866-1869
1867-1868
ISAM seas aoee
S59 =NSO2R eS soe eee

pose ene eee

sce cee een,

1865 tbe Grebe eens

1859.

ee eeee cone

Dr. Isaac S. French.
Hon. S. N. Bell.
Joseph H. Hall.

J. H. Huntington.
Rk. F. Hanscom.
Charles H. Pitman.
Rufus Smith.

Dr. C. Chase.

John Hatch.

Daniel Bonelli.

KE. D. Couch.
George B. Sawyer.
Fletcher Odell.
John Collin.
Branch Brown.
Rev. William Hurlin.
Alfred Brewster.
Peter L. Hoyt.
Nathaniel-Purmort.
L. D. Kadder.

H. C. Perry.

H. A. Green.

Thomas B. Merrick.

R. L. Cooke.

Prof. Adolph Frost.

Dr. E. R. Schmidt.

Prof. A. Frost and Dr. E.R. Schmidt.

John C. Deacon.

Isaac C. Martindale.

William Parry.

James 8. Lippincott.

Howard Shriver.

J.S. Fritts.

B. F. Simpson and 8. R. Willis.

O. R. Willis.

Benjamin Sheppard.

Clarkson Sheppard.

C. Sheppard and Miss R. C. Shep-
pard.

Miss R. C. Sheppard.

John Clement, jr. -

Samuel Wood.

John Boadle.

J.L. Lippincott.

Thomas T. Howard, jr.

Thos. T. Howard, jr., and wife.

Jacob 8. Gary.

Geo. H. Larison.

Howard A. Stokes.

Arch’d Alexander.

Dr. S. C. Thornton.

Miss LE. E. Thornton.

Thos. J. Beans.

Jos. W. Lippincott.
110 - MONTHLY METEOROLOGICAL REPORTS.

Monthly meteorological reports preserved in the Smithsonian Institution—Continued.

Name of station. Period. Name of observer.
Moun teAinyeeaesneeeeee eee WXOGQ AUS. 5560 6225 John Fleming.
Mount ollyeesssenee eee 1861-1868... ..2 2. Dr, Morgan J. Rhees.
ING wie oo 52 carci teres A ee ICES oaSaoo aao- W. A. Whitehead.
New Brunswick...--...-.--- 1254, 1865-1868 - .... Prof. Geo. H. Cook.
Iolo eee Sah a ee 6 Eli T. Mack.
WBS jake esl ace eee Edwin Allen.
1SCO sso ee eee Edwin Allen and G. W. Thompson.
1SOISNSCo eee G. W. Thompson.
LS69S1S 70 Rees Isaac E. Hasbrauck.
Newfield: 22.2...) MoAeie wean 1367-1870 sees E. D. Couch.
New Germantown...---..--. WATS USe s56 so5ecc Arthur B. Noll. 7
Newton _.-.--. diajayateanelelaeteate ee MSM 6-455 5445 Dr. Thos. Ryerson.
Onmninns paoccbooedsss toss suse 1872-1873. .-....--.| Dr. W. Hamilton Stockwell.
Passaic Valleys seta eeaee BOS 1865 eee Wm. Brooks.
IPabersOly doce. ysoc ese SGC SIS eas nee Wm. Brooks.
IRROSTESS ei seee eee eee eee WelGa tele). boos ese Thos. J. Beans.
Readington ose eee 1866-1867, 1869-1873} John Fleming.
WSUS cere eyarsesto tran ere Robins Fleming.
Riceville (22225). fee ee 1860-1861 <2 5-225. Prof. L. Harper.
JRO) CrP) Gobo 5 Go4Hes bbasos WES HUSIBsososs cece Jerusha R. Palmer.
SMG 565.6058 cosoouaboeud ss SSG cyte seyret aN C. M. Dodd.
1859..........-.-..| George Watson.
Seawille jee co cc oce She 1865-1867..---...-. Barker Cole.
EOS ceo yar ccieiee eee E.C. Cole.
Sergeantsville ....220 2.0... 1857-1858 ..--...2.- John T. Sergeant.
South Orange: s22..2...-2--.) 1870-1873 ....2. 254. Dr. W. J. Chandler.
Mrentomie aera ees ee ee 1865-1873 ......---. Ephraim R. Cook.
Vineland)... brew oka ae SOT OIS Seem sneeee Dr. John Ingram.
Woodstown ........-..-.--- PSCO Ra aeitelsars teehee George Watson.

New Mexico.

Pope’s expedition .....-----. 1855-1857 2252-2222. James M. Reade.
New York.
AdamsiCenter) 23. 1859-1861..-..:.- ‘..| Dr. C. D. Potter.
HAN] LYE ok eee aly ya CRM KISH Ls 1265-1866 ...-.222-. Dr. H. M. Paine.
Al bron eco. 2 ea ee Bese J SANS Ae see sen L. F. Munger.
PANIDS ne alee os eee OR 1849-1851... 222228. James H. Ball.
A eliC ay fey e oie ec ON Fe Lene 1854-1858...2-..---- E. M. Alba.
ICANN see sousese C. P. Arnold.
Ardenta cece. ie oo. eate 1868-1873..--...... Thomas B. Arden.
AUD UE eee RT ey Ee ISCOSISCORS ses ee cee John B. Dill.
Bald winsvilleia. 22). es, 1849-1867..-...--.- John Bowman.
Bammeavplllley se) eevee eee WSO ne eee ents eee G.S. France.
Beaver Brook ssi es ies {oni is, NSSSSNSHA ae sees C.8. Woodward.
Bellport) oe seoeeia! Rat HeS7SS62 Mee eee H. W. Titus.
Beverly 222) ee a, Bo eSB) so 555 GaSe Thos. B. Arden.
Blackwet.’s Islandii.222). 912: Ise SHY ee aeen soe Dr. W. W. Sanger.
Breslauz SP skh OU (Oi, NEGBA Bacsosccses Frank Miller.
Brookhavenssssa48es soe 1868-1873... 22222: KE. A. Smith and daughters,
Brooklyn 52s Sse op i Gren rae IS VOAMCBosso85 sa56 Isaac P. Mailler.
Ite Pe MeViGekbace S550 R. W. Johnson.
Buffaloes. ooc1e oe Oana 1849-1852...... 2... A. Hosmer.
1853-1854, 1860. ...- Elias O. Salisbury.
SGA Nose ceorcncyavereteens ots Dr. 8. B. Hunt.
TSSAVORT EGR EINGE ia W. D. Allen.
1858-1862, 1866-1873} William Ives.
USO Melee esos anes United States Engineers,
Caldwell 428. 90 BAI ays IS AUS Sees ere _..| Alex. M. Strong,
Cantons sean. VE eT IGBSleweleee ase nob E. W. Johnson.
eile Bcaoeud S554 Leslie A. Lee.

NS iSite treren ner ecers J.C. Lee.
MONTHLY

METEOROLOGICAL REPORTS.

11]

Monthly meteorological eports preserved in the Smithsonian Institution—Continued.

Name of station.

(Gran libO Me = occa RSS Ae

@harlottes 2s. chee ee sO!
(Clas hit; Se aoe cooese estat ie

Constantia ...-.. SRL E Beet
Cooperstown =.-.------.----
Mamswillens2.c a. ck ok ese:
Wepauvallle sso 2s. eA eeey.
ast Pranklam! 2. sss see les
bast lentlebtas se. «sestbee.

IBICOWIG Sooo none A Senses
IVT LAV oicieus tl Se ee
Parenmnlinexclen® secosococes occas
Fishkill Landing pee aatprle JN,
Mlatbushwe = sos erences

Hordhamieeeetscyacieces aciontech =

Rone Anes ee sa a emeio serie

Fort Niagara ......---.-----
Ti reclomiby s6oee0 ceeaans dened
Hinvend ship sa.) -lelsee
(GarEisomisy ss. see eee see aac
GOI iisedos se sane ees Homer

Germantown! csccce-sses eee

Glascorsee es Beslan eRe

Glen's Mallises sas Sees ee
Great Valley: s920-c2 i OW
GrOtoOnicc cis eis oo Se
AV alata GRE egress a eee
ICCUOR Sos 225 22 stele

ilempstead = 2.22. a2. eae
Elermiltace a= s225 28s eA
Homers. 32527 -e5 eae

EMM Son) 4995 O08 aane pes Bae
Hungerford College Institute
Institution for Deaf & Dumb

tone ek obs a ALB
MACKS OM leie ys eel ee

Period.

USSR ere nee ele
1856-1864... --. 2222
1865, 1867-1873... -.
1850-1863 282 baie)

TEGO SIS eee ee
NSB osacu case
SOD aioe ete
1S Eysl OR LO ae ont We
eHOSIRG 2am eee
TSE) Ie pea le
1857-1859... .-2---
equ. Ee AP en ccs

ISS9=NS63 25a aee ee
1854-1864....-..-..
ISGG=1867 22 eae.
1860-1861, 1863-1868
1855-1857, 1864-1868

1854. x aieicigunbore eee

1872 PL tee ele see Fo
1859-12860..........
TCS AE Seo eas es
TSTMS Seeks ose

1849-1854, 1856-1860,

1865-1872 RSLS Be
NS GO Kear ee eas i
1872- 1873 ec eae
1849-1868... . 22522.
1859-1860... 022...

Name of observer.

W. P. Godfrey.

Prof. Aaron White.
Prof. Wim. Soule.
Andrew Mulligan.
Cornelius Chase.

C. Thornton Chase.
Prof. O. Root.

Dr. H. M. Paine.
J.P. Chapman.
Matthew Mackie.

L. L. Fairchild.
Sereno Clark.

G. Pomeroy Keese.
Rev. John J. Brown.
Henry Haas.

Dr. J. W. Smith.
A.S. Wadsworth.
Stephen Landon.
Anna S. Landon.

W. A. Brownell.

G. F. Sawyer.
Laurens A. Langdon.
A. B. Covert.

John C. Merritt.

W. 4H. Denning.
Rey. Thos. H. Strong.
Rev. R. D. Vankleck.
Rev. W. W. Howard.
Rey. E. I’. Mack.
John Aubier.
Claudius Pernet.
Dr. H. M. Paine.

Rev. John Aubier and Prof, A. T

Monroe.
P. A. MeMore.
Prof. Solomon Sias.
J. De Witt Miller.
L. Leffman.
Prof. D. J. Pratt.
George W. Fries.
Thos. B. Arden.
Rev. W. D. Wilson. -
Job Elleston.
Wm. Tompkins.

Rev. Sanford W. Roe.

D. B. Hendricks.
Dr. P. O. Williains.
Cyrus H. Russell.
Warren P. Adams.
Kathalo Kelsey.

Rey. Samuel Johnson.

Col. E. C. Frost.
Dayid Trowbridge.
Chas. E. Adriance.
J. W. Jolnson.

A. A. Hibbard.
Edwin C. Reed.
Walter D. Yale.

G. P. Hachenberg,

A.B. Watkins and R.S. Boswortn.

Prof. Oran W. Morris.
J. D. Ingersoll.
F. D. Carman.
112

MONTHLY METEOROLOGICAL REPORTS.

Monthly meteorological reports preserved in the Smithsonian Institution—Continued.

Name of station.

Jamestown

Jericho laws seeeeerieerese
Kensico
Lake

ite den

Little Genesee... -...-..---
Lockport

Wocust Grove: 2235-82 seu:
GO die. Bea aes ba WE Uh
Lowville

Ludlowville
Lyons .. -
IMadinid SsaoSoecc on CEE ee

fetes citar ain
Milo . La Sees eee) Api

Mohawk
Morristown
Moriches
Morleyeeeeee Nigh 5 tenes
Newarle Valleys so ysscee
Newburgh
New York

eer ee ee ee ee cee e ee ee

North Argyle.-...-.-223:0-:
North Hammond........----
North Salem

North) Volneya- 4-245 ee. eeee
Nichols22 2225 5. Ssee es

INVEIOR céoaqesac
Ogdensbureh .
Oneida - Seer
Oswego

Otto ....
Owais
Palermo

Palisades)s.veseciss sense

Period.

554 1CGG teen:
1861
1866-1873

ees e te eee cow coe

Tee en ay Set

1863.
1856- 1857 ..
1855-1857
1869-1872... ....-..-
IS Oa
1868-1872
PE61—1868. 22.22.
1859. - 2a SN
1864— 1867 _. Sa see
ee Ses ARE Rare

1868- 1872.
1864-1871
1849,

WOM o55 cose Se
1860-1872
1863-1866
1865-1867
1869-1870
1865-1870
1868-1873
1867-1868
1864, 1870-1873
1866-1873...
1849-1853
ISBN o a ceas sede
1868-1873... ....

149-1852, 1854-1863
1864-1873

Name of observer.

Rev. Sanford W. Roe.
S. H. Albro.

Samuel G. Love.
Albert G. Carll.

C.J. Mellvaine.
Peter Ried.

L. F. Munger.

Ce: Merriam.

John Felt.

Prof. S. A. Lattimore.
Daniel Edwards.

E. Giddings.

B. Wheaton Clark.
James B. Trevor.
C.C. Merriam.

John Lefferts,

Irah R. Adams.

J. Caroll House.

A. Judson Barrett.
Rey. William Irish.
C. P. Murphy.

Dr. E. W. Sylvester.
E. A. Dayton.

Lewis Swift.

J. Metealf Smith.
John R. French.
Gilbert D. Baker.
D.S..Bussing and J. W. Bussing.
J. W. Bussing.

James Lewis.
William Day.

E. A. Smith and Miss N. Smith.
Ezra Parmelee.

Rev. Samuel Johnson.
vames H. Gardiner.
U.S. Naval Station.

J. S. Gibbons.

S.De Witt Bloodgood. .
Caleb Swann and Dr. J. P. Loines,
Frederick I. Slade.
Charles C. Wakely.
Naval Hospital.

E. B. Cook.

Rey. John M. Aubier.
Mrs. M. M. Marsh.
Prof. Charles A. Joy.
Prof. Oran W. Morris.
Haden Patrick Smith.
George M. Hunt.
Charles A. Wooster.
John F. Jenkins.
Mrs. M. J. Lobdell.
J.M. Partrick.

R. Howell.

C. de la Verny.

W. E. Guest.

Dr. Stillman Spooner.
C. Strong.

dig IB Hart.

Capt. W.S. Malcolm.
Prot. Weston Flint.
J. W. Chickering.
Erastus B. Bartlett.
W.S. Gilman, jr.
MONTHLY METEOROLOGICAL REPORTS.

113

Monthly meteorological reports preserved in the Smithsonian Institution—Continued.

Name of station.

eallimngreie eeer
12 tayal kesh Leslee agree eee
enmyVan 2.) o 2 aus Sik
Perry City
Philipstown
TPS) GFW ere reece ee ees
Plainville
Blatbsbureh! S222. se sees
Pompey

Rompey, Hille ses eee
ROUSM AMM een = on Sey ILS, 2
Houshkeepstesa = jis eee

Rochester

o

Saratoga
SAUTE Soy soba SSdqeueueed

Schenectady

Seneca Malls tee LOH as

Sennett

Sing Sing
a

Skaneateles . 2-220 22 2222

Sloansville

mspring ville... <2 /2 tees
Stapleton.......
Suffern...
Syalcuse) sah. occ 45cm
Theresa

Utica

wee tee eee eee eee ae eee

88

Period.

1854-1857-1859. .--.
VEGAN ee eee ee
cee eg odacce
1859-1860...-....-.
1856-1857 .....222-.
1859-1857 222225222.

1851-1852......-.--
JS59=1863 2222 See.
1849-1858 .-.....---
Teo) Boe aere
1863-1866 .-..-.--:-
1E59SNSOO RSS e ss

1849-1852. 22 2 222
NSCOHN8G7 5. eee

1849-1852, 1854-1856
Ife Okc Ce Ae casks

Beta epee meres rosy

WSOB euro uses
ICS Koya wae ae saan
1861-1868 ...-.- wots
1864-1866......-.-.
ISOS SNSZ2 Cease
1$49-1872......-2 Pe

1860-1861 ..-....-..
1856.1857, 1868-.....
1860-1868.......-.-

Name of observer.

Stephen Hyde.

Charles A. Lee.

Dr. H. P. Sartwell.

David Trowbridge.

Thomas B. Arden.

Godfrey Zimmerman.

J. H. Norton.

Joseph W. Taylor.

8. Marshall Ingalls.

John F. Kendall.

Hon. J. Welch.

Prof. C. B. Waring.

Miss Swallow.

Prof. Wetherell.

Prof. C. Dewey.

Prof. M. M. Matthews.

H. Wells Mathews.

Dr. G. P. Hachenberg.

W.M. L. Fisk.

S. P. Probasco.

Rev. Samuel Johnson.

U.S. Naval Station.

Mandrin Linus.

H. Metcalf.

EK. N. Byram.

Walter H. Riker.

R. G. Williams.

James W. Grush, James M. Alex-
ander, and L.S. Packard.

Robert M. Fuller and Haren Y.
Swart.

Alexis A. Julien and H. A. Schau-

ber.
Elisha Foote.
Jobn P. Fairchild.
Charles A. Avery.
Philo Cowing.

.| Henry B. Fellows.

Rev. James R. Haswell.
C.F. Maurice.

W. M. Beauchamp.

G. W. Potter.

J. Kverett Breed.

Dr. F. B. Hough.

L. A. Beardsley.

G. M. Ingalsbe.

Capt. Storrs Barrows.
A. W. Morehouse.
Irving Magee.

Levi S. Packard.

J. W. Earle.

Moses Lane.

Spencer L. Hillier.
James H. Warren.
Henry L. Dinsmore.
S. O. Gregory.
Francis M. Rogers.
Miss Elizabeth Morris.
John W. Heimstreet.
Prof. E. A. H. Allen.
Prof. Dascom Greene.
William L. Haskin.
Dr. L. Tourtellot.

E. B. Bartlett.
114

\

MONTHLY METEOROLOGICAL REPORTS.

Monthly meteorological reports preserved in the Smithsonian Institution—Continued.

Name of station.

Wampsville
Warrensburgh. ...-..2222-.*
Warsaw. .-
Waterburgh
Waterford’ 34222. csebe ie

eee eee ewe ce ewer

Waterville
Wellsville
West Concord ...
West Day
West Farms
West Morrisania
White Plains ....-... mi
Walsons ele eh See ae ae

ee eo ee id

North Carolina.

ANOGMMMA 655.6660 Gsbo0e suse
Amandales sss ase ee
INS OE AUC ees a rae ee

Attaway Hill:......%-
Bakersville. .-...-

Period..

1853-1863.......---
CVA Ber see

165521857...
1849-1851... Oa
1857, 1858, 1860... ..
Tea He ke
1858-1859, 1871-1873
18562185710 9 E

1869187300002
1858-1864...... 22.

TOTO E on ascletsicloneloeetcee
STONE eee eect
1857-1858 ...--.-.--
WS67=1873 -.- es =e
IS68=1873 cee ee
1849-1862, 1867-1873

PBS AU HOME ie pee ee INE CIN RO ed a eee
Chapel Huilleee a es. S49 S186 eee eee
NE69=1S70e eee
Charlottes ee ete wees eval lean seeses Be
Davidson College ..-:....---| 1858-1859...... 2...
Hdentont.. sas. SoS eee 1iCiAl [eka wirey cetoe yas
soe ese es on
tei fete mies eer as area
Fayetteville --- saat 86 ee KEY «URE ease ee Br
NOVI K1B 72 yas anees
Horest Hull saadseen see aa: Mey Meiance uaoooe
ipranklin: 3222-5 eon eos Wei USBacscoo sccu
Gaston 22. -saectr ase ocars 1859-1861 ....-.-...
Goldsborongh ..-.-. .-2+..-- 1860-1861, 1872... .-
Green: Blains ooo selec TE5O EN OS Rae eas
Greensborouch¢cerst: 22222 ISTI—1873.. = sss
Guilford Mine 2/52 .2e57aN7.. 1867-1869... ..----
JACKsONe Leee pepe EE Se eeal| lista leby: le es a
Kenansville) :2222 sehen en 1868-1870....-..-..
Lake Scuppernong -..--...-. 1849-1852... 222.
1 Gost BARU ie ly rune Sher fo
Lenoir 2.22,. 9h eeek LSHI=187 3 ses S ee
fuincolnton! {24252 ee ye ees Wetays a ee a a
Marlborough <2 teaceae Sse. heh aye aes etd sia ai
MountiAiny: 3222) eee man Ite PAE Sees Grains cnt
Murfreesborough...--..- geo LOHOS LO <a ences
Murphy 22.2 2S sae acer IST Q=NST3 25 see ete
New Garden 222225 2eeeee NEVQaNS7 3 es
Oxford 22.) Resse eee oe 1866-1867 ........--
HS6V—1873h2= sates
Raleigh! -- 2)... stceeaa aan BDO aa a ones
TIRSLGY Daa eae ra 8 es
1866-1869..........
OOOH oo yet Serge
Rutherfordton ...........--- THCY ee reir trs 3 le
StatesvilleyeiccecW?. 2) soe ile6G—187305. senses
Parborough.---. 3.72940 VOT fases hgh a RSS
IHN Bees Gobaee

Name of observer.

J. EK. Winslow.

S. O. Carpenter.

Dr. Stillman Spooner.
Randolph MeNutt.
J.P. Morse.

David Towbridge.
John C. House.

.| Dr. P. O. Williams.

James M. Tower.
H. M. Sheerer.
Lewis Woodward.
Jude M. Young.
J.S. Gorton.

I. Zaepftel.

O. R. Willis.

E.S. Holmes.

S. J. Pemberton.
W.H. Murdoch.

W. W. McDowell.

EK. J. Aston.

Dr. J. ¥. E. Hardy.
FE. J. Kron.

J. H. Greene.

James Rumley.
Prof. James Phillips.
David S. Patrick.
George B. Hanna.
Prof. W..C. Kerr.

A. A. Benton.
Richard N. Hines.
Margaret A. Hines.
John M. Sherwood.
G. W. Lawrence.
Mrs. D. D. Davis.
Albert Siler.

Dr. George F. Moore.
Prof. EK. W. Adams.
Samuel W. Westbrook.
S.S. Howard.
Alexander Wray.

-| Rev. Frederick Fitzgerald.

Prof. N. B. Webster.
Rev. J. A. Sheppard.
D. Morrell.

Dr. L. Beall.

Dr. J. Bryant Smith.
Robert H. Drysdale.
Robert S. Gilmour.
Rey. A. McDowell.
William Beal.

A. KE. Kitchen.

John H. Mills.

Dr. William R. Hicks.
T. Carter and W. H. Hamilton.
W. H. Hamilton.
Rey. Fisk P. Brewer.
Miss M. H. Taylor.

J. W. Calloway.
Thomas A. Allison.
Thomas Norfleet.
Robert H. Austin.
MONTHLY METEOROLOGICAL REPORTS.

115

Monthly meteorological reports preserved in the Smithsonian Institution—Continued.

Name of station.

Thornbury

Trinity College

Warrenton

ec e eee oe wees tee eee

Weldon. Yee ease oe
Walminotomyesc. s4ssecsce ee
AWA SOMesic ae vin oe cee of

Ohio.

dams? Malls. 252225 teas:
AMES VAN. 5). = esse Let AC
IAMGTEWS sec 2552 none.
BNGINC TIS eyeps ia ehotaisate ome oe ee
Austimbureheeee-tyce- so <i

Avon. ...--. : Be hae e a
Belle Center...... 2... 2c. 5---

Bellefontaine

ee cree com ees cee eee coe

IBetheligass 22. sate. Say

IBreckwill@ a leases me ersee
Cardington
Carsoneesao.- sce siete shia
Carthagena
@eniralians = 2) jase. Soe
Chester Halts lo Sea kek See
Cheviot

Cleveland

College Hill

Colling woqd cscs 9. elt

Coshocton
Columbus
Croton

Period.

1872-1873...
IWS Sooa5

1862-1863 .....-..--
SGA aso ameeeees
WEG ee itcecsemicvee
1864-1866........--
1858-1860 -. -
Ite y/eailehy)= Sasa be Bo

LS50 1860S cen
1870-1873 ..5.. .----.

1859-1861 SOS R BS ESES

1864-1866.......-..

INS eee eee Cs a

1855 VSS Gear see
849

Se ee

LSO5—18 72. SESS
1871- Tees Bees or

SOLS TS) ao - seteisac
1866- ISGSE se scaes

1856-1857 .... 5 222-.
1858
S61 NSO 2 ale sees §

SSI 1852/2 sess sae

Name of observer.

-| Rev. F. Fitzgerald.

Daniel Morelle.

Rev. B. Craven.

E. D. Pearsall.

Dr. W. M. Johnson.
Henry A. Foote.

T. A. Clarke.

John A. Harrell.
Rev. Daniel Morelle.
K. W. Adams.

C. A. Stillwell.

E. W. Brawley.

Dr. W. Spratt.

Prof. W. W. Mather.

J.G. Dole and C.8. 8. Griffing.
David S. Alvord.

J.G. Dole.

E. D. Winchester.

-| Rev. L. F. Ward.

Rev. R. Shields and J. C. Smith.
Rey. Robert Shields.
Joseph Shaw.

W. Barringer.

Prof. G. M. Barber.

I. McK. Pettenger.
J.S. Patterson.

George W. Crane.

Dr. W. R. Peck.

Jobn Clarke.

Rev. S. L. Hillier.
Hubert A. Schauber.
Mrs. M. M. Marsh.

Dr. R. Miiller.

Hubert A. Schauber.
John D. Wright.
Ebenezer Hannaford.
John Lea.

¥F. W. Hurtt.

George W. Harper.

A. A. Warder.

R.C. and J. H. Phillips.
Eli T. Lappan.

R. C. Phillips.

J. H. Shields.
Gustavus A. Hayde.
Edward Wade.
Edward Colburn.
U.S. Engineers.

G. A. Byde and Mrs. Hyde.
Dr. T. A. Smurr.

G.S. Ormsby.

Prof. R. S. Bosworth.
Prof. J. H. Wilson.

J. W. Hammitt.

L. B. Tuckerman.
Henry Bennett.

Sarah E. Bennett.
Thomas H. Johnson.
Theodore G. Wormley.
Mark Sperry.

Rey. E. Thompsonand Mark Sperry
116 MONTHLY METEOROLOGICAL REPORTS.

Monthly meteorological reports preserved in the Smithsonian Institution—Continued.

Name of station. Period. Name of observer.
Croton nieiveenere SO SOIL Oo sean seas Rey. Elias Thompson.
Cuyahoga Paligs 1) 2ivietin 1 SO4=NS65ee as seeeee D. M. Rankin.
Wallasburchyeees smc ce iserr UCR SNelieiSsses ooasec ¥F.G. Hill.

IDPWAROMN Godcoo 4oneen cedée sa 1856.....-.-------.| Cooper Female Seminary.
1650222222222 22-2 ler eames Cy Pischer:
SSSR ARCAS Se temas Lewis Groneweg.
TELS Sea oe eee Charles Reeve.
East Cleveland ..----..-.--. HSIN 625 ees eee Mrs. M. A. Pillsbury.
Dastihaimnhelds. 2.22 ssese oe ISS SIO S55 oesSse S. B. McMillan.
East Rockport...-----..---- MeeVee ee Seed ecessal) IDS Vo lio Ihanrdlenaal
TAC ON ecient eer 1863-1865 ..... »---.| Lhomas J. Larsh.
i doerboneerseeciseerice nae ISG USO ab6 caddec 8. B. Knight.
TE GTIM SWIG, Ss So oKoeocus of sees 1857-1858 .--..---.- Smith Sanford.
MATING Teal ease tcepaeeeisepee ue Sy RAC OIORS al Dr. 8. C. Irwin.
iramlalimeccc seve some eae kes SSS G5hcco Dr. W. L. Schenck.
Ereedon ees sees ae S59 =18C0 Rese cee see a M. Davidson.
SU SXGST Leh a core a hh H. M. Davidson and Wilson David-
son.
V63o es eee Walson Davidson:
Grallllip Olsen tesa eer ereemeee 1854-1856. --. 22... G. W. Livesay.
1857-1858, 1864-1873) A. P. Rogers. :
Gambier, Kenyon College.-..| 1871............--.| C. D. Leggett and C. A. Stillwell.
SCG =TS Tlie eres F. kK. Dunn and others.
Garrettsvillleis soso se cece 1861-1863 .......-.. Warren Pierce.
Germantown sesso sseeresec 1852-1856" 22-222. L. Groneweg.
eT Ma seus suede J.S. Binkerd.
Guillm ore ee Ae EA eae ie eee UW scso cassis Samuel M. Moore.
Granvalley soe ae Seo ats IGS) oe Gsis wae sessed Teer 1B, Orneucie,
ISO lichen so saoase Dr. S. N. Sanford. -
Croveponticeree a esece see ae ey eiBanca cacaae August Bareis.
TATA Tee nels ee ceerees SOO SISO lee aes W.G. Fuller.
Hl shorough) eee eese ec ee 1851-1860, 1863-1873] Rev. J. McD. Mathews.

eayiMoweuaeee ..-...| ©. C. Janes.
IRs caches casesal) De. Os Oe Sams,

Piiramisee eae. eae Bees Soe Se SSD ERs See eee S. L. Hillier and S. M, Luther.
BOO ME See see ee Spencer L. Hillier.
1856-1860......---.. S. M. Luther.

Hocking port sees esesemaeseslel coo SOUreeere re aee Dr. John Rhoades.

IFTOMOG 2 aj. sete ee aoe epee ieee Pinos oaseee | thomas Ee Wathrow.

HANG SOM Bassas ieee om syne iar 1858-1959. ....| Prof. C. A. Young and KE. W. Childs.
1860- TSO eee Prof. ©. A. Young and A. C. Bar-

rows.
18625 oes eee. larom ©. Ae ounce Ha iWrerscuantimee
C. Elliott, W. ‘Pettengill, and. H.
R. Watterson.
1863............-..| Prof. C. A. Young and J. C. Elliott.

ifeVlolicvieis 45055505 Charles J. Smith.
iher/PailteyBassis Soosss H. L. Keenan and F. W. Taylor.
TE ADH Ro phen A UID) AIAN su ne ei tem ela reat See eee eB cimumdayWe Nests
AID C11) eye erga rage 1859. . .....| S. T. Boyd.
TACKSOM an en i eaaeee aR 1849- 1854. Ee ih ee George L. Crookham.
TSE SES eee eta hee Dy Crookham and M. Gilmore.
fot a yy esien era amen S. B. Wood.
ACTES OTN a ena) Me eso a ICS Soke BSS M. Gilmore.
Jacksonbureh ..2.-. 22.2... Ilse St Bisode ossoes Dr. J. B. Owsley.
VemMensom: iis Vaso Me ks eam epanae Ieee wee ees James D. Herrick.
TREKS OS) iy eA AU SR aS acc at 1849-1852... 2 Lee. Dr. E. C. Bidwell.
licieraleby bone tee sos 5 E. Spooner.
We mG Oa see es cee cere rear 1862-1863, 1866-1873] Dr. C. H. Smith.
Hs) Jisienael) POM eee ees oo ISBO-iheyOeeae Gea ese George C. Huntingdon,
: Spee Se ote aiclsgee D. K. Huntington.
[Keimios Gorn remy eaven ys ret (Sbs SSG dense eee Prof. John Haywood.
Mataivie theese aloe jaca sea TST alo se esa Samuel Knoble.

WanCaster saeke ss sess bac eer PSO7 See ue cee ete Lewis M. Dayton.

—
MONTHLY METEOROLOGICAL REPORTS.

117

Monthly meteorological reports preserved in the Smithsonian Institution—Continued.

Name of station.

Lancaster

Lebanon
Little Hocking.....-....--..
Little Mountain
Madison

Min stielid tees ac csc Sr crepsuorare
MB WIGHIRD S Ae eSo Oe Rese ne see

eevee e eee eee ose eee

MERION ees ee Salen sive soe
MiarntimspRernyee esis) sie eis
Medina ese a eiscciec a5 ee eaters
Mudclebunyessseccece. sae
Milnersville

Monroe County-.-.----.------
Mount Auburn see. sce

Mount Gilead. 2220-222. 22.
Mount Pleasant..........--.
Mount Tabor
oumtim@mi@m 2256 Se
Mount Vernon...-...----.-.
Mount yal Gtonye sce cece cee
Newark

wep eee oe eee wwe eee ewe

eeee - cee ece cee cece
eres tec ee es coe ces eo ee

Norton

Quaker Ridge:..-2..2252--.-
Republic
Richmond
Ripley

SH OCGN NST C77 tes ead as i
Savannah

pesaces#®ece e205 peace

Period.

Name of observer.

1862-1863.-.-...-..
TEO(—18 730 eon
Iie yale esBAeaoe ae
159-1863. = = as.
1851-1852. ----.....

07-1858... .-----
1858-1863..-.-...---

1868-1873.....--.-.
1871.

ees 185 SSRANS ES
ESV SNSGOO Eee. cena.

SOQ VU SOS ee elie nee
1869-1873
1SGS=1869 se eee
1867-1873

acces www er

festhiass ne
Rav hisoier ee
ISAT foes oee cess
1867-1870...... Ae
1859-1860... 2.1.2,

NEGO ASBesesaessas
Ie Revise a5uu Beas
1854-1863......----

H. W. Jaeger.

W.E. Davis.

J. W. Towson.

Joseph C. Hatfield.

James Fraser.

K. J. Ferriss.

Rev. L. S. Atkins.

Mrs. Ardelia C. King.

F. A. Benton.

D. P. Adams.

Prof. J. W. Andrews.

H. A. True.

T. Chase.

Charles R. Shreve.

C. R. and Martha B. Shreve.

Rey. L. F. Ward.

William P. Clarke.

Michael Beecher.

Rev. D. Thompson.

Knoch D. Johnson.

Senior Class Mount Auburn Female
Institute.

James McCune.

David H. Tweedy.

William Lapham.

Newton Anthony.

¥. A. Benton.

W.C. Hampton.

Lewis M. Dayton.

Israel Dille.

Prof. S. G. Irvine.

J. F. Benner.

A. EK. Jerome.

Dr. George R. Morton.

R. B. Warder.

O. Burras.

Prof. J. R. W. Sloane.

W. D. Watkins.

G. A. Hyde.

Rev. Alfred Newton.

Professors Fairchild and Dascomb,

Prof. J. N. Allen.

Prof. J. H. Fairchild.

Frederick Allen.

L. Herrick.

O.N. Stoddard.

R. W. McFarland.

J.P. King.

F. Hollenbeck.

F. and D. K. Hollenbeck.

James H. Poe.

Dr. D. B. Cotton.

-| Lud. Engelbrecht.

T. J. Ringman.
Stephen 8S. Dorsey.
Jacob N. Desellern.
J. Ammen.

Dr. G. Bamback.
Mrs. M. M. Marsh.
J. W. Gamble.
William Ballantine.
Rev. J. E. Pollock.
Thomas Niell.

Dr. John Ingram.
118

MONTHLY METEOROLOGICAL REPORTS.

Monthly meteorological reports preserved in the Smithsonian Institution—Continued.

Name of station.

Savannah

SEnVlNROO Cad ocasdéaboee osbooS

Seville
Slhanomivallille sess pee sere
Sidney
Smithfield
Smithville

Steubenville

Springfield

Abidin easiicieis ciate aloe laren eI

EBV OW ieeicisais Soe ra eens
Twinsburgh

Unionville

Urbana
Neste Bedtondiaie eases
INVielc lite densa sree
WolittetiOny po bose aessue seer
NVIESTCEVAL Open ie enone see

Western Star
West Elkton
Wese Uimom so5.55 4esce se52
AIUGYOVSH 25 GSE AUS a ao rg

Williamsport
Windham

ee

Yellow Springs
Zanestield
Zanesville

ASTOTIA le cyst ose cisalee fe

Corvallisy es ee nese he
Ola Soe eal Rea isey Sout
Hort Smydermss-s-eeesesr oe:
Horbkhompsoneee ti syee-
Hood Rivers. 2s sas-ssnsoe ee
Oregon City
Portland

Salem

Pennsylvania.

ANOVA ES GASSES SREB Ase
Allegheny City

Period.

IS NMeeesessas cess
ey PMei@ecedes sese
1862-1863... 222.
NSGA SN S00Re see eeee
SGI SNSO Qe eee
1859-1860....------

$959 | oon Soke 1Odss

1856-1857

SOV IST 22s een.

AUSSI) CoS Sh5 so5e

1865-1868... 2-2. 2...
NEZOANG (3 See ee
18638-1865. -.--.----.
1864-1865
1866-1868

tee wes oe ee

ici) alkes yy aaeeoa se
ileyAl ke yisieaeeeo caee
1858-1859 .-- =. So

eee meee ew Cee owe oe

1864-1873 ...-.....-
Keys yViGo565none ce

Name of observer.

Dr. W.S. Shaw.
Peter Bowman.

Rey. L. 8S. Atkins.
James B. Fraser.
Rev. L. F. Ward.
William F. Bowen.
Joseph Shaw.

D. H., Tweedy.

John H. Myers.
William Hoover.
Roswell Marsh.

J.B. Doyle.

Samuel C. Frey.

Dr. G. P. Hachenberg.
C. Hornung.

Sarab HE. Bennett.

KE. B. Raffensperger.
Dr. J. B. Trembley -
Charles L. McClung.
N. A. Chapman.

Miss A. Cunningham.
Mrs. Ardelia C. King.
Prof. M. G. Williams.
H. D. McCarty.

B.F. Abell.

Rey. L. F. Ward.
Prof. John Haywood.
Prof. H. A. Thompson.
A. 8. Stuver.

Jesse Stubbs.

Rey. Wm. Lumsden.
Eugene Pardee.
Martin Winger.
John R. Wilkinson.
Samuel W. Treat.

A. Jacque.

W. A. Anthony.

John F. Lukins.

L. M. Dayton.

Adam Peters.

Dr. J. G. F. Holston.

S. M. W. Hindman.
Louis Wilson.

R. B. Ironside.

S. M. W. Hindman.
A.D. Barnard.
Thomas Pearce.
James A. Snyder.
W.H. Wagner.
Chas. C. Coe:
Thomas M. Whitcomb.
Geo. A. Atkinson.
Henry A. Oxer.
Geo. H. Stebbins.
J. W. Gilliland.
James 8. Reed.
Thos. H. Crawford.
| P. L. Willis.

Rodman Sisson,
| B. Feicht.
MONTHLY METEOROLOGICAL REPORTS.

119

Monthly meteorological reports preserved in the Smithsonian Institution—Continued.

Name of station.

Altoona

Andersvalllesos cess cesss- ee
Ashland.. GES sitter e Weaoe ey ora Ee

CANCEL a eiele etelolelel elele lel =(ai= esta ai

Bellefonte
Rendersvilllepsse sss eee

Bl ainswalllle eee ee sae ee are
Blooming Grove ..---.-.----
Brooksvillilesene css oeesseeeeis.
Brownsville
IB WDCLEY Egos) yaniaciy semen se

Canonshursh sy scene

Carlisle

Carpenter 2 Sciatic sisi- =<
Ceres
Chambersburgh
Chromedale

@larksburgh)22. 22085). - 3-5.
Connellsville

ID WINS Ase eaoo semen se caesar

phratah ssf 5222s sce sees
alsin atone ee cece cetera
Franklin

IPREQOEG Gaco cess

IEG TIMIN OF. oc talerscs se sen pegs
Hountaindales assets sce
. Germantown ....-

Period.

H852-1858. 3-2. 2 oe
1859-1861 ..-.-...--
1858-1859... --. 2...
1859

i865 1873 Saws eruere
Mhelsy Viera eign oe
1852-1854, 1857-1858
TEGO VSCOM ee ieee

1855-1661, 1863-1873
1860

SGT HUST Se eee
1872-1873.....-----

NSOZ VEGA eel
1859-1861, 1865-1873

Name of observer.

W. R. Boyers.

Thomas H. Savery.

R. Weiser.

Rev. W. E. Honeyman.

A. W. Curtis.

William E. Baker.

Rev. R. T. Taylor.

Samuel Brown.

Rev. H. Heckerman.

J. I. Burrell.

Franklin W. Cook.

T. E. Cook and Sons.

John Eggert.

L. R. Huebener.

Nathan C. Tooker.

Prof. A. M. Mayer.

W. RB. Boyers.

John Grathwohl.

D.S. Deering.

Dr. J. Allen Hubbs.

John Cornly.

John W. Saurman.

Isaac C. Martindale.

Prof. J. R. Williams.

F. L. Stewart.

Rev. Wm. Smith.

Charles Davis.

Lyceum Jefferson College,

Prof. S. F. Baird.

Prof. W. C. Wilson.

W. H. Cook.

E. L. MeNett.

R. P. Stevens.

Wun. Heyser, jr.

Joseph Edwards.

Joseph Edwards and John H.
Smedley.

Barnet McElroy.

John Taylor.

John Jackson.

Theodore Day.

A. R. McCoy.

Prof. J. H. Coffin.

E. L. Dodder.

Selden J. Coffin.

Selden J. Coffin and G. 8. Hough-
ton.

Geo. 8S. Houghton.

James E. Tracy.

Edward Kohler.

Benjamin Grant.

W. H. Spera.

Ebenezer Hance.

Rey. M. A. Tolman.

Joseph Bell.

Dr. A. Alter.

Andrew Roulston.

A. D. Wier.

John H. Baird.

Samuel Brugger.

S. C. Walker.

S. Ebert.

Thos. Meehan and J. Meehan.

Thomas Meehan.
120

MONTHLY METEOROLOGICAL REPORTS.

Monthly meteorological reports preserved in the Smithsonian Institution— Continued.

Name of station. Period. Name of observer.
Germantown 2s eee st sree al SOO 18 7 ss see Ernest Turner.
Getbysburgh..0 2-2 teste 1849-1860....-:.--: Prof. M. Jacobs.

NGL es tS ees Rev. M. Jacobs and D. Hyster.
1B62—1865).2 hae. fees Rev. M. Jacobs and H. E. Jacobs.
Grampian Hills ...-......--- 1864-1873..---. 225: Elisha Fenton.
Greencastle. ...55. 22252... NEVO oe eee eae Samuel N. Rhode.
Greensburghe = sae secs) seee MEE Si@agcascecce J. M. L. Stump.
iS Mee Geseneeancas G. B. Slattery.
HST be cae Leary W. D. Weaver.
Greenvillepeessene sence NGVAISISS.cooKe Feces D. P. Packard.
HMarrisbureh) 222 snore has: it pbGeou soube sade Dr. J. Heisely.
1857-18642 2.5 Feenee W.O. Hickok.
1S60=1861 2 ese Kk. A. Martin.
1869-1870.... 22222: Dr. W. H. Egle.
USES Ope eee S. A. Black.
azletonesk 22 Ae eos sae Ee TSO SUS Bssce bocce John Haworth.
LAVELTORG 224 SES es PERG ees TESS ONS sco ocuccS Dr. Paul Swift.
Hollidaysburgh....-..-.-.-- Ie ooe coco caeces|| Vy Jan ILOwARe,
Honesdale wees 22 haa ae Het Meee rere ey cated M. H. Cobb.
oxshamtyas sso Ore ee 1864-1873....-.-..- Miss Anna Spencer.
emMbiNed Onis -eel= ase sees USB) se sceg Gosce cEae Dr. Win. Brewster.
Hekesburoe sea sateen eleyealkel el seo easooe Wm. E. Baker.
Indiana soho. ROR Ee CVO SCE Ba oe akae David Peelor.
POSS Naa ee ee E W.D. Hildebrand and David Peelor.
JOHNSTOWN 2252. = ee 1868-1871, 1873. - David Peelor.
Keimesleyse oa. os eke gae he SPs Frees Ie ean Francis Schreiner.
Hancaster 22. -) oISeQeas oh sets WBAQ sae Sages os es, 2 F. A. Muhlenburg, jr.
Nevis ee eae John Wise.
Matrobeya nee. ses Re Ons ake 4 1860-1862 -22 22. 22. Prof. Rudolph Miller.
abel oy bepae Reset estan busses W. R. Boyers.
Mewisbureh 25 ve hess 1855-1860, 1865-1873 | Prof. C. 8. James.
MVM, 2 LV Seles oS RRR 1B49=1852) 2-225 ee Messrs. Edwards and Miller.
TESS ose tdee ee See Joseph Edwards.
LSS BES Cee eE ese John H. Smedley.
Paindenvs. o.oo: 1858-18592 22 aes. James Barrett.
Manchester s)25) 2 2as Sheet 1849-18522. 255 2222 Corydon Marks.
Meadville, 2222. eon ae SAG Sail jee es Prof. L. D. Williams.
1854-18582. 2222 Bue T. H. Thickstun.
IMGdia Wess seeee . a ee 18605 ese ee eee Dr. Isaac N. Kerlin.
Moorhead! 22 2220 2 eval: S63 22 2 Uae Seen Val aVValiKers
Morrisvailleys. stone eas a5 1849- 1864 Be PL EAs Ebenezer Hance.
MBH. eee eee ee Mahlon Moore.
Moss Grove ...--is2-2-.) 222: 1853-1857 224228 S52 Francis Schreiner.
Mount) Rock. 222202 245% USING. bes Gabe Jacob Lefever.
Mount JOyeo eee oe meee 1857-1858. .5 seas Mary E. Hoffer.
1860-1873... .2452. Dr. Jacob R. Hoffer.
Mummy svalles ae san) ssn sctteene UCI) sao esa oes Thomas H. Stewart.
1867-1868 ...--..--- F. L. Stewart.
Nazareth te2- eee HSS esos ee KE. T. Kluge.
Hee dope seca ses E. T. Kluge and E. Kummer.
How anaes nee ee H. A. Brickenstein.
1859-1860 seeeeh cess J. C. Harvey.
USGS ees Se aie O. T. Huebner.
TSGQ Pe ee are a eee O. T. Huebner and L. E. Ricksecker
1863-1866...--. .<:- L. E. Ricksecker.
New? Castles 22 3. c28 eee HS66=18732 seo. eee KH. M. McConnell.
INOLEIStOWN: = See 2 eco eee les 1863.2 sssancer Rev. J. G. Ralston.
Northeast) 2222 oo ee ee HOO cces see eee John F. Milliken.
North Wihitelall 2225! 222537 1856-1868. -.- eee e Edward Kohler.
OM City) | 22 ye ener al Mine 1863-1864....-.---- James A. Weeks.
Oxford) 2200 ee OEE MEG De. eo ee Dr. Henry Duffield.
PATACISC Ree ee ee a 1854-1 856u eee Jacob Frantz.
Parkerville Sse seen San oos3 1859-1863, 1865. ....} Fenelon Darlington.
Philadelphia): ---- #42225 i284 ISAO ace sil eB United States navy-yard.

MONTHLY METEOROLOGICAL REPORTS.

P2k

Monthly meteorological reports preserved in the Smithsonian Institution—Continued.

Name of station.

iniladelphidieese sacs secs eee

Pheenixville
Pittsburgh

Plymouth Meeting
Pocopson
Pottsville

vecera ceoae
eee ee es oe tees one ewe

Pottsville
Randolph
Re adinomme ce cco see a

IRTNCHONS SoSuscmsscoawopouee

Shamokin ses cu es eee

Silver Spring
Somerset

eee cece =~ se eee eee -

Seviensvilleseeeosws soos ae
SambeMany/Svseeceten see cies
SUGENP CHONG) Sano Reeeotae sone

Summit Hill.....222.--
Summitville.
Susquehanna Depot..---..--
Tarentum .

mere
emene

Tioga
Mowand aves cses nese ee

Troy Hill.-
Uniontown
Valley Forge
Warrior’s eRe
Maynesborough = s-e-see os
Wellsbor ough.
Westchester .2222- 2.205222.

Period.-

Name of observer.

1849-1852). ..22. 205:
aos a ese eee ee

1872-1873 sleep nels
USCS=18 72 ose ise ce
1853-1858, 1866-1873
1854-1855-.....2-2.

= eee eee wees ee ee

1851-1852, 1854-1856
1857-1863, 1866-1873

1856-1863... Beat.
1863- LSOQ a ain shciacrs

1857-1861
1866-1867 .....---..

S49 -NS oN y= se
1852-1854. .....----

tease LS
TRS STUSSy oe ee ee
1863-1873./0.. 0088!

1858-1859...--..---
1864-1865.......-.-
1868-1873....-...-.

Lieut, Joseph Reed.

Dr. Paul Swift.

J. ¥. Coorlies.

Prof. J. A. Kirkpatrick.
United States Naval Hospital.
Dr. J. C. Martindale.

P. Friel.

Homer Eachers.
Pennsylvania Hospital.

J.M. Ellis.

Tsaac Z. Caffman.

Edward Fenderich.

Dr. H. Smyser.

W. W. Wilson.

William Martin.

John Hastings and William Martin.

William Martin and Dr. Alexander
M. Speer.

Dr. Alexander M. Speer.

Prof. Rudolph Miiller,

Charles Albree.

George Albree.

Marcus H. Corson.

Fenelon Darlington.

John Hughes.

Dr. A. Heger.

Rev. B. R. Smyser.

D. Washburn.

Orrin T. Hobbs.

John Heyl Raser.

Dr. J. B. Peale and Charles Hahn.

N.S. Haines.

James D. Stacker.

---| Dr. A. P. Meybert.

John I. Travelli.

J. I. Travelli and G. H. Tracy.
George H. Tracy.

P. Friel.

H. G. Bruckart.

Rev. David J. Eyler.
D. F. Chorpenning.
George Moury.

J. Russell Dutton.
William A. Stokes.
Lorin Blodget.

W. O. Blodget.

M. Abbott.

Thomas Seabrook.

‘H. H. Atwater.

John H. Baird.

S. Cummings.

Kk. T. Bentley.

8. J. Coffin, W.H. Dean, and I. H.
Kingsbury.

Victor Scriba.

Freman Lewis.

C. P. Jones.

J. R. Lowrie.

Rev. D. J. Eyler.

Henry W. Thorp.

Samuel Alsop.

Prof. A. G. Clark and T. H. Aldrich

Dr. George Martin.

W. A. Jefferis.
122

MONTHLY METEOROLOGICAL REPORTS.

Monthly meteorological reports preserved in the Smithsonian Institution—Continued.

Name of station.

West St. Exp. Farm. ...-.-
Whitehall Station.....----.-
Williamsport ---.

Worthington
York Sulphur Springs. .-----.
Youngsville

weer ena ee eee eee =

Rhode Island.

Newport

North Scituate.... .-csl2224.
Portsmouth
Providence

South Carolina.

ec ee es ee ee ee eee eee eee

Anderson -
Barrattsville ....-. A
IBeAUORC ee eno eee eee
Black Oaks... seperate Bee
iBlutiton=s 25 42ers ce g
Camden® ... -.2:et adele

Charleston

Columbia. 2 2tecleccekk eaeeet

Edisto Island
Fort Hill
Georgetown
Gowdeysville
Grahamville....-.--.-
Hacienda Saluda....2.-..--.
Filton tHlead 2222 5 eee ee =

Mount Pleasant. -..--.----.--
Orangeburgh

IOMATIAe a. oss ses eee

VIACCAMIAW Oe cece een eeee
Wilkinsville

Tennessee.

Austin

Period.

Aker eee meaacaases

1859-1860, 1568-1869

-| 1864, 1869-1871. .-.-

1873.

1854-1856 .....-----
1857-1861, 1867-1872
ISAM Becas code se
NSGS Seka eae
SOL SSS SauSee
WSR AMG 4 6oo6 Shee
158-1861. 2 eye
d etree Biel eM ey ehycee
ee as sooooe
NSO9=1873.55.5 =. Sao.
1849-1851, 1854-1857
1855- 1857 eee EN
TROLS Ae eters Hens ied,
1858=186 aes

SSO aca eee iene eee
Tie ie eee aae cise |
1859. .
ests \9 Jest a Se )
1S55=1 8575s eee ces

1859-1801 ese aee
1868-1873. ...-.222:
WOT eS eee ele
1671- Le73 5. ie. BABE

1860-1861.......-..
1868-1873.......--.

Name of observer.

A. J. Hamilton.
Edward Kohler.
H. C. Moyer.
Josiah Emery.
Samuel Scott.

Dr. J. H. Marsden.
Dr. A. C. Blodget.

EK. G. Arnold.
Samuel Powel.

W. H. Crandall.

W. A. Barber.
Henry C. Sheldon.
George Manchester.
Prof. A. Caswell.
H. C. Sheldon.

H. W. Ravenel.
Rev. J. H. Cornish.
Dr. W. H. Geddings.
EK. S. Earle.

Dr. John P. Barratt.
Dr. M.M. Marsh and Mrs. Marsh.
Thomas P. Ravenel.
S. Saint J. Guerard.
T. Carpenter.

Colin Macrae.

Dr. J. A. Young.

.'| Prof. L. R. Gibbes.

Dr. Jos. Johnson.

..| Dr. J. L. Dawson.

Dr. Jos. Johnson, J. L. Dawson, and
G. 8S. Pelzer.

Col. W. Wallace.

F. H. Harleston.

Prof. J. B. White.

Capt. C. C. Tew.

Dr. KE. H. Barton.

Superintendent Arsenal Academy.

E. N. Fuller.

R. A. Springs, jr.

Rey. Alexander Glennie.

Charles Petty.

FE. D. Pearsall.

Lardner Gibbon.

.| Maj. J. W. Abert, Capt. C. R. Suter.

Maj. C. R. Suter.

Dr. E. N. Fuller.
Thomas A. Elliott.
Joseph T. Zealy.

J. W. Folk.

D. Benjamin Busby.

H. W. Ravenel.

Thomas P. Ravenel.
Rev. Alexander Glennie.
Charles Petty.

Dr. 8. K. Jennings.
P. B. Calhoun.
MONTHLY METEOROLOGICAL REPORTS.

123.

Monthly meteorological reports preserved in the Smithsonian Institwtion—Continued.

Name of station. Period.
Bethel Springs.....2.22.222-} 1872-1873...........
WS(Q=1e7Si ever vas
Castalian Springs....-..-.-.| 1872-1873._....---.
@hattamooga see sc ese oe PUCOL. ee eee ee
@larksvallGeeeses see eee NS ITS Sc ee ars ene
Clearmontineeceo eee eee ESTO 1873222 eee eee
Clevielandesssos ete BIS. lec ween eee
Dixon Springs)|------..---.--| 1852 Boos
ID OWES GAs BES OE Ae ae oY AO ee Fe Ca aE
TIA OW NOM 65 Soo boon od seo! Meese} es scons sooe
Fayetteville .......-..2/22-.| 1849-1861... .. 242.
TPieayal rl bin, 5 Sees Seema ne eel SRC Gy/(iee se eee eens ua
Hrendship) 22/2. 2. see S54 Nebo eee Se
Greenevilllesse yoo. 2S Esso. 1866-1873 ......---.
PACKSOM Ne. 22 SESE Mae eee yee iy
Kinoxsvallley sae cee Soe se OS —185 2) recrsereeee are
ICES se eesose
MSS ARS aie ey aie ashe!
S55 185 ORs
WSGOR aa 3 se IRS!
UBC69 B72 ose aS!
WalGraneers cates see ee eee | COO 1860 /as e535 so.
VEO SUST3)s sana
Wehawonusse ss es SOBs eb 4 no sane
MSD AG Aa aay sean
Lookout Mountain. ......-.-.| 1866-1867........-.
HEG7—LBT2 35 asc sess-
MeMinuville........--- GARY STG hss ey ss seo

Romonars {Siete puoorso gs

eoneces tee eee wees

University Place, Franklin
County

Winchester. ...-....-..----.
Texas.

Aransas
Austin

Bastrop
Bellona

Blutt

esecce cae eee eae oes ep eoe

1849-1853...-..----
1851-1852... .--2-.
1857-1858. ---.-----

i i

1872-1873 .....----.

1859-1861. 222 2es2
1856-18572... = 2225
1859-1860..-...----

1858-1864.....-----
1858-1861, 1867-1873
iSO eA baba ceooee
1869-1870......----
UEWOseees
1870-1873.....----.

Name of observer.

Dr. 8. K. Jennings.

A. W. Stovall.

Dr. Thomas J. Kennedy.

Dr. G. H. Blaker.

Prof. W. M. Stewart.

T. P. Wright. -

H. Foster.

Thomas L. Sawyer.

B. F. Tavel.

Charles H. Lewis.

Dr. W. W. McNulty.

Dr. Jos. M. Parker.

Dr. Robert T. Carter.

8S. S. and W. 8S. Doak.

Ki. W. Amsden.

O. W. Morris. -

Prof. George Cooke.

Prof. George Cooke and L. Gris-
wold.

T. L. Griswold.

Stephen C. Dodge.

Prof. J. Kk. Payne.

J. R. Blake.

W. E. Franklin.

Prof. A. P. Stewart.

Prof. B. C. Jilson.

Eward F. Williams.

Rev. C. F..P. Bancroft.

Miss Blanche Lewis.

United States navy-yard.

R. Harris.

Dr. W. J. Tuck.

Dr. Daniel F. Wright.

Drs. W. Tuck and R. W. Mitchell.

Dr. R. W. Mitchell.

Edward Goldsmith.

Prof. James Hamilton.

William Rothrock.

James Higgins.

Fred. H. French.

Charles A. Stillwell.

J. W. Dodge & Son.

Rev. C. Waterbury.

P.C. Bluhm.

Professor Hamilton.

William T. Grigsby.

Charles R. Barney.
James B. Bean.
8. W. Houghton.

Frederick Kaler.

Dr. Samuel K. Jennings.

J. W. Glenn.

Dr. 8. K. Jennings and J. Van Nos-
trand.

Swante Palm.

J. Van Nostrand.

J.D. Cunningham.

Burke Combs.

..| W. H. Goode.

Joseph Fietsam
124

MONTHLY METEOROLOGICAL REPORTS.

Monthly meteorological reports preserved in the Smithsonian Institution—Continued.

Name of station. Period. Name of observer.
1 BYOYey BYE RAYS SueNesea eI IM aR GIR ONE USP USB sans Goscse William Melchert.
TEXOPBU SUE N CaN ees MU hd RT Se A S59 SOO Ree eee Prof. Solomon Sias.
IBOSLOMMA Mie eee eae es TL 1860-1861 ...:..-.-- G. Frees.
Boundary Survey-.22.)-. 22: LOGO |e iv ayen ictever suena John H. Clark.
Burkewilles=25- ago eee ee E5918 Gilby serene Dr. N. P. West.
Cedar Grove Piantation..-.- B67 =18O9 Sea eee Hennell Stevens.
Chappellebill: =. 225-203: 1866-1867 222.2222. W. H. Gantt.
@larkevilley secs eas MeV ACV cae ooswes Rev. John Anderson.
Clear Wake\.. 2. 32992 30 Gen TOV noses eae ooo George N. Leoni.
G@hintone 24505 2252 REVS ee S69 =T872E ee eee Dr. A. C. White.
Columbus) 2224/25 sO Paes Seba: 1859. . Dr. W. G. De Graffenried.
Cross-Roads 2... 2008 2 ye. 1859- 1860... Cereal eeu ea F.S. Wade.
Dallas sesso hs SOARS weet TB59 Shao. BORE ROE John M. Crockett.
Deloraine Hy as ls Ee TGV ESUCV/ Bs ose es keee Samuel Davis.
Galveston) 222-2). 25 nOete DBO Ui ose seca esses Dr. C. H. Wilkinson, H. A. Me-
Comly, and others.
SG OSSRa ed aputalGeeiene s Dr. A. H. Beazley.
Geolocical Surveyeoe+ 2 28h Olea9 = Soe sees sles George G. Shumard.
Gilimers cos ie Reo iae ei itaes 1859-1861, 1867-1873) J.M. Glasco.
Goliad se Va uuoe ey eerie Ait 157218560200. eee John C. Brightman.
CrOMZale sera ee ais eves Rue NNT eat S59 VSG ese eee Melvin H. Allis.
Greenville: wus Men a Das S59= 1860 Ree Dr. R. De Jernett.
UTelem ayes cries SOUS ay ed 1856-1857 22.2.2 22. John C. Brightman.
Jabra bya eee aoa dar eae done oe Ie SSB eee cas kee T. M. Scott.
Houstone 222) ee aah 1862-1865 .... 22022: Dr. A. M. Potter.
SOT—OISTQET Nae Miss E. Baxter.
SV ZaNS (Bes aces: Miss Jane Connell.
la hopmsnallley Gee e ee Reel loys E SAGES hile ees H. Yoakum. {
1852. . «.-..-.-|'3. MH. Browne.
fe5c 18602... tek T. Gibbs.
Kaufman 2.2 =). 45 Os eae IB59=18665.- 5.22522 James T. Rayal.
1866. - ...----.| James Brown.
Jefferson acs se ose Waa ass 1859. .--.| W.T. Epperson.
Te arissae ee ee ieee ea i 1858-1860. SSG Nope F. L. Yoakum.
Mavaca sh. oo. NE eed TUSSI eos eee L. D. Heaton.
ockhartiy eae ee eee 1869-1870, 1872 .| L. Woodruff.
ong: Point ssa" = sues INCL Meee elke has. .| M. Rutherford.
Mine) Creelke. 2) 2-20 hs Seat 1869-1870 ......---- F.S. Wade.
New Braunfels... ....-.-2--- OS fara ay apete Ble tedieaes A. Forke and Otto Friedrich.
1858-1860.....---.. Otto Friedrich.
New, Wim i232 SOieeeie ch ere We aMSiBocos cabeec C. Runge.
INOGY WHC ease adisesoes dssoue 1849-1854 .....-.--- T. C. Ervendberg.
HSH cao asoecs J. L. Forke.
Oakland 2522s SoBe asi NSTO-VSTQ Eee Slee F. Simpson.
Palestinee ios. ine eee. 1869=187 Oe esse N.S. Brooks.
Pian az Oe NO AT ee POGOe 2425 ells ss a Sohn Coit:
Pope’s Expedition .....-.... 1855-1857...) OVGI: James M. Reade.
Port Wavacavsys es Seek NS Oa oes aria cece EOD James Gardiner.
HRepOse eee eee ae ee BEET Oy WSN Oe seeks Allen Martin.
houndtop 2.05 yee Oras. 1859-1861.... 2-22. Bruno Shuman.
San Antonio sos teehee baa: OK Gs bis Dr. Fred. Pettersen.
Sandy My. 5 eee enone iL NSVHOTNBW3is2 so ook F.S. Wade.
San Patricio: 23s aen oe 1859-1860.......-.. J. O. Gaffney.
Sisterdale 22552) esse ake 1859-1860 .-.=.5.2-- Ernest Kapp.
Springtield! 2.222): 2 esas USES DRE Tela T. A. Turner.
Marrang 2220/22...) eRe 1859-1860......---. Dr. B.8. D’Spain and J. M. Ewing.
examine 2/0200) als Reni TESTIS Ve ean brat William Colman.
Gurner’s Point Vestn A aa IUCKDI Le SNS James T. Rayal.
Winionyrll essa rie P57 —186l soe. Bese Dr. William H. Gantt.
Wiacorsurie sob. ly Ore VIS 1867-1869... ...hoo!- Dr. Edward Merrill.
Washington eines 1 on 1856-1860.--..-.2.. B. H. Rucker.
Webberville -...taddini@ 1, 1859-1861 ......2--- Prof. C. W. Yellowby.
Wheelock sui ais aa ning Ie Tel eee so meor F. Kellogg.
Woodborough ..........--.. 1859-1860.....2225- Dr. James E. Moke.
MONTHLY

METEOROLOGICAL REPORTS.

125

Monthly meteorological reporés preserved in the Smithsonian Institution—Continued.

Name of station. Period. Name of observer.
Utah.
Camp) Douglas: 22-2... eee ASOD lk ks eee eae A.C. Ford.
Ileal Been ers Ase ae Charles Vieweg.
Coalwillepeeneseae see te ese ReO9-13872 22. eee Thomas Bullock.
*Great Salt Lake City -.2-2.-| 1857- H. E. Phelps.
1859- 1861, 1863-1871] H. E. Phelps and W. W. Phelps.
1672-18730... oe. E. L. T. Harrison.
LBV2—V873 4-2 kes Thomas Bullock.
larnisbunohes= ssa cee oe <2 1867-1873. 2. . O52 James Lewis.
Mebervill@jassastiait) 2c 2. HSG2—1804 5525 fae ee Harrison Pearce.
ROCK WiliO mee sae aoe Oe eee 1266- - ..-<-.| Andrew L. Siber.
Saint George == sie sse22)28- 1862- 1864, 1869. ....| Harrison Pearce.
1865-1866... 2222. H. Pearce and G. A. Burgon.
NEW. 2258252 2S CA vohnson.
Saimt)Mary/s cracigtseselee S65 see s4 eee een) homas: bullock.
Waneland a2 3. i wotseeg as. 1864...............| Andrew L. Siber.
Wianship: 22. -Bysss cds se 1866- 1869 sdesdesees Thomas Bullock.
\WASIM NEON Beocoosoescaes se TBGOL SSF Paes Less. Harrison Pearce.
Vermont
Barnet acess. - ce sebees eh ae 1866-1867, 1869. _--. | Dr. B. F. Eaton.
IDeA Gl ee aseasaees ae oce S56—1E57 5252 Soe L. W. Bliss.
IBrandony= sec oe. asso: 1852-1864 ..-.-. 22... D. Buckland.
1864-1867, 1869- .--- Harmon Buckland.
Brattleborough -....-...----. PSAQ= 1851 55 Sees: Charles C. Frost.
Brookdieldie sees ee ereelse TBO AG Set se Bee: T. T. Pollard.
Burlime tones... sxe eee 1849-1854..-....... Prof. Zadock Thompson.
1857-1864... -4a55- McK. Petty.
(CIB ABs ties ae pret Ron 1861-1864 ._. 2.5222. James K. Toby.
@astletone sees. eeeet see 1852-1854 ..-2...... D. Underwood.
1SE9=NB7 3a Rev. R. G. Williams.
@harlottecets.ca2) sete ae 1868-1873 ---. 2525-. M. E. Wing.
(Chimiislomay 6 Saeccuadsecbosae TebS—INB5 Aes Sees Charles A. J. Marsh.
1855-1807. s545_ 5 sS22 James A. Paddock.
1868-1873 ...-.....- Rev. Edward P. Wild.
Hast comelim ysis ae ats eee NBG Ss sok Eee EL Charles L. Paine.
Kast Montpelier ..--2...22-.- NB5DU 2 Seas sas. buds Wheeler:
ILimNeMID WN eee SS bees aeee 185016735 — anes: Hiram A. Cutting.
1872-1873 2 sae. Edward A. Cassino.
Middlebury. 22 sed Sess: Ife} NO fos eee ae eene Prof. W. H. Parker.
1265—1870-525.). S352: Harmon A. Sheldon.
Montpelier 22.25] saepeeae 1849-18512 Ss. D. P. Thompson.
SCS Ho ee BOR: M. M. Marsh.
Mount Anthony-.-.-.2.).... ESIC pe ey ee es a George W. Robinson.
INCMUORIE pose soeasasssee ses 1869-1870... 2232. KE. M. Currier.
North Craftsbury -.-.....--. 1867-1868 ..--..---- Rev. Edward P. Wild.
NOT WwiChie esses oo cere Ech. £ 1855—1859. 5 ase. A. Jackman.
871-1673 1 Pas! Samuel B. Phelps.
antoney- 42. ~ 4 stesotes ae)1555| LS69—18 72) eee D.C. and Mrs. Barto.
Randolph) jose sesso ese 1849-185 ieee ese R. M. Manley.
1866-1873..-....-.- Charles 8. Paine.
Uperb eye se Rare eta 1S57—1SC3's 25. -BaS5- Joseph Parker.
TRUER DCE S es oeerse sie cree 1862-1864.......... S. O. Mead.
Nase7s Malls bac ieee ABS S Mee eae: J.C. Baker.
Shelburne 22 5. eeeeeyes es 1S55—185 7s ee George Bliss.
South! Troy 922 lee ese eas LSTOAIS72 eu e ee: James C. Kennedy.
Springfield tea) Ja. eeenited 1860-1863 ...-.:2.:-| Rev. J. W. Chickering.
Saint Johnsbury .----..----. 1853-1855... 2.2655. J.K. Colby and J, P. Fairbanks.
1857-180L 7S 83s. Franklin Fairbanks.
Surattordse] Sowa ake ey Be erect aeaae NAS H.F. J. Scribner.
West Pairlee.- 22:5. i2eele PEDO Ne BO ON age L. W. Bliss.
Waltington ..95ich: 22 jeer 1866-1867 255.2552. Rev. John B, Perry.
126 MONTHLY METEOROLOGICAL REPORTS.

Monthly meteorological reports preserved in the Smithsonian Institution—Continued.

Name of station. Period. Name of observer.
Woodstock ...--.2555---.22- LSS7 1858s eases Charles Marsh.
ISO ERRas Se Renee Seem Lester A. Miller.
1 S68—1873/ Seance H. Doton and L. A. Miller.
Virginia.
PAIN aera iter= 2 oe ett S58—1859 Rees eee Rev. C. B. McKee.
Alexandria). <2 35. eoee 1849, 1853-1858. .... Benjamin Hallowell.
Aehlandess. esos ee eee tee 1854, 1856-1857... -- Samuel Couch.
TSO Qwecn sn ts Prof. R. M. Smith.
Berryville e225 jee ees 1855-1857... S22 Miss E. Kounslar.
NSH Sr Sane eae Dr. R. Kounslar.
Blacksburgh --. csc © 1873 Goose c J. L. Hann.
Bridgeton <.---2 .. evs eee SOS C. R. Moore.
Bridgewater.-YS0222 332.22: CaaS cone maces Jed. Hotchkiss.
Buttalo. -22--sOetienies ey eae 1851-1854. Prof. G. R. Rossiter.
IS55—=L6b8e=ee See Samuel Couch.
1858-1859... 2-222 William R. Boyers.
Burning Springs...--..----- WA cosas goods caoe Rev. Henry Bliven.
Cedar Hill... 0. S89 eS ae USHIS Ss occes seas Capt. David B. Horne.
Cartersville) 222. See RN EL ene tee meee eee Randolph Harrison.
Chambers’ Valley-.----.---- USIBs cooocn ssq0deée J. B. Sunbach.
Charleston: 2557-222. s2oNe. ISB NCGY/ Co csoe soe Jas. E. Kendall.
Charlottesville==22202 . a2 PEAQ-1Shiles see ee Charles J. Meriwether.
1859-1861... -2. 25: J. Ralls Abell.
Christiansburgh ..-.25-.2.:. Leola eee eee William C. Hagan.
Cobham :220565.. -20 58s NGAQ-185 Ieee eae: Charles J. Meriwether.
Cobham Depot:...-822/-22. 1859-186) = 22/222 22s: George C. Dickinson.
€richton’s Store... 22900222. HES 2 NSM eee eee R. F. Astrop.
Diamond Grove. ..---..----- 1849-15 ese see. R. F. Astrop.
Dover Mines!. $22 8222..22-2. ISPS GAA cUcian ea meTe Charles A. Harrington.
Mairfax 22 222d bls EE NSO SNS Tiles ee Miss L. R. Thrift.
Falmouth ) 228230 ne 2 1859-186) 7-2-5522 Abraham Van Doren.
Fredericksburgh..---..----. Wea QUO cb boo saoe Charles H. Roby.
HSAQ GSR EAs rece B. R. Wellford.
Hork Union 2325s Ses eee cocodsese Silas B. Jones.
Ganyswallleercn asec seers SEs csongacagesoes Dr. T. A. Beckwith.
LCG ASS ee An esels Julian C. Ruffin.
Gosportien mecca erases Ue) coocen 66555905 U. 8. navy-yard
JEEVAN NWO. bo S565 H4oceo oe Shoe SOQ NS Seeeseeeee James M. Sherman.
lartwiOOd so-so Se itebelS ppcemenaao aaes Abraham Van Doren.
Heathsvilles 22 222 esses SAG is ance as thor ns ee J. C. Wills.
lewilettis. 2-2. oss as oles: WAY SG6o5os -| J. F. Adams.
Holliday’s Cove...---------. IKSBISs coon oaacau cogs B. D. Sanders.
Johnsontown ..------------- SOS SWS ese cee C. R. Moore.
Weesburghi sees eee ceo She eS aRemeoaeoS N.F. D. Browne.
NSA Meee rep eee Samuel X. Jackson.
IVE soo copsoodososeus SOI tere rie ee OE Wm. K. Park.
1867-1870 ee W.H. Rufiner.
Nein wood sles asec eee SHO SS ereme rer Prof. J. L. Campbell.
USSU ST Jenene D. Payne.
DT Oy de NS ere Ra ere [HEL OO Oi ave rapeyiors ees vera George W. Upshaw.
GON SOO de ae see ptee eee tee ee OO Meare eltetecte crater Thomas J. Wickline.
ynchburg lisesi INS SA see erie areal A. Nettleton.
1866-1873 ...--- 2-2. Charles J. Meriwether,
Madison) s.22 02) tesa elo Soo sae arnm ser Dr. A. M. Grinnan.
Markham Station....---.--. USO ernatnley, ele rete ee L. E. Payne.
Meadow Dale. 222-2. s2227s8S TheB YE Mee ocaaaqe adas James Slaven.
Mechaniesville.--.2. 2... ---. S69 NSS ss eee William A. Martin.
Middlesex Scns.) Secs eb eeeacadiccocesse L. C. Breckenstein.
Momb callus epee emt TICE el ca mensscccic Charles J. Meriwether.
Montrose essa cesseea eee ILS ROSE Y/ Sansa sSosee H. H. Fauntleroy.
IMOMPROSS eae acne PeSS USD O Ree eens Edward E. Spence.
Miossys@reeleteeemer cnn tceaets 1856-1858 7.2.22. 2222 Jed. Hotchkiss.

MONTHLY METEOROLOGICAL REPORTS.

ry

12

Monthly meteorological reports preserved in the Smithsonian Institution—Continued.

Name of station.

Period.

Name of observer.

ie i aro

Piedmont ..--- Rear ane aN b
Portsmouth

Powhatan Hill
Prince Hdward: -4.-.5- 22-4. :
IRiGlonaNonGl At osee see ea ae

ROSS, JBM Ee Bet aeeec eases oSce
FROMPEMONG...c. -/s. ae oes
Ruthven
Salem

Snows oe ee a

Staumtomenesces so 50- seas.
Stribling Springs -.... -:-..-
Surry
heme lainss see eer a oe
Vienna

Wiyithevalle see os aac ee Sere oe

Zinn Station

Washington Territory.

Cathlamet...-...-.-
Hort Colvilless. 222. -
Fort Steilacoom
Fort Vancouver..-.-....----.
Neeah Bay

ontpAngelosesaa=— ss -% sos ee
Port Townsend . --
Seattle
Union Ridge
Walla Walla

West Virginia.

Ashland
Burning Springs
Capon Bridge
Crackwhip
Grafton
Hampshire County
Hianper’s Merry si -.c--82- t acc
Huntersville
Huttonsville

1856-1856, 1867-1868
NS68=187 3352 ee
1857-1858
1859-1861

1860-1861
Ss 9-187 Seats
1849-1852
1849-1854
1859-1861

1857-1858
1S57S1858e eee
1856-1858
1857-1858
1856-1861
1867-1870
1872-1873

1865-1866, 1872-1873
1868-1873
1869-1871

1870-1873
1860-186 L
1863-1864

--- ee ee ee eee eee

1865-1872......-2--

pececce ence

James T. Clarke.

J.T. Clarke and Miss Bell Clarke.
James Fraser.

James Fraser.

U.S. Naval Hospital.
Franklin Williams.

N. B. Webster.

Naval Hospital.
Edward T. Tayloe.
Prof. Francis J. Nuttaner.
David Turner.

Charles J. Meriwether.
John Appleyard.

G. C. Vincent.

George W. Upshaw.
George C. Dickinson.
Julian C. Ruffin.
J.Carson Wells.

Jobn R. Purdie.

J. W. Stalnaker.

EK. D. Stenker.

J.B. Imboden.

J.C. Covell. i
Jedediah Hotchkiss.
Renjamin W. Jones.
John Pickett.

H.C. Williams.

J.B. Bowman.

G. A. Bowman.
Randolph Robey.

Mrs. 8S. E. Chamberlain.
J. W. Marvin.
Chalkley Gillingham.
W. D. Roedel.

Howard Shriver.

Rev. James A. Brown.
Robert Binford.

Charles McCall.
Captain Hague.

Dr. David Walker.

Dr. Barnes.

James G. Swan.
Aiexander Sampson.
Alexander M. Sampson.
8.8. Bulkley.

Mr. and Mrs. J. E. Whitworth.
A. H. Simmons.
Thomas M. Whitcomb.

Charles L. Roffe.
Robert H. Bliven.
Dr. J. J. Offutt.

D. H. Ellis.

Dr. W. H. Sharp.
8. J. Stumps.

L. J. Bell.
William Sheen.
Jacob I. Hill.
David L. Ruffner.
128

MONTHLY METEOROLOGICAL REPORTS.

Monthly meteorological reports preserved in the Smithsonian Institution—Continued.

Name of station.

Kamala) 2.22 52 =
Kanawha Salines |..---.----
Lewisburgh

Morgantown .----.-.---+----
New Creek Station...-.---.-
Point Pleasantins-sse 2-2
INOINNE\/ So'4e So sei

SistersVvallemmeee seme sere
Wardensville
AWelisipungelns aS o5ue csoeuseaac
Weston

Westie Wmilome esate peers
Wheeling
Wirt

Wisconsin.

Appleton

Ashland
Audubon
ONG A TEEN alee On BE eel ray
Baraboo

IBA? Olliivecsoadedasossocacece
Baines! sseoseccsuss sosoasco
Bellefontaine ....-
IB OVONG Exerc eee etapa

Black River Falls. .
Brighton
Burlington

Caldwellabraitienss-cemecee.
Cascade! Walleye ijccise ei
Ceresco
Dartford
Delafield .

we wee ee tee ee ee we wee

Delavan

Seen ai ie ie

Edgerton
Elkhorn
Emerald Grove
HIND ATR ASS Hees Cee eee eee
Malissok Sts Gross senses

Galesville
Geneva

Period. * Name of observer.

1858, 1860-1861. .--- James E. Kendall.
1858-1859... .-..---- W.C. Reynolds.
LESI—H1NB52 sss se See Dr. William N. Patton.

CES EE SosoS Sco Dr. Thomas Patton.
[SHO kAs Bases eee Thos. Patton and J. W. Stalnaker.
HA59-1861- =. sso 22 J. W. Staknaker.
ICV iey@ooocos esac Prof. 8.G. Stevens and Miss M. T,

Stevens.

NEON ob eococous Hendricks Clark.
WEB 66 Sacobu ccopas W.R. Boyers.
POSQs ke as ces eoee Marshall McDonald.
1866-1870... .-..--: W.H. McDowell.
OC MeehsoG5 ooGcas Enoch D. Johnson.
1855, 1859-1861. ---. D. H. Ellis.
1859-1860.-..-.--.- B. D. Sanders.
1868,-1870-1871, 1873] Benjamin Owen.
1869. Crh 2G oe A Ee H. P. Camden.
TOSR Ves Cees see Ke. Ralston.
on iat eles eh as W.C. Quincy.
eM) cesose soe George P. Lockwood.
oes shew i oe Josiah W. Hoff.
S56 SCs ees Prof. R. Z. Mason.
NSO ee eee John Hicks.
THOL OP Aare ebay yest oa Dr. M. J. E. Hurlburt.
NSO get ili perene Prof. J. C. Foye.
ASLO Sst ol oa ee Edwin Ellis.
MSS et Ree RMS A. T. Dearborn.
1849-11852 .. 222. James C. Brayton,
AQ SISO eee Dr. B. F. Mills.
IEG SS Coolbbooss M. C. Waite.
RESTS TOs ses eee Edwin Ellis.
1858-1859 ---..-. --. Harvey J. Nourse.
NG AEB scsesoccos Andrew Tate.
SSS SGA Sees Thomas Gay.
138401854 eee Eee 8. P. Lathrop.
[SEAN sis a sane Oe A J. McQuigg and W. Porter.
1Le55=USC0heee eee Prof. William Porter.
WSOils Wels oce sss Soas Prof. Henry 8. Kelsey.
LB63= 1867 202 VBE Henry D. Porter.
SUAVE SS eiemeie ee Beloit College.
ICA RSG SUMO Gee Emil Hauser.
NECGZ=18 0382522 see George Mathews.
TUG EAS Pa elie aga e NS D. Matthews.
SOOM ee seis wath iad D. and G. Matthews.
PEO RES eae a cs George Matthews.
1860-1861 .-.......-- S. Armstrong.
1 CLS Gey area sy Sette, Samuel R. Seibert.
e541 85 dee eee Miss M. E. Baker.
S61 1860R2= eae M. H. Towers.
LE59=1S60s sees nese Prof. A. W. Clark.
LeOl=1863 2522S 5s: Charles W. Kelly.

SHdSlSG7 cose eeeel Levens Eddy.
SAY els wie yt CM pee ) Ei. N. Lee.
UOMeViGionoddsoase Henry J. Shintz.
IeWasdesesosscscos Geo. W. Hodges.
BAG 18502 ee ee -| Orrin Dinsmore.
1864, 1866-1873. .-.. J. Everett Breed.
1857. Satis ea a M. T. W. Chandler.
ISBioleaee gases soadde Wu. M. Blanding.
Gy ailehitelee as Se .-| Wim. Gale.
1663 >l87/se2see eee W. H. Whiting.
MONTHLY METEOROLOGICAL REPORTS.

128

Monthly meteorological reports preserved in the Smithsonian Institution—Continued.

Name of station.

(GmeeMeB aye vs. aeia weie sash -
Green Lake
Hartford
Hingham
Hudson
Trish Sectlement
amesvilile 2-2 2. aces oles

Ienosha sees. seeder. S-kt
Kilbourn City
Hale pvt s) fas = yer) areata

ee ee eee eee oe ee te ee oH ee
wee ee ee ew eee ees coe eee o-

eee e es pe emece cece cae,

Manitowoe
Menasha
Milton
Milwaukee

INIOSIMeCU = a acs SESte we fs see
Moo, MIO Boo kou sdSeease
New Holstein
New Lisbon
New, dWuomdon\. We oss s2eagas
Norway
Odanah
Otsego

AT CEGWAlle 2.5 ss. teen & See
latbemilencetns occeeerme ce te

Plymouth
HResCObuls =< yeast Re oe hk
Racine .

ec eee ce cee ems coee oe

Sonthport
SiimAR Cin BEV a aaoase oodbEeda

tees ene cee cone Hees

Summit
SUPCTION I =. 045 .3eceepee oe:

9S

Period.

1854, Sadao Cocoos coos

TOO reo ee
GRA oe alae ratte ee
1856-1858 .-.- 222.

SOO as en i pete:

We Sey Sconoeae odes
INeBYSUCViSes5eaeKaes
NST NESS es 8- eeey

1849-1852, 1854, 1857-

1871
TSH SUG Anos GSE
18% dO-1E5O

1857-

S59qNSOO = ess
1501860552 Sees
INeb Seis) es eeas ose
LS59=V8O0E= sees
1865-1870...--. -..-

tee See rae seen

1859-1863. .------.
1859-1863... 52.

Name of observer.

Col. D. Underwood.
Frederick Deckner.
C. F. Pomeroy.
Judge Hopewell Cox.
John De Lyser.
G.F. Livingston.
John O’Donoghoe.
J. F. Willard.

Geo. J. Kellogg.

Dr. Clark G. Pease.
Daniel Strunk.

3| kev. John Gridley.

James H. Bell.

Isaac Atwood.

J. C. Hicks.

Elliott H. Benton.

R. H. Struthers.

Prof, 8. H. Carpenter.

S. H. Carpenter and J. W. Sterling.
Dr. A. Schue.

Prof. J. W. Sterling.

J. Jennings.

Prof. J.W. Sterling and 8. P. Clarke.
Prof. J. W. Sterling and W. Fellows.
W. W. Daniels.

Jacob Liips.

Col. D. Underwood.

Evan L. Davis.

J. A. Lapham.

Dr. Carl Winkler.
F. C. Pomeroy.
Prof. E. P. Larkin.
J.S. Pashley.
Wm. F. Horstord.
Ferdinand Hachez.
Jobn L. Dunegan.
J. Everett Breed.
John E. Himoe.
Dr. Edwin Ellis.
L. H. Doyle.
S. Armstrong.
Dr. J. L. Pickard.
A. K. Johnson.
G. Moeller.
Spencer L. Hillier.
Rev. Roswell Park.
W.J. Durham.
Hiland W. Phelps.
Prof. W. H. Ward.
W. W. Curtis.
Homer Ruggles.
R. H. Struthers.
Rev. John Gridley.
Rufus M. Wright.
Mrs. C. C. Pinney.
Edward S. Spencer.
Wm. H. Newton and L. Sane
ton.
L. & R. Washington and C. Lor-
ing, jr.
Win. Mann.
G. R. Stuntz and E. H. Bly.
130

MONTHLY METEOROLOGICAL REPORTS.

Monthly meteorological reports preserved in the Smithsonian Institution—Continued.

Name of station.

Walworth
Waterford
Watertown
Waukesha

Waupaca

WEES ND Ageasooe oaSceuoocece
Wautoma
Weyauwega

Wyoming Territory.

Atlantic
Laramie City

CENTRAL AMERICA.

COSTA RICA.

eee ce cee eee & cee coc eee

GUATEMALA.

Guatemala

Belize

NEW GRANADA.

-Aspinwall

NICARAGUA.

@eeecee cee eee wo ee cocees coe eee

Frontera Tabasco .....------
IMIS C052 ce
NMisiiraitiits aya yyy ee
MUTA COR sexe yee ne ie
San Juan. Bautiste 32. .22. 20
UNAS PO EU L Ue eo  e
Vera Cruz

ecae eee ees cece cone

Ue 1873. eee

Period.

TERT Ce Sa RS Ue i 1
1855-1856, 1858-1859
Hesoallsoo-eeee eee

1870- 1873.
TSKAO ASO S556 Sane

L366 so. soe pees

1855. .

Name of observer.

N. J. Read.

S. Armstrong.

William Ayres.

Prof. 8. A. Bean and Dr. L. C. Slye
Prof. 8. A. Bean.

J. Everett Breed.

M. C. Mead.

C. D. Webster.

Dr. W. A. Gordon.

-; Jonathan Spaulding.

Melzar Parker.
William Woods.
John C. Hicks.
Dr. Jas. Matthews.
H. H. Nicholson.
Dr. Edwin Ellis.
Jacob Duerstein.

George H. Lewis.
D. J. Pierce.

Felipe Valentin.

C.N. Riotte.

Dr. A. Von Frantzius.

Oficina Central di Estadistica.

Antonio Canudas.

S. Cockburn.
K. Purdot,

Dr. W. T. White.
Dr. J. P. Kluge.
Drs. J. P. Kluge, G. V. Rucker.

J. Moses.

Charles Laszlo.

J. A. Hieto.

Charles Laszlo.

Prof. L. C. Ervendberg.
Charles Laszlo.

Dr. Charles Sartorius.
Charles Laszlo.
Benjamin Crowther.
Herman Berendt.
MONTHLY

METEOROLOGICAL REPORTS.

131

Monthly meteorological reports preserved in the Smithsonian Institution—Continued.

Name of station.

ANTILLES.
Sombrero Island). o52 45 .0--6-

BAHAMAS.

Turk’s Island

INES DINGS Eee eyo e Etaeid/ Scie 53
BERMUDA.
iFiamiitiOs Soosqeouoe sooBeo ee

Shrelibya@bayaaeceeiss oi. = cr =
Silo CODEN S5654GSs euisaoe Seese

Ireland Island --....-..-..--

JAMAICA.

Upper Park Camp .........-
- PORTO RICO.

Pst. SanjYsidro.s..2--)-..--
SAN SALVADOR.
AanWiMiOns 1 se toys ets ec
ST. DOMINGO.
SOUTH AMERICA.

DUTCH GUIANA.

RS UITGITN ERIN tae eo ee ics ace ee

Period.

1860-1873... 2. -_--

Name of observer.

Alexis Julien.
Milton Brayton.

-| J. B. Hayne.

J.C. Crisson, Capt. W. Hamilton.

...-| A. G. Carothers.
-| United States consul.

J. C. Crisson.
S. G. Garland.
A.M. Smith.

Captain Alexander.
Royal Gazette.

James B. Arnold.
James Crawford.
Center Signal Station.
John G. Calder.

James G. Sawkins.
Col. W. B. Marlow.
George Latimer.

Dr. Charles Dorat,

Jonathan Elliott.

C.J. Hering.

Rev. George C. Knapp.

Naval Hospital.

United States steamships Alaska
Narragansett, Shenandoah, Lan
caster, Monongahela.

132 METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL.

CLASSIFIBD LIST OF METEOROLOGICAL PUBLICATIONS,
AND METEOROLOGICAL ARTICLES IN PERIODICALS, RE-
CEIVED BY THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION IN 1873,
AND DEPOSITED IN THE LIBRARY OF CONGRESS.

AURORAS.

Die Nordlichter verursavht durch die Stromungen im Luftmeere an den
Beobachtungen nachgewiesen. Professor Prestel. (Zeitschrift der
dsterreichischen Gesellschaft fiir Meteorologie, vii, No. 10.)

Le aurore boreali e i fenomeni meteorvlogici di Ottobre 1879.

Note a propos d’une aurore boréale observée a Orléans le 4 février 1872
(Mémoires de la Société d’agriculture, ete., d’Orléans, tome xv,
Nos. 1-2.)

HARTHQUAKES.

Il tremuoto delle notte da 12a13 Dicembre 1869. (Rendiconti della
Societa dei naturalisti di Modena, No. 1.)

Note sur le tremblement de terre ressenti le 22 octobre 1873, dans la
Prusse rhénane et en Belgique. M. Albert Lancaster.

Notes sur les tremblements de terre en 1869, avec suppléments pour Iles.
années antérieures de 1843 41867. (Mémoires couronnées et autres
mémoires publiées par Académie royale des sciences, ete., de Bel-
gique, tome xxii.)

Sui terremoti recenti nelli Romagne. Dottore Jacops Michez. (Hffe-
meridi della Societa de letture e conversazioni scientifiche, anno 2,
vol. 1, fascioli 1-2.)

ELECTRICITY.

Resultate delle osservazioni sull elettricismo atmosferico, istitute nel
xeale osservatorio di Modena. D. Ragona.

FORESTS.
Der Einfluss des Waldes auf das Klima. Th. Hartung, 1871.
GENERAL METEOROLOGY.

Contributions to our knowledge of the antarctic regions. London, 1873.

La meteorografia del globo studiata a diverse altitudine da terra. F.
Zantedeschi. (Commentari dell’? Ataneo di Brescia per gli anni
1868-69.)

Lumidita. Lettura del Prof. D. Ragona. Milano, 1873.

Osservazioni su la evaporazione, del Prof. D. Ragona.

Papers on the cause of rain, storms, the aurora, and terrestz all magne-
tism. G. A. Rowell. ‘ont am: 1871.

Sopra aleuni fenomeni di fisica terrestre in relazione con aleuni fenome-
METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. hae

ni di fisica solare. A. Palagi. (Memoria dell’ Accademia delle
scienze dell’ Istituto di Bologne, serie 3, tomo 2, fasciolo 2.)

Suggestions on a uniform system of meteorological observations. (Royal
Dutch Meteorological Institute, Utrecht, 1872.)

Sur un systéme météorographique universel. M. Van Rysselberghe.
(Bulletin de PAcadémie des sciences, des lettres et des beaux arts
de Belgique, 42e année, 2e série, tome 36, Nos. 9-10.)

Rapports de MM. Gloesener et Liagre sur la notice de M. Van Ryssel-
berghe, concernant un systeme météorographique universel. (Bul-
letin de Académie royale des sciences, etc., de Belgique, 42e an-
née, 2e série, tome 36, No. 8.)

Ueber die Ursachen des eisfreien Meeres in den Nordpolargegenden.
F.V. Kuhn. (Zeitschrift der Osterreichischen Gesellschait fiir Me.
teorologie, vol. 7, No. 10.)

INSTRUMENTS.

Descrizione dell’ igrotermografo del Reale osservatorie di Modena del
Prof. D. Ragona.

Descrizione della nuova finestra meteorologica del Reale osservatorio di
Modena del Prof. D. Ragona.

Descrizione del barometro registratore del Reale osservatorio di Modena
del Prof. D. Ragona.

Esposizione e discussione dei resultate del barometro registratore del
Reale osservatorio di Modena per V’anno 1867, del Prof. D. Ragona.

_ MAGNETISM.

Contributions to terrestrial magnetism, No. 13. Gen. Sir Edward Sa-
bine. ;

Magnetiska Observationer under Svenska Polarexpeditionen, Ar 1868,
af Karl Selim Lehmstrom. Stockholm, 1870.

Sulla possibile connessione fra je eclisse di sole ed il magnetismo ter-
restre. Memoria del Prof. Francesco Denza Barnabita. Roma,

1873.
METEORITES.

Bolide observé 4 Bruxelles le 21 juillet 1873. (Bulletin de Académie
royale des sciences, etc., de Belgique, 42e année, 2e série, tome 36,
No. 8.)

Considerazioni sul radiante della pioggia meteorica del 27 Novembre
1872. Nota del Prof. Domenico Ragona. Firenze, 1873.

Les étoiles filantes, les bolides. (De Vastronomie dans l’Académie roy-
ale de Belgique, rapport séculaire, 1772-1872.)

Meteorsfallet vid Hessle den 1sta Januari 1869, af A.-H. Nordenskiold.

November meteors, 1869. Charles Meldrum, Mauritius.

Sopra una probabile connessione fra le eclisse di sole ed il magnetismo
terrestre. J. Michez. (Memoria dell’ Accademia delle scienze dell’
Istituto di Bologna, serie 3, tomo 2, fasciolo 1.)
134 METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL.

Stelle meteoriche di Agosto 1867, osservati nel Reale osservatorio di
Modena. D. Ragona.

Sulla relazione fra le comete, le stelle cadenti, ed meteorite. Schiapa-
relli. (Memoria del Reale istituto lombardo di scienze e lettere,
vol. 12, 3 della serie 3, fasciolo 3.)

Sur les étoiles filantes de la période de novembre 1871, et sur les aurores
boréales des 9 et 10 du méme mois. Note par M. Ad. Quetelet.

Sur les étoiles filantes du mois @aotit 1873, par M. Ad. Quetelet. (Bul-
letin de Académie des sciences, des lettres et des beaux arts de
Belgique, 42e année, 2e€ série, tome 36, Nos. 9-10.)

LOCAL METEOROLOGY.
AFRICA.
Hoypt.
Statistique de PHgypte, année 1873.
| Mauritius.

Monthly notices of the Meteorological Society.
Rain-fall of Mauritius, by Charles Meldrum.
Port Louis.—Results of observations at the observatory, 1870.

ASIA.
India.

Report on meteorological observations in the northwestern provinces of
india, by Murray Thompson.

Bengal.—Meteorological observations. (Proceedings of the Asiatic So-
ciety of Bengal, December, 1872, and January to April, 1873.)

Report of the meteorological reporter to the government of Bengal
for the year 1867-68, with a meteorological abstract for the year
1867. Caleutta, 1868.

Report of the meteorological reporter to the government of Bengal
for 1870. Henry T. Blanfora. Caleutta, 1872.

Report of the meteorological reporter to the government of Bengal.
Meteorological abstract for 1872. By Henry Blanford. Calcutta,
1873.

Bombay.—Magnetieal and meteorological observations at the govern-
ment observatory from 1865 to 1870.

Water-supply of Bombay. (Professional papers on Indian engineer:
ing, 2d series, vol. 2, No. 9.)

Oudh.—Report on meteorology in the province of Oudh, for 1871-72.
Punjab.—Report on the meteorology of the Punjab, for the year 1871,
by A. Neil. Lahore, 1872.
(x |

METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 13

Japan.

lend

Meteorology of Japan. Dr. Thomas Antisell. 1872.
AUSTRALIA.

New South Wales.

Results of meteorological observations made in New South Wales in
1872 by H. C. Russell. Sydney, 1873.

Meteorological observations made at the government observatory,
Sydney, in 1871-73, under the direction of H. C. Russell.

Results of meteorological observations in 1871. H.C. Russell. Syd-
ney, 1872.

Brisbane.—Meteorological summaries from about fifty stations. H.

McDonnell.
EUROPE.

Austria.

Zeitschrift der Osterreichischen Gesellschaft fiir Meteorologie. Dr. C.
Jelinek und C. Hahn. Vol. 7. Wien.

Jabrbiicher der kaiserlich-kéniglichen Centralanstalt fiir Meteorologie
und Hrdmagnetismus, von Dr. C. Jelinek und Carl Fritsch. Wien,
1873.

Uebersicht der phanologischen Beobachtungen im Jahre 1870.

Cracow.—Meteorologische Beobachtungen, angestellt an der kaiserlich-
koniglichen Sternwarte in Krakau im Jahre 1872.

Pola.—Kaiserlich-konigliches hydrografisches Amt. Witterungsiiber-
sicht, 1872.

Prague.—Magnetische und meteorologische Beobachtungen auf der
kaiserlich-k6niglichen Sternwarte zu Prag in 1871.

Belgium.

Observations des phénoménes périodiques pendant Vannée 1869. (Mé-
moires de Académie royale des sciences de Belgique, tome 39.)
Observations des phénoménes périodiques pendant année 1870. (Ex-

trait du tome 39 des Mémoires de l’Académie royale de Belgique.)

Note sur les orages qui ont sévi a Aartselaer le 23, le 26, et le 29 juillet
1873. (Bulletin de Académie royale des sciences, etc., de Bei-
gique, 42e année, 2e série, tome 36, No. 8.)

Antwerp.—Mesures Waltitudes barométriques prisés a la tour de la
cathédrale d Anvers, sous l’influence de vents de vitesses et de direc-
tions différentes. (Bulletin de PAcadémie royale des sciences, etc.,
de Belgique, 42e année, 2e série, tome 35, No. 6.)

Brussels.—Détermination de la déclinaison et de Vinclinaison magné-
ticue & Bruxelles en 1873. (Bulletin de Académie royale des sci-
ences, ete., de Belgique, 42e année, 2e série, tome 36, No. 8.)

Mechlin—Observations faites & Malines par M. Doumet. (Annales de
la Société @horticulture de PAllier.)
136 METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL.
Denmark.

Monthly meteorological records for Shagen, Hammershut, and other

places.
Engiand.

Journal of the Royal Agricultural Society of England. 2d series, vol.
8, part 1.

Meteorology of England during the quarter ending December 31, 1871.
James Glaisher.

On the rain-fall of 1872. James Tait. (Proceedings of the Berwick-
shire Naturalists’ Club, vol. 6, No. 7.) j

Quarterly Journals of the Meteorological Society. Edited by James

Glaisher.

Quarterly Journal of the Meteorological Society, vol. 1, 1873.

Quarterly weather-report of the meteorological ofice, pa 4, Octo-
ber to December, 1870.

Quarterly weather- He pant of the meteorological office, July to Septem-
ber, 1871, and July to September, 1872.

Report of the meteorological committee of the Royal Society for the
year ending December 31, 1872.

Symons’ Monthly Meteorological Magazine, March, 1873. London.

Weather-reports, July 1 to December 31, 1872. Meteorological office.

Weather-reports, January 1 to December 31, 1871. Meteorological
office.

Cornwall.—Meteorology of West Cornwall. (Fortieth annual report
of the Royal Cornwall Polytechnic Society.)

Greenwich.—Results cf the magnetical and meteorological observations
made at the Royal Observatory, 1570.

Greenwich magnetical and meteorological observations, 1871.

Stonyhurst.—Results of meteorological and magnetical observations,

1871
France.

Annuaires de la Société météorologique de France, 1869-71.

Annuaire de la Société météorologique de France, tome 18, 1870.

Sur les grands erues survenues dans le bassin de la Loire pendant
Phiver 1872-73. (Annales des ponts et chaussées, avril 1873.)

Le Mans.—Table résumé des observations faites au Mans par M. D. Bon-
homet pendant le 3e et 4e trimestres de 1871. (Bulletin de la So-
ciété d’agriculture, sciences et arts de la Sarthe, lle série, tome
13.) Le Mans, 1872.

Lyons.—Observations météorologiques faites & Vobservatoire de Lyon du
ler décembre 1869 au ler décembre 1871. (Mémoires de l’Acadé-
mie des sciences de Lyon, tome 19.)

Montsouwris.—Bulletin de VObservatoire météorologique central, 1870-71.

Bulletin de ’Observatoire météorologique central de Montsouris, jan-
vier, février, 1872.
METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 137

Supplément, juillet a septembre 1870.

Supplément, 1871, additions et corrections.
Paris.—Atlas annuel de Vobservatoire de Paris, 1872.

Bulletin international, juin 1873.

Bulletin mensuel de ’observatoire de Paris, 1872.

Toulouse—Résumé annuel des observations météorologiques faites a
Yobservatoire de Toulouse pendant les années 1868-70, par M.
Daguin. (Mémoires de Académie des sciences, inscriptions et
belles-lettres de Toulouse, Te série, tome 3.)

Tableaux mensuels de principales observations météorologiques faites
& Vobservatoire de Toulouse, pour les quatre dernier mois de l’an-
née météorologique 1869-70, par M. Daguin. (Mémoires de l’Aca-
démie des sciences, inscriptions et belles-lettres de Toulouse, 7e
série, tome 3.)

Tours.—Observations météorologiques du mois d’octobre. Observations
météorologiques du mois de novembre. Résumé météorologique de
VYannée 1870-71. M.de Tastes. (Annales de la Société @agricul-
ture, sciences, arts et belles-lettres, 102e année, tome 1, No. 3.)
Tours, 1871.

e

Hanover.

Der Boden, das Klima und die Witterung von Ostfriesland, von M. A.
fF’. Prestel. Emden, 1872.

Holland.

Résumé des observations météorologiques faites 4 Luxembourg en 1870.
M. F. Reuter. (Publications de VInstitut royal grand ducal de
Luxembourg, tome 12, 1872.)

Hungary.
Magnetische Ortsbestimmungen im Konigreiche Ungarn. Wien, 1871.
Ireland.

A comparative view of meteorological observations made in Ireland
since 1788. Richard Kirwan. Dublin.

Italy.

Bolletino meteorologico. (Giornali agrario italiano.)

Sul clima d'Italia. Luigi Rolla. (Commentari dell’ Ateneo di Brescia.
per gli anni 1868-69.)

Brescia.—Osservazioni meteorolegiche dell’ anni 1868-69. (Commentari
deli’? Ataneo di Brescia per gli anni 1868-69.)

Milan.—Rigoledo nel 1871. Note statistiche d’idroterapia ed climatolo-
gia del dottore Carlo Zucchi.

Sul grande commovimento atmosferico avvenuti il 1° Agosto 1872,

nella bassa Lombardia e nella Lomellina. Annotazione di Giovanni
Celosia, 1873. (Bolletino del Reale osservatorio di Brera in Milauo.)
138 METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL.

Modena.—Le stazioni pluviometriche della provincia di Modena.
Lvumidita. Lettura del Prof. D. Ragona, direttore del Reale osserva-
torio di Modena.
Résumé des observations sur la météorologie faites 4 VObservatoire
royale de Modena, par M. le professeur D. Ragona, année 1867.
Naples.—Specolareale di Napoli. Osservazioni meteoriche del Dicembre
1872, fatte dal astronomo professore F. Brioschi.
Turin.—Supplemento al Bolletino annuale 1870 dell’ osservatorio astro-
nomico dell’ Universita di Torino.
Bolletino meteorologico ed astronomico del Reale osservatorio dell’
Universita di Torino, 1871.
Udine.—Osservazioni meteorologiche istituto in Udine nell anno 1870.
(Annali scientifici del Reale istituto tecnico di Udine, 1871.)
Venice.—Bolietino meteorologico con annotazione statistiche e mediche
per Gennaio e Febbraio 1872. (Atti del Reale istituto veneto di sci-
enze, lettere ed arti dal Novembre 1872 all’ Ottobre 1873, tomo 20,
serie 4a, dispensa 2a.)
Bolletino. meteorologico con osservazione statistiche e mediche pei _
mesi di Maggio e Giugno 1872. (Atti del Reale istituto veneto di
scienze ed arti, tomo 20, serie 4a, dispensa 5a.)

Prussia.

Meteorologische Beobachtungen aus Mihren und Schlesien in 1870.
(Verhandlungen des naturforschenden Vereines in Brunn, 9ter
Band.)

Frankfort.—Zwo6lf Monatstabellen. Hauptergebnisse, Grand wasserbeo-
bachtungen, Vegetationszeiten, Sternschuuppenbeobachtungen, vom
Jahre 1871 und 1872. Graphische Darstellung der Witterungs- und .
Grundwasserbeobachtungen. (Jahresbericht des physikalis chen
Vereins zu Frankfurt am Main fiir das Rechnungsjahr 1871-72.)

Russia.

Repertorium fiir Meteorologie. Dr. H. Wild. St. Petersburg, 1872.
Dorpat.—Meteorologische Beobachtungen angestellt in Dorpat im Jahre
1866. . Doktor Arthur von Oettingen.
The same for 1870.
Meteorologische Beobachtungen in Dorpat, 1871.

Saxony.

Monatliche Berichte iiber die Resultate aus den meteorologischen Beo-
bachtungen in Sachsen in 1871. Dresden, 1872

Resultate aus den meteorologischen Beobachtungen angestellt an 24
sichsischen Stationen im Jahre 1870, von Dr. C. Bruhns. Dresden
und Leipzig, 1873.

Chemmtz.— W itterungsbeobachtungen aus den Jahren 1870-72. (Vier-
ter Bericht der naturwissenschaitlichen Gesellschaft zu Chemnitz,
1873.)
METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 159

Scotland.

Journal of the Scottish Meteorological Society, January to April, 1872,
with tables for the half-year ending December 31, 1871.

Journal of the Scottish Meteorological Society, with tables for the half-
year ending December 31, 1872.

Quarterly reports of the Meteorological Society of Scotland, 1859-62.

Sweden.
Meteorologiska Jaktagelser i Sverige, utgifna af kongl. svenska Ve-
tenscaps-Akademien, vols. 9-11.

Upsal.—Bulletin météorologique mensuel de Vobservatoire de ’univer-

sité d’Upsal, vols 1-3. Dr. R. Rulenson.
Switzerland.

Monthly meteorological observations at Neuchatel, Chaumont, and Af-
foltern. (Bulletin de la Société des sciences naturelles.)

Schweizerische meteorologische Beobachtungen, December 1871 und
Januar und Februar 1872.

Schweizerische meteorologische Beobachtungen, herausgegeben von der
meteorologischen Centralanstalt der schweizerischen naturforschen-
den Gesellschaft. Prof. Dr. Rudolf Wolf. Tter Jahrgang. Zii-
rich, 1870.

Geneva.—hésumé météorologique de Vannée 1871, pour Geneve et le
Grand St. Bernard, par E. Plantamour.

Lausanne.-—Bulletin mensuel des observations météorologiques de Lau-
sanne, par J. Marguet, 1871. (Bulletin de la Société vaudoise des
sciences naturelles, vol. 11, No. 66, 1871.)

Wiirtemberg.

Wiirtembergische Jahrbiicher fiir Statistik und Landeskunde. Stutt-
gart.

NORTH AMERICA.
Canada.

Toronto.—Monthly meteorological register and remarks. (Canadian
Journal of Science, Literature and History.)

United States.

Meteorological observations at lake stations. (Annual report of Chief
of Engineers, Washington.)
North Carolina.—Western North Carolina, its agricultural resources, |
climate, &c. EH. J. Aston. Milwaukee, 1870.

SOUTH AMERICA.

Notes on the climate of the Maranon. Francis L. Galt. (Proceedings
of the Royal Geographical Society, vol. 17, No. 2.)

Chili.wResumen mensual de las observaciones meteorologicas efectua-
dos en el atio de 1870.

Venezuela, Caracas.—Observaciones meteorologicas en Caracas, 1868-69.
140 METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL.
WEST INDIES.

Cuba.—Memoria de la marcha regular, 6 periodica é regular, del barome-
tro desde 1858 4 1871 ine., por el R. P. H. Vibes, director.
Observaciones maguneticas y meteorologicas del Real colegio de Be-
len, 1870-71.
Observaciones magneticas y meteorologicas per diferentes horas del
dia. (Anales de la Academia de ciencias, medicas, fisicas y natu-
rales de la Habana.)

OCHAN-CURRENTS.

The sea temperature and currents of the 10° square of the Atlantic
between the equator and 10° north and 20° to 30° west. (Lecture
by W. HE. Nicholson, in Journal of Royal Service Institution, No. 72.)

OZONE.

Sui coefficienti ozonometrici dell’ umidita e della temperatura. Nota
del Professore Ragona.

RAIN.

Rain-fall and evaporation in its relation to water-supply. Alexander
Leslie. (Transactions of the Royal Society of Arts, vol. 8, p. 3.)

Sulla pioggie di Ottobre 1872. Nota del Prof. Domenico Ragona, diret-
tore del Regio osservatorio di Modena.

TEMPERATURE.

Coefficiente termometrico per ricovare la temperatura media diurna dar
termometri a massima e minima. Calcolati per ogni giorno del?
anno dal Prof. Domenico Ragona, direttore del Reale osservatorio di

Modena.
WIND.

Air-eurrents in the Indian Ocean, by Charles Meldrum.

Rotation of the wind, by Charles Meldrum.

Die Wirbelstiirme, Tornado, und Wettersiulen in der Erd-Atmosphire.
Dr. Th. Reye, Hannover.

Extraordinary hurling of missiles by the Saint Louis tornado of 1871.
John H. Tice. (Inland Monthly, July, 1873.)

La velocita del vento, del Prof. D. Ragona. Milano, 1872.

Le burrasche di Novembre 1869. (Rendiconti deila Societ& dei natu-
ralisti di Modena, No. i.)

Note on the form of cyclones in the Southern Indian Ocean. C. Mel-
drum. London, 1873.

Vents régnants de Yocéan atlantique nord entre les Etats-Unis et La
Manche. (‘Traverses des paquebots entre La Manche et New York.
révue maritime, ete., juillet 1873.)
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

The Executive Cominittee of the Board of Regents respectfully submit
the following report in relation to the funds of the Institution, the re-
ceipts and expenditures for the year 1873, and the estimates for the
year 1874:

Statement of the fund at the beginning of the year 1874.

The amount originally received as the bequest of James

Smithson, of England, deposited in the Treasury of the

United States,in accordance with the act of Sue

Ore Ou Aueust, 1846 vo. se cep oe die slots ie eas $515, 169 00
The residuary legacy of Smithson, received in 1565, de-

posited in the Treasury of the United States, in accord-

ance with the act of Congress of 8th February, 1867... 26, 210 65

MNotalibequest of Smithson koi 1h. eieiaysasae clos: 541, 379 63

Amount deposited in the Treasury of the United States,
as authorized by act of Congress of Sth February, 1867,
derived from savings of income and increase in value of

1DVOSUNGUS sks Ooka ties Hon CRE Re Sos 6 APE Ram anil s anes 108, 620 37
Total permanent Smithson fund in the Treasury
of the United States, bearing interest at 6 per

cent., payable semi-annually in gold.-.... .....- 650, 000 CO

In addition to the above there remains of the extra fund

from savings, &c., in Virginia bonds and certificates,
viz, consolidated bonds, $58,700; deferred certificates,

$29,375.07 ; fractional certificate, $50.13, now valued at. 33, 000 00
Cash balance in United States Treasury at the beginning
of the year 1874, as a special deposit, for current ex-

ARCS Cty LP sh TNO SEBO.) 2 shatter One oO Cate oale 12, 226 63
Amount due from the First National Bares, (present oe
MMO WIR S AUS MIO OT 0s. OOe ME COT) $5, 757 4

——-

Total Smithson funds, January, 187£.......... PY 2S 556951226768
142 REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

The Virginia bonds originally puchased by the Institution were as
follows:

Five bonds of $10,000 each, (Nos. 146 to 150;) one bond of $5,000,
(No. 201,); three bonds of $1,000 each, (Nos. 3497 to 3499;) one bond of
$500, (No. 658;) two bonds of $100 each; making in all $58,700. —

On the 9th December, 1871, the above bonds were exchanged for Vir-
ginia coupon-bonds, consolidated debt, (see Report, 1871, page 105,) as
tollows:

Fitty-eight bonds, at $1,000 each, (Nos. 11521 to 11578)........ $58, 000

Onesbond eat $500, (No 1330) eee eer We ielelaa cy erry eae 500

Two bonds, at $100 each, (Nos. 4192 and 4191)............... 200
58, 700

These bonds are in the cashier’s vault of the United States Treasury,
in charge of General Spinner. Coupons due July 1, 1873, and January
1, 1874, are still attached to these bonds.

In addition to the above bonds the institution holds a certificate of
indebtedness, (No. 4,543,) deposited with Riggs & Co., from the State of
Virginia, (dated July 1, 1871,) for one-third of the amount due for prin-
cipal and interest surrendered under the provisions of an act of the leg-
islature of 30th March, 1871, this amount having been reserved until an
adjustment is made between the States of Virginia and West Virginia
as to the old debt of Virginia, amounting to $29,375.07.

There is also a certificate of indebtedness (No. 2,969) for $50.13 for an
odd amount of interest.

The uninvested balance in the First National Bank at the beginning
of 1873 was $17,811.36. This balance would this year have been in-
creased by a saving of $172.73 had it not been for the suspension of the
First National Bank in September last, in which $5,757.41 still remain
unpaid, and will probably be, to a considerable extent, a loss.

In accordance with the law of Congress, the interest on the Smithson
fund is payable semi-annually, on the 1st of July and ist January, and
from the beginning of the operations of the institution this semi-annual
interest was deposited with Messrs. Riggs & Co., until at the meeting of
the Board of Regents on the 22d February, 1867, a resolution was
adopted directing the deposit of the income in ‘a national bank which
was an authorized Government depository.” In accordance with this
direction of the Board, the money was deposited in the First National
Bank, which proved, however, to be an unsafe curator of the funds.
The whole amount on deposit at the time of the suspension of the bank,
19th September, 1873, was $8,224.87, on which, however, a dividend of
30 per cent., or $2,467.46 was paid on the 11th November last, leaving,
as stated above, $5,757.41 still due.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 143

Statement of receipts and expenditures im 1873.

RECEIPTS.

From interest on $650,000, at 6 per cent. in

COG 2. odd SERGE ee aN ae La ae $39, 000 00
From premium on gold, June and December,

(LES etl TO ie re a pee ge ee 5,191 87
From interest on Virginia stock, (sale of

coupons due January 1, 1873*)........-.-..- 1,091 83

MOE ANEre CENTS Sears baie Sed ts Aa SO bY .. $45,283 70
EXPENDITURES.

Total expenditures from the Smithson income during 18753,
as Shown by the detailed statement below......-....-. 45,110 97

Balance unexpended, which is included in the cash
balamcennmithemlreasury te cpuaee vorrei biodata. 172 73

Statement of expenditures in detail from the Smithson fund for 1873.

BUILDING.

mepams Olvhe OUUdINg 2.5.2.6. 22522 ee $3, 252 23
VULMMUMCC AMO TXEUTES sone socio ene ee ew 386 26
: ——— $3, 638 49
GENERAL EXPENSES.
Mreetmes of the’ boards. sec os .c cm we es $300 75
michtine-the building 2222.52 f25.525-. sce 322 65
EAP cme OUT GING: outta ces he. sols sel ece 554 38
gosto. oun ee BSN Soe Boeri 971 10
FS EEN SOLED Ac ors eens cee nel eat oe 394 91
HERE ROLE INAS) siege eee cis ee eR hari 757 47
pulariessand clerk*hires: 254. 222200021 202: 12, 429 96
Purchase of books ard periodicals.......-... 411 54
—— 16,142 86

PUBLICATIONS AND RESEARCHES.
Smithsonian contributions, quarto.......- _. $8,706 08
Miscellaneous collections, octavo..........- 4,514 46
IE BOnUS, CLAVOIN: UL OOUIZ0U SD Re NOVO 8 593 55
“Interest on $58,700 coupons at 3 per cent....-..........--.---- $1,761 00
Deduction of one-third for West Virginia...--.---.--- $087 00
Meductionttor Stateitawse eA otwy. 0 OR ENE Oe ob 73 37
Deduction for charge of Riggs & Co.’s commission.... 8 80

ING GINO UMIEMe CO LVI Clee eee aetna an Ul ay HUMPS SL falc 2 EAU eR AMAA a IL $1,091 83
144 REPORT OF THE EX®CUTIVE COMMITTER,
Meteorology and researches. ...-...-...2-- $3, 232 Si
ASP AT AUS 2," YS c.6 5 separ ee een Ree ee ae 815 09
AO TALON Moe yes lsie 5 ache okies eee ee ee 109 83
IDEGPICHRITIONS 1 500 Go oases odaspoagcoessosae 228 00
IOC EUTES e232.) 5 0 ee Sere ee Seema eae 600 00
— $18,799 87
EXCHANGES.

Literary and scientific exchanges through agencies in Lon-

don, Paris, Leipsic, Amsterdam, Milan, &c:. -......-.. 6,251 74
MUSEUM.

Incidentals in addition to Government appropriation. .... 278 31

Total expenditure from Smithson fund in 1873..... 45,110 97

During the past year the Institution has advanced money for the
payment on account of the Government for freights on specimens, pur-
chase of apparatus for Government expeditions, &c., the repayments
ot which, together with the amount received for sales of publications,
&e., have been deducted from the several items of the foregoing ex-
penditures, as follows:

From museum, for repayments for freight.................- $967 46
From museum, for repayments for labor, &c.-.......-.-.-- 510 GO
From exchanges, for repayments for freight,............... 196 85
From apparatus, for instruments for expeditions.......... é 394 67
rom postage. tor repay mirenusi ane e ecto a rece eters ue ov 45
From building, for repayments ...----.-2-.---.. 22-22. 1,258 ° 37
JPN NSN IONE INEM AMINE MOSS Soca cancogcuesaogHSesucosg=- 325 21
From cost of books, for repayments .....-.+..----...-...- 3 00
From Smithsonian contributions, from sales..........---... 99 O07
From Smithsonian miscellaneous collections, from sales..... 119 95
From Smithsonian reports, from sales..-..-...-....-.---.- 16 09
From incidentals, from sales old material.......-.-.-.----- 39 30

Total repayments and miscellaneous credits in 1873.. 3,993 48

NATIONAL MUSEUM.

For several years past Congress has made an annual appropriation
of $15,000 for the support of the National Museum, under the care of
the Smithsonian Institution, and it has also in the last two years appro-

priated $25,000 tor the completion and fitting up of the halls required -

for the Government collections, and $12,000 for the introduction of

>
‘REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE, 145

steam-heating apparatus. The following is a tabular statement of the
condition of these funds at the present time:

Appropriation for preservation of collections
for fiscal year ending June 30, 1874. (Stat-

pies at Large, vol. 17, p. 518).-.-.....-...- $15, 000 00
Amount expended to 31st December, 1873.
(See Museum journal A, p. 55) ............ 7,590 00

Balance for support of museum to June
BND) TUSSLE ees Se a Beate en me  ea ge enh ier gn 87, 500 00

Appropriation for completion of the hall re-
quired for the Governmentcollections. (Stat-
Ubes aulWaree, vol. Ay, pyoOl.) 0.2225... 10, 000 00

(The whole of this has been expended. See
Museum journal A, p. 509.)

Appropriation for fitting up the new halls re-
quired forthe Government collections. (Stat-

Mbesaty Warse, Vol: 17, 9p: 518)... 2825 -eci- - $15, 000 00
Amount expended to 2d January, 1874. (See
Museum journal A, p, 519) ............-.-. 9,449 08

Balance unexpended, but due on con-
MIGIS sotcésosdgoudbopcsidspanwobsaseds sob amie 5, 550 92

Appropriation for steam-heating apparatus.

(Statutes at Large, vol. 17, p. 518).......-.-. 12, 000 00
Amount expended to 3lst December, 1873.

(See Museum journal A, p.533).......... Lett p10, OMe

Balance unexpended, but due on con-
CEACUG HI bij sete ela la a c).e 4) as, 25 bake seatarene cue qoneyapeaahs Bs eroae 3, 462 03

iB alamces seamen MSA 5 2 eye tierce ese 2 2 a 9, 012 95

Previous to 1873 all the disbursements on account of the appropria-
tions of Congress for the support of the National Museum were made
directly by the Institution and afterward refunded by the Department
of the Interior; but during the past year as strict a division of the
accounts as possible has been made, and those relating to the muse-
um have been paid directly by the disbursing agent of the Department
of the Interior.

10 8
146 REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

THE FOLLOWING ARE THE ESTIMATES FOR THE YEAR
1874:
RECEIPTS.

Interest on the permanent fund, receivable 30th

JuMe S74, 1M COMM eee ee eterrepe ee eer $19, 500
Interest on the permanent fund, receivable 31st
December, 1874, in gold ._...-.. By rae eal 19, 500
Probable premium on gold, 10 per cent.......... 3, 900
Igiverestom Var einia som (Ss sais. seer err ree 2, 000
$44, 900
APPROPRIATIONS.
Hor jo uildimey ite sete crepe ted ere el nieieprce 2,000 |
Horjgeneral expenses. ser, 42sec aie 14, 000
For publications and researches .........---.--. 20, 000
For exchanges ....-... sBdeoaeasesodobockoooes: 7, 000
Hor pookksyand apparavus a. o-mec aes ee se een - 600
SOR COMMINRS NOES todsnoncodobauebecusboGubobeS 1, 400
44, 900

Lhe executive committee have examined eight hundred and eighty-
five receipted vouchers for payments made during the four quarters of
the year 1873. In every voucher the approval of the Secretary of the
Institution is given, and the certificate of an authorized agent of the In-
stitution is appended, setting forth that the materials and property and
services rendered were for the Institution, and to be applied to the pur-
poses specified.

The quarterly accounts-current, bank-book, check-book, and ledger
have also been examined and found correct, showing a balance in the
care of the Treasurer of the United States, 13th January, 1874, of
$12,226.68.

Respectfully submitted.

PETER PARKER,
JOHN MACLEAN,
W.T. SHERMAN,
Executive Committee.
JANUARY 24, 1874.

REPORT ON THE APPROPRIATIONS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR THE NA-
TIONAL MUSEUM.

Since the foregoing report was presented to the Board of Regents and
accepted by them, as authorized by a resolution of the board, January 26,
1874, the undersigned, members of the executive committee, have exam-
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 147

ined the accounts of appropriations and disbursements for the National
Museum for the year 1873, and find for each disbursement a voucher
approved by the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, and a certifi-
eate of an authorized agent of the Institution appended, setting forth
that the account is correct, the articles or services charged therein were
required, and furnished on account of the objects specified, and that
the same were necessary, and the charges reasonable.

The undersigned have also examined the journal and ledger of the
National Museum, and find the balances remaining, on the Ist of Jan-
uary, 1874, of the appropriations of Congress for Smithsonian building
and for preservation of collections in the National Museum to corres-
pond with the certificate of the 2d February, 1874, of the disbursing
clerk of the Interior Department, viz: Smithsonian building, 1874,
$9,012.95, (see page 518, journal A;) preservation of collections, 1874,
$7,500, (see page 55, journal A ;) total balance, $16,512.95.

The other member of the committee (Dr. Maclean) was obliged to
leave the city previous to this examination.

Respectfully submitted.

PETER PARKER,
W. T. SHERMAN,
Executive Committee.
WASHINGTON, February 5, 1874.
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

OF

Ql’ BR OvACR DOr” RE CoE iNet

OF THE

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.*

| WASHINGTON, December 19, 1873.

A special meeting of the Board of Regents was held at 7 p. m. at the
institution. Present, Mr. Justice Nathan Clifford, acting Chief Justice
of the United States, Hon. H. Hamlin, Hon. J. A. Garfield, Hon. L. P.
Poland, Hon. Peter Parker, General Sherman, and the Secretary, Pro-
fessor Henry.

The Seeretary stated that the meeting had been called for the pur-
pose of electing a chancellor in place of Chief Justice Chase, who had
deceased, and that this was a case of emergency, as the semi-annual
interest, due on the first of next month, necessary to carry on the opera-
tions of the Institution, could only be drawn according to law on the
requisition of the chancellor and secretary of the Institution.

On motion of General Garfield, Mr. Justice Nathan Clifford was
elected chancellor.

The Secretary announced that since the last meeting of the board
two of its most prominent and valuable members had deceased, Chief
Justice Chase and Professor Agassiz.

On motion of Mr. Hamlin, a committee was appointed to prepare reso-
lutions expressing the sentiments of the board in regard to the death
of Mr. Chase and Professor Agassiz.

The chancellor appointed Messrs. Hamlin, Sherman, Parker, and
the Secretary as the committee.

General Garfield made the following remarks:

Mr. CHANCELLOR: I rise to second the motion for the appointment
of a committee to draught resolutions in reference to the death of our
distinguished brother regents Chief Justice Chase and Professor
Agassiz.

Never before in a single year has the Board of Regents suffered so
severe a loss. It would be difficult to find, in any organization, two
men more eminent, and representing a wider range of culture, than the
two regents who have fallen since the last mecting of this board.

—EE

* Continued from page 86, Report for 1872.
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS. 149

This is not the occasion. to speak at length on the subject; but as my
term of service will expire before the next meeting, I ask the indulgence
of the board while I refer briefly to some of the marked characteristies
of our late distinguished associates.

Few Americans have filled so many high places of trust and honor as
Salmon P. Chase; and few have brought to the discharge of the duties
of their high station such masterly ability and such rare and varied
accomplishments. His career adds another to the many illustrations of
the truth, that he who loses his life for the truth’s sake shall find it.

In his early manhood, following his own conviction of duty, he com-
mitted himself, without reserve, to a cause which seemed, at the time, to
shut bim out from all hope of public preferment. He stood by his con-
victions, and lived, not only to see his doctrines prevail, but to be one
of the honored leaders in the cause he had espoused.

Whether at the bar, in the practice of his profession ; in the executive
chair of his own State; in the National Senate; as the great finance
minister of the republic in the stormy days of war; or as Chiet-Justice
of the United States, there ran through his whole life a depth of con-
viction, a clearness of comprehension, and a force of utterance that made
his power felt, and marked him as a man who filled and overfilled, hon-
ored and adorned, tke great stations to which he was called. If, in the
course of his high career, he felt the promptings of that ambition which
has been called “the last infirmity of noble minds,” it must be acknowl-
edged that he aspired to no place beyond his capacity to honor.

Throughout his long and'honered life the cares and demands of pub-
lic place did not diminish his ardent love for the pursuits cf science:
and the keen enjoyment of literature and art. The great masters of.
song were his daily companions. I was his guest for many weeks, dur-
ing the stormy and troublous winter of 1862-’63, when to the deep anxie--
ties of the war were added the gravest financial problems that have
ever confronted an American Secretary of the Treasury. And many a
time, at the close of a weary day of anxious care and exhausting labor, T
have seen him lay aside the heavy load, and, in the quiet of his study,
read aloud, or repeat from memory, the rich verse of Tennyson, or of
some other great master of song.

It was this life of art and sentiment, within the stormy life of public
duty, that fed and refreshed his spirit, and kept his heart young, while:
his outer life grew venerable with years and honors.

As the Chancellor of this Institution, we saw in happy and harmoni-
ous action his ample knowledge of our institutions, his wide experience
of finance, his reverential love for science and art, and his unshaken
faith in the. future of his country as the grand theater for the highest
development of all that is best and greatest in human nature. No con-
tribution to science offered to this board escaped his attention. Noth-
ing that was high or worthy in human pursuits failed to elicit his ap-
preciative and powerful support.
150 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

In Professor Agassiz we have lost a man of kindred powers, whose
life was spent in a different though hardly less conspicuous field of
action. ;

Few lives were ever so sincerely and entirely devoted to the highest
and best aims of science. I was led to appreciate this by a remark
which Professor Agassiz made to me several years ago, which is, I
believe, the key to his own career, and deserves to be remembered by
all who would follow in his footsteps. His remark was that he had
made it the rule of his life to abandon any intellectual pursuit the moment
. it became commercially valuable.

He knew that others would utilize what he discovered; that when he
brought down the great truths of science to the level of commercial
values, a thousand hands would be ready to take them and make them
valuable in the markets of the world. Since then I have thought of
him as one of that small but elect company of men who dwell on the

upper heights, above the plane of commercial values, and who love and
seek truth for its own sake. Such men are indeed the prophets, the
‘priests, the interpreters of nature. Few of their number have learned
more, at first hands, than Professor Agassiz; and few,if any, have sub-
mitted their theories to severer tests.

It was a great risk for the astronomer to announce that the perturba-
tions of the solar system. could only be accounted for by a planet as yet
unknown, and to predict its size and place in the solar system, trusting
to the telescope to confirm or explode his theory. But perhaps Profes-
sor Agassiz took even a greater risk than this. Who does not remem-
ber the letter he addressed to Professor Peirce, of the Coast Survey,
just before he set out on the Hassler expedition, predicting in detail
what evidences of glacial action he expected to find on the continent of
South America, and what species of marine animals he expected to dis-
cover in the deep-sea soundings along that coast? He risked his own
‘reputation as a scientific man on the predictions then committed to
writing.

What member of this board will forget the lecture he delivered here
after his return, detailing the discoveries he had made, and showing
how completely his predictions had been verified ?

While he was the prince of scholars, and a recognized teacher of man-
kind, yet he always preserved that childlike spirit which made him the
most amiable of men. He studied nature with a reverence born of his
undoubting faith. He believed that the universe was a cosmos, not a
chaos; and that throughout all its vast domains there were indubitable
evidences of creative power and supreme wisdom.

We have special cause for regret that his early death has deprived
this community aud the world of a series of lectures which were to
have been delivered here this winter, on subjects of the deepest interest
to science. His death will be deplored in whatever quarter of the globe
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS. 151

genius is admired and science is cherished. He has left behind him as
a legacy to mankind a name and a fame which will abide as an everlast-
ing possession.

The Secretary stated that prior to February 22, 1867, the money re-
ceived from the United States, as semi-annual interest on the bequest
of Smithson, was deposited with the bankers Coreoran & Riggs, and
subsequently with Riggs & Co., but on that date the regents had adopted
a resolution directing that all money received by the Institution “ be
deposited in a national bank, which is also an authorized, Government
depository,” (Report for 1866, page 78.) In accordance with this instrue-
tion and the direction of the chancellor, Chief Justice Chase, the
income was deposited in the First National Bank of Washington.
Unfortunately, on the 19th of September, 1873, that bank suspended
payment, having $8,224.87 to the credit of the Institution. Since that
time, however, a dividend of 30 per cent. ($2,467.46) has been received
on this balance, leaving $5,757.41 still due the Institution.

On motion of General Garfield, it was

Resolved, That the Secretary of the Institution make arrangements, if
possible, with the Secretary of the Treasury to deposit the income here-
after received in the United States Treasury, to be drawn out on checks
signed by Professor Henry; and that if this course could not be adopted,
that Congress be requested to pass a law to this effect.

The board then adjourned sine die.

WASHINGTON, January, 21, 1874.

In accordance with a resolution of the Board of Regents of the Smith-
sonian Institution, fixing the time of the beginning of their annual
meeting on the third Wednesday in January of each year, the board
met to-day at 7 o’clock p.m. Present: Mr. Associate Justice Clit-
ford, chancellor, Hon. H. Hamlin, Hon. J. W. Stevenson, Hon. A. A.
Sargent, Hon. S. S. Cox, Rev. Dr. Maclean, Hon. Peter Parker, Gen-
eral Sherman, Governor Shepherd, Prof. H. Coppée, and Professor
Henry, Secretary.

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved.

The Secretary announced the following appointments as regents:

By joint resolution of Congress (approved January 19, 1874) Prof. Asa
Gray, of Harvard College, Cambridge, Massachusetts, vice Prof. L.
Agassiz, deceased; Prof. J. D. Dana, of Yale College, New Haven,
Conn., vice Professor Woolsey, declined re-election; Prof. Henry
Coppée, of Lehigh University, Bethlehem, Pa., vice William B. Astor, |
declined re-election; Rev. Dr. John Maclean, of Princeton, N. J., and
Hon. Peter Parker, of Washington, D. C., re-elected for the term of six
years.
152 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

By the President of the Senate Hon. A. A. Sargent, of California,
as regent for the term of his service as Senator, (1879,) vice Mr.
Trumbull.

By the Speaker of the House, Hon. 8. 8. Cox, of New York, re-ap-
pointed, and Hon. E. Rockwood Hoar, of Massachusetts, vice Hon. J.
A. Garfield, and Hon. G. W. Hazelton, of Wisconsin, vice Hon. L.. P.
Poland; for two years from the fourth Wednesday of December, 1873.

Mr. Hamlin, from the special committee appointed_at the last meet-
ing, reported the following resolutions:

Resolved, That in the death of Chief Justice Chase, the Smithsonian
Institution has lost a wise counsellor, an efficient friend, and a zealous
advocate of its policy and operations.

itesolved, Thatin his death, the country has lost an elevated statesman,
a wise, a just, and an upright judge.

Resolved, That the cause of civilliberty, of pure Christianity, and the
advance of higher civilization have lost in the death of Chief Justice
Chase the co-operation of one of the most prominent and influential minds
of the day.

Kesolved, That a copy of these resolutions be transmitted to the
family of the deceased.

Mr. Hamlin made the following remarks:

I did not expect to utter a word on this occasion. I have, however,
at the solicitation of the Secretary, been induced to make some brie
remarks upon the subject of the resolutions reported by the committee.
I first met Mr. Chase at the time when he entered upon his official
duties as a Senator of the United States, and from that time to the
close of his life I knew him well and intimately. This Institution has
lost an earnest, able, and devoted friend, and that we shall miss him in
our counsels we well know, much better than the world, for we always
found him at the post of duty, uniting with a broad and capacious intel-
lect, good, common, practical sense, and always ready to counsel well and
wisely. We shall miss him here. In the counsels of the nation he did
his duty welland nobly. He had what at the time were called his pecu-
liar opinions, and he avowed and maintained them at a time when it
required moral courage to do so; but, however others disagreed with him,
none would say that he did not advocate his views with courtesy and em-
inent ability. In the heat of debate he might sometimes make a quick
retort, but his bearing was always that of a gentleman, and his position
that of anelevated statesman. Onthese occasions hedid what he believed
would subserve the best interests of man and elevate him to a higher and
nobler civilization, Asanexecutive officer during the war, he administered
the Treasury Department with great ability, and his name and fame wilk
be connected with those times in the history of the country. To him,
more than any other man, are we indebted for the means by which the
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS. 153

life of the nation was saved. i knew less personally of him in judicial
life, but I think it is known and well understood through all the land
that he wore the judicial ermine with honor and untarnished ; that he
commanded the respect due to his judicial and legal learning, and that
his decisions comported well with those of the eminent men who had
occupied the same exalted position, and was a worthy successor of those
who preceded him.

On motion of General Sherman, the resolutions were unanimously
adopted.

Mr. Hamlin, from the same committee, also reported the following
resolutions :

Resolved, That the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution
record on the minutes of their proceedings their high appreciation of
the character and labors of their lamented associate, Louis Agassiz, and
the expression of their profound sorrow on account of his unexpected
death, in the full exercise of his power, and amidst his unparalleled use-
fulness. 7

Resolved, That Professor Agassiz, by the attraction which he exerted
on all who came under the magical influence of his genial temperament
and generous sympathies, nobly advocated the claims of science to high
popular estimation, private endowments, and liberal public patronage.

Resolved, That as an instructor in his adopted country, he introduced
methods of study and directed attention to fields of research in natural
history far more elevated than those which had been previously in use;
that as an original investigator he made additions to human knowledge
which do honor to the science of the nineteenth century, and associate
his name with those of the prominent benefactors of his race.

Resolved, That in the death of Professor Agassiz, the Smithsonian
Institution has lost a wise adviser in its scientific operations, a power-
ful supporter of its policy in regard to original research, and an influ-
ential friend, ready at all times to advocate its claims on Congress for
the independent support of a national museum.

Kesolved, That the Board of Regents deeply sympathize with the
family of the deceased, on account of their sad bereavement, and that a
copy of these resolutions be transmitted to them.

Dr. Parker spoke as follows :

Mr. CHANCELLOR: It may seem presumptuous in me to rise to move
the adoption of the resolutions submitted.

To calculate the distance and magnitude of the sun, requires an as-
tronomez, and to analyze its chemical properties is the province of the
spectroscopist, but multitudes who are neither astronomers nor spectro-
Scopists can delight in the revelations which are made in regard to
that luminary.

IT am nota scientist; still, [can appreciate, in some degree, the labors
of one who shone a star of the first magnitude in the firmament of science !
154 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

Tt is sixteen years since I first met Professor Agassiz, whose death the
Board of Regents so deeply lament. It was at commencement at Har-
vard University, in 1858, the first year after my return from a long
residence in China. The Emperor Napoleon had made tempting offers
in the way of high position to Professor Agassiz to goto Paris. In
tense solicitude on the part of his friends in Cambridge and the coun-
try generally, was felt as to his decision. It was on this occasion that
their anxious suspense was relieved, as Professor Agassiz, after dinner,
rose and announced his determination henceforth to be an American
citizen. This declaration was received with most enthusiastic demon-
strations of rejoicing.

Lam happy the resolutions now submitted recognize his adopted eiti-
zenship. An incident that has come to my knowledge within thelast hour
has given me great pleasure, as illustrating the patriotism of the man. A
mutual friend said, ‘“‘ Professor Agassiz, it fills me with gratitude
every time I think of your declining the very flattering proposition that
was made to you from the court of France.” To which he replied: “ Yes,
and do you know that proposition was renewed to me after the war be-
gan, and I replied with more earnestness than before, if Iloved my adopted
country too much to leave it when all was peace, I certainly shall not
leave it now, when a shadow has come over its prospects.”

In the resolutions adopted by different scientific and literary institu-
tions throughout the country, much prominence is given, and rightly,
too, to the irreparable loss sustained by the decease of this pre-eminent
man of science.

While we sympathize most fully with that sentiment, there is another
consideration that should not be overlooked. I refer to the kind Provi-
dence that has given to the world such a man, preserved his life to ma-
ture years, and enabled him to accomplish so much as he has done for
the science, not only of the day and of this country, but of the age and
world. .

To Louis Agassiz belongs the distinction of having awakened, in a
remarkable degree, a spirit of scientific inquiry, and of having discovered
changes our planet has undergone, through the influence of laws he
was the first to demonstrate, arriving at such a knowledge of their
operations that it may be truly said of him that the remote consequences
of these laws, first predicted by his theory, were, in repeated instances,
most signally verified upon two continents by his observations.

In the circumstances of his departure from this life, there were pecu-
liar mercies that call for grateful recognition. Fears were at one time
entertained, and not without cause, lest he might linger through years
of suffering, deprived of reason; but he and his loving family have been
spared that affliction, and he has been, as it were, translated, to resume,
or rather to continue, on a higher plane, his advance in the knowledge of
the works of the Creator, with devout and endlessly increasing adora-
tion of their Divine Author.

On motion of Dr. Parker, the resolutions were unanimously adopted.
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS. 155

The Secretary presented a senna statement of the condition of the
fund, and the receipts and expenditures for the year 1873, which was
referred to the executive committee.

The Secretary called attention to the liberality of Mr. George W. Riggs,
the banker, who, after the suspension of the First National Bank, in Sep-
tember last, had advanced the funds necessary to carry on the ShenanonE
of the Institution, amounting to upward of $10,000, on which he had
declined to charge any interest.

On motion of Mr. Hamlin, it was

Resolved. That the cordial thanks of the Board of Regents be tendered
to Mr. Riggs, for his generosity in his financial services to the Institu-
tion.

The Secretary stated that, in acvordance with the resolution of the
- Board, he had applied to the Treasury Department to take charge of
the Smithsonian funds for current operations, and that arrangements
had been made with General Spinner, United States Treasurer, to re-
ceive deposits from the Institution, and make: payments on checks of
the Secretary, in the same manner as had been done in the First National
Bank.

The Institution is indebted to General Spinner for his prompt acqui-
escence in the proposition, and his authority for carrying it out in all
the details necessary to facilitate its operation.

The Secretary gave an account of the history and operations of the
Institution, particularly for the information of the new members of the
board.

The board adjourned at 9p. m., ue meet on Monday, 26th January,
at 7 o’clock p. m.

JANUARY 26, 1874.
A meeting of the Board of Regents was held this day at 7 o’clock p.
m. Present Mr. Justice Clifford, chancellor of the Institution, Hon. H.
Hanlin, Hon. J. W. Stevenson, Hon. A. A. Sargent, Hon. EH. R. Hoar,
Hon. G. W. Hazelton, Hen. P. Parker and the Secretar y, Professor
Henry.
The minutes of the last We nate were approved.

Dr. Parker presented the annual report of the executive committee,
which was read and, on motion of Mr. Stevenson, adopted.

The Secretary called attention to the bequest of James Hamilton,
and presented the following letter from one of the executors:

CARLISLE, PA., January 23, 1874.
DEAR SiR: Yours of 20th instant received and contents noted.
The executors will be ready to pay over the legacy (bequeathed by Mr.
156 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

Hamilton) to the Smithsonian Institution about the first week in Feb-
ruary. Please inform us who is authorized by the Board of Regents of
the Smithsonian Institution to receive the legacy and release the exe-
cutors, and we will send the release next week to you to be executed by
the proper officers of said board, and one of the executors or a repre-
sentative will be in Washington in the early part of next month to pay
over the money and get the release.
Yours, respectfully,
JOSEPH A. STUART,
One of the executors of Jas. Hamilton, deceased.
Prof. JOSEPH HENRY.

N. B.—Below you will notice a copy of the section of the will contain-
ing said legacy to the Institution.

SECTION 8. “I give one thousand dollars to the Board of Regeits of the
Smithsonian Institution, located at Washington, D. C., to be invested
by said regents in some safe fund, and the interest to be appropriated
biennially by the secretaries, either in money or a medal, for such con-
tribution, paper, or lecture, on any scientific or useful subject, as said
secretaries may approve.”

On motion of Mr. Hamlin, it was

Resolved, That the bequest of the late James Hamilton, of Carlisle,
Pa., be accepted ; that the chancellor and Secretary of the Institution
be authorized to receipt for the money and that it be deposited with the
Secretary of the Treasury, on the same terms as the original bequest
of Smithson, in accordance with the act of Congress approved Sth Feb-
ruary, 1867.*

The Secretary gave an account of the correspondence of the Institu-
tion and spoke of the immense mental activity which existed in this
country in regard to scientific speculations. In connection with these
remarks he laid before the Board, at the request of the author, a series
of manuscripts entitled “‘ Disclosures in Science, etc,” by Henry Kor-
ner, of Powhatan, Ohio, which had been urged upon the Institution for
publication. In these manuscripts the author states that he has dem-
onstrated the insufficiency of the theory of gravitation, as propounded
by Newton, to explain the mechanical phenomena of astronomy, and
also the inadequacy of the received principles of molecular action to
account for the phenomena of physics and chemistry, and that he has
himself discovered principles to which all these may be referred.

The Secretary stated that after examining these manuscripts he had
informed the author that they could not be published by the Institution,
since nothing could be accepted for that purpose unless it had previ-
ously been submitted to a commission for critical examination, and a
favorable report had been obtained; that these speculations were

*Statues at Large, vol. 14, page 391.
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS. 157

either so far in advance of the received scientific principles of the day
or so far behind them that the two were out of all harmony with each
other ; that it would be impossible to obtain a favorable report in regard.
to them from any commission cwmposed of men of scientific reputation ;
that he would, however, suggest that the mauscripts be deposited in
the archives of the Institution, free of access to any who might wish
to consult them with the proviso that no extracts be taken from them
without full credit being given to the name of the author. This sug-
gestion was favorably received by the author.

On motion of Mr. Stevenson, it was

Resolved, That the action of the Secretary in ‘relation to the Korner
manuscripts be approved.

The Secretary stated that, in accordance with the policy of the Insti-

tution to enter into harmonious relations with other establishments in

this city, as had already been done by depositing the plants and insects
in the Department of Agriculture, the skulls in the Army Medical Mu-
seum,-&c., he desired to enter into friendly relations with the Corcoran
Art-Gallery, of which he had recently been elected a trustee. He
thought that, inasmuch as this gallery had been opened to the public,
and had been established with a permanent endowment, larger even than
that of the Smithsonian Institution, it was proper that some of the ar-
ticles of art now in the building should be deposited in the Corcoran
Gallery, subject, of course, to the order of the regents.

On motion of Mr. Hamlin, it was

Resolved, That the Secretary be authorized to deposit in the Corcoran
Art-Gallery, to be reclaimed at any time, such works of art belonging to
the Institution as may be approved by the executive committee.

The Secretary presented his annual report of the oper ations of the In-
stitution for the’ year 1873, which was read; and

On motion of Mr. Hazelton,

Resolved, That the report of the Secretary be accepted and transmit-
ted to Congress as usual.

The Secretary stated that during the past year Mr. P. T. Barnum had
presented the National Museum with the following valuable specimens
of natural history, viz: A Malayan tapir, a Bactrian camel, a dromedary,
an African panther, a Florida manatee, an. Indian rhinoceros, a man-
drill, and others, furnishing the means of preparing both their skeletons
and mounted skins. He had also promised to give the Institution the
bodies of all the animals that die in his menagerie.

~ On motion of Dr. Parker, it was

Resolved, That the thanks of the Board of Regents be tendered to P.
7. Barnum, esquire, for his liberal donation of the bodies of animals to
the National Museum, which form a very important addition to the col-
lection of speciméns necessary to illustrate the science of zoology.
158 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

Dr. Parker stated that prior to 1873 all accounts for the museum had
been paid in the first instance by the Institution and audited with the
Smithsonian vouchers by the executive committee. Last year, however,
an arrangement had been made by which bills for the National Museum;
after approval by Professor Henry, were presented to the disbursing
agent of the Department of the Interior, who paid the parties directly.
The accounts were audited by the disbursing officer of the Interior De-
partment, and afterward by the Treasury Department. Inasmuch as
the regents of the Institution, however, are responsible for all expend-
itures connected with its operations, he would ask the opinion of the
board as to the propriety of examining all the vouchers for payments
made for the National Museum from the Government appropriations.
Professor Henry had retained a duplicate set of vouchers for these pay-
ments, and had the books carefully kept, and had offered them to the
committee for examination.

On motion of Mr. Hoar, it was

fesolved, That the board approve of the examination by the execu-
tive committee of the vouchers for the expenditures of the National
Museum, as requested by the committee and desired by the Secretary.

The Secretary stated that the system of international literary and sci-
entific exchanges had now become so extensive that he feared the cost
would be too great for the means of the Institution, and it had been
suggested that the larger societies and establishments which received
so much benefit from the system might contribute something annually
for its support. After some discussion,

On motion of Mr. Hamlin, it was

Kesolwed, That the Secretary be authorized to receive aid from socie-
ties and individuals in defraying the heavy expense of the exchange
system. =

The board then adjourned to meet at the call of the Secretary.

APRIL 27, 1874.

A meeting of Board of Regents was held at 10 o’clock a. m.

Present: The Chief Justice of the United States, Hon. M. R. Waite,
Hon. Peter Parker, Hon. E. R. Hoar, Hon. G. W. Hazelton, Professor
Asa Gray, and the Secretary, Professor Henry.

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved.

The Secretary stated that the object of the meeting was the election
of a chancellor.

On motion of Mr. Hoar, Chief Justice Waite was unanimously elected
chancellor.

Dr. Parker, from the executive committee, presented a report on the
examination of the accounts of the National Museum for 1873, and a
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS. 159

statement relative to the accounts of the Institution and of the National
Museum for the first quarter of 1874; which were accepted.

The Secretary stated that, on the 24th of February, 1874, Mr. Joseph
A. Stuart, one of the executors of the estate of the late James Hamil-
ton, of Carlisle, Pennsylvania, had paid the legacy of said Hamilton,
viz, one thousand dollars, into the Treasury of the United States, in ac-
cordance with the resolution of the Board of Regents adopted January
26, 1874.

The following is a copy of the receipt:

No. 10,564. ] TREASURY OF THE UNITED STATES,
Washington, D. C., February 24, 1874.

I certify that Prof, Joseph Henry, Secretary of the Sraiteontan In-
stitution, has this day deposited to the. credit of the United States one
thousand dollars, on account of amount received by bequest of the late
James Hamilton, of Carlisle, Pennsylvania, accepted by the Board of
Regents by resolution of January 26, 1874, providing that the amount
be deposited with the Secretary of the Treasury on same terms as the
original bequest of Smithson, in accordance with act of February 8,
1867,* for which I have signed duplicate receipts.

$1,000. L. R. TUTTLE,

Assistant Treasurer United States.

The Secretary gave an account of the operations of the Institution ;
and after inspecting the building, the board adjourned sine die.

* Statutes at Large, vol. 14, page 391.
GENERAL APPENDIX

TO THE

SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 187s.

The object of this appendix is to illustrate the operations of the Institution by
reports of lectures and extracts from correspondence, as well as to furnish information
of a character suited especially to the meteorological observers and other persons
interested in the promotion of knowledge.

11s
CHARLES BABBAGE.

| [COMPILED FOR THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. ]

Charles Babbage, upon being urged to write his own biography, re-
plied that he had no desire to do it while he had strength and means to
do better work. Some men, he said, write their lives to save them-
selves from ennui, careless of the amount they inflict on their readers;
others, lest some kind surviving friend in showing off his own talent in
writing personal history might show up theirs; and others still from
fear that the vampires of literature might make them a prey. He be-
longed to no one of these classes. Whataman had done for others, not
what he might say about himself, formed his best life. And so to many
who asked him to prepare an autobiography he sent a list of his works,
‘¢ which,” he naively adds, ‘‘no one cared to insert.” Still, few persons
who have made a name while living are insensible to posthumous fame,
and Babbage was among the number. While professing to treat these
applications lightly, he nevertheless set about placing on record an ae-
count of himself, and though he rejects the name of autobiography, he
has left behind him, in a work which he entitles “ Passages from the
Life of a Philosopher,” a memoir which in variety of detail and clear-
ness of description, liveliness of style and sententious remark, is almost
without its parallel. Without being confined to this witty and erratic
narrative, and putting the estimate of the thinking men of the age
rather than his own upon what he was and what he did, this notice
will aim to do justice to certainly not the least remarkable man of this
nineteenth century.

Of the mere personal history of this eminent philosopher and sci-
entific mechanist little need be recorded. He was born of gentle blood
and moderate competence on December 26, 1792. From earliest years
he showed great desire to inquire into the causes of things that
astonish childish minds. He eviscerated toys to ascertain their man-
ner of working; he sought to prove the reality of the devil by draw-
ing with his blood a circle on the floor and repeating the Lord’s
prayer backward; he dissipated toothaches by reading Don Quixote;
he bargained with another boy that whoever died first should appear
to the survivor, and spent a night of sleeplessness when the first event
of the compact occurred, awaiting in vain his comrade’s appearance.
In college he was perpetually puzzling his tutors by abstruse questions.
When the circulation of the Bible with or without comment became a
fierce controversy at Cambridge, he formed, with Herschel, Maule,
CHARLES BABBAGE. 163

D’Arblay, and others, an analytical society for the translation of La-
eroix’s Differential and Integral Calculus, maintaining that the work
needed no comment; that the ‘d’s” of Leibnitz were perfect, and con-
signing to perdition all who supported the heresy of Newton’s “ dots.”
It being hinted that the society was infidel, the young student replied,
“No! We advocate the principles of pure ‘ D’-ism in opposition to the
‘Dot’-age of the university.” He studied the game of chess and beat
every expert that was brought against him; formed a ghost club to col-
lect all reliable evidence of the supernatural; joined high players at
whist in order to show them that, staking only shillings, he could win at
guinea-points; embarked in boating not more from the manual labor
than from the intellectual art of sailing; and by making a collection ot
examples of mathematical problems, in which the notation of Leibnitz
was employed, he made it for the interest of tutors of the colleges to
abandon the symbols of Newton.

During Babbage’s college life the course of his studies led him into a
critical examination of the logarithmic tables then in use. ‘The value
of these tables had long been recognized in every part of the civilized
world. Large sums of money were expended in their preparation, and
the greatest care produced only proximate accuracy in the calculations.
The young mathematician set himself to consider whether, in the con-
struction of these tables, in place of the perturbable processes of the
intellect, it were not possible to substitute the unerring movements of
mechanism. The thought was perpetually recurring during the latter
portion of his college course. He gave up his leisure time to experi-
ments having this end in view—discussed the subject with Herschel,
Ryan, Maule, and others of his class who were interested in philsophical
mechanism, and was no sooner graduated than he visited the various
centers of machine labor in England and on the continent, that he might
become familiar with the combinations in use and study their functions.
Returning home, he began to sketch arrangements for a machine
by which all mathematical tables might be computed by one uniform
process. 7 :

The idea of a calculating machine did not originate with young
Babbage. Pascal, nearly two hundred years before, had constructed,
when in his nineteenth year, an ingenious machine for making arithmetical
calculations, which excited admiration. In his Pensées, alluding to
this engine, he remarks: ‘‘La machine arithmétique fait des effets qui ap-
prochent plus de la pensée que tout ce que font les animaux ; mais elle ne
fait rien qui puisse faire dire qwelle a de la volonté comme lesanimaux.” Sub-
sequently, Leibnitz invented a machine by which arithmetical computa-
tions could be made. Polenus, a learned and ingenious Italian, put to-
gether wheels by which multiplication was performed; and in the vari-
ous industrial exhibitions since 1851, contrivances for performing cer-
tain arithmetical processes have been exhibited. The principle upon
164 CHARLES BABBAGE.

which Babbage’s engines have been constructed, however, is entirely
new, and intended to do work of a much more important character.

On the 1st of April, 1823, a letter was received from the treasury by
the president of the Royal Society, requesting him to ask the council
to take into consideration a plan which had been submitted to gov-
ernment by Mr. Babbage for applying machinery to the purposes of
calculating and printing mathematical tables, and desiring to be favored
with its opinion on the merits and utility of the invention. This is the
earliest allusion to the calculating machine on the records of the Royal
Society. The invention, however, had been brought before the mem-
bers in the previous year by a letter from Mr. Babbage to Sir Hum-
phry Davy. In that he had given an account of a small model of his
engine for calculating differences, which produced figures at the rate of
44 a minute, and performed with rapidity and precision all those caleu-
lations for which it was designed. He had concluded this letter by
saying, “that though he had arrived at a point where success was no
longer doubtful, it could be attained only at a very considerable expense,
which would not probably be replaced by the works it might produce
for along period of time; and which is an undertaking T should feel
unwilling to commence, as altogether foreign to my habits and pur-
suits.”

The council of the Royal Society appointed a committee to take Mr.
Babbage’s plan into consideration. It was composed of the following
gentlemen: Sir H. Davy, Mr. Brande, Mr. Combe, Mr. Baily, Mr. Brunel,
Mr. Colby, Mr. Davies Gilbert, Sir John Herschel, Captain Kater, Mr.
Pond, Dr. Wollaston, and Dr. Young. On the Ist of May, 1823, this
committee reported: ‘That it appears Mr. Babbage has displayed great
talents and ingenuity in the construction of his machine for computa-
tion, which the committee think fully adequate to the attainment of the
objects proposed by the inventor, and that they consider Mr. Babbage
as highly deserving of public encouragement in the prosecution of his
arduous undertaking.” This report was transmitted to the lords of the
treasury, by whom it was printed and laid before Parliament. Two
months after this a letter was sent from the treasury to the Royal Soci-
ety, informing them that the issue of £1,500 had been directed to Mr.
Babbage ‘to enable him to bring bis invention to perfection in the man-
ner recommended.”

It is not within the purpose of this memoir.to describe the misunder-
standing which arose between Mr. Babbage and the British government,
during the following twenty years, in consequence of this letter, received
by the Royal Society from the lords of the treasury. He regarded the
machine he now undertook to build as the property of the government.
They understood it to be his. He received the first advance of money as an
earnest that all necessary funds would be furnished to complete this
difference engine No. 1. They seemed to have regarded it in the light of
a temporary assistance, given to a man of genius for the purpose of en-
CHARLES BABBAGE. . 165

abling him to complete an invention which would be of great public
benefit. He commenced the work, giving his own labors gratuitously,
according to what he considered to be an order. Government looked
on, furnished further moneys, consulted the Royal Society once and
again as to the progress of the work, but declined committing itself
further. Mr. Babbage advanced considerable sums, but was not reim-
bursed; made great improvements upon his original plans, but was not
encouraged; carried with him the convictions of the scientific men of
his country and continental Europe, but was left behind by the treas-
ury; and finally, when, in the opinion of such philosophical mechanists
as Sir John Herschel, Sir Mark Brunel, Mr. Pond, the astronomer
royal, and ethers, he was on the eve of results far surpassing in impor-
tance all that had been contemplated, he was informed that “ultimate
success appeared so problematical and the expense so large and so
utterly incapable of being calculated, that the government would not
be justified in taking upon itself any further liability.”

Thus terminated in 1842 the engagement which had existed more than
a score of years between Charles Babbage and the British government.
During this period of time he had made heavy sacrifices, both pecuniary
and personal, had refused highly honorable and profitable situations ;
had employed in his own house, at his own expense, the most intelligent
and skilled workmen to assist him in making experiments necessary for
attaining a knowledge of every art which could possibly tend to the
perfection of his engine; had repeatedly, at his own expense, visited the
manufactories of England and the continent; had invented incidentally,
and constructed, mechanical tools and labor-saving machines of great
public value, not one of which he protected by letters-patent, and had
gratuitously given the results of his energetic mind to the perfect con-
struction of the machines which he regarded asthe great purpose of his
life. Whether success would have equaled expectation had his gov-
ernment rendered him the required aid, can never be known. He has
left behind him no thinker or philosophical mechanic capable of com-
pleting his work.

It was to calculate and print tables of figures connected with various
Sciences; with almost every department of the useful arts; with com-
merce, astronomy, navigation, surveying, engineering, and everything
which depends on mathematical measurements.

To show the immense importance of any method by which these
numerical tables, absolutely accurate in every individual copy, could be
produced with facility and cheapness, let the reader revert to what
European governments have attempted to do in the last hundred years.
Dodson’s Calculator, published in London in 1747, contained a table of
multiplication extending to 10 times 1,000. In 1775 this table was ex-
tended to 10 times 10,000. The English board of longitude employed
Dr. Hutton, in 1781, to caiculate numerical tables up to 100 times 1,000;
and to add to these, tables of the squares of numbers as far as 25,400;
166 CHARLES BABBAGE.

and also tables of cubes of the first ten powers of numbers reaching to
100. In 1814, Professor Barlow, of Woolwich, published in an octavo
volume the squares, cubes, square-roots, cube-roots, and reciprocals of
all numbers from 1 to 1,000—a table of the first ten powers from 1 to
100, and a table of the fourth and fifth powers of all numbers from 100
to 1,000.

To a still greater extent were similar tables prepared on the con-
tinent. In France, in the year 1785, was published an octavo volume
of the tables of squares, cubes, square-roots, and cube-roots of all num-
bers from 1 to 10,000; and in 1824 from 1,000 times to 100. A larger
table of squares than at that time existing was published in Hanover in
1810: a larger still in Leipsic in 1812; a more perfect one at Berlin in
1825; and a similar table at Ghent in 1827.

This class of tables involves only the arithmetical dependence of ab-
stract numbersupon each other. ‘To express peculiar modes of quantity—
such as angular, linear, superficial, and solid magnitudes—a larger num-
ber of computations are required. Volumes without number of these
tables also have been computed and published at infinite labor and ex-
pense. Then come tables of a special nature, of importance not inferior,
of labor more exacting—tables of interest, discount, and exchange;
tables of annuities and life insurance, and tables of rates in gen-
eral commerce. And then, above all others, tables of astronomy,
the multiplicity and complexity of which it is impossible to describe, and
the importance of which, in the kindred art of navigation, it would be
difficult to over-estimate. The safety of the tens of thousands of ships
upon the ocean, the accuracy of coast surveys, the exact position of
light-houses, the track of every shore from headland to headland, the
latitude and longitude of mid-sea islands, the course and motion of eur-
rents, direction and speed of winds, bearing and distance of mountains,
and, in short, everything which constitutes the chief element of interna-
tional commerce in modern times, depends upon the fullness and accu-
racy of logarithmic tables.

Inadequate as is the notion of the importance of these tables that has
been conveyed, still more inadequate must be any notice of their errors.
The expedients resorted to for even a limited degree of accuracy have
been almost innumerable. The first french Republic, aspiring to lead the
nations in science, undertook, throughits mathematicians, by a division of
labor so admirable that it seemed impossible errors should be committed,,
or, if committed, remain undetected, to produce a system of logarithmic
and trigonometric tables so accurate thatit should form a monument of
the kind more imposing than had ever been conceived. The attempt
failed, for one singular reason among others, that the computers who
committed the fewest errors were those who understood nothing beyond
the process of addition. Dr. Lardner discovered in forty tables, taken
at random, no less than 3,700errata. Inthe Nautical Almanae Mr. Baily
detected more than 500 errors of calculation. The “tables requisite to
CHARLES BABBAGE. 167

be used with the Nautical Ephemeris for finding latitude and longitude
at sea,” computed, revised, and rerevised with the utmost care, under
direction of the British board of longitude, and published by the govern-
ment, was found to contain above a thousand errors. The tables of the
distances of the moon from certain fixed stars, published by the same board,
is followed by 1,100 errata, and these themselves contained so many errors
as to make errata upon errata necessary. For the special use of the
nationalsurvey of Ireland, the logarithmic tables, most carefully prepared,
were found to contain six errors, and these, by comparison, were found to
exist not only in tables published during more than two hundred years in
Paris and Gouda, Avignon and Berlin, Florence and London, but also in a
set printed in China, in Chinese characters, and purporting to be original
ealculations. In fact, absolute correctness in logarithmic tables has
never been attained. Year after year, through eight generations of
mathematicians, one set has followed another to correct its predecessor.
Even the last claims but approximate accuracy. Precautions, compari-
sons, revisions, and alterations from computers to computers, make ad-
vances only toward an end that is never absolutely reached. And no
wondér. We need but to consider the nature of a numerical table, where
a thousand pages are covered with figures alone, where neither note nor
comment, letters of the alphabet, nor rules of syntax, are permitted to
intrude, to understand that the law of chance is on the side of error, and
that for one mistake that may happen to be detected a score may escape
unnoticed.

Besides the errors incidental to computation, there arethose of trans-
scribing for the press, and of composition into print. Nor does the liability
to error stop even here, errors being often produced in the process of
printing. A remarkable instance of this occurs in one of the six errors
of the Irish Survey Tables, just mentioned. The last five figures of two.
successive numbers of a logarithmic table were

35875
10436

Both were erroneous. The ‘‘8” in the upper line should be ‘'4,” and the:
“4” in the lower line should be “8.” It is evident that the types, as.
first composed, were correct—that two of them, ‘4” and “8,” became
loose, adhered to the inking ball, and were drawn out—and that the:
pressman in replacing transposed them. And this inadvertent error in.
Blacq’s tables of 1628, traveled over three continents, and, with more:
or less of mischief, remained undetected for two hundred years.

Numerical correctness in logarithmic tables, is then, and has ever been,
the great desideratum. This Mr. Babbage proposed to attain by ma-
chinery; to calculate the tables unerringly, as if by a law of nature,
and by the same law to reduce them as unerringly to type. Thus was.
the single purpose of the difference engine No. 1.

The difference engine No. 1 was only partially competed.. Confided’
to the care of King’s College, it remained for twenty years in the mu-
168 CHARLES BABBAGE.

seum at Somerset House. In 1862 it was exhibited at the Great Indus-
trial Exhibition, since which time it has been stored at the South Ken-
sington Museum. The finished portion of the engine showed itself
capable of computing any table whose third difference is constant and
less than 1,000; while at the same time it showed the position in the
table of each tabular number. In Mr. Babbage’s own words:

‘1st. The portion of the machine exhibited can calculate any table
whose third difference is constant and less than 10.

‘9d. It can show how much more rapidly astronomical tables can be
calculated in any engine in which there is no constant difference.

“3d. It can be employed to illustrate those singular laws which might
continue to be produced through ages, and yet after an enormous inter-
val of time change into other different laws; each again to exist for
ages, and then to be superseded by new laws.”

Tt will be borne in mind that all work upon difference engine No. 1 was
stopped in the early part of the year 1833. At the general meeting of
the Royal Academy at Brussels in May, 1835, a letter received from Mr.
Babbage was read announcing that he had been engaged for six months
in making drawings of a new calculating machine of far greater power.
‘““T am myself astonished,” he wrote, ‘at the power I have been enabled
to give to this machine: a year ago [should not have believed this result
possible. The machine is intended to contain a hundred variables, each
consisting of twenty-five figures; it will reduce to tables almost all
equations of finite differences; it will calculate a thousand values (ofe. g.

abedby the formula p— ey print them, and reduce them to zero,

and will then ring a bell to give notice that a new set of constants
must be inserted.” “When there exists,” he continues, “a relation
between any number of successive co-eflicients of a series, provided it
can be expressed, the machine will calculate them and make their
terms known in succession; and it may afterward be disposed so as to
find the value of the series for all the values of the variable.”

This was the first announcement to the scientific world of a machine,
capable of executing not merely arithmetical calculations, but even those
of analysis when the laws are known. It was, in fact, the analytical
engine, never destined to be completed by its inventor in actual fact,
but so perfect in its drawings, so clear in its descriptions, so certain in
its sequences, and so logical in all its principles, that, to the minds of
men capable of comprehending the details, it became as certainly the
realization of a gigantic idea as if it had been doing its work in their
presence. If it be asked, how such a machine could of itself, without
recourse to thought, assume the successive dispositions necessary, Mr.
Babbage answers that Jacquard solved the problem when he invented
his loom.

In the manufacture of brocade there are two species of threads, the
CHARLES BABBAGE. 169

one longitudinal, which is the warp, the other transverse, which is the
woof.

Of course the analytical engine could not originate. It would have
always been the servant—never the master. It could have done what-
ever its inventor knew how to order it to do. No more. It assisted—
marvelously indeed, but it only assisted—in making the known available.
It could have followed analysis, never anticipated it. But had it been con-
structed, it would have achieved three desiderata of science—cconomy
of time, economy of intelligence, rigid accuracy. It would have made ob-
servations fertile that are now barren for lack of computing powers;
it would have saved time for contemplation that is now wasted in arid
calculations by men of genius, and it would have made certain arith-
metical numbers, without the aid of which the veil that envelopes the
mysteries of nature can never be raised.

_ Asillustrative of the estimate put upon the operations of the analytical
machine, it may not be inappropriate to quote here Mr. Babbage’s own
remarks: ‘ An excellent friend of mine,” he writes, ‘the late Professor
MacCullagh, of Dublin, was discussing with me the various powers of
the analytical engine. After a long conversation he inquired what the
machine could do, if, in the midst of algebraic operations, it was required
to perform logarithmic or trigonometric operations. My answer was, that

whenever the analytical engine should exist, all the developments of°

formula would be directed by this condition, that the machine should.
be able to compute their numerical value in the shortest possible time;
I then added that if this answer was not satisfactory, I had provided
means by which, with equal accuracy, it might compute by logarithmic
or other tables.

“I explained that the tables to be used must, of course, be computed
and punched on cards by the machine, in which case they would un-
doubtedly be correct. I then added, that when the machine wanted a
tabular number it would ring a bell and then stop itself. On this the
attendant would look at a certain part of the machine and find that it
wanted the logarithm of a given number, say of 2303; the attendant
would then go tothe drawer, take the required logarithmic-card, and place
it on the machine. Uponthis the engine would first aseertain whether
the assistant had or had not given it the correct logarithm of the num-
ber; if so, it would use it and continue its work. But if the engine
found the attendant had given it a wrong logarithm, it would then ring
a louder bell and stop itself. On the attendant again examining the en-
gine, he would observe the words, WRONG TABULAR NUMBER, and then
discover that he really had given the wrong logarithm, and of course
would have to replace it by the right one.”

- As between the two engines, the difference and the analytical, their —

powers and principles of construction, the capabilities of the latter would
have been immeasurably the more extensive. They hold to each other,
in fact, the same relationship that analysis holds to arithmetic. The dif-

=
170 CHARLES BABBAGE.

ference engine was intended to effect but one particular series of oper-
ations. It was not the general expression even of one particular fune-
tion, much less of any and all possible functions of all degrees of gen-.
erality. Indeed, it could do nothing but add. It certainly performed
the processes of subtraction, multiplication, and division; but then only —
so far as these could be reduced to a series of additions. The analytical
machine, on the contrary, would have been able to add or subtract, mul-
tiply or divide—it could have done either and all with equal facility—
and it would have performed these operations directly in each case with-
out the aid of any of the other three. This fact implies everything.
The one engine merely tabulated but never developed; the other both
tabulated and developed.

Mr. Babbage’s third invention, which he named “ difference engine,
No. 2,” need not be dwelt upon here. It was never built. Its drawings
even were never quite completed. Asan entity it had no existence out.
of his own mind. In laboring to perfect the analytical machine he dis-
covered the means of simplifying and expediting the mechanical pro-
cesses of difference engine No.1. The Harlof Rosse, who was greatly
interested in the application of mechanism to purposes of calculation,
and who was well acquainted with the drawings and notations of the
second difference engine so far as made, proposed that Mr. Babbage
should perfect and give them to the government, upon condition that
they would undertake to construct it. To this, with some reluc‘ance, he
consented. It was then proposed to the Earl of Derby, he being prime
minister, that the government should apply to the president of the In-
stitution of Civil Engineers to ascertain—

ist. Whether it was possible from Mr. Babbage’s drawings and nota-
tions to make an estimate of the cost of constructing the machine.

2d. In case this question was answered in the affirmative, then could
a mechanical engineer be found who would undertake to construct it,
and at what expense.

It was explained to Lord Derby that the cessation of work upon the
first difference engine was owing to no fault of Mr. Babbage; that, being
new in design and construction, and requiring the utmost mechanical
Skill for its execution, it had necessarily been costly; that the necessity
of constructing and, in many instances, inventing tools and machinery of
great complexity for forming with requisite precision parts of the appa-
ratus dissimilar to any used in ordinary mechanical works, had produced
unavoidable delays, and that the foremost men of practical science all
over EKurope who were acquainted with the facts, so far from being sur-
prised at the time and expense that had been required to bring the
engine to its then present state, felt much more disposed to wonder that
it had been possible to accomplish so much. “If this work,” Mr. Bab-
bage wrote to the minister, ‘upon which I have bestowed so much time
and thought were a mere triumph over mechanical difficulties, or simply
curious, or if the execution of such engines were of doubtiul practica-.

~
CHARLES BABBAGE. i

bility or utility, some justification might be found for the course which
has been taken; but I venture to assert that no mathematician who has
a reputation to lose will ever publicly express an opinion that such a
machine would be useless if made, and that no man distinguished as a
civil engineer will venture to declare the construction of such machinery
impracticable.”

It seemed now (1852) as if there were a probability that government
would order a resumption of the work. The Earl of Derby was a man
of large gifts and extended views, and his chancellor of the exchequer,
_ himself the son of a philosopher, was known as widely almost by his
philosophie sentiments as by his great powers of debate. The country
was at peace. The first exhibition of the whole world’s industry had by
its marvelous success the previous year given a new impulse to the arts.
Politics, indeed, ran high, but in every other aspect there was encourage-
ment. The Royal Society; the Society of Civil Engineers; the Royal
Academy of Sciences, at Brussels; the principal philosophical mechan-
ists of the three kingdoms, led by the Earl of Rosse and Sir Benjamin
Hawes ; the astronomical observers following in the bold path opened
by Sir John Herschel; and Prince Albert, the most accomplished, as he
was the most judicious, of thinking men; together with Plana, Menabria,
MacCullagh, Mosotti, Plantamour, Dr. Lardner, and Lady Lovelace—
this last an example, almost equal to that of Mrs. Somerville, of the
power sometimes possessed by the female mind in dealing with abstract
truths—all gave the weight of their opinion in favor of the difference
engine, when completed, as fully adequate to the attainment of the
objects proposed by the inventor. ‘ No enterprise,” said the president
of the Royal Society, when reciting the history of the engine at their
anniversary in 1854—“ no enterprise could have had its beginning under
more auspicious circumstances. The government had taken the initia-
tive; they had called for advice, and the adviser was the highest scien-
tific authority in this country—your council guided by such men as
Derby, Wollaston, and Herschel. By your council the undertaking was
inaugurated; by your council it was watched over inits progress. That
the first great effort to employ the powers of calculating mechanism, in
aid of the human intellect should have been suffered in this great
country to expire fruitless because there was no tangible evidence of
immediate profit, as a British subject I deeply regret, and as a fellow
my regret is accompanied with feelings of bitter disappointment. Where
a question has once been disposed of, succeeding governments rarely
re-open it; still, lL thought I should not be doing my duty if I did not
take some opportunity of bringing the facts once more before govern-
ment.”

This was accordingly done. It was shown that mechanical engineer-
ing, tools, trained workmen, the founder’s art; and screw-cutting ma-
chines, had made such progress during the years the difference-engine
had been laid aside that it was probable persons could be found willing
172 CHARLES BABBAGE.

to complete it for a specific sum. Never had a ministry a nobler oppor-
tunity to illustrate its history by the encouragement of science. It was,
however, all in vain. Art was weighed against gold, and the former,
touched the beam. The chancellor of the exchequer, to whom Lord
Derby referred the question, pronounced the project as—

‘1. Indefinitely expensive.

2. The ultimate success problematical.

“3, The expenditure utterly incapable of being calculated.”

“This Herostratus of science,” Mr. Babbage characteristically remarks,
“if he escape oblivion, will be linked with the destroyer of the Ephesian
Temple.”

It would be unjust to the memory of the great philosophical mechanist
were no reference made to the incidental invention of a mechanical
notation which Mr. Babbage explained in a paper read before the Royal
Society in 1826. Dr. Lardner entitled it a discovery of “the utmost
practical value,” and it has long been adopted as a topic of lectures in
institutions all over Kurope for the instruction of civil engineers. It
came up in this wise: Memory has its limit. There cannot be borne
in mind a great variety of motions propagated simultaneously through
complicated trains of mechanism. Incompatible motions will encoun-
ter each other. The memory can neither guard against nor correct them.
Some expedient which at a glance could exhibit what every moving
piece in the machinery was doing at each instant was needed. Ne-
cessity, the mother of invention, suggested to Mr. Babbage a system
of signs, by which the mechanist, simply moving his finger along a cer-
tain line, could follow out the motion of every piece from effect to cause
until he arrived at the prime mover. The same sign which indicated
the source of motion indicated also its species. It also divided time
into parts, showing what was being done by a machine at any moment.
By this means the contriver understood the situation instanter, saw as
if by intuition the fault, and discovered the niche in which to place the
movement required. It also enabled the inventor to dismiss from his
mind the arrangement of the mechanism. Like algebraic signs, it re-
duced wheels and valves, rods and levers, to an equation. In fact,
what algebra is to arithmetic Mr. Babbage’s notation was to mechanism.

During the construction of some parts of the calculating machinery
a question arose as to the best method of producing and arranging a
certain series of motions necessary to calculate and print a number.
Mr. Babbage, with his assistant, an eminent practical engineer, had
so arranged these motions that they might be performed by twelve revo-
lutions of the principal axis. It was desirable there should be less. To
this end each put himself to work, the engineer to a study of the com-
plicated working machinery, the inventor to a consideration of his
notation symbols. After a short time, by some transposition of these,
the latter sueceeded in producing the series by eight turns of the axis.
Pushing his inquiries still further, he proceeded to ascertain whether
CHARLES BABBAGE. 173

his scheme of symbols did not admit of a still more compact arrange-
ment, and whether eight revolutions were not needless waste of power.
The question was exceedingly abstruse. Finding every effort to keep
in mind the order and arrangement of wheels and pulleys, levers and
shafts, claws and bolts, so as to suggest any improved arrangement, the
engineer completely broke down. Mr. Babbage, however, with scarcely
any mental exertion, and merely by sliding a bit of ruled pasteboard
up and down his plan in search of vacant places, contrived at length to
reduce the eight motions to six, to five, and to three. This application
of an almost metaphysical system of abstract signs, by which the mo-
tion of the hand alternately performs the office of the mind and practi-
cal mechanics, to the construction of a complicated engine, is regarded
by many eminent engineers as the most wonderful and useful discovery
the great inventor ever made.

_ Although no one of the principal inventions of the philosophic mech-
anist has ever been completed, and though his marvelously compre-
hensive thoughts of what machinery, working on the border land of
intellect, might be made to accomplish would seem to have passed from
the world without good, yet his work was not in vain. Hundreds of
mechanical appliances in the factories and workshops of Europe and
America, scores of ingenious expedients in mining and architecture,
the construction of bridges and boring of tunnels, and a world of tools
by which labor is benefited and the arts improved—all the overflowings
of a mind so rich that its very waste became valuable to utilize—came
from Charles Babbage. He more, perhaps, than any man who ever
lived, narrowed the chasm that from earliest ages has.separated science
and practical mechanics.

_ This memoir has thus far treated its subject as a mathematician and
philosophical mechanist. He was both, in a degree that made his name
famous. But he was more than this. As ascientific man, keeping him-
self abreast with the progress of modern discovery; aS a man of intel-
lect, accepting, analyzing, and suggesting thought that is emancipating
mind from old traditions; and as a man of his time, the associate for
more than half a century of statesmen and poets, chemists, and geogra-
phers, engineers, and philologists, he is worthy of notice. Upon what-
ever he spoke or wrote he was always perspicuous. Language was to
him pre-eminently the embodiment of ideas. Logical sequence was
the one essential element of his train of thinking. His estimate of men
was formed less from what they were than from what they did. He
was neither tuft-hunter nor cynic. Faults his character possessed,
grievous and ridiculous, perchance, when viewed in certain lights, but
they were never inconsistent with his independent manliness, nor de-
rogatory to his elevated philosophy. He knew his own worth; asserted
his rightful claims; kept an unquailing aspect in his long single-hand
fight in behalf of his inventions with purblind rulers; victorious never,
but never vanquished; heroic in most that he said and all that he did;
174 CHARLES BABBAGE.

above ordinary stature; and, saving perhaps the acceptance of certain
rules of obedience to law, without which no one can wisely govern him-
self, played a part in the drama of life that will not be soon forgotten.

It is proposed now to speak of Charles Babbage in the two characters
of an observer of his time and as a contributor to knowledge. In each, as
the most certain way to reach the end in view, we shall quote without
restriction or further acknowledgment from his own writings:

‘My engine,” he said to some scientific friends after a friendly break-
fast, ‘will count the natural numbers as far as the millionth term. It
will then commence a new series, following a different law. This it sud-
denly abandons and calculates another series by another law. This
again is followed by another, and still another. It may go on through-
out all time. An observer, seeing a new law coming at certain periods,
and going out at others, might find in the mechanism a parallel to the
laws of life. That all men die is the result of a vast induction of in-
stances. That one or more men at given times shall be restored to life,
may be as much a consequence of the law of existence appointed for
man at his creation, as the appearance and re-appearance of the isolated
eases of apparent exception in the arithmetical machine. Miracles,
theretore, may not be the breach of established laws, but the very
circumstances that indicate the existence of higher laws, which, at
appointed times produce the preintended results.

“For example, the analytical engine might be so set that at definite
periods, known only to its maker, a certain lever might become movable
during the calculations then making. The consequence of moving it
might be to cause the then existing law to be violated for one or more
times, after which the original law would resume its reign. Of course,
the maker of the calculating engine might confide this fact to the person
using it, who would thus be gifted with the power of prophecy if he
foretold the event, or of working a miracle at the proper time if he
withheld his knowledge from those around until the moment of its taking
place. Such is the analogy between the construction of machinery to
calculate, and the occurrence of miracles. A further illustration may
be taken from geometry; curves are represented by equations. In cer-
tain curves there are portions, such as ovals, disconnected from the rest
of the curve. By properly assigning the values of the constants, these
ovals may be reduced to single points. These singular points may exist
upon a branch of a curve, or may be entirely isolated from it; yet these
points fulfill by their position the law of the curve as perfectly as any of
those which, by their juxtaposition and continuity, form any of its
branches.” |

‘“‘ Miracles,” Mr. Babbage adds, “are not. therefore the breach of es-
tablished laws, but the very circumstances that indicate the existence
of far higher laws which, at the appointed times, produce their prein-
tended results.”

Now whatever may be thought of the conclusiveness of this reasoning,

BG
CHARLES BABBAGE. 175

its originality is obvious, and its ingenuity undeniable. That it was
satisfactory to a mind whose reach was as wide and whose logic as
consecutive as that of Charles Babbage, is sufficient to demand for it
fair consideration. He evidently believed it; urged it upon other minds
upon the same level with his own, and received no answers that detected
in it a fallacy or showed it to be a sophism.

There is surpassing interest in watching the workings of a great mind
in honest search after truth. There are no volumes of the fathers ; no ser-
mons of Laurin or Bossuet; no essays of Fénelon or Pascal; no per-
sonal narrative of Arnauld, Frangoise de Sales, de Rancé, or of the
saints of Port Royal; no memoirs of the pietists of France, or martyrs of
England ; no lives of foreign missionaries, Protestant or Catholic, who
gave their all, even to death, to propagate what to them was Divine that
in our apprehension can confine the attention or challenge the judg-
ment of a sincere, intelligent inquirer after truth, like the thirtieth chapter
in the “‘ Passages from the Life of a Philosopher.” One sees in it no fav-
orite opinion to be defended; no peculiar error to be denounced ; no class,
no creed, no caste to be built uy; no prejudice to be favored nor tradi-
tion exempted from trial; nothing, in fact, but the record of the thoughts
of a great mind in honest pursuit.of truth. It would be marred by quo-
tations, and its life deadened by condensation; though it does not
traverse the ground of more modern skepticism, and deals only with
the old positions of the eneyelopedists and Hume, it assumes a position
in regard to Divine revelation which, if not impregnable, has never yet
been overturned.

We cannot easily resist the temptation to quote a few of his clear and
vigorous remarks from the chapter in question. Speaking of an ex-
amination of the Creator’s works as one of the sources of our knowledge
of His existence, Babbage says:

“Unlike transmitted testimony, which is weakened at every stage,
its evidence derives confirmation from the progress of the individual
as well as from the advancement of the knowledge of the race.

“Almost all thinking men who have studied the laws which govern
the animate and inanimate world around us, agree that the belief in the
existence of one Supreme Creator, possessed of infinite wisdom and
power, is open to far less difficulties than the supposition of the absence
of any cause, or the existence of a plurality of causes.

“In the works of the Creator, ever open to ourexamination, we possess a
firm basis on which to raise the superstructure of an enlightened creed.
The more man inquires into the laws which regulate the material wni-
verse, the more he is convinced that all its varied forms arise from the
action of afew simple principlés. These principles themselves converge,
with accelerating force, toward some still more comprehensive law
to which all matter seems to be submitted. Simple as that law may
possibly be, it must be remembered that it is only one among an in-
finite number of simple laws; that each of these laws has consequences
176 CHARLES BABBAGE.

at least as extensive as the existing one, and, therefore, that the Creator
who selected the present law must have foreseen the consequences of all
other laws. ;
‘““Yhe works of the Creator, ever present to our senses, give a living
and perpetual testimony of his wisdom and goodness far surpassing
any evidence transmitted through human testimony. The testimony
of men becomes fainter at every stage of transmission, while each new
inquiry into the works of the Almighty gives to us more exalted views
_of his wisdom, his goodness, and his power.”
The true value of the Christian religion in Babbage’s estimation rested
not upon speculative views of the Creator, which must necessarily be
- different in each individual, according to the extent of the finite being
who employs his own feeble powers in contemplating the infinite, but
’ rather upon those doctrines of kindness and benevolence which that re-
ligion claims and enforces, not merely in favor of man himself but of
every creature susceptible of pain or of happiness.

There is something exceedingly refreshing in the original views Mr.
Baggage takes of every subject that comes within the scope of his
vision. His autobiography—for such in spite of his disclaimer it really
is—has the interest of a romance. He is never dull, never tiresome,
never cloudy. His style is clear as limpid water and natural as a run-
ning brook. He possesses a rich fund of humor, which flecks and dap-
ples even his mathematical descriptions like sunshine falling through
foliage.

‘A curious reflection” he says in the chapter we do not willingly
leave, ‘“‘presents itself, when we meditate upon a state of rewards and
punishments in a future life. We must possess the memory of what we
did during our existence upon this earth in order to give them those
characteristics. In fact, memory seems to be the only faculty which
must, of necessity, be preserved in order to render a future state pos-
sible.

“If memory be absolutely destroyed, our personal identity is lost.

‘‘Wurther reflection suggests that in a future state we may, as it were,
awake to the recollection that, previously to this our present life, we
existed in some former state, possibly in many former ones, and that
the then state of existence may have been the consequences of our con-
duct in those former stages.

‘It would be a very interesting research if naturalists could devise
any means of showing that the dragon fly, in its three stages of a grab
beneath the soil, an animal living in the water, and that of a flying
insect, had in the last stage any memory of its existence in its first.

‘‘ Another question connected with this subject offers still greater
difficulty. Man possesses five sources of knowledge through his senses:
He proudly thinks himself the highest work of the Almighty Architect,
but it is quite possible that he may be the very lowest. If other animals
possess senses of a different nature from ours, it can scarcely be possible
,

CHARLES BABBAGE. aaa

that we could ever be aware of the fact. Yet those animals, having
other sources of information and of pleasure, might, though despised
by us, yet enjoy a corporeal as well as intellectual existence far higher
than our own.”

Mr. Babbage’s autobiography, relating isolated facts, which, with a
sort of indifference to the estimate history might put upon his char-
acter—strongly in contrast with even the best class of journals and
diaries, say, Sir Walter Scott’s, or Dr. Chalmer’s, or Edward Payson’s,
or Missionary Judson’s, as if while it was necessary that they should
take care of their post-mortem fame his possessed the vitality to care for
jtself—are arranged without order of time or similarity of subject, after
ali divides itself very naturally into the two branches of personal recol-
lections and personal experiences. He remembers Wollaston, Rogers,
and Sir Humphrey Davy, and gives pen-outlines of their: characters as
vivid and living as the portraits of Duow. He has discussed mathe-
matics with Laplace, compared analysis with Fourier, exhibited and ex-
plained his inventions to Biot, and lived on terms of intimacy with Hum-
boldt. He was the frequent companion of the Duke of Wellington; was
the associate of various branches of the Bonaparte family ; was the triend
of Mosotti, Menabria, and Prince Albert, and throughout life, from col-
legiate competitions to the mutual respect of mature years, held firmly
as his friend the younger Herschel. Of all these his notes are pictures,
unequalled even by the descriptions which Boswell gives ot the asso-
ciates of the great lexicographer.

It is the same with his experiences. He risks drowning by water and
baking by fire, loss of life by railway speed and loss of reputation by
picking locks, character in exploring the secrets of theatrical displays,
and purse in traversing the haunts of St. Giles. His thirst for knowl-
edge knew no bounds. Into an electioneering contest he entered with
the same indomitable energy that he pursued a mathematical calculus.
The same keen avidity that detected a logarithmic error was applied to
suppressing a street nuisance. He vitalized whatever he touched. If
life gives beauty it might be more truly said of Charles Babbage than
of most men of mark, Nihil tetigit quod non ornavit. In fact there was
no secret of nature he hesitated to explore, no enigma of the sphynx
which he was afraid to question. Impulsiveness, want of patience, and
hatred of shams have indeed left many of his investigations partial and
fragmentary, but about every one of them there is rich compensation in
striking aphorisms, profound observations, wisdom applicable to human
need, and wit available for its enjoyment. He says of himself:

“T have always carefully watched the exercise of my own faculties,
and I have always endeavored to collect from the light reflected by
other minds some explanation of the question.

“TI think one of my most important guiding principles has been this:

That every moment of my waking hoars has always been occupied by
DRA
178 CHARLES BABBAGE.

some train of inquiry. In far the largest number of instances the subject
might be trivial, but still work of inquiry was always going on.

‘<The difficulty consisted in adapting the work to the state of the body.
The necessary training was difficult. Whenever at night I found my-
self sleepless and wished to sleep, I took a subject for examination that
required little mental effort, and which also had little dependence on
worldly affairs by its success or failure.

‘“On the other hand, when I wanted to concentrate my whole mind
upon an important subject, [ studied during the day all the minor acces:
sories and after 2 o’clock in the morning I found that repose which the
nuisances of the London streets only allow from that hour until 6in the
_ morning.

“ At first [had many a sleepless night before I could thus train myself.

““T believe my early perception of the immense power of signs in aiding
the reasoning faculty contributed much to whatever success I may have
had. Probably a still more important element was the intimate con-
viction I possessed that the highest object a reasonable being could pur-
sue was to endeavor to discover those laws of mind by which man’s in-
tellect passes from the known to the discovery of the unknown.” |

In perusing the writings of Mr. Babbage, one is constantly struck
with the philosophical nature of his mind. His style is not only preg-
nant with thought, but, like Montaigne’s, is perpetually shaping itself
into apothegms. “Men,” he writes, when managing an election contest,
“will always give themselves tenfold more trouble to crush a man
obnoxious to their hatred, than they will take to serve their most
favored ally.”

Again, speaking of Dr. Lardner, who had candidly admitted that
some of those doctrines he had once supported further information had
shown him were erroneous, our author says, “ Nothing is more injurious
to the progress of truth than to reproach any man who honestly admits
he has been in error.”

In order to put down street organ-grinders, with whom he had life-
long quarrels, he proposes to himself to act upon this principle: “to make
it more unprofitable to the offender to do the wrong than the right.”

‘‘It requires considerable training to become an accurate witness of
facts. No two persons, however well trained, ever express in the same
form of words the series of facts they have both observed.”

‘“‘Qnee, at a large dinner party, Mr. Rogers, author of ‘Italy’ and
other poems, was speaking of an inconvenience arising from the custom,
then commencing, of having windows formed of one large sheet of glass.
He said that a short time ago he sat at dinner with his back to one of
these single panes of plate-glass ; it appeared to him that the window was
wide open, and such was the force of the imagination that he actually
caught cold. ;

‘“‘It so happened that I was sitting just opposite to the poet. Hear-
ing this remark, L immediately said, Dear me, how odd itis, Mr. Rogers,
CHARLES BABBAGE. 179

that you and I should make such a very different use of the faculty of
imagination. When I go to the house ofa friend in the country and
unexpectedly remain for the night, having no night-cap I should natu-
rally catch cold. But by tying a piece of pack-thread tightly round my
head, I go to sleep imagining that I have a night cap on; consequently I
catch no cold at all.”

‘“T was once asked by an astute and sarcastic magistrate, whether I
seriously believed that a man’s brain would be injured by listening to an
organ. My reply was, Certainly not, for the obvious reason that no man
having brains ever listened to street musicians.”

These fragmentary quotations, however, scarcely do Mr. Babbage
justice. Let us allow him to tell one of the many experiences of his life
in his own way.

Under the head of “ Hints for travelers,” in his ‘‘ Passages from the
life of a philosopher,” Mr. Babbage says:

“A man may, without being a proficient in any science, often make
himself useful to those who are most instructed. However limited the
path he may himself pursue, he will insensibly acquire other informa-
tion in return for that which he can communicate. I will illustrate this
by one of my own pursuits. I possess the smallest possible acquaint-
ance with the vast fields of animal life, but at an early period I was
struck by the numerical regularity of the pulsations and the breathings.
It appeared to me that there must exist some relation between these two
functions. Accordingly I took every opportunity of counting the num-
bers of the pulsations and the breathings of various animals. The pig
fair at Pavia and the book fair at Leipsic equally placed before me
menageries in which I could collect such facts. Every zoological collec-
tion of animals which I visited thus became to me a source of facts
relating to that subject. This led me at another period to generalize the
subject of inquiry, and to print a skeleton form for the constants of the
class mammalia. It was reprinted by the British Association at Cam-
bridge in 1833, and also at Brussels in the Travaux du Congres General
de Statisque in 1853.

“One of the most useful accomplishments for a philosophical traveler
I learned from a workman who taught me how to punch a hole ina
plate of glass. The process is simple. Two center-punches, a hammer,
an ordinary bench-vise, and an old file, are all the tools required. Hav-
ing decided upon the part of the glass, seratch a cross (x) upon the spot
with the point of an old file, turn the glass over and scratch the same
on the other side corresponding. Fix one of the small center-punches
with its point upward in the vise. Let an assistant hold the glass with
its scratched point (x) resting upon the point of the punch. Take the
other punch, place its point in the center of the upper scratch, hit it
very slightly twice or thrice, turn the glass two or three times, repeat-
ing the slight blows, and the hole is formed.

‘‘ The principles of this are, that glass is a material breaking in every
130 CHARLES BABBAGE.

direction with a conchoidal fracture, and that the vibrations which would
have caused cracking are checked by the support of the fixed center-
punch.

“In the year 1825, during a visit to Devonport, I had apartments in
the house of a glazier, of whom I inquired one day if he knew this
secret. He answered that he did not, and expressed great curiosity to
see it done. Finding that at a short distance there was a blacksmith,
we went to his shop, and selecting from his rough tools the center-
punches and the hammer, I executed the whole process.

‘“On the eve of my departure I asked for my landlord’s account, which
was sent up correct except the omission of charge for apartments. I
added the eight guineas for my lodgings; and the next morning, having
placed the total amount upon the bill, I sent for my host in order to pay
him, remarking that he had omitted the principal article of his account,
which I had inserted.

“He replied that he had intentionally omitted the lodgings, as he
could not think of taking payment for them from a gentleman who had
done him so great service. Quite unconscious of having rendered him
any service, | asked him to explain. He replied that he had the con-
tract for the supply and repair of the lamps of Devonport, and that the
art in which I had instructed him would save him more than twenty
pounds a year. I found some difficulty in prevailing on my grateful
landlord to accept what was justly his due.”

Seareely at the risk of being tedious—which no passages in the life
of this extraordinary man can ever be—but at the greater risk of space
which must be devoted to his contributions to knowledge, we cannot
forbear a single quotation further, which, like a dash from the brush of
Rubens, depicts the multifariousness of his character: ’

“While I was preparing materials for the ‘Economy of manufac-
tures,” he writes, “‘I had occasion frequently to travel through our
mining and manufacturing districts. On these occasions I found the
travelers’ inn or travelers’ room was usually the best adapted to my pur-
pose, both in regard to economy and to information. As my inquiries
had a wide range, I found ample assistance in carrying them on. No-
body doubted that I was one of the craft; but opinions were widely dif-
ferent as to the department in which I practiced my vocation.

‘¢In one of my tours I passed a very agreeable week at the Commer-
cial Hotel in Sheffield. One evening we sat up after supper much later
than is usual, discussing a variety of commercial subjects.

‘¢ When I came down rather late to breakfast I found only one of my
acquaintances of the previous evening remaining. He remarked that
we had had a very agreeable party last night, to which I assented. He
referred to the intelligent remarks of some of our party, and then added
that when I left them they began to talk about me. I merely added
that I felt quite safe in their hands, but should be glad to profit by their
remarks. It appeared, when I retired for the night, that they debated —
CHARLES BABBAGE. 181

about what trade I traveled: for. ‘The tall gentleman in the corner,
said my informant, ‘maintained that you were in the hardware line,
while the fat gentleman, who sat next you at supper, was quite sure
that you were in the spirit trade. Another of the party declared that
they were both mistaken; he said he had met you before, and that you
were traveling for a great iron-master’ ‘Well,’ said I, ‘you, I presume,
knew my vocation better than our friends.’ ‘Yes,’ said my informant,
‘I knew perfectly well that you were in the Nottingham lace trade!’”

In the year 1828 Mr. Babbage was nominated to the Lucasian pro-
‘fessorship of mathematics in his old university, occupying in that ca-
pacity a chair which had once been held by no less a man than Sir Isaae
Newton. This chair he held during eleven years. It was while holding
this professorship, at the general election of November, 1832, which fol-
lowed on the passage of the first reform bill, that he was put forward
as a candidate for the representation of Finsbury in Parliament. He
stood in the advanced liberal interest as a supporter not only of par-
liamentary, financial, and fiscal reform, but of the ballot, triennial par-
laments, and the abolition of all sinecure posts and offices. But the
electors did not care to choose a philosopher; so he was unsuccessful,
and never again wooed the suffrages of any constituency.

Mr. Babbage was the author of published works to the extent of some
eighty papers. A full list of these, however, would not interest or edify
the reader. Perhaps the best known of them all is what he styled the
Ninth Bridgewater Treatise, (which it was not,) a work designed at once
to refute the doctrine, supposed to be implied in the first volume of that
learned series, that an ardent devotion to mathematical studies is un-
favorable to a real religious faith ; and also to adduce specimens of the
defensive aid which the science of numbers may give to the evidences
of Christianity, if that science be studied in a proper spirit. As com-
pared with the eight treatises written by Chalmers, Whewell, Sir
Charles Bell, Dr. Buckland, and others, so far from discrediting its sup-
posititious name, it has probably been more generally read than any
work of the series.

Mr. Babbage’s contributions to political economy were both incidental
and direct. The tendency of his mind, upon whatever it was engaged,
was toward the practical. Thereis scarcely one of his works—nay, there
is hardly one of the various employments in which he engaged himself
with his whole soul during his long life—that in its ultimate reach does
not lay hold of the industrial condition of mankind. Keen in investiga-
tion, acute in analysis, subtle in detection of error, and pre-eminently
logical mm conclusions, no matter how purely intellegtual may be the
laboratory of his workings, the experiments he makes and the outlooks
in which he indulges have for their end invariably the material benefit
of the working classes. Whether it be the solution of “ problems relat-
ing to the calculus of functions” or relating to the “knight’s move in
chess;” whether the ‘‘ determination of the general term of a pew class
182 CHARLES BABBAGE.

of infinite series” or the “‘ application of machinery to the computation
of mathematical tables,” the “‘measurement of heights” or the “improve-
ments of diving-bells,” “ proportion of letters occurring in various lan-
guages” or “observations on the Temple of Serapis,” “thoughts on
the principles of taxation” or “statistics of light-houses,” his purpose
in every essay is practical good. He enlivens the dry subject of politi-
cal economy by the most interesting and pertinent anecdotes; draws the
attention of engine-drivers and stokers to his abstruse discussions of
curves and gauges on railways by maxims and rules that are of constant
use; discusses the subject of Greenwich time-signals with a variety of
illustrations that makes it attractive to every ship-master; mingles his
philosophical theories on occulting lights with narratives of observations
and experiences that amuse and instruct the most ordinary minds; and
treats the vexed question of glaciers with a liveliness and perspicuity
which interest if they do not convince.

The reader will judge whether we have overestimated or misunder-
stood the real characteristics of Mr. Babbage’s mind from the examples
we now propose to give from some of his contributions to knowledge.

Mr. Babbage was one of the oldest members of the Royal Society at ”
the time of his death in October of last year. He was also, more than
half a century ago, one of the founders of the Astronomical Society, and
he and Sir John Herschel were the last survivors of those founders. He
was also an active and zealous member of many of the leading learned
societies of London and Edinburg, and, in former years at least, an ex-
tensive contributor to their published transactions. His last important
publication was the amusing and only too characteristic autobiographi-
cal work from which we have freely quoted—“‘ Passages from the Life of
a Philosopher.”

There were methods of action—qualities they might perhaps be more
properly called—in the mind of Charles Babbage that recall to the
philosophical peruser of his works in the exact sciences traits not dis-
similar in kind, however distinct in degree, to those possessed by that
most original of all thinkers, Sir Isaac Newton. He possessed in com-
mon with Newton extraordinary powers of intellectual introversion.
What he desired to accomplish he thought owt. His mind, like a pho-
tographie plate, was cleansed by a continued force of will to think
rightly, and when cleansed received its impressions from the light of
truth. Not only his contributions to knowledge and his complex and
intricate caleculating-machines, but the scores of lesser inventions which
he produced from time to time, are illustrative of this. Like Newton,
he first pondered his facts, illuminated them by persistent thought, and
then proceeded to the principles on which these facts depend.

Pestalozzi, the Italian philanthropist, after a long life spent in works
of benevolence, came at last to the conclusion that no man could be
much helped or hindered by any one but himself. The remark is appli-
cable to Charles Babbage more than to most persons. He both made
CHARLES BABBAGE. 183

and marred his own fortune. There was not a place which he ever
sought (the Lucasian chair he did not seek) that he gained. He aspired
to the professorship of mathematics at the East India College at Har-
leyburgh; to Playfair’s chair at Edinburgh; to aseat at the Board of Lon-
-gitude; to the mastership of the mint; and to the office of registrar-gen-
eral of births and deaths—and failed in all. On the other hand, there
was not an invention connected with his name—and in mathematical
mechanics he ranks among the foremost the world ever produced—which,
in the opinion of the best-disciplined minds of his day, he could not
have perfected had sufficient pecuniary means been at his command.
Unfortunately, he measured everything by his own unaided impressions, -
and judged himself by others instead of judging others by himself. To
rest all claim to greatness on self-assertion rather than self-denial, though
it may have made the heroes of the classic ages, cannot but be a grave
fault in the conduct of any modern life. Still, he bore his disappoint-
ments bravely, possessed his intellect undimmed up to the verge of his
fourth-score year, made his old age a lesson—not unwisely at any time
enforced—of the philosophy with which the rest of death may be awaited,
and was to the last ready to contemplate calmly in his own case what
arose to the thought of Antony—

Ihave been sitting longer at life’s feast
Than does me good. I will arise and go.

Extracts from a notice of Charles Babbage, by A. Quetelet, of Brussels, translated
from the ‘‘Annuaire de ’Observatoire royal de Bruxelles” for 1873.

Babbage says, in his passage from the Life of a Philosopher, ‘“ From
my earliest years I had a great desire to inquire into the causes of all
things and events which astonish the childish mind. At a later period
I commenced the still more important inquiry into those laws of thought
and those aids which assist the human mind in passing from received
knowledge to that other knowledge then unknown to our race.” These
few lines express sufficiently well the character of the distinguished
savant whose career we shall endeavor rapidly to sketch. Notwith-
Standing his own ardent desire to inquire into everything which could
interest himself, our author never seems to have dreamed of informing
others as to his exact age. According to his friends, he was born in
1792, and was consequently about 80 at the time of his death.

He did not begin seriously the study of mathematics until. after
the age of 22, when he was with his friend Herschel at Trinity College,,
Cambridge. They soon after published a joint work on mathematics,
which did much toward introducing the continental methods and nota-
tion of this science into England. Fourteen years after this, while Mr.
Babbage was in Rome, he accidentally read in an English newspaper the:
following paragraph: ‘“ Yesterday the bells of St. Mary rang out a peal
184 CHARLES BABBAGE.

to celebrate the election of Charles Babbage as Lucasian professor of
mathematics at Cambridge;” or, in other words, his appointment to the
chair formerly occupied by Newton.

it was in Paris, in 1826, at a dinner given by Bouvard, the astronomer,
that I had an opportunity to become acquainted with Babbage. There
were at the same time present Poisson and several other of the scientists
‘who then made Paris illustrious, with all of whom he was a center of
interest. He, with truly fraternal kindness, offered me his assistance in
procuring from the English mechanicians, among whom was the cele-
brated Troughton, the instruments for the Belgian observatory. Healso
proposed my co-operation in a work which he had projected which was
to contain a register of everything capable of being measured, such as
the specific gravity of bodies; the linear expansion of metals; their
weight; the size of animals; the quantity of air they breathe; the
nourishment they need, &v. ‘The extent of this work,” I said, “is too
vast to be carried out unless by the co-operation of many minds. The
outline of what may be necessary for man alone is so great that with the
help of many friends I could not hope to complete more .than a skeleton
of the whole.” The reply was that time is an element of solution which
overcomes the greatest difficulties of investigation; and if our efforts
are properly directed our descendents will finish what we have properly
begun.

Nothwithstanding his immense labor connected with the caleulating-
machine, Babbage, in April, 1835, turned his attention to assist his
friend Herschel, then at the Cape of Good Hope, in carrying out over
the whole world, on certain days, a system of meteorological observa-
tions. These days, which were called term-days, were the 21st of
December, 21st of March, 21st of June, and 2ist of September. At
these times continued observations were to be made at every hour,
commencing at noon on the days above mentioned and terminating the
next day at the same hour. These observations, in the introduction of
which Mr. Babbage took an active part, were continued in Europe,
America, India, and Afriea, and led finally to the establishment of the
various systems of simultaneous weather-reports of the present day.

While I was in London, in 1851, at the great exhibition of indus-
trial products, Babbage made me acquainted with Lord Lovelace, a
gentleman of great ability and high reputation, who had married the
cherished daughter of Lord Byron. This charming lady, remarkable
for her beauty and personal accomplishments, and noted for her in-
tellectual powers, had published a translation of an Italian account of
the calculating-machine. She received me very graciously, and urged
Mr. Babbage and myself # visit her frequently for conversation on
literary and scientific subjects, with which she was familiar. She was
especially interested in the calculus of probabilities, and so far did we
carry our discussions on this point that it was agreed’that we should
CHARLES BABBAGE. 185

compose and publish a joint work on this subject. Unfortunately, the
plan was prevented from being carried out by the premature death of
this interesting lady.
T owe it to the friendship which long united me with Mr. Babbage to
having seen in London, on several occasions and in the greatest detail,
-all the parts of the calculating-machine, and to having been able to
form for myself a just conception of a labor of which I had often heard
but of which very few people knew the particulars. The machine is
certainly very complicated, and extreme attention is needed to follow
the action of its different parts; hence, I shall not attempt to give a
description of it, which would unquestionably fill quite a considerable
volume if we paid respect to the ideas of the inventor, to the extreme
perfection of the mechanical workmanship, and to all the mathematical
calculations which the machine can perform.

- Researches into statistics also claimed the attention of Babbage, and
he was personally instrumental in adding to the committees of the Brit-
ish Association one on this subject. The attention of the committee on
statistics was first turned to the need of exact documents in regard to”
population, a want much felt in England, especially as to everything
relative to births, deaths, &c. Meetings were afterward held in Lon-
don of persons interested in the subject of statistics, in which Mr. Bab-
bage took an active part, and to which I was admitted. They exam-
ined, among other questions, that of the labor imposed upon children in
manufacturies. The following questions were propounded to me in
regard to Belgium, which I transmitted to the minister of the interior,
who promised to have collected the necessary data for a satisfactory
reply. The honorable savants asked—

‘“The number of births produced by each marriage during its entire
length ;

‘““The proportional number of children who reach the period of mar-
riage ;

“ The number of children living by each marriage ;

‘The salaries paid in manufacturies and agriculture in different prov-
inces, especially the price of an average day’s labor in agriculture ;

“The quantity of wheat which such a day’s pay can procure in ordi-
nary times; .

‘Phe mean price of different kinds of grain ;

“The habitual food of the day-laborer ;

‘¢ The proportional number of sterile marriages ;

‘The proportional number of marriages having five or six children
living.”

As an instance of our friend’s singular disposition to enter upon in-
vestigations of the most out-of the-way character, I may mention that
for a time he lost sight of the profound speculations of political economy,
and busied himself with the question as to how many times any letter
186 CHARLES BABBAGE.

in different languages doubles itself in 10,000 words. The following
table gives the result which he obtained :

Number of times different letters are doubled in ten thousand words.

Letters. English. | French. | Italian. |German.| Latin.

[In regard to the question of what use is this, we would remark that:
this question is never asked by the student of nature; since every item of
knowledge is.connected in some way with all other knowledge. Noth-
ing can be said to be useless which tends to exhibit new relations, and
indeed it is impossible to say a priori that a given fact may not find an
application even in practice, however remote it may seem from anything
of this kind. The results given in the foregoing investigation may be
of importance in determining the casting of double types. The number
of occurrences of a given letter in 10,000 words of any language deter-
mines the number of types of that letter in a font.—J. H.]

Our physicist always took care, in traveling, to carry with him those
instruments which would enable him to carry on some investigations.
He was essentially a man of experiment. He held that the eye and the
ear were great aids to the judgment, and a demonstration never seemed
to him complete until he knew how to render it evident to the sense and
the reason. Toward the end of his life his vivacity was considerably
- moderated, and the mortification which he felt on account of not being

able to complete his calculating-machine, and the loss of fends, cast a
shadow over his latter days.

[I had myself the pleasure to make the acquaintance of Mr. Babbage
in 1837, while he was in the zenith of his mental power, and to witness
the operation of his first caleulating-machine. I again visited him in
1870, after an interval of just one-third of a century. I found him in the
CHARLES BABBAGE. 187

same house, still interested in the calculating-machine, with apparently

_but little diminution of mental activity. He informed me that he felt
himself gradually declining ; that he endeavored to note the change in
himself; that he found it difficult to enter upon new subjects of thought,
but that he could reason and mentally act on materials already in his
mind in the way of new computations and new deductions. He regret-
ted the loss of memory, since with it was the loss of personal identity.—
J. H.]

[Extract from writings of Charles Babbage. ]
OF OBSERVATIONS.

There are several reflections connected withthe art of making obser-
vations and experiments, which may be conveniently arranged in this
chapter.

Of Minute Precision.

No person will deny that the highest degree of attainable accuracy is
an object to be desired, and it is generally found that the last advances
toward precision require a greater devotion of time, labor, and expense
than those which precede them. The first steps in the path of discov-
ery and the first approximate measures are those which add most to
the existing knowledge of mankind.

The extreme accuracy required in some of our modern inquiries has,
in some respects, had an unfortunate influence by favoring the opinion
that no experiments are valuable unless the measures are most minute
and the accordance among them most perfect. It may, perhaps, be of
some use to show that even with large instruments and most practiced
observers this is but rarely the case. The following extract is taken
from a representation made by the present astronomer-royal to the
council of the Royal Society, on the advantages to be derived from the
employment of two mural circles:

“That by observing, with two instruments, the same objects at the
same time, and in the same manner, we should be able to estimate how
much of that occasional discordance from the mean, which atiends even
the most careful observations, ought to be attributed to irregularity of
refraction, and how much to the imperfections of instruments.”

In confirmation of this may be adduced the opinion of the late M.
Delambre, which is the more important, from the statement it contains
relative to.the necessity of publishing all the observations which have
been made:

‘Mais quelque soit le parti que l’on préfére, il me semble qu’on doit
tout publier. Ces irregularités mémes sont des faits qu’il importe de
connoitre. Les soins les plus attentifs nen sauroient préserver les observa-
teurs les plus exercés, et celui qui ne produiroit que des angles toujours
parfaitement @accord auroit été singuliérement bien servi par les circon-
stances ou ne seroit pas bien sincére.”—Base de Syst¢éme métrique, dis-
cours préliminaire, p. 158.
188 CHARLES BABBAGE.

- This desire for extreme accuracy has called away the attention of ex-
perimenters from points of far greater importance, and it seems to have
been too much overlooked in the present day that genius marks its
track, not by the observation of quantities inappreciable to any but the
acutest senses, but by placing Nature in such circumstances that she is
forced to record her minutest variations on so magnified a scale that an
observer, possessing ordinary faculties, shall find them legibly written.
He who can see portions of matter beyond the ken of the rest of his
species confers an obligation on them by recording what he sees; but
their knowledge depends both on his testimony and on his judgment.
He who contrives a method of rendering such atoms visible to ordinary
observers communicates to mankind an instrument of discovery, and
stamps his own observations with a character alike independent of tes-
timony or of judgment. —

On the Art of Observing.

The remarks in this section are not proposed for the assistance of those
who are already observers, but are intended to show to persons not
familiar with the subject that, in observations demanding no unrivaled
accuracy, the principles of common sense may be safely trusted, and
that any gentleman of liberal education may, by perseverance and atten-
tion, ascertain the limits within which he may trust both his instrument
and himself.

If the instrument is a divided one, the first thing is to learn to read
the verniers. If the divisions are so fine that the coincidence is fre-
quently doubtful, the best plan will be for the learner to get some ac-
quaintance who is skilled in the use of instruments, and, having set the
instrument at hazard, to write down the readings of the verniers, and
then request his friend todo the same. Whenever there is any difference,
he should carefully examine the doubtful one, and ask his friend to point
out the minute peculiarities on which he founds his decision. This
should be repeated frequently, and, after some practice, he should note
how many times in a hundred his reading differs from his friend’s, and
also how many divisions they usually differ.

The next point is, to ascertain the precision with which the learner
can bisect an object with the wires of the telescope. This can be done
without assistanee. It is not necessary even to adjust the instrument,
but merely to point it at a distant object. When it bisects any remark-
able point, read off the verniers, and write down the result;*then dis-
place the telescope alittle and adjustitagain. A series of such observa-
tions will show the confidence which is due to the observer's eye in bisect-
ing an object, and also in reading the verniers; and as the first direc-
tion gave him some measure of the latter, he may, in a great measure,
appreciate his skill in the former. He should also, when he finds a de-
viation in the reading, return to the telescope and satisfy himself if ke
has made the bisection as complete as he can. In general, the student
CHARLES BABBAGE. 189

should practice each adjustment separately, and write down the results
wherever he can measure its deviations.

Having thus practiced the adjustments, the next step is to make an
observation. But in order to try both himself and the instrument, let
him take the altitude of some fixed object, a terrestrial one, and baving
registered the result, let him derange the adjustment, and repeat the
process fifty or a hundred times. This will not merely afford him
excellent practice, but enable him to judge of his own skill.

The first step in the use of every instrument is to find the limits in
which its employer can measure the same object under the same circum-
stances, and, after that, of different objects under different circumstances.

The principles are applicable to almost all instruments. If a person
is desirous of ascertaining heights by a mountain-barometer, let him be-—
gin by adjusting the instrument in his own study, and, having made the
upper contact, let him write down the reading of the vernier, and then let
him derange the upper adjustment only, re-adjust, and repeat the reading.
When he is satisfied about the limits within which he can make that
adjustment, let him do the same repeatedly with the lower, but let him
not, until he knows his own errors in reading and adjusting, pronounce
upon thoseof the instrument. In the case of a barometer, he must also
be assured that the temperature of the mercury does not change during
the interval.

A friend once brought me a beautifully-constructed piece of mechan-
ism for marking minute portions of time; the three hundredth part of
a second was indicated by it. It was a kind of watch, with a pin for
stopping one of the hands. I proposed that we should each endeavor
to stop it twenty times in succession at the same point. We were both
equally unpracticed, and our first endeavors showed that we could not
be confident of the twentieth part of a secénd. In fact, both the time
occupied in causing the extremities of the fingers to ebey the volition,
as well as the time employed in compressing the flesh before the fingers
acted on the stop, appeared to influence the accuracy of our observa-
tions. From some few experiments I made I thought I perceived that
the rapidity of the transmission of the effects of the will depended on
the state of fatigue or health of the body. If any one were to make ex-
periments on this subject, it might be interesting to compare the rapidity
of the transmission of volition in different persons with the time occu-
pied in obliterating an impression made on one of the senses of the
Same persons. For example, by having a mechanism to make a piece
of ignited charcoal revolve with different degrees of velocity, some
persons will perceive a continuous cirele of ligbt before others, whose
retina does not retain so long impressions that are made upon it.

On the Frauds of Observers.

Scientific inquiries are more exposed than most others to the inroads
of pretenders; and I feel that I shall deserve the thanks of all who
190 CHARLES BABBAGE.

really value truth, by stating some of the methods of deceiving prac-
ticed by unworthy claimants for its honors, while the mere circum-
stance of their arts being known may deter future offenders.

There are several species of impositions that have been practiced in
science; which are but little known, except to the initiated, and which it
may, perhaps, be possible to render quite intelligible to ordinary under-
standings. These may be classed under the heads of hoaxing, forging,
trimming, and cooking.

Of Hoaxing.—This, perhaps, will be better explained by an example.
In the year 1783, M. Gioeni, a knight of Malta, published at Naples an
account of anew family of Testacea, of which he described with great
minuteness one species, the specific name of which has been taken from
its habitat, and the generic he took from his own family, calling it Gioe-
nia sicula. It consisted of two round triangular valves, united by the
body of the animal to a smaller valve in front. He gave figures of
the animal, and of its parts; described its structure, its mode of ad-
vancing along the sand, the figure of the track it left, and estimated
the velocity of its course at about two-thirds of an inch per minute.
He then described the structure of the shell, which he treated with
nitric acid and found it approached nearer to the nature of bone than |
any other shell.

The editors of the Encyclopédie méthodique have copied this deserip-
tion and have given figures of the Gioenia sicula. The tact, however,
is, that no such animal exists, but that the knight of Malta, finding on
the Sicilian shores the three internal bones of one of the species of Bulla,
of which some are found on the southwestern coast of England,*
described and figured these bones most accurately, and drew the whole
of the rest of the deseription from the stores of his own imagination.

Such frauds are far from4ustifiable; the only excuse which has been
made for them is, when they have been practiced on scientific academies
which had reached the period of dotage.

It should, however, be remembered that the productions of nature are
so various that mere strangenesst is very far from sufficient to render
doubtful the existence of any creature for which there is evidence; and
that, unless the memoir itself involves principles so contradictory ¢ as to
outweigh the evidence of a single witness, it can only be regarded as a
deception without the accompaniment of wit.

Forging ditfers from hoaxing, inasmuch as in the latter the deceit is
intended to last for a time, and then be discovered to the ridicule of

*Bulla lignaria.

tThe number of vertebre in the neck of the Plesiosaurus is astrange but ascertained
fact.

t The kind of contradiction which is here alluded to is that which arises from well-
ascertained final causes; for instance, the ruminating stomach of the hoofed animals is
in no case combined with the claw-shaped form of the extremities, frequent in many
of the carnivorous animals, and necessary to some of them for the purpose of seizing ~
their prey.
CHARLES BABBAGE. 191

those who have credited it; whereas the forger is one who, wishing to
acquire a reputation for science, records observations which he has never
made. This is sometimes accomplished in astronomical observations
by calculating the time and circumstances of the phenomenon from
tables. The observations of the second comet of 1784, which was only
seen by the Chevalier d’Angos, were long suspected to be a forgery, and
were at length proved to be so by the calculations and reasoning of
Encke. The pretended observations did not accord among each other
in giving any possible orbit. But M. Encke detected an orbit, belong-
ing to some of the observations, from which he found that all the rest
might be almost precisely deduced, provided a mistake of a unit in the
index of the logarithm of the radius vector were supposed to have been
made in all the rest of the calculations. (Zach. Corr. Astron., tom.
iv, p. 456.)
_ Fortunately, instances of the occurrence of forging are rare.

Trimming consists in clipping off little bits here and there from those
observations which differ most in excess from the mean, and in sticking
them on to those which are too small; a species of “equitable adjust-
‘inent,” as a radical would term it, which cannot be admitted in science.

This fraud is not, perhaps, so injurious (except to the character of the
trimmer) as cooking, which the next paragraph will teach. The reason
of this is, that the average given by the observations of the trimmer is
the same, whether they are trimmed or untrimmed. His object is to
gain a reputation for extreme accuracy in making observations; but
from respect for truth, or from a prudent foresight, he does not distort
the position of the fact he gets from nature, and it is usually difficult to
detect him. He has more sense or less adventure than the cook.

Of Cooking.—This is an art of various forms, the object of which is
to give to ordinary observations the appearance and character of those
of the highest degree of accuracy.

One of its numerous processes is to make multitudes of observations,
and out of these to select those only which agree or very nearly agree.
If a hundred observations are made, the cook must be very unlucky if
he cannot pick out fifteen or twenty which will do for serving up.

Another approved receipt, when the observations to be used will not
come within the limit of accuracy which it has been resolved they shall
possess, is to calculate them by two different formulas. The difference
in the constants employed in those formulas has sometimes a most
happy effect in promoting unanimity among discordant measures. If
still greater accuracy is required, three or more formulas can be used.

It must be admitted that this receipt is in some instances most
hazardous; but in the cases where the positions of stars, as given in
different catalogues, occur, or different tables of specific gravities, spe-
cific heats, &c., it may safely be employed. As no catalogue con-
tains all stars, the computer must have recourse to several; and if heis
obliged to use his judgment in the selection, it would be cruel to deny
192 CHARLES BABBAGE.

him any little advantage which might result from it. It may, however,
be necessary to guard against one mistake into which persons might
fall.

If an observer calculate particular stars from a catalogue which
makes-them accord precisely with the rest of his results, whereas had
they been computed from other catalogues the difference would have
been considerable, it is very unfair to accuse him of cooking ; for those
catalogues may have been notoriously inaccurate, or they may have
been superseded by others more recent, or made with better instru-
ments; or the observer may have been totally ignorant of their exist-
ence. .

It sometimes happens that constant quantities in formulas given by
the highest authorities, although they differ among themselves, yet
they will not suit the materials. This is precisely the point in which
the sxill of the artist is shown; and an accomplished cook will carry
himself triumphantly through it, provided, happily, some mean value
of such constants will fit his observations. He will discuss the relative
merits of formulas he has just knowledge enough to use; and, with
admirable candor, assigning their proper share of applause to Bessel,
to Gauss, and to Laplace, he will take that mean value of the constant
used by three such philosophers which will make his own observations
accord to a miracle.

There are some few reflections I would venture to suggest to those
who cook, although they may not receive the attention which, in my
opinion, they deserve, from not coming from the pen of an adept.

In the first place, it must require much time to try different formulas.
In the next place, it may happen that, in the progress of human knowl-
edge, more correct formulas may be discovered, and constants may be
determined with far greater precision. Or it may be found that some
physical circumstance influences the results, (although unsuspected at
the time,) the measure of which circumstance may perhaps be recovered
from other contemporary registers of facts.* Or, if the selection of
observations has been made with the view of its agreeing precisely with
the latest determination, there is some little danger that the average of
the whole may differ from that of the chosen ones, owing to some law of
nature dependent on the interval between the two sets, which law some
future philosopher may discover; and thus the very best observations
may have been thrown aside.

In all these, and in numerous other cases, it would most probably hap- _
pen that the cook would procure a temporary reputation for unrivaled
accuracy at the expense of his permanentfame. It might also have the
effect of rendering even all his crude observations of no value; for that
part of the scientific world whose opinion is of most weight is generally
so unreasonable as to neglect altogether the observations of those in

* Imagine, by way of example, the state of the barometer or thermometer.
CHARLES BABBAGE. 193

whom they have, on any occasion, discovered traces of the artist. In
fact, the character of an observer, as of a woman, if doubted, is destroyed.

The manner in which facts apparently lost are restored to light, even
after considerable intervals of time, is sometimes very unexpected, and
a few examples may not be without their use. The thermometers
employed by the philosophers who composed the Accademia del Cimento
have been lost; and as they did not use the two fixed points of freezing
and boiling water, the results of a great mass of observations have
remained useless from our ignorance of the value of a degree on their
instruments. M. Libri, of Florence, proposed to regain this knowledge
by comparing their registers of the temperature of the human body and
of that of some warm springs in Tuscany which have preserved their
heat uniform during a century, as well as of other things similarly cir-
cumstanced.

Another iliustration was pointed out to me by M. Gazzeri, the pro-
fessor of chemistry at Florence. A few years ago an important suit in
one of the legal courts of Tuscany depended on ascertaining whether a
certain word had been erased by some chemical process from a deed then
before the court. The party who insisted that an erasure had been made
availed themselves of the knowledge of M. Gazzeri, who, concluding that
those who committed the fraud would be satisfied by the disappearance
of the coloring matter of the ink, suspected (either from some colorless
matter remaining in the letters, or perhaps from the agency of the sol-
vent having weakened the fabric of the paper itself beneath the supposed
letters) that the effect of the slow application of heat would be to render
some difference of texture or of applied substance evident by some
variety in the shade of color which heat in such circumstances might be
expected to produce. Permission having been given to try the experi-
ment, on the application of heat the important word re-appeared, to the
great satisfaction of the court.

[One of the most noted deceptions of this kind was that called the moon
hoax, published in New York about thirty years ago, which purported to
beaseries of discoveries made in the moon by Sir John Herschel during
his residence at the Cape of Good Hope. These discoveries were said to
be the result of a great improvement in the telescope. It is well known
that, with a given-sized object-glass, the power of this instrument is
limited by the degree to which the image in the focus of the glass can
be magnified; the light remaining the same, the more the size of the
image is increased the darker it becomes. The alleged improvement
consisted in the illumination of this image by artificial light. By the
application of this idea, the telescope employed by the astronomer at the
Cape of Good Hope admitted of an eye-glass of such magnifying power
that moving objects on the surface of the moon were observable, and
men and animals of remarkable forms were actually discovered.

It is astonishing the effect which the annunciation of these discoveries

Pac auce’. Instead of detecting at once the scientific absurdity of illu-
S
194 CHARLES BABBAGE.

minating a shadow in order that it might be more highly magnified,
many persons, even professors in colleges, gave the announcement
credence, and thus added to the popularity of the hoax. This fraud
owed its success, in a great measure, to a want, at the time, of precise
scientific knowledge in this country, and after the absurdity was pointed
out the invention was cried up as a most extraordinary production, since
those who had been hoaxed by it attributed their credulity to the inge-
nuity of the deception rather than to their own want of knowledge.

The success of this hoax has had an exceedingly bad influence on the
character of our country for veracity. It was followed immediately
after, and has been even down to the present time, by a series of con-
temptible imitations; and, indeed, to such an extent was this imitation
carried on a few years ago, that scarcely any announcement of phe-
nomena of unusual occurrence could be accepted as truth. Among
these imitations within a few years, the most successful, and one which
evinced considerable reading as well as ingenuity, was that of the
pretended discovery of a series cf Runic inscriptions on the face of a
rock in the Potomac River near Washington. This was the invention
of a young student of law in this city, and excited quite a sensation
among the archeologists of this and other countries. It was copied in
various ethnological journals as a truth, and was hailed by the Scandi-
navians aS a new evidence of the early explorations of the Northmen
in the United States.

Such inventions must be classed with those practical jokes which have
been happily termed “‘ gymnastic wit,” of which a notable example was
given in England, where a “society” was founded for “insulting women
and frightening children.” The chronicler naively remarks that the
members were never discovered, and, what is just as remarkable, the
wit was equallya mystery. “Truth,” says Dr. Johnson, ‘‘is a matter of
too much importance to be tampered with, even in trifles.’—J. H.]

On the Permanent Impression of our Words and Actions on the Globe we
inhabit.

The principle of the equality of action and reaction, when traced
through all its consequences, opens views which will appear to many
persons most unexpected. The pulsations of the air, once set in motion
by the human voice, cease not to exist with the sounds to which they
gave rise. Strong and audible as they may be in the immediate neigh- ~
borhood of the speaker, and at theimmediate moment of utterance, their
quickly-attenuated force soon becomes inaudible to the human ears.
The motions they have impressed on the particles of one portion of our
atmosphere are communicated to constantly-increasing numbers, bur
the total quantity of motion measured in the same direction receives no
addition. Each atom loses as much as it gives, and regains again from
other atoms a portion of those motions which they in turn give up.
CHARLES BABBAGE. - LOB

‘Phe waves of air thus raised perambulate the earth and the ocean’s
surface, and in less than twenty hours every atom of its atmosphere
takes up the altered movement due to that infinitesimal portion of the
primitive motion which has been conveyed to it through countless
channels, and which must continue to influence its path throughout its |
future existence.* .

But these aerial pulses, unseen by the keenest eye, unheard by the
acutest ear, unperceived by human senses, are yet demonstrated to
exist by human reason; and, in some few and limited instances, by call-
ing to our aid the most refined and comprehensive instrument of human
thought, their courses are traced and their intensities are measured.
Ifman enjoyed a larger command over mathematical analysis, his know1]-
edge of these motions would be more extensive; but a being possessed
of unbounded knowledge of that science couid trace every the minutest
consequence of that primary impulse. Such a being, however far
exalted above our race, would still be immeasurably below, even our
conception of infinite intelligence.

But supposing the original conditions of each atom of the earth’s
atmosphere, as well as all the extraneous causes acting on it, to be given,
and supposing also the interference of no new causes, such a being
would be able clearly to trace its/future but inevitable path, and he
would distinctly foresee and might absolutely predict for any, even the
remotest period of time,t the circumstances and future history of every
particle of that atmosphere.

Let us imagine a being, invested with such knowledge, to examine at
a distant epoch the coincidence of the facts with those which his pro-
found analysis had enabled him to predict. If any the slightest devia-
tion existed, he would immediately read in its existence the action of a
new vause; and, through the aid of the same analysis, tracing this dis-
cordance back to its souree, he would become aware of the time of its
commencement and the point of space at whica it o1iginated.

Thus considered, what a strange chaos is this wide atmosphere we
breathe! Every atom, impressed with good and with ill, retains at
once the motions which philosophers and sages have imparted to it,
mixed and combined in ten thousand ways with all that is worthless
and base. The air itself is one vast library, on whose pages are forever
written all that man has ever said er woman whispercd. ‘There, in their
mutable but unerring characters, mixed with the earliest as well as with
the latest sighs of mortality, stand forever recorded, vows unredeemed,
promises unfulfilled, perpetuating in the united movements of each
particle, the testimony of man’s changeful will.

But if the air we breathe is the never-failing historian of the sentiments

*“TY.a courbe décrite par une simple molécule d’air ou vapeurs est réelée d’une maniére
aussi certain que les orbites planétaires; il n’y a de différence entre elles que celle
qu’y met notre ignorance.”—La Place, Theorie Analytique des probabilités, introdaction,
p- iv.

tSee note C in the Appendix.
196 - CHARLES BABBAGE.

we have uttered, earth, air and ocean are the eternal witnesses of the
acts we have done. The same principle of the equality of action and
re-action applies to them; whatever movement is communicated to any
of their particles is transmitted to all around it, the share of each being
diminished by their number, and depending jointly on the number and
position of those acted upon by the original sources of disturbance. The
waves of air, although in many instances perceptible to the organs of
hearing, are only rendered visible to the eye by peculiar contrivances ;
but those of water offer to the sense of sight the most beautiful illustra-
tion of transmitted motion. Every one who has thrown a pebble into
the still waters of a sheltered pool has seen the circles it has raised,
gradually expanding in size, and as uniformly diminishing in distinct-
ness. He may have observed the reflection of those waves from the edges
of the pool. He may have noticed also the perfect distinctness with
which two, three, or more series of waves each pursues its own unim-
peded course, when diverging from two, three, or more centers of dis:
turbance. He may have seen, in such cases, the particles of water
where the waves intersect each other partake of the movements due to
each series.

No motion impressed by natural causes or by human agency is ever
obliterated. The ripple on the ocean’s surface, caused by a gentle breeze,
or the still water which marks the more immediate track of a ponderous
vessel gliding with scarcely expanded sails over its bosom, are equally
indelible. The momentary waves raised by the passing breeze, appa-
rently born but to die on the spot which saw their birth, leave behind
them an endless progeny, which, reviving with diminished energy in
other seas, resisting a thousand shores, reflected from each, and per-
haps again partially concentrated, will pursue their ceaseless course till
ocean be itself annihilated. )

The track of every canoe, of every vessel which has yet disturbed the
surface of the ocean, whether impelled by manual force or elemental
power, remains forever registered in the future movement of all suc-
eeeding particles which may occupy its place. The furrow which it
“eft 1s, indeed, instantly filled up by the closing waters ; but they draw
after them other and larger portions of the surrounding element, and
these again once moved communicate motion to others in endless suc
cession.

The solid substance of the globe itself, whether we regard the minutest
movement of the soft clay which receives its impression from the foot of
animals, or the concussion arising from the fall of mountains rent by
earthquakes, equally communicates and retains, through all its count-
less atoms, their apportioned shares of the motions so impressed.

While the atmosphere we breathe is the ever-living witness of the
Sentiments we have uttered, the waters, and the more solid materials
of the globe, bear equally enduring testimony of the acts we have com-
mitted.
CHARLES BABBAGE. 197

If the Almighty stamped on the brow of the earliest murderer the
indelible aud visible mark of his guilt, he has also established laws by
which every succeeding criminal is not less irrevocably chained to the
testimony of his crime; for every atom of his mortal frame, through
whatever changes its several particles may migrate, will still retain,
adhering to it through every combixation, some movement derived from
that very muscular: efiort by which the crime itself was perpetrated.

The soul of the negro whose fettered body, surviving the living char-
nel-house of his infected prison, was thrown into the sea to lighten the
ship, that his Christian captor might escape the limited justice at length
assigned by civilized man to crimes whose profit had long gilded their
atrocity, will need, at the last great day of human account, no living
witness of his earthly agony. When man and all his race shall have
disappeared from the face of our planet, ask every particle of air still
floating over the unpeopled earth, and it will record the cruel mandate
of the tyrant.
LOUIS AGASSIZ,

A DISCOURSE DELIVERED BY REV. RUFUS P. STEBBINS, D. D.,
OF ITHACA, NEW YORK.

Agassiz is dead! Science weeps, and Religion mourns. Nature
has lost a friend, and asks, ‘‘ Who will now read the inscribed Jeaves of
my rocky tablets with such loving enthusiasm? Who will now study
and describe all living things with such sympathetic admiration?”

Agassiz is dead! No more will he walk the gray cliffs of Nahant,
lifted into communion with highest themes by the voice of the ocean’s
anthem! No more will he traverse the coral reefs of Florida to learn
how promontories and islands are built by the tiniest and frailest of living
things! No longer will he visit the high Alps, and measure the velocity
and force of its great rivers of ice, to teach us how the rocks have been
carved on the mountain-tops, and scattered over the valleys! No longer
will he dredge the depths of the ocean to astonish the world with the
living creatures which have their home a thousand fathoms below the
storms! No longer will he examine with kindling enthusiasm the ger-
iinating egg under his microscope, and thrill the scientific world with
delight as he announces some new phenomenon, illustrating some new
method of the divine order! No more will he be seen in his museum, the

pride of his heart, the joy ofhis life! Never again will he visit Penikese,
where, with such ardor he last summer opened his new school to study
living nature and not merely the printed page, and where he, the man
of science, paid such a memorable tribute to religion!* No more shall we
meet that regal form, look into that beaming face, grasp that warm hand,
hear those wise and cheering words! His personal work here is done.
But he has inspired thousands to press after the truth; he has founded
an institution which wiil live after him in ever-increasing efficiency and
usefulness. His praise will be spoken by tongues in all languages, in the
most ancient and renowned universities of the world. Thousands of
hearts will mourn his absence in halls of science before whose as-
semblies of the foremost scholars of two continents he laid the golden
treasures of his researches with the simplicity and joy of a child. How
many of his pupils, whose names are even now high authority, will
forget the stern requirements of the teacher in their admiration of the
man, and their gratitude for the enthusiasm with which he inspired them,
the very accuracy of observation to which he compelled them! Thou-
sands of intelligent citizens will look in vain for those reported lectures,
so transparent in style, so clear in description, which have been a joy and
a revelation to them for the last quarter of a century.

* See “Prayer of Agassiz,” by Whittier.
LOUIS AGASSIZ. 199

Agassiz is dead! Well may the flags of his adopted city fall to half:
mast! Well may the orator pause in the torrent of his argument and
drop a tribute to his memory! Well may the bells of our universities
toll at the hour of his funeral, for he was not of one university but of
all! Well may the academies of science on both continents record his
worth in memorial resolutions, for he was of both continents; nay, of
the world! Im the midst of this wide appreciation of the wonderful
labors and discoveries of Agassiz, this universal showering of tributes
upon his grave, by the learned, the world-renowned; I tremblingly bring
my single leaf to be lost among the pyramids of flowers, of no im-
portance to the grateful pile, but of great importance to the promptin gs,
the demands of my own heart.

Louis John Rudviph Agassiz was born May 28, 1807, in the parish of
Motiier, near Lake Neufchatel, in Switzerland.

And Nature, the dear old nurse, took
The child upon her knee,
Saying, “ Here is a story-book
Thy Father has written for thee.”
“Come, wander with me,” she said,
““Tnto regions yet untrod,
And read what is still unread
In the manuscripts of God.”

He was of Huguenot descent, and his ancestors were driven from France
by the revocation of the edict of Nantes. For six generations his lineal
ancestors had been clergymen. His mother was a woman of uncommon
intelligence, and had special oversight of his early education, and just
pride in hismature fame; and in after life, Agassiz illustrated the depth of
his gratitude and filial love by laying aside his studies, from which noth-
ing else could call him, to make the voyage to Kurope and the journey
to Switzerland, that he might once more receive his mother’s blessing and
give her his own.

At the age of eleven years young Agassiz was sent to school at Bienne
for four years, Where he studied the ancient and modern languages, and
amused himself by observing the habits of fishes and collecting insects.
During his vaeations, spent at his father’s new home under the shadow
of the Jura, by the influences of a young clergyman named Fivaz, he was
first inspired with a love of the natural sciences, and he became inter-
ested in botany. When fifteen years of age, Louis entered college at
Lausanne, where he remained two years, and having determined to
study medicine he went to Zurich when he was seventeen years oid,
where he remained two years. Wishing to avail himself of the best
- educators, he went to Heidelberg when nineteen, devoting himself to
the study of anatomy and physiology and zoology and botany under
such professors as Tiedemann, Leuckart, and Bischoff. But as the uni-
versity at Munich had then been re-organized, with the most eminent
scientists on the continent in its faculty, young Agassiz was attracted
200 LOUIS AGASSIZ.

thither in his twentieth year; for his motto thus early in life seems to

have been, ‘Of instruction, the best; of investigation, perfection.” There

were Oken and Martius and Schelling and Dollinger, each of whom

was an original investigator and discoverer, founder eyen of some_
branches of science. He was received to the intimacy of these eminent

men—a vast advantage, when there is manhood behind acquisitions, and

sense behind genius; otherwise, the sorest misfortune that can befall a

student. There young Agassiz reveled in all the luxuries of original

investigations for four years. His fellow-students were delighted with

the brillianey of his discussions, and he was the inspiring genius of a
select society of young men who were engaged in scientific studies,

which embodied so much talent and made such discoveries that it was

called the Little Academy, and attracted the presence and participation —
of the professors. During these four years he published a few special

papers. But ke at once placed himself in the foremost rank of natural-

ists by his discussion and classification of the fishes of Brazil, to which

work he was assigned by his teacher Martius. It was published in

Latin in folio. This was his first work, his first contribution to natural

science.

Agassiz was now twenty-four years of age. His thirst for the study of
natural science had become so strong that he was diverted from the pro-
fession of medicine which his parents wished him to adopt, and became
an interpreter of nature. He lost thereby the paternal allowance, but
gained mental independence. He took his doctorate of philosophy at
Erlangen with distinction, after an unusually severe examination. He
obtained his degree of doctor of medicine in the same year at Munich,
and maintained in his thesis the superiority of woman to man.

Agassiz was how a graduate with high honors, and with the world
before him as an inheritance—the world full of richest fields to be
explored. For twenty-two years, till his coming to America in 1846, he
gave himself with most unbounded enthusiasm and hereulean labor to
original investigations; spending weeks over his microscope in observing
the changes in the processes of the growth of animal life from the germ to
the mature form; following the courses of rivers and visiting the different
basins of Europe to determine the distribution of its fishes; traversing
the lake-shores and mountains of Switzerland to learn the causes of the
erosion of the rocks and the transportation of the bowlders; visiting
England and Scotland to compare the insular with the continental phe-
nomena; pitching his tent, season after season, upon the Alpine glaciers.
that he might study accurately their movements and force; making the
acquaintance of the princes of science and taken joyfully into their int-
macy—Humboldt, Cuvier, Baer, Owen, Murchison; and, calling around
him the most accomplished artists, in his own study, under his own eye,
he caused to be drawn from nature and printed an outline of the results
of all these travels, observations, and acquisitions. First came his great
work on the ‘Natural History of the Fresh-Water Fishes of Europe,”
LOUIS AGASSIZ. 201°

full of original suggestions, and proposing some theories of local crea-
tions, which startled the scientific world, and whose discussion has hardly
yet subsided. Then came his greater work on “Fossil Fishes.” He
devoted seven years to the investigation of the subject before he com-
menced publishing. He visited all the great collections in Europe and
England, accompanied by a skillful artist to make his drawings. More
than eighty museums, public and private, were visited by him, and from
which he was permitted to retain some of the most rare and precious
Specimens for many years that he might make his work as perfect as
possible by repeated and rigid comparisons. The last sheets of this
work came before the public in 1844, having been in the press ten years,
and containing the results of seventeen years’ study, such study as few but
Agassiz understood and accomplished. This work was in five large
volumes, with a folio atlas, containing four hundred plates. One thou-
sand species are figured in their natural size with the colors of their beds, '
and seven hundred species more are partially represented and described.
New types of fishes were discovered, and a new classification was ren-
dered necessary by the publication of this work. And hardly less im-
portant was its influence upon geology than upon ichthyology. The
relative ages of different formations were more accurately determined by
these fossils. The relations of the other classes of vertebrates were also:
discovered, and some very important general conciusions were drawn
from these seventeen years’ study of paleontology and collateral inves-
tigations. The indications of purpose, of designed arrangement every-
where discovered, not only in the teeth of the fossil shark but also in the
arm of a polyp, so impressed his mind that he affirmed the “existence
ot a superior intelligence to have been established by rigid demonstration
and on a truly scientific basis.” “Have we not,” he exclaims at the close
of his work, after summing up its great facts, “have we not here proof of
the existence of a mind as powertul as prolific? the acts of an intelligence
as sublime as provident? the marks of goodness as infinite as wise?
The most palpable demonstration of the existence of a personal God, Author
of all things, Ruler of the universe, and Dispenser of all govd? This, at
least, is what I read in the works of creation.” The great paleontologist
was led from Nature up to Nature’s God.

While Agassiz was preparing this great work for the press, a labor
one would suppose equal to any student’s strength, and sufficient to
gratify any student’s ambition, he made most elaborate original investi-
gations, and published monographs, upon “ Fossil and Living Radiates
and Mollusks,” accompanied with full descriptions of their habits and
relations. During the same period, as if his strength was as inex-
haustible as the fields of science which he cultivated, he published his
“ Zoological Nomenclature,” (Nomenclator Zoologicus,) containing the
names of all the genera in the animal kingdom, and the names of the
students who first proposed them, and the time when they were given.
And to this he added another and very important work, the ‘+ Library

a ar --y
