cant
mee = am

a} Pa a: a hyn
. Ses ¢. x . = es
oe: = = bee ty i 4 y = pes
a oe” pera aes Let Laat BS A, >
or enil Gea <teh st 4 D — “ po
. ie aa ro ee oe ee ae a

ny VE PS
te; tJ Me # ae i
018 ye on vr, _ Ny ¥

= 7
= ~
& ;
a
ie
pa a ee Ste ae ae ae <caee

= ast
=
Ss
a 4
a
ages
oe Tam
*
= os
ten 7
= a Met
= Se
See i le q — h : 3
eS ee
=,
at
=
——
WS" speed 5
be
eRe
=
il
=
ant,
—
pod

et
oa
Lo
Fra
oss
—
os
wo
— 8 7
= f
a
=
= gees

Sera
bs
lo.
“hase t
ee ee —
=, <— | =. :
3 aaa eee
mend aa ae
hae amy, bis
aoe Sot oal,
i =
=
want, Sa
ey
ae

ae
=
al
Som!
wa

| oi | in We
WF gt Ns ey i é *, i J ye ’ i \ |
Mey a yyy oa ¥ a i ‘
Pint vy e160 16 1020, ae pt be WY wD
wy ce) We Y, Wi pe Bh) Av iG in Me yi

fe 48 7 Py 2 . a Te 4 in is e
i. ie vt ¥ Lae ine nM Mu

< " A ie? *
he py v mt SS ~ a 4 ; ‘~ e . Lae j x. e IP ‘s eC * ry ‘uy 1 ius . ; a a).
ere we wy an be OD ” | iw » i Re

th yi y \ 7 ty hia tan vf - 4 ae A i

tie
“S
Ee
ea
—
er

that het + a ‘ees 'y Be ee
. ‘ ee “Ww ®: Wi Pe! he 4 be %. J a K j ‘yi ye iy i. ¥
a me oy ie we yw ve woh Bi "I ee 8 Oe
iy ae ae * 2 8 6819) ba S ev Mw |

PP yen KN MP Phy ee Se
ease
a

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF REGENTS OF

THE SMITHSONIAN
INS FITUTION

SHOWING THE

OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND
CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION
FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30

1918

(Publication 2549)

WASHINGTON
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
1920
ADDITIONAL COPIES
OF THIS PUBLICATION MAY BE PROCURED FROM
THE SUPERINTENDENT OF DOCUMENTS
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
WASHINGTON, D. C.
AT
75 CENTS PER COPY

V
1 red Dead he Sales

FROM THE

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

SUBMITTING

THE ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE
INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1918.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, August 29, 1919.
To the Congress of the United States:

In accordance with section 5593 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, I have the honor, in behalf of the Board of Regents,
to submit to Congress the annual report of the operations, expendi-
tures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year end-
ing June 30, 1918. I have the honor to be,

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
Cuartes D, Watcort, Secretary.
u1
aes
aeaine he: 40

wy a.
: my a tr. 7 iy \
| ene. Ve ye Et
hy ee =
ia a 7
_ 1 "
;
i
, FAN :
‘ £
a. j , + ay
es iis et
“ :
.
“ y F
ms
f }
3% tt :
* =
a F x
al f TAZ
La ‘
j } ; f one! :
| may J
ig
% e fs
Ga
=t]
‘ +
iv
I
;
‘)
- -
De at
'
*
i
is ;
- w
a
_ é
4
—
‘
ee ae fa
afy WV ie -
it ee
elle :
,
”
CONTENTS.

Page,

Letter from the Secretary submitting the annual report of the Regents
LOM COME TOSS paar ee 5 ee TIL
CONICS, OE HOS aR 0) Vv
TERS Coy ae) 0) E15 a ne ee ee ee eee ee ee VII
Generalesubjectsiof the annualoneport==—_—=_ 22) = = Ix
Omeialscot theanstitupionvandoits, branches. == ee ee XI

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.
PieRSTHIGHSOMI an INStiGUbON= === =e en eee ee 1
SIAL ESTA SENT ee ee eh, ot Peewee 1
MHEEBOATOCO Ts TES CIN LSS re ee ee ne ee ee ee al
GeneralercOnsiGenatiOn seme ee ste eeu eee 2
MINA NCES teste Saree Ste SS SS EU paRRADO NS Fo 5 =e pe aia helena pand 6). +f
Researches and explorations:
Geological explorations in the Rocky Mountains___________--__- 5
Researches on the structure of trilobites____--__________—____ 7
Geological work in the Appalachian and Ohio Valleys___-----—~ a
Geologicaleworkvins Maryland 2. s ee ee U
Geolocicale work int Central Wentucky2 =.=. ee 8
Grasses of the Adirondack and White Mountains____---________ 9
Anthropological studies on Old American Families________--___- 10
Rhe mountain eersrofulennessee@ coe = = ea eek 10
OY ci Sse GUAT hg) ON UES ae sna ee ee eet ee SN aL
Ethnological explorations in Colorado and Utah______-_---__-__ al.
National’ Parks hducational Committees==—=- == =" see 13
TEE OU Fa 201 0S = a ei a pe eR ei RE hs es A DEE SE 15
EAU TEES cp pp ee Ni Ie on A a 16
BIND UG TEND eV LCL SUNT eee eer eee ne ee An ne 16
PE SUITL SEU ULE Fame NULLS Tal Cod Mier 18) GENIN OL @) Seay me ee ree ee a9
INA GON ale ZOOL OCCA ean Kee eee a ee ne 19
INGERODIV SICA ODSERVALOLY= 2s = an ee ee ee ee 20
METAS TETNN TOLLE lye ECM) eID CS eee ae ee pee yee ere ia eee as 22
iImbternational Catalozue of Scientific hiterabunes = =3== 5 = "= sae 22
FING 10) 25 ee ces ater oe eee en Se eS eh ees P33
Appendix 1. Report on the United States National Museum ___-____~--~~ 25
2. Report on the Bureau of American Ethnology_____--______- 43
8. Report on the International Hxchanges___________________ 58
4. Reporton cesNational Zoological’ Park== ===) =s2—— = 66
5. Report on the Astrophysical Observatory______-____________ 2
Gaekenonrh: on. themlibrarny sees sess. e see ee 89
7. Report on the International Catalogue of Scientific Literature_ 94
Se VeDOLETONS DUD GALLON G Hs ase eee ee ee ee ee OF
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE AND REGENTS.

IRPDOrLoLoexecutive Committee. =. Sd Sh ee ee 103
Broceedingsror board Ob RecentSese == = a a ee 107
VI

a ah wOdY EP

-]

ioe)

15.
. The Law of Irreversible Evolution, by Branislav Petronievics___-__-~
. The Fundamental Factor of Insect Evolution, by S. S. Chetverikov___
7 he Psychic Wiferol Insects bya hsb OUI CL = sass == ee eee
. Sexual Selection and Bird Song, by Chauncey J. Hawkins__-------~--
. Marine Camoufleurs and Their Camouflage: The Present and Pros-

CONTENTS.

GENERAL APPENDIX.

. The Discovery of Helium, and What Came of It, by C. G. Abbot_____
. An Account of the Rise of Navigation, by R. H. Curtiss_____-________

The Tornadoes of the United States, by Prof. Robert DeC. Ward____

; Wind Power, by James! Carlill=-—22_ 4 4 ee ee
. A Tribute. Samuel Pierpont Langley: Pioneer in Practical Aviation,

bys blenry, ettman: = 2-5 soa ee eee

/ Twentieth; Century Physics) by Ra A] Millikan
. The Experiments of Dr. P. W. Bridgman on the Properties of Mat-

ter When Under High Pressure. Introductory Note by C. G.
ND DO tts ee a a eer pee Se

. The Problem of Radioactive Lead, by Theodore W. Richards__---~~~
. Sphagnum Moss: War Substitute for Cotton in Absorbent Dress-

INS DY eTOLs |G COrgse) Hise NCOs see eee eee ee

. History of Military Medicine and its Contributions to scence by

Gol. W. PR: Cliamberlaina 2 ee Se ee

. Some problems of International Readjustment of Mineral Supplies as

Indicated in Recent Foreign Literature, by Eleanora F. Bliss__---~

2. Reptile Reconstructions in the United States National Museum, by

Charles: We Gillin a ee i) ee

. A Pleistocene Cave Deposit in Western Maryland, by J. W. Gidley___
. Paleobotany: A Sketch of the Origin and Evolution of Floras, by

Hdwartd (W..: Berry’: oe ee ee eee
The Direct Action of Environment and Evolution, by Prince Kropotkin_

pective Significance of Facts Regarding the Coloration of Tropical
Wishes, by Wi. EL. lone! eye eee

, Hoot-Llow Agriculturein) Pernus by O}).. Cok.
. Sun Worship of the Hopi Indians, by J. Walter Fewkes___-________-_
. A Constitutional League of Peace in the Stone Age of America: The

League of the Iroquois and Its Constitution, by J. N. B. Hewitt____

+ ‘The Problemvor Deceneracya Dyeb. Hee bned 201d esa saan a eee
» Elistory in Loolsy by; Wein blinderssPetric= = eee
. The Background of Totemism, by H. Washburn Hopkins____-----____
. A Great Naturalist: Sir Joseph Hooker, by Sir E. Ray Lankester____
LIST OF PLATES.

Tornadoes (Ward):

Langley (Leffmann) :
TEATR2 i Se 2 Se IS Rieger aise
IAT GSD yr eer ae ee
Plates 4,
Plates 6, 7T__
RIAteCSE Om O t=

High Pressure (Bridgman) :
Plates Wee 3

Sphagnum (Nichols) :

teptile Reconstruction  (Gil-
more) :
Plates pal= Ome 2S 2
Cave Deposit (Gidley) :
Plates
Paleobotany (Berry) :
Plate 1

TERE RS ay poeta i co te ne a a

Paleobotany (Berry )—Contd. Page.
Plates gees =2 ee ae 342
Plate wate ao eae 378
Pinte g pee se eis ee 382
Plate G2. Meee ee aD

Insect Evolution (Chetverikov) :

Riater deeb gs oe ee 446

Marine Camoufleurs (Longley) :
Platesidl p22. 2s 2 2 ees 486

Foot Plow (Cook) :

Plates 1=—4 see Sk OP e499

Sun Worship (lewkes) :

Bilsitewliters ss se ee 49S
Plate 2h eee See eee eee 502
Rater oe 22h) O06
Bl aie Aes culo. Sep a 508
Pate aes Ce ne cn eh 510
12d ey ey RG ea es ees 512
Plate 7 a ERE A Set ms 514
Plater St 2h soe eee 518
Rlatey Orie = 2 Sea abe O20)
Plate eee ae Se er
PT ate athe 2 hbeke ee APES ce 524
<5 & ~ Se

ie Mafia le Te
~ i: Seith i 4 Peer oun. = *

1.

BW MAIL or ee =

Awdh) Sioeneauslion re a i

5 a. CRON pe ‘4 nqeat hod Got

tle b alt ea

ras aeccll ayn ] bo
re : : i “et re F tia

VAM TT HAT) ont LT Ages pa

yarn { eres * :

aut EA “LY ’ isn ee? shia! thin: Ark aa eee

| = Costa. at at ee ‘5 : eta T art

—

i

a i { Mie? vy) yn net hy? OP i ». net f atu — a
ae ad i eee, py my ie fe “te i ci eS
: Tn mending 1 ee i tiie 2 ei ey ;
- ip. i . : : J mE sh | , As ees 1 ge ak erent 5 4
2 ae | Soe “age PO ae
7. fr watt le | Ad ‘iS 4 So? Sees Sars

iss

—_ f Lb allt ' Sa} Yetta)
_ a " é ter d ; F
ru 8. vi nt? j ae ee Pe =p
2 ppt, Higa ae xi
ry eee i ay. tee) 3 ag eae Bee a Ses 7

> La ae 2 xyog sted | 32m. i a =H; eS Se
: : er ~} — - 4

Send holt

i
,
7
s
“r ;
ta : z
- -
ir: a
a
. ; | |
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONTAN
INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1918.

SUBJECTS.

1. Annual report of the secretary, giving an account of the opera-
tions and condition of the Institution for the year ending June 30,
1918, with statistics of exchanges, ete.

2. Report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents.
exhibiting the financial affairs of the Institution, including a state-
ment of the Smithsonian fund, and receipts and expenditures for the
year ending June 30, 1918.

3. Proceedings of the Board of Regents for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1918.

4, General appendix, comprising a selection of miscellaneous mem-
oirs of interest to collaborators and correspondents of the Institution,
teachers, and others engaged in the promotion of knowledge. These
memoirs relate chiefly to the calendar year 1918.

Ix
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

June 80, 1918.

Presiding officer ex officio.—Woovrow Witson, President of the United States.
Chancellor—EpwarD DoucLtass Wuite, Chief Justice of the United States.
Members of the Institution:
Wooprow WILSON, President of the United States,
THOMAS R. MARSHALL, Vice President of the United States.
EDWARD DouGLAss WHITE, Chief Justice of the United States.
RoBERT LANSING, Secretary of State.
WILLIAM GIBBS McApoo, Secretary of the Treasury.
NEWTON DIEHL BAKER, Secretary of War.
THOMAS WATT GreEGoRY, Attorney General.
ALBERT SIDNEY BURLESON, Postmaster General.
JOSEPHUS DANIELS, Secretary of the Navy.
FRANKLIN KNIGHT LANE, Secretary of the Interior.
Davip FRANKLIN Houston, Secretary of Agriculture.
WittiAmM Cox REDFIELD, Secretary of Commerce.
WILLIAM BAucHop WILSON, Secretary of Labor.
Regents of the Institution:
EDWARD DOUGLASS WHITE, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor.
THOMAS R. MARSHALL, Vice President of the United States.
HeENrRky Casor Lopcr, Member of the Senate.
CHARLES S. THomMAs,, Member of the Senate.
Henry FRENCH Horiis, Member of the Senate.
Scorr Ferris, Member of the House of Representatives.
LEMUEL P. PADGETT, Member of the House of Representatives.
FRANK L. GREENE, Member of the House of Representatives.
ALEXANDER GRAHAM BELL, citizen of Washington, D. C.
GrorGE GRAy, citizen of Delaware.
CHARLES IF’. CHOATE, Jr., citizen of Massachusetts.
JOHN B. HENDERSON, Jr., citizen of Washington, D. C.
Henry WHITE, citizen of Maryland.
Executive committee.—GrorGE GRAY, ALEXANDER GRAHAM BELL, ERNEST W.
ROBERTS.
Secretary of the Institution.—CHArRLEs D. WALCOTT.
Assistant Secretary.—RicHARD RATHBUN.
Chief Clerk.—Harry W. DorseEy.
Accountant and disbursing agent—W. I. ADAMS.
Editor.—A. HowarpD CLARK.
Assistant librarian.—P AauL BROCKETT.
Property clerk.—J. H. Hitu.

KT
XII ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

THE NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Keeper ex officio—CuHarLES D. WALcoTT, Secretary of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution.

Assistant secretary in charge.—RIcHARD RATHBUN.

Administrative assistant.—W. DE C. RAVENEL.

Head curators—WIiLLiAM H. HoLMES, LEONHARD STEJNEGER, G. P. MERRILL.

Curators.—PAUL BARTSCH, R. S. BASSLER, T. T. BELOTE, A. Howarp CLARK,
F. W. CLARKE, F. V. CoviL_e, W. H. DALL, CHESTER G. GILBERT, WALTER HoUGH,
L. O. HowAaArp, ALES HRDLIGKA, FREDERICK L. LEWTON, GEORGE C. MAYNARD,
Gerrit S. MILLER, Jr., ROBERT RIDGWAY.

Associate curators.—J. C. CRAWFoRD, C. W. GILMoRE, W. R. Maxon, J. N.
RosE, DAviIp WHITE.

Curator, National Gallery of Art—W. H. HoLMEs.

Chief of correspondence and documents.—H. S. BRYANT.

Disbursing agent —W. I. ADAMS.

Chief of exhibits (Biology) —JAMES KE. BENEDICT.

Superintendent of buildings and labor.—ZJ. S. GOLDSMITH.

Editor—Marcus BENJAMIN.

Assistant librarian.—N. P. SCUDDER,

Photographer.—lL. W. BEESON.

Registrar.s. C. Brown.

Property clerk.—W. A. KNOWLES,

Engineer.—C. R. DENMARK.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

Chief —J. WALTER FEWKES.

Ethnologists.—JoHN P. Harrineton, J. N. B. Hewitt, FRAncis LA FLESCHE,
TrUMAN MICHELSON, JAMES MOooNEY, JOHN R. SWANTON.

Honorary philologist—FRANZ Boas.

Hditor—STANLEY SEARLES.

Librarian.—_La LEARY.

Tllustrator.—Dr LANCEY GILL.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES.
Chief clerk.—C. W. SHOEMAKER.
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK.

Superintendent.—NEp HOLLISTER.
Assistant Superintendent.—A. B. BAKER.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY.
Director.—C. G. ABBOT.
Aid.—F.. BE. Fowtre. Jr.

Assistant.—L. B. ALDRICH.

REGIONAL BUREAU FOR THE UNITED STATES, INTERNATIONAL
CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE.

LEONARD ©. GUNNELL.

Assistant in charge.
REPORT
OF THE
SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

CuHarLes D. Watcotr

FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1918.

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution.

GENTLEMEN: I have the honor to submit herewith the customary
annual report by the secretary on the present condition and the
operations and activities of the Institution and its branches during
the year ending June 30, 1918. The first portion of the report is
devoted to the Institution proper and the summaries of the work
of the National Museum and other branches, while the appendices
give detailed accounts by those in direct charge of the activities of
the Museum, the Bureau of Ethnology, the International Exchanges,
the Zoological Park, the Astrophysical Observatory, the Library,
and the Catalogue of Scientific Literature.

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.
THE ESTABLISHMENT.

The Institution was created an establishment by act of Congress
approved August 10, 1846. Its statutory members are the President
of the United States, the Vice President, the Chief Justice, and the
heads of the executive departments.

THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

The Board of Regents, which is charged with the administration
of the Institution, consists of the Vice President and the Chief Justice
of the United States as ex officio members, three Members of the
Senate, three Members of the House of Representatives, and six citi-
zens, “two of whom shall be residents of the city of Washington
and the other four shall be inhabitants of some State, but no two of
them from the same State.”

There were changes in the personnel of the board during the year,
as follows: Senator Charles S. Thomas to succeed Senator William
J. Stone, died April 14, 1918; Representatives Lemuel P. Padgett

al
2 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

and Frank L. Greene to succeed Ernest W. Roberts and James T.
Lloyd whose terms expired December 26, 1917. The roll of regents
on June 30, 1918, was as follows: Edward D. White, Chief Justice
of the United States, Chancellor; Thomas R. Marshall, Vice Presi-
dent of the United States; Henry Cabot Lodge, Member of the
Senate; Charles S. Thomas, Member of the Senate; Henry French
Hollis, Member of the Senate; Scott Ferris, Member of the House
of Representatives; Lemuel P. Padgett, Member of the House of
Representatives; Frank L. Greene, Member of the House of Repre-
sentatives; Alexander Graham Bell, citizen of Washington, D. C.;
George Gray, citizen of Delaware; Charles F. Choate, jr., citizen of
Massachusetts; John B. Henderson, citizen of Washington, D. C.
(Charles W. Fairbanks, of Indiana, died June 4, 1918, vacancy not -
filled at close of fiscal year) ; and Henry White, citizen of Maryland.

The board held its annual meeting on December 13, 1917. Mr.
Henry White was elected a member of the executive committee to fill
the vacancy caused by the resignation of Mr. Ernest W. Roberts,
whose term of office would expire on December 26, 1917. The pro-
ceedings of that meeting, as also the annual financial report of the
executive committee, have been printed, as usual, for the use of the
regents, while such important matters acted upon as are of public
interest are reviewed under appropriate heads in the present report
of the secretary. A detailed statement of disbursements from the
Government appropriations under the direction of the Institution
for the maintenance of the National Museum, the National Zoological
Park, and other branches will be submitted to Congress by the secre-
tary in the usual manner in compliance with the law.

GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS,

The routine operations of the Institution and its branches were
carried on as usual during the year, but a number of activities were
held in abeyance until after the war. The time and energy of mem-
bers of the scientific staff were devoted, as far as practicable, to re-
searches bearing on the effectiveness of certain devices and materials
for the Army and Navy, and 24 employees were granted furloughs to
enter active military service.

Through my connection with the National Research Council and
other commissions and boards I have been able personally to render
some war service to the Government.

The work of the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics,
of which the secretary of the Institution is a member and chairman
of the executive committee, has greatly broadened. At its suggestion
the Council of National Defense appointed a committee, now known
as the Aircraft Board, to consider all questions of aircraft produc-
tion and to make recommendations to the military departments for
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 34

the production and purchase of aircraft and aircraft appliances. The
experimental laboratory of the advisory committee has been erected

~ at Langley Field, near Hampton, Va.

The original Langley man-carrying flying machine has been brought
back from Hammondsport, after several successful flights, and is ex-
hibited in the National Museum. This is the first heavier-than-air
man-carrying machine built, although it did not have a successful
flight until more than 10 years after its construction. It is also an im-
portant historical relic, as it confirms the claim that Secretary Langley
was the first to design and construct a heavier-than-air machine capa-
ble of carrying a man in flight. There has never been any question
that he was the first to successfully fly a heavier-than-air machine
propelled by its own power.

In February the War Department allotted to the Smithsonian
Institution the sum of $10,000 for experimental work in aviation in
connection with the Signal Corps, which work is being successfully
carried on. Upon the invitation of the War Industries Board,
Mr. C. G. Gilbert, of the National Museum, was appointed a member
of the Joint Information Board of Minerals and Derivatives, in
which capacity he has done work of unusual value. In April the
Secretary offered to the Government the services of Dr. Ales
Hrdlicka, who has since prepared important reports upon eth-
nography for the National Research Council and for a congressional
committee of investigation into the effect of language on nationality.

The Smithsonian chapter of the Red Cross has done commendable
war work. Early in the year an ambulance was given for service in
Russia and later the funds were raised to defray for one year the
expenses incidental to the maintenance of a bed in the American
Red Cross Hospital at Neuilly.

Bequests—Among the bequests to the Museum during the past
year is that of Miss S. J. Farmer, who willed to the Museum all the
remaining models of her father, Moses G. Farmer, inventor of elec-
trical apparatus.

The Institution has been made the bait aie legatee of the estate
of Rev. Bruce Hughes, of Philipsburg, Pa. (died March 20, 1916),
under the following terms of his will Srobated March 27, 1916:

All the balance and residue of my estate of which I may die seized shall be
paid to the Smithsonian Institute of the city of Washington, District of Colum-
bia, the sum to -be invested and the income alone used to found the Hughes
Alcove of the said Smithsonian Institute.

The final share of the Institution in the estate has been estimated
at about $11,500. It is proposed that the “alcove” referred to in
the will shall be established in and as a part of the National Gallery
of Art and that the fund be devoted to the amassing of a reference
library of art works.
4. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

Gifts —Dr. Frank Springer has given the Institution the title and
custody in perpetuity of his large collection of fossil crinoids and
related groups of Echinoderms and has arranged for a fund of
$30,000, the income of which is to be devoted to the administration
of the collection.

Dr. W. L. Abbott has continued his generous gifts of collections
and his support of an expedition in Celebes under H. C. Raven.

FINANCES.

The invested funds of the Institution consist of the following:

Deposited in the Treasury of the United States under authority
Ol Commerce: LE en 2288 6 se: NS ees eee ee ea ey eee $1, 000, 000. 00

CONSOLIDATED FUND.

Brooklyn Rapid Transit 5 per cent notes due July 1, 1918, cost___ $5, 040. 63
Province of Manitoba 5 per cent gold debentures due April 1, 1922,
COStea 25 en ss es 4 1, 935. 00
American Telephone and Telegraph Company 4 per cent collateral
trust ponds due sully 1519295 Cos tae ee cee aE 15, 680. 00
West Shore Railroad Co. guaranteed 4 per cent first mortgage
bonds;dne January, a), 2361) marketavall ess sein eee een eee 37, 275. 00
59, 930. 63
Excess cost of bonds redeemed at pari--i2-- 222 93. 75
Total’ = 2 renee 1, 060, 024. 38

The combined interest-bearing investments, aggregating
$1,060,024.38, are represented by the following funds:

Smithson; fund; =~ =.) ut ae ee eee $728, 291. 00
abelsund: 2 == see 2822) > J ee es Ra eee 500. 00
Hamilton: funda 22252 2 Seo ee eee 2, 500. 00
inodekins enerall fund: - eee eee 1538, 275. 00
Hodekins’ Specific fund! 2) 2 eS eee oe Ee LOOT OOON OO
Rhee smiund!) Sees se ee es a ae ON Ee ee ee ee 627. 00
Avery wiumdtytesitee: 2 teensy 2) a EA ae eS eee 24, 020. 38
Addison. U. Reid. fund... + | eee 11, 672. 00
Mucyuek. angdiGeorgze: WiephOOke: LUM a 27, 965. 00
Georve I< Sanford firm da 1, 174. 00
Chamberlain und? 2 2 ee A ee) 10, 000. 00

Mota sees 22s a eee 1, 060, 024. 38

One piece of improved real estate in the District of Columbia, be-
queathed to the Institution by the late Robert Stanton Avery, was
sold during the year; the net amount realized from this sale was
$8,721, which amount has been invested in bonds forming a part
of the Consolidated Fund.

The practice of investing surplus funds in certificates of deposit
paying 3 per cent per annum has proved most satisfactory; the in-
come from this source amounting to $1,275 during the year.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 5

Instead of investing all surplus cash in certificates of deposit, the
Institution purchased $10,000 of the United States Third Liberty
Loan, which will be carried on the books temporarily as a special
asset and later will be transferred to the Consolidated Fund.

The income of the Institution during the year, amounting to
$165,135.02, was derived as follows: Interest on permanent invest-
ments and other sources, $63,552.02; repayments, rentals, publica-
tions, etc., $13,503.13 ; contributions from various sources for specific
purposes, $24,358.87; bills receivable, $55,000; proceeds from sale
of real estate, $8,721.

Adding the cash balance of $9,232.56 on July 1, 1917, the total
resources for the fiscal year amounted to $174,367.58.

The disbursements, which are given in detail in the annual report
of the executive committee, amounted to $173,077.68, leaving a balance
of $1,289.90 in cash and on deposit in the Treasury of the United
States and in bank.

In addition to the above disbursements by the Institution, there
was included under the general appropriation for printing and bind-
ing an allotment of $76,200 to cover the cost of printing and bind-
ing the Smithsonian annual report and reports and miscellaneous
printing for the Government branches of the Institution.

The Institution was charged by Congress with the disbursement
of the following appropriations for the year ended June 30, 1918:

ATES TEN EVO EL OX CHAINS CSAs weg ee teal Ea eel Leena iee 1 $35, 000. 00
PAIN CHM e LUO LOL vg Here: Seka ee ee ee een es a i 42, 000. 00
International catalogue of scientific literature______._.__.____._...._._ 17,500.00
SELON MV SLeA LE ODSCEV ELOY: ta ete ee ee a a 13, 000. 00
Observations, eclipse of the sun of June 8, 1918___________________ 2, 000. 00
National Museum:
KUENIGUPe rand piixburesee es wae. Lie eae Waa ets 25, 000..00
18 Kevenerbaye> ts ave Ub Fed hh akese Ge oe peee eee BM ae RE UE Tee. eee yaa 9 Wee 46, 000. 00
BresehyaAtlOoniOLecollectiONnS== se. eee. ee SE See 300, 000. 00
La Sere AS a ee ee ee ee 10, 000. 00
TS OO ese Serre ee Beene OMT ears Aes Ee ee VESPER PUEDEN AE ALE SSE SE 2, 000. 00
Stee ee. ee see tn ek OA ag EE AEA eh ies pie Paty 500. 00
NationaleZjoologicalmPark seated (Ae sey tal ATE itogs PP ii 100, 000. 00

IncressavorcompensationmGnd efiiitie) as ee ee el Tee ee Sa

RESEARCHES AND EXPLORATIONS.

The researches and explorations by the Institution were greatly
limited in their scope during the past year on account of war condi-
tions. There was unusual activity, however, by members of the
scientific staff in investigations which related to the operations of
the Army and Navy, and it is believed that the results have been of
great benefit to the service.

136650 °—20——2
6 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

Several biological and ethnological expeditions to various parts of
the world have been held in abeyance, although some already in the
field have continued in operation on a limited scale. It is expected
that after the war there will be greater activity in these lines than
ever before.

Accounts of some of the more important researches are given here
and others are reported upon in the Appendix.

GEOLOGICAL WORK IN THE ROCKY MOUNTAINS.

Geological field work has been carried on by me in the Rocky
Mountains for several years past, particularly in the study of Cam-
brian and pre-Cambrian formations. The more important results
of this work have been described in my paper on “ Evidences of
Primitive Life” in the Smithsonian Report for 1915 and in various
pamphlets of the Institution. Investigations during the summer and
early fall of 1917 were carried on at the now well-known “ Burgess
Pass” fossil quarry, discovered by me in 1910. Fifty days were spent
at the Burgess Pass camp, 3,000 feet above Field, British Columbia,
where a section in the quarry of about 180 square feet was taken out.
This practically exhausts a quarry which has given the finest and
largest series of Middle Cambrian fossils yet discovered and the
finest invertebrate fossils yet found in any formation in any country.
More than one and a half tons of specimens were trimmed out at
the quarry, carried by pack horses to camp, and thence by rail to
Washington.

A few days were taken to verify a geologic section near Lake Mc-
Arthur, and then the Vermilion River trip was begun. Following
down the Bow River, we crossed to the south side near Mount Castle
and camped at Vermilion Pass. Lower down the valley on the east-
ern side near the mouth of Ochre Creek, Syncline Peak shows rem-
nants of the compression and folding that accompanied the uplift
of the mountain massif, now cut by erosion into hundreds of moun-
tains, ridges, and canyons.

From Vermilion River the party followed a new forest ranger
trail up Tumbling Brook to a small, beautiful glacier beneath the
great eastward facing cliffs of Gray Peak.

Wolverine Pass is a broad, rolling area at about timber line. On
its southwestern slope the northeast branch of Moose Creek begins,
on the north slope the headwaters of Ochre Creek, and on the south-
east the drainage is to Tumbling Brook, a branch of Ochre Creek.
The views from the upper slopes northeast of the Pass are among
the finest in the Canadian Rockies. Mount Drysdale, on the right,
rises 2,200 feet above the Pass, and Mount Gray, on the left, 1,800
feet, the altitude of the Pass being 7,200 feet. Tumbling Glacier,
on the left of Mount Gray, is formed from snows blown over the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. i(

cliffs from the westward. On the right of Mount Drysdale the east-
ern side of the great Washmawapta snow field may be seen; in the
distance, through the Pass, the dark Beaverfoot Range, and beyond
it, in the extreme background, the snowy peaks of the Selkirk Ranges.

A late September storm drove us back from Wolverine Pass to the
Vermilion River, where below Ochre Creek a search was made for
moose. On October 1 a great bull, a cow, and young were brought
down and their skins, skulls, and horns secured for the National
Museum collections.

RESEARCHES ON THE STRUCTURE OF THE TRILOBITES.

In my laboratory work for the past 45 years I have been on the
watch for evidence bearing on the structure and organization of
fossil trilobites. The study of a small and unique series of speci-
mens secured at Burgess Pass since 1910 has so greatly increased
our knowledge of these interesting animals that a special paper, ac-
companied by 28 plates of illustrations, is now in press, to appear in
the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections.

GEOLOGICAL WORK IN THE APPALACHIAN AND OHIO VALLEYS.

During the summers of 1916 and 1917 Mr. Frank Springer con-
tinued his researches upon the fossil echinoderms of the Ohio Valley
with a view to obtaining further material and information for the
completion of a monograph upon the Silurian crinoids of that area
which he has now in preparation. His assistant, Dr. Herrick E.
Wilson, collected in the vicinity of St. Paul and of Madison, in
Indiana, proving for the first time the presence in the latter locality
of the crinoidal faunas of both the Waldron and the Laurel forma-
tions. One object of the present field investigation is to obtain
further light on the relations of the Silurian faunas of the Chicago
and southern Indiana areas with those of western Tennessee. Mr.
Springer acquired by purchase all the echinoderms in the large col-
lection of Mr. John F. Hammell, of Madison, Ind., which included
that made by A. C. Benedict from the Indiana Silurian, containing
the types of a considerable number of species. This material has
been added to his collection of fossil echinoderms now deposited in
the National Museum.

GEOLOGICAL WORK IN MARYLAND.

Dr. Bassler, of the division of invertebrate paleontology in the
National Museum, reports that, in company with Assistant Curator
Dr. C. E. Resser, he made some investigations in the Frederick and
Hagerstown valleys of Maryland with the object of securing for the
exhibition series large examples illustrating the various types of
conglomerate. Two fine, large masses of the well-known Triassic
8 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

limestone conglomerate were obtained with little difficulty, but
equally good examples of the siliceous variety were secured only
after much hard labor, owing to the ready disintegration of the rock
on exposure. Efforts were finally successful, however, and there was
also secured a mass of the so-called “ edgewise ” conglomerate several
feet in diameter, which will well illustrate the phenomenon of intra-
formation conglomerate described by me a number of years ago.
This last was obtained where the steeply dipping lower Ordovician
beds outcropped in such a manner that the desired material could be
blasted without fracturing. All of such conglomerates are the result
of ancient mud deposits of tidal flats becoming sun cracked when
exposed to the air. The dried edges of the sun-cracked areas become
tossed about by the wind and the fragments finally accumulate in
layers which ultimately are hardened into rocklike conglomerate.
Conglomerates usually indicate the base of a formation, but this
particular kind may occur at any place within a formation, whence
I applied the specific name “ intraformational ” to them.

GEOLOGICAL WORK IN CENTRAL KENTUCKY.

After the conclusion of geologic work in the Appalachian Valley in
the early summer of 1917, Dr. Bassler proceeded to central Kentucky,
where he spent several weeks in explorations for suitable exhibition
specimens covering the general subject of stratigraphic paleontology.
It was especially desirable that such phenomena as stratification, the
occurrence of fossils, and unconformities should be illustrated in the
Museum, and especial efforts were made to secure specimens exhibit-
ing these features. Much discrimination was necessary in the selec-
tion of these objects, as it was essential to obtain specimens of such
size as to be appreciated by the public and still not too large for the
available space, which is somewhat limited. This difficulty compli-
cated the work, but the selection finally made was extremely satisfac-
tory. In his account of the work Dr. Bassler says:

The early Paleozoic coral reef near Louisville, Ky., from which a section
6 by 10 feet in dimensions had been quarried and placed on exhibition during
the summer of 1916, was revisited and several additional layers of highly fos-
siliferous shale and limestone were secured. These have now been added in
their proper position to the coral-reef mount, so that this single exhibit now
illustrates the subjects of stratification in general, horizontal strata, change of
lithology from limestone to shale, the occurrence of fossils in these types of sedi-
ment, and the phenomenon of fossil coral reefs for which the exhibit was pri-
marily planned.

The most valuable result of the summer’s work was achieved at Eikin, Ky.
Here a single limestone slab, 6 feet long and several feet wide and thick, show-
ing an unconformity distinct enough to be appreciated by the layman, was
quarried out and shipped to the museum without breakage, where it now forms
a most instructive exhibit. The outcropping limestone ledge, several feet in
thickness, is composed of a distinctly white lower portion and a dark-colored
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 9

upper part, the head of the hammer marking their line of contact. This line
also marks an unusually clear unconformity. Both of these layers are rich
in fossils, those of Early Black River (Lowville) age occurring in the lower
white rock and those of Early Trenton in the upper dark material. Since at
other places in the United States 500 or more feet of strata of Middle and
Late Black River age intervene between these two layers, it is shown that
Kentucky was a land area during the deposition of the Middle and Upper Black
River strata. This is also evidenced by numerous worm burrows extending
downward from the top of the white limestone. When the material was in the
condition of soft mud and exposed at the surface, the worms burrowed into it,
as they do in the soil to-day.

The phosphate localities near Wallace, Ky., were next visited, in order to
obtain illustrations of the gradual phosphatization of limestone and the types
of fossils in phosphatic strata. Here it was discovered that phosphate rock
occurs only along the joint planes of the limestone. Surface water passing
along these joint planes leaches out the calcium carbonate of the phosphatic
limestone, leaving the calcium phosphate content behind.

GRASSES OF THE ADIRONDACK AND WHITE MOUNTAINS.

During the month of August, 1917, Mr. A. S. Hitchcock, systematic
agrostologist in the Department of Agriculture and custodian of the
section of grasses of the division of plants in the United States Na-
tional Museum, visited the Adirondacks in New York and the White
Mountains in New Hampshire for the purpose of studying their flora,
especially the grasses of the alpine summits. Mr. Hitchcock reports
as follows:

In the Adirondacks headquarters were at Lake Placid, from which point ex-
cursions were made to the summits of Whiteface and McIntyre, the highest
peaks in the group with the exception of Mount Marcy. It was impracticable to
reach Mount Marcy without the use of a camp outfit. This peak rises to a
height of 5,344 feet, but Mount McIntyre is nearly as high (5,112 feet). Both
McIntyre and Whiteface extend above the timber line and support at the sum-
mit an alpine flora.

The White Mountains reach a somewhat greater altitude than the Adiron-
dacks, Mount Washington, the highest peak, being 6,298 feet. In the Mount
Washington group there are several peaks whose summits are above the timber
line. The alpine flora of these peaks and of the peaks of the Adirondacks are
similar, and include plants that farther north are found at a lower altitude or,
in the Arctic regions, even at sea level.

Four days were spent investigating the flora of the peaks. The ascent was
commenced at Crystal Cascade on the east side, whence the trail led up Tucker-
man Ravine to the Summit of Mount Washington, thence down to Lakes-of-the
Clouds where there is an Appalachian Mountain Club hut for the accommoda-
tion of climbers. From here the head of Oakes Gulf was explored. The second
day was spent along the trail from Lakes-of-the-Clouds to the Mount Madison
hut, going by the way of the Westside and Gulfside trail, which passes near the
high peaks of Clay, Jefferson, and Adams. The return trip to Lakes-of-the
Clouds hut was made on the third day, descending 3,000 feet through the Great
Gulf by the Buttress trail and ascending again by the Six Husbands trail to the
Alpine Meadow. On the fourth day the descent was made by way of Hunting-
ton Ravine over a little-used and difficult trail.
10 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

There are nine species of grasses that may be considered to be alpine. A few
others extend from the lower zones into the alpine region. Most of the alpine
species are circumpolar and extend southward in the mountains, one to the
high peaks of western North Carolina and two through the Rocky Mountains
even in South America. One species, Poa laxa, is abundant on the upper cone
of Mount Washington, extending quite to the summit, and comprises almost the
only vegetation of this area. This is a Huropean species which is found in
North America only in the region of Mount Washington and on a few of the
higher peaks of New England.

The forest flora of the mountains consists mainly of white pine, white spruce,
larch, aspen, and white birch. Toward the summits of the peaks the dominant
tree is the balsam fir, which near timber line becomes a straggling shrub.

ANTHROPOLOGICAL STUDIES ON OLD AMERICAN FAMILIES,

In continuation of his researches on old American families, Dr.
Hrdlicka, of the National Museum, in 1917, visited Yale, Virginia,
and Harvard Universities. The last two were visited on the occa-
sion of the “ Teachers’ Course,” which brings to these institutions
many adult individuals of old American parentage from a large
territory. The total number of subjects examined, mainly for pig-
mentation of hair, and eye and skin color, amounted to over 1,000,
all of whom were Americans of at least three generations on both
the paternal and maternal sides of the family. Dr. Hrdlicka says:

The results which are now being elaborated for a report are of uncommon
interest. They show a number of important facts of which we had no previous
reliable knowledge. One of these is, in brief, that there is no increase in the
proportion or grade of pigmentation as we proceed from New England south-
ward, and no increase in blondness as we proceed northward from the Caro-
linas and Virginias. Another striking result shows that there are localized
peculiarities in pigmentation, especially that of the hair, but that in every case
these can be traced to the ancestry rather than to the environmental conditions.
The latter nevertheless appear to have been active in general in reducing the
total proportions of blondness.

So far as the color of the eyes is concerned there were found unexpectedly,
in all the areas, a large proportion of ‘‘ mixed” colors; in other words, eyes in
which more or less marked traces of brown coexist with various shades of blue,
green, or gray.

Three cases were encountered in which the color of the two eyes was mark-
edly different. Pure beautiful blues and browns were few in number.

THE MOUNTAINEERS OF TENNESSEE.

During the latter part of July, 1917, Dr. Hrdlicka made a trip to
eastern Tennessee, for the purpose of becoming acquainted with the
characteristics of the population of these regions, which in large part
is of old American stock but has long existed under disadvantageous
environment, remaining as a result backward in education and in
other respects. He reports as follows on the results of his studies:

The work commenced at Bristol, Tenn., extended to Mountain City, and
farther on into the hills: and its success was very largely due to the kind
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 11

offices and direct personal help of an old friend of the Smithsonian Institution,
Mr. Samuel L. King, of Bristol. For additional help the writer is indebted to
Mr. John Caldwell, of the same city.

The work extended mainly to the men called for examination by the first
draft for the United States Army, and comprised 150 individuals. Both meas-
urements and observations were taken. Some of the men came from the lower
lands of the Bristol district and were kept apart, but a good number represented
the real mountaineers.

It is too early to speak of the results of this interesting piece of research,
the data not having as yet been properly reduced and analyzed; but it is
safe to say that these mountaineers represent no separate type of Americans.
In many cases they still show strong indications of their respective pre-Amer-
ican ancestry. Among the men there were seen some fine examples of
physique—willowy, clean-cut six-footers; but there were also others of rather
feeble mental powers or nervous stability, which conditions, to some extent
possibly, are due to hereditary effects of alcoholism or to defective heredity of
other nature.

The families of the mountaineers are remarkable in many cases for their
large size, and there were seen examples of longevity and virility which it
would be hard to find in our cities.

There are all grades of ‘ mountaineers” and no line of demarcation separates
them from the people in the lower lands, who are mostly of similar derivation
and sometimes of the same families. But as one proceeds into the wilds of the
mountains the population becomes sparser and more backward, the cultivated
patches of ground smaller in area, and the habitations poorer, until some of the
latter come to resemble the shacks of the southern negro.

The poorer class of mountaineers frequently show characteristics partly due
to their backwardness in education and their isolation and partly, perhaps, to
hookworm disease or other abnormal conditions. Some of the young men are
types of slouchiness, such as would delight the artist, while the women disfigure
themselves by chewing snuff and frequently show uncouthness in dress, move-
ments, and behavior. But the people are hospitable and interesting. In the
course of a short ride of less than 2 miles through a sparsely settled gorge the
writer and his local companion had no less than four invitations to lunch—in
the other places there was no one at home. Their language and intonation are
characteristic and quaint, and the people seem to be full of old and local folk-
lore, the study of which would probably prove most delightful. Being largely
dependent on themselves and their few neighbors, they have also many anti-
quated and strange curative practices which would repay investigation.

Their worst enemies are the isolation, ‘‘ moonshine” whisky, and, in not a
few cases, undoubtedly a poor heredity. The Army draft will be a godsend to
many of the young men, some of whom can not even read or write; but probably
few of those who will return will remain mountaineers.

THE VANISHING INDIAN.

Through the cooperation of the Institution and the American Asso-
ciation for the Advancement of Science, Dr. Hrdlicka in August,
1917, made some interesting investigations of the Shawnee and other
Indian tribes. Concerning his work he says:

The progress of miscegenation among many of the Indian tribes has progressed
to a degree that is surprising even to those who for many years have been
studying the Indian. While the total number of ‘ Indians” as recorded by the
12 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

census increases from decade to decade, the fact is that this increase is due
wholly to that of mixed bloods; the full bloods of pure strain in most localities
are rapidly disappearing and in a considerable proportion of the tribes have
become actually extinct er are on the point of extinction.

Two remarkable examples of this fact have just been experienced by the
writer. For years a growing necessity in American anthropology has been to
determine the physical type of the Shawnee, once a large tribe and one of con-
siderable historic importance. No great difficulty was apprehended in this task,
as the tribe is still well represented. The most promising part of the tribe was
that of the so-called “‘ absentee”? Shawnee, on the Shawnee Agency in eastern
Oklahoma. They count 569 individuals, quite a few of whom are generally re-
garded as “full bloods.” To his great disappointment the task of finding some
pure bloods became exceedingly difficult. Quite a few of the Indians were
found to be “ full bloods,” but on inquiry into the family history it was gener-
ally learned that the subject was a mixture of Shawnee with the Oneida, Dela-
ware, Créeks, or some other tribe. In conclusion, there were found but three
individuals who so far as they or their friends knew were full-blood Shawnee.
Two of these were old women and one an old man, all near or over 70 years
of age, and two of the three were sister and brother.

The next tribe visited was the Kickapoo, the main body of which to the
number of 211 is settled about McLoud, Okla. They were said by the old Shaw-
nee to be practically the same people as themselves, having at some time in
the past had but one camp fire, and it was generally believed that they would
show some full bloods of pure strain. This proved to be a vain hope. On close
inquiry all sorts of mixtures were discovered, even among the oldest men and
women of the tribe, but no pure bloods. Only one single woman of middle age
was believed to be possibly a full Kickapoo, but there was no real certainty.
Some visiting Kickapoo from Mexico proved no better than the rest, and no
hope was given that any pure strain Kickapoo could be found anywhere else.

Thus two tribes, one of which of considerable importance, may be regarded
as lost to science, so far as pure bloods are concerned. Only a few years ago,
according to local information, there were still a number of old men and
women living in both tribes who represented the pure strain. The genuine In-
dian is rapidly passing away and the work of the anthropologist who endeavors
to record the physical type of the various tribes is becoming increasingly difficult.

ETHNOLOGICAL EXPLORATIONS IN COLORADO AND UTAH.

One of the most important results of field work by the Bureau of
American Ethnology during the past year was the investigation of
little-known towers, castles, and great houses in southwest Colorado.
In conjunction with the Department of the Interior, the Smith-
sonian Institution has been engaged for a decade in the excavation
and repair of large ruins situated on what is called the Mesa Verde
National Park. The educational value of this work can hardly be
overestimated, and in recent years over 2,500 people have visited the
locality yearly to see these largest of all prehistoric ruins in our South-
western States. In his field work during the summer of 1918 Dr. J.
Walter Fewkes, Chief of the Bureau of American Ethnology, investi-
gated equally instructive groups of ruins in the valleys in sight of
the Mesa Verde Park and found there many well-preserved build-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 13

ings of which little has been hitherto known; the most striking of
these were finely constructed towers, castles, and great houses, the
walls of which have fine masonry, rising in some instances 25 feet
high. They may be instanced as the best-preserved examples of
Indian stone houses north of Mexico. Three clusters of these re-
markable constructions in southwestern Utah are specially note-
worthy, containing in all 11 different buildings, the majority of
which are still, after centuries of wear, in nearly the same condition
as when deserted by the aboriginal builders. Many evidences of their
prehistoric character were gathered. The name of the race to which
their builders belonged is no longer known, but the memory of them
still survives in dim legends of descendants living many miles away.
A visit to these towers well supplements one to the Mesa Verde, and
broadens one’s knowledge of the variety of buildings which stood in
the desert during the most flourishing epoch of North American
architecture of the past. As a sequel to the explorations carried on
by the Smithsonian in these remarkable monuments, the Director of
the Public Park Service of the Department of the Interior, recog-
nizing their educational value for scholars and tourists, has taken
steps to have them set aside from the public domain and placed under
the care of the Superintendent of the Mesa Verde Park for per-
manent preservation.

NATIONAL PARKS EDUCATIONAL COMMITTHER.

On June 26, 1918, at a meeting held at the Smithsonian Institution
there was organized the National Parks Educational Committee.
Dr. Charles D. Walcott, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution,
was chosen chairman, former Representative William Kent, of Cali-
fornia, vice chairman, Henry B. F. Macfarland, of Washington,
chairman of the executive committee, and Robert Sterling Yard,
secretary. The membership includes representatives of universities,
institutions, and public-spirited associations East and West, through
whose cooperation it will present a front of many influential units.

The need of this organization grew out of the rapid growth of
public interest in our national parks, due to the recent realization
of their supreme qualities. It is a safe statement that there is no
other cause so popular in America to-day that is not a war cause.
The limitation of governmental functions practically to the physical
development of the national parks leaves the gathering of their
enormous potential harvests of education and appreciation to the
people themselves; it is to organize these departments of higher en-
joyment, to give impetus to the art and literature of outdoors, to
popularize natural science, and to encourage outdoor living that the
committee is established.
apo Saree)

wt bo ne Yuba BRIE

12 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

census increases from decade to decade, the fact is that this increase is due
wholly to that of mixed bloods; the full bloods of pure strain in most localities
are rapidly disappearing and in a considerable proportion of the tribes have
become actually extinct er are on the point of extinction.

Two remarkable examples of this fact have just been experienced by the
writer. For years a growing necessity in American anthropology has been to
determine the physical type of the Shawnee, once a large tribe and one of con-
siderable historic importance. No great difficulty was apprehended in this task,
as the tribe is still well represented. The most promising part of the tribe was
that of the so-called “ absentee’’ Shawnee, on the Shawnee Agency in eastern
Oklahoma. They count 569 individuals, quite a few of whom are generally re-
garded as “full bloods.” To his great disappointment the task of finding some
pure bloods became exceedingly difficult. Quite a few of the Indians were
found to be ‘“ full bloods,” but on inquiry into the family history it was gener-
ally learned that the subject was a mixture of Shawnee with the Oneida, Dela-
ware, Créeks, or some other tribe. In conclusion, there were found but three
individuals who so far as they or their friends knew were full-blood Shawnee.
Two of these were old women and one an old man, all near or over 70 years
of age, and two of the three were sister and brother.

The next tribe visited was the Kickapoo, the main body of which to the
number of 211 is settled about McLoud, Okla. They were said by the old Shaw-
nee to be practically the Same people as themselves, having at some time in
the past had but one camp fire, and it was generally believed that they would
show some full bloods of pure strain. This proved to be a vain hope. On close
inquiry all sorts of mixtures were discovered, even among the oldest men and
women of the tribe, but no pure bloods. Only one single woman of middle age
was believed to be possibly a full Kickapoo, but there was no real certainty.
Some visiting Kickapoo from Mexico proved no better than the rest, and no
hope was given that any pure strain Kickapoo could be found anywhere else.

Thus two tribes, one of which of considerable importance, may be regarded
as lost to science, so far as pure bloods are concerned. Only a few years ago,
according to local information, there were still a number of old men and
women living in both tribes who represented the pure strain. The genuine In-
dian is rapidly passing away and the work of the anthropologist who endeavors
to record the physical type of the various tribes is becoming increasingly difficult.

ETHNOLOGICAL EXPLORATIONS IN COLORADO AND UTAH.

One of the most important results of field work by the Bureau of
American Ethnology during the past year was the investigation of
little-known towers, castles, and great houses in southwest Colorado.
In conjunction with the Department of the Interior, the Smith-
sonian Institution has been engaged for a decade in the excavation
and repair of large ruins situated on what is called the Mesa Verde
National Park. The educational value of this work can hardly be
overestimated, and in recent years over 2,500 people have visited the
locality yearly to see these largest of all prehistoric ruins in our South-
western States. In his field work during the summer of 1918 Dr. J.
Walter Fewkes, Chief of the Bureau of American Ethnology, investi-
gated equally instructive groups of ruins in the valleys in sight of
the Mesa Verde Park and found there many well-preserved build-

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

ings of which little has been hitherto known; the most striking of
these were finely constructed towers, castles, and great houses, the
walls of which have fine masonry, rising in some instances 25 feet
high. They may be instanced as the best-preserved examples of
Indian stone houses north of Mexico. Three clusters of these re-
markable constructions in southwestern Utah are specially note-
worthy, containing in all 11 different buildings, the majority of
which are still, after centuries of wear, in nearly the same condition
as when deserted by the aboriginal builders. Many evidences of their
prehistoric character were gathered. The name of the race to which
their builders belonged is no longer known, but the memory of them
still survives in dim legends of descendants living many miles away.
A visit to these towers well supplements one to the Mesa Verde, and
broadens one’s knowledge of the variety of buildings which stood in
the desert during the most flourishing epoch of North American
architecture of the past. As a sequel to the explorations carried on
by the Smithsonian in these remarkable monuments, the Director of
the Public Park Service of the Department of the Interior, recog-
nizing their educational value for scholars and tourists, has taken
steps to have them set aside from the public domain and placed under
the care of the Superintendent of the Mesa Verde Park for per-
manent preservation.

NATIONAL PARKS EDUCATIONAL COMMITTEE.

On June 26, 1918, at a meeting held at the Smithsonian Institution
there was organized the National Parks Educational Committee.
Dr. Charles D. Walcott, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution,
was chosen chairman, former Representative William Kent, of Cali-
fornia, vice chairman, Henry B. F. Macfarland, of Washington,
chairman of the executive committee, and Robert Sterling Yard,
secretary. The membership includes representatives of universities,
institutions, and public-spirited associations East and West, through
whose cooperation it will present a front of many influential units.

The need of this organization grew out of the rapid growth of
public interest in our national parks, due to the recent realization
of their supreme qualities. It is a safe statement that there is no
other cause so popular in America to-day that is not a war cause.
The limitation of governmental functions practically to the physica)
development of the national parks leaves the gathering of their
enormous potential harvests of education and appreciation to the
people themselves; it is to organize these departments of higher en-
joyment, to give impetus to the art and literature of outdoors, to
popularize natural science, and to encourage outdoor living that the
committee is established.

SS

14 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

The committee will support a plan of systematic selection and
development to secure for American national parks the recognized
first place in world scenery, thus realizing their value as a national
economic asset. Its educational plans are based upon views of national
parks as popular classrooms and museums of nature. It will seek
the cooperation of public schools and universities in the interpreta-
tion of natural scenery in terms of popular science. Among its first
acts was the passage of a resolution, offered by Leonidas Dennis, of
New Jersey, favoring the bill which has passed the Senate and is now
before the House to make the Grand Canyon a national park.

The committee will enlarge itself so as to become representative
of every section and State in the country. It is the initial stage in
a broad national organization to be perfected after the war under the
title of the National Parks Association. The members at present are
as follows:

Wallace W. Atwood, department of physiography, Harvard University.

Arthur E. Bestor, president of Chatauqua Institution.

Belmore Browne, explorer, author, artist.

Henry G. Bryant, president Geographical Society of Philadelphia, explorer.

John B. Burnham, president American Game Protective and Propagation
Association. .

William KE. Colby, president Sierra Club.

Leonidas Dennis, conservationist, lawyer.

J. Walter Fewkes, chief Bureau of American Ethnology.

John H. Finley, president University of State of New York.

William B. Greeley, chairman conservation committee Camp Fire Club.

George Bird Grinnell, Boone and Crockett Club, pioneer of Glacier National
Park.

William H. Holmes, curator of National Gallery of Art, head curator anthro-
pology, United States National Museum.

William Kent, former United States Representative, donor of the Muir Woods
National Museum.

George F. Kunz, president of American Scenic and Historic Preservation
Society.

KE. M. Lehnerts, department of geology, University of Minnesota; pioneer in
national parks geology classes.

Henry B. F. Macfarland, publicist ; lawyer.

J. Horace McFarland, president American Civie Association.

La Verne Noyes, president board of trustees, Chicago Academy of Science.

George D. Pratt, conservation commissioner, State of New York; president
Camp Fire Club.

D. W. Roper, director Prairie Club; engineer.

Edmund Seymour, president American Bison Society.

Charles Sheldon, Boone and Crockett Club; explorer, author.

Mrs. John Dickinson Sherman, conservation chairman, General Federation
of Women’s Clubs.

Charles D. Walcott, secretary Smithsonian Institution.

Robert Sterling Yard, Chief Educational Division, National Park Service.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 15
PUBLICATIONS.

The Institution and its branches published during the year 91
volumes and separate pamphlets. The total distribution was 134,284
copies, which included 1,591 volumes and memoirs of Smithsonian
Contributions to Knowledge, 26,412 volumes and separates of the
Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, 19,815 Annual Reports and
separate papers, 75,3800 volumes and pamphlets of Museum Pro-
ceedings, 7,344 Bureau of American Ethnology publications, 2,929
special publications, and others relating to the Astrophysical Obser-
vatory, the Harriman Alaska Expedition, and the American His-
torical Association.

War conditions naturally greatly delayed the issuance of publica-
tions by the Government Printing Office, so that there is a large
accumulation of material in proof and manuscript awaiting com-
pletion.

Allotments for printing—The allotments for the printing of the
Smithsonian Report and the various publications of the branches of
the Institution were practically used up, a small balance remaining
in one or two cases owing to the impossibility of getting certain
publications off the press before the close of the year.

The allotments for the year ending June 30, 1919, are as follows:
For the Smithsonian Institution: For printing and binding the annual

reports of the Board of Regents, with general appendices, the editions
of which shall not exceed 10,000 copies_______-_-_-_-__ ss P: — $10, 000

dices, and for printing labels and blanks, and for the bulletins and
proceedings of the National Museum, the editions of which shall not
exceed 4,000 copies, and binding, in half morocco or material not
more expensive, scientific books, and pamphlets presented to or ac-

quired by the National Museum library Ss eh et ES 37, 500

For the annual reports and bulletins of the Bureau of American Eth-
nology and for miscellaneous printing and binding for the bureau___ 21, 000

For miscellaneous printing and binding:

ImnternavonalwoxChanese Se. weeks Sy yess ed) geen Pea es 200
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature_.--- = =~ 100
INGTON E =e HOOlO gene Rai ke ene eee be ee 200
Astrophysical Observatory ELEN Pid A ses oa cow eine tet ps oe the 200
For the annual report of the American Historical Association 7, 000
otal] =e See eR 5 Gi negates Sy ee tp aed 76, 200

Committee on printing and publication—The Smithsonian ad-
visory committee on printing and publication considers all manu-
scripts offered for publication by the Institution or its branches.
During the past year 13 meetings were held, at which 68 manuscripts
were considered and acted upon. The membership of the commit-
tee is as follows: Dr. Leonhard Stejneger, head curator of biology,
National Museum, chairman; Mr. N. Hollister, superintendent of
the National Zoological Park; Mr. A. Howard Clark, editor of the
16 ‘ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

Institution, secretary of the committee; Dr. George P. Merrill, head
curator of geology, National Museum; and Dr. J. Walter Fewkes,
chief of the Bureau of American Ethnology, who succeeded Mr. F. W.
Hodge, resigned.

LIBRARY.

The library of the Smithsonian Institution is divided into (1) the
main library, consisting chiefly of journals and transactions of learned
societies and institutions throughout the world, which are in the cus-
tody of the Library of Congress and administered as the Smithsonian
deposit; (2) the National Museum library; (8) the library of the
Bureau of American Ethnology; (4) the National Zoological Park
library; (5) the library of the Astrophysical Observatory; and (6)
the office reference library. Some of these are subdivided into sev-
eral sectional libraries.

The report of the assistant librarian in the appendix presents de-
tails of accessions. Mention should here be made of one exceptional
and important addition to the Museum library, consisting of a large
number of botanical and horticultural publications brought together
at Biltmore, N. C., by the late Mr. George W. Vanderbilt and pre-
sented by Mrs. Vanderbilt.

NATIONAL MUSEUM.

The detailed account of the operations of the National Museum is
recorded in an appendix to this report by Mr. Ravenel, the adminis-
trative assistant who had chiefly conducted the affairs for several
months during the illness of Assistant Secretary Rathbun, whose
death occurred shortly after the close of the fiscal year. It is there-
fore unnecessary here to do more than to review some of the prin-
cipal activities of the Museum and to refer to the appendix for fur-
ther information.

The exhibits are now housed in three buildings: (1) the arts and
industries collection in what is known as the old Museum building,
(2) the natural history collections and the National Gallery of Art in
the large new building, and (3) the graphic arts and National Her-
barium in the original Smithsonian building.

During the year 69,286 square feet of room in the Natural History
Building were turned over to the Secretary of the Treasury for use
of about 3,000 clerks of the War Risk Insurance Bureau. I may
mention here that a few weeks after June 30 the building was closed
to the public, the exhibition cases were crowded into the least pos-
sible quarters, and all available space was temporarily given over to
the Insurance Bureau. This course was gladly taken, in order to put
into immediate effect the financial assistance provided by Congress
for the families of our soldiers and sailors.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 1 Lif

About 1,300 accessions to the Museum were recorded during the
year, aggregating nearly 143,000 specimens and objects, including
11,000 pertaining to the department of anthropology, 61,500 to zool-
ogy, 38,000 to botany, 11,300 to geology and mineralogy, and 17,900
to paleontology; 168 paintings and other art objects were lent for
exhibition in the gallery of art.

Among the most interesting additions of anthropological objects
were over 400 specimens from Celebes, East Indies, illustrating agri-
culture and household economy in that region collected through the
generosity of Dr. W. L. Abbott. A collection given by Mr. Alfred M.
Erskine represented implements and costumes of the Dyaks of
Borneo. A noteworthy addition to the division of American arche-
ology was a collection of 83 specimens, mostly stone implements,
also relics from the cliff and cavern dwellings of New Mexico, Indian
relics from the Virgin Islands, and a large number of relics from
Utah. By an exchange with the Royal Ontario Museum of Toronto
there were acquired about 200 specimens of Babylonian tablets and
prehistoric stone implements from Egypt, France, and England.

The division of mechanical technology was enriched by the addi-
tion of a large number of firearms and firearm appliances. Among
the historical objects received were two flags pertaining to the present
war, one of which belonged to Zeppelin 49 at the time of its capture
in 1917; the other was the flag used at the funeral of the American
soldiers lost on the transport Zuscania in 1918. A most interesting
object is the original letter written by Gen. Grant demanding the
unconditional surrender of Fort Donelson. There are also large
numbers of souvenirs of American soldiers and statesmen, among
which may be mentioned a number of personal relics of Maj. Gen.
George B. McClellan, United States Army, consisting of swords,
uniforms, and other objects owned by him during the Mexican and
Civil Wars; also the well-known Robert. Hewitt Collection of Me-
dallic Lincolniana made up of some 1,200 medallions, medals, tokens,
and badges. To the collection of musical instruments were added
five American pianos and one organ, seven English pianos, two Aus-
trian grand pianos, and a number of other instruments. To the
numismatic collection was added a large number of replicas of United
States service medals and to the collection of philatelic material,
3,186 stamps, 2,706 of which were received from the Post Office De-
partment. In the appendix the administrative assistant enumerates
important additions in the departments of anthropology, biology,
geology, and to the arts and industries collections which need not
be repeated here.

In previous reports I have called attention to the rapid develop- -
ment since 1912 of the collection of textiles, woods, and medicines.
The additions to the collection, showing the methods of making tex-
18 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

tiles and finished products, are most instructive, likewise the collec-
tion of materia medica, which has been largely increased.

The division of mineral technology during the year has published
a number of unusually important pamphlets on the resources of the
United States, power, petroleum, nitrogen, and coal. Some interest-
ing objects added to the exhibits in the division include models show-
ing the occurrence and recovery of gold and the manufacture of lead
and exhibits of coal-tar products.

The construction of the building for the Freer collection has pro-
gressed as rapidly as could be expected under present war conditions.
The exterior walls have been erected to entablature height. Nine
hundred and twenty-eight items have been added to the Freer col-
lection, including 159 oriental objects. The National Gallery of Art
received a bequest comprising 12 paintings, a number of miniatures
and other objects, 140 items in all, from the estate of Mrs. Mary
Houston Eddy, to be known as the A. R. and M. H. Eddy donation.
It has also received from the Russian artist, Ossip Perelma, a portrait
by himself of M. Boris Bahkmeteff, first ambassador of the Russian
Republic to the United States.

The number of visitors to the Natural History building during the
year 1917 aggregated 306,003 on week days and 95,079 on Sundays,
and to the Arts and Industries building the number was 161,298. The
number of visitors to the old Museum building since it was opened
to the public in 1881 has been 8,000,000; to the new building since
1909, 2,643,654; and to the Smithsonian building since 1881, 4,734,492.
Many meetings of various scientific societies were held in the Museum
auditorium during the year. Special exhibits have also been shown,
among the most interesting of which were the collection illustrating
the united organizations of the United States Food Administration
and the exhibit of etchings of war industries by Pennell.

Following the custom of many years there was a distribution of some
8,000 duplicate specimens to schools and colleges for educational pur-
poses, all properly classified and labeled. These included sets of mol-
lusks, ores, minerals, and objects of ethnology and archeology.

The Museum publications of the year comprised 6 volumes and
40 separate papers, including the annual report for 1916, volume 51
of the Proceedings, and 5 bulletins. Bulletin 102, on the mineral
industries of the United States, is of particular interest to the public,
the four parts so far issued being devoted to coal products, fertilizers,
sulphur, and coal.

Additions to the Museum library amounted to 3,230 volumes and
1,571 pamphlets, making the present aggregate of 52,534 volumes and
84,491 pamphlets and unbound papers. To the Biltmore collection
of botanical works, presented by Mrs. George W. Vanderbilt, 2,000
volumes were added.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 19

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

The activities of the Bureau of American Ethnology are limited
to the study of the past and present conditions of the North Amer-
ican Indians. Their main purpose is to perfect the existing classifica-
tions of the various stocks of these aborigines based on their language
in order to discover their relationship, and to gain a clearer insight
into the origin, history, and migration of man on this continent.
The languages of the Indians are doomed to disappear in the near
future; some have already gone and others will become extinct in a
few years. Through intense, patient research the bureau is under-
taking the task of recording these vanishing tongues before they dis-
appear forever.

The bureau is also, through archeological work, resurrecting from
the night of the past hitherto unrecorded chapters of the history of
aboriginal Indian life that reached a high development and disap-
peared before recorded history began. One evidence of a prehistoric
phase of Indian life is indicated by the pueblos and cliff dwellers.
Through erosion by the elements and vandalism due to man these re-
markable houses are rapidly falling into decay. The Bureau of
Ethnology is cooperating with the Department of the Interior in the
excavation and repair of these remains in order that they may be of
educational value and preserved for posterity.

The field researches of the bureau the past year have been particu-
larly important, both from ethnological and historical points of view.
Hitherto unknown prehistoric monuments have been discovered and
surveyed, while others previously known have been excavated and
permanently preserved. The advances made in ethnological knowl-
edge, although often slow, are always important and have opened up
new problems pleading for solution, indicating that the work of the
bureau has barely begun, and that much available information re-
garding our aborigines still remains to be gathered.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK.

Increasing popular interest in the Zoological Park is manifest by
the number of visitors, which aggregated 1,593,337 in 1918 as com-
pared with 564,634 in 1909 and 633,526 in 1913. The park is an edu-
cational center as well as a place of resort for recreation and pleasure.
This is shown by the fact that 78 schools and classes visited the park
in 1918, with a total of 4,945 individuals. It is likewise a center
for the life-history study of animals, for they are placed as nearly
as practical in conditions of their natural environment, and as the
collection increases in numbers or in kinds so does its value become
of more importance as a source of scientific information.
20 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

There is now in the park a total of 1,247 animals, representing 345
distinct species. These include 483 mammals, 706 birds, and 58
reptiles. The several species are enumerated in detail in the superin-
tendent’s report in the appendix.

A most interesting recent accession is the first specimen of the
glacier bear or blue bear ever known to have been captured alive.
It has a very limited distribution in the region of the St. Elias
Alps, near Yakutat Bay, Alaska. Being one of the rarest and least
known of the great game animals of America, specimens have been
eagerly sought for zoological gardens. Among other accessions may
be noted keas, or sheep-killing parrots, and some flightless rails from
New Zealand, and a large boa constrictor, 11 feet long, from Trinidad.

For several years I have urged the purchase of certain parcels of
land along the western boundary of the park and in 1913 an appro-
priation was made by Congress for that purpose, but as the purchase
could not be completed before the time limit of the appropriation,
further legislation becomes necessary for renewal of the allotment.

The superintendent calls attention to a number of important needs,
including roads, bridle paths, automobile parking space, grading and
filling, a new aviary building, a reptile house, and outdoor quarters
for mammals.

A striking mark of the appreciation and interest of the children of
Washington in the National Zoological Park is the tablet placed in
the elephant house to the memory of the elephant “ Dunk,” through
subscription to a popular fund by the children of Washington,
“ whose favorite Dunk was for more than a quarter of a century.”

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY.

The general direction of the work of the Observatory has continued
under Dr. C. G. Abbot, who, in addition to these duties, has been
occupied during the year with a number of scientific investigations
directly connected with the war.

The investigation of the absorption of long-wave rays by long
columns of air containing known quantities of water vapor, refer-
ence to which was made in my last report, have been continued and
the results to date published in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous
Collections. In describing his work Mr. Fowle says:

The main purpose of this research was to determine the transparency of
water vapor, under atmospheric conditions, to radiation such as the warm
earth sends toward space. Upon the absorptive property of water vapor rests
in part the virtue of the atmosphere as a conservator of the heat which
the earth receives from the sun. Radiation from the sun reaches the earth’s
surface diminished by a certain portion scattered toward space and certain
other portions absorbed in the gases and vapors of the atmosphere. The re-
turn of the energy of this radiation back to space is an indirect process. The
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 21

warmed earth is cooled partly by convection currents playing over its surface
and partly by direct and indirect radiation through the constituents of its
atmosphere. Of these the principal hindrances to free radiation are aqueous
vapor and carbonic acid gas.

Mr. Fowle’s investigations have fixed the dependence of the trans-
mission of the atmosphere on humidity for all wave lengths up to 17
microns. Thiscovers a region of spectrum about fifty times as long as
that which is visible to the eye. At about 17 microns rock salt, which
is used in preference to glass for optical work on long-wave rays
because glass is opaque, itself becomes opaque. Further progress in
the important region between 17 and 50 microns depends on finding
a new transparent medium. Experiments by Mr. Aldrich have
shown that potassium iodide is suitable. But hitherto this substance
has yielded no crystals bigger than buckshot. Fortunately, new
methods devised for war purposes seem likely to furnish large crys-
tals of this substance and there is great hope that the investigation
of atmospheric transparency may soon be carried further.

The total solar eclipse of June 8, 1918, was observed at Lakin,
Kans., by Mr. Aldrich, of the Observatory, with two assistants. Some
good photographs of the solar corona and other phenomena were
secured. Throughout the afternoon and early night hours of June
8 and 9 observations were made with the pyranometer. The results
“measure the gradual diminution of the radiation of the sun and
of the brightness of the sky as the eclipse progressed, the outgoing
radiation of the earth’s surface during totality, the gradual increase
of sun and sky radiation afterwards, their decline toward sunset,
and the outgoing radiation from the earth’s surface after nightfall.”

Investigations at Mount Wilson of the variability of the sun have
been continued and improved. Observations were also made at
Hump Mountain, N. C., but that station was abandoned as too
cloudy, and in June, 1918, a station believed to be exceptionally well
located was established near Calama in Chile at an altitude of 2,250
meters where meteorological records indicate 300 days per year
favorable for solar constant work. This station is supported by a
grant from the Hodgkins fund. It is in charge of Mr. A. F. Moore
and is exceptionally well equipped.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES.

The total number of packages handled by the International Ex-
change Service during the year was 266,946, weighing 182,825 pounds,
as compared with 399,695 pounds in 1917, the decrease being due
almost entirely to war conditions.

The operations of the exchange service have been somewhat cur-
tailed during the past year by the impossibility at times of obtaining

136650°—20-—_3
22 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

cargo space. This condition and the excessively high freight rates
necessitated shipments by mail where this could be done advan-
tageously. Notwithstanding the scarcity of shipping, it is significant
that governmental licensing boards for imports and exports, both of
this country and of Great Britain, have recognized the importance of
keeping open the interchange of scientific information by granting
licenses to the Institution and its agents for the transmission of this
material. Only three consignments of exchanges have been lost
through hostile action since the beginning of the war.

In the interchange of Government publications 91 sets of United
States governmental documents were received for distribution to
designated depositories in foreign countries.

INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC
LITERATURE.

The United States Bureau of the International Catalogue of Scien-
tific Literature is carried on by the Smithsonian Institution by means
of a congressional appropriation. The central bureau is in London,
where data from regional bureaus are assembled and published in
series of annual catalogues. The war has very greatly interfered
with this work, some countries being so much in arrears in their con-
tributions toward its support as to necessitate unusually large sub-
scriptions from several institutions.

As its name ‘indicates, the catalogue is made up of bibliographical
references to scientific literature in various countries. The United
States bureau since 1910 has collected data for this country, aggregat-
ing more than 350,000 reference cards. The 17 annual volumes issued
in London are sold at an annual subscription price of $85, chiefly to
large reference libraries and important scientific institutions, the
satieets covering in part the cost of the publication.

At the She aears convention in London in 1910 a committee was
authorized to secure cooperation with other similar organizations in
the preparation of the catalogue and to broaden its scope to include
technical industries closely allied to researches in pure science. This
would not only lead to economy of labor but would provide a uniform
reference to the literature of all sciences.

NECROLOGY.

WILLIAM JOEL STONE.

William Joel Stone, A. B., LL. D., United States Senator, regent
of the Smithsonian Institution, was born in Madison County, Ky.,
May 7, 1848, and died April 14, 1918. Mr. Stone was educated at
Missouri University, which later conferred upon him the degree of
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. Ae

LL. D. He was admitted to the bar in 1869, after which he was
successively prosecuting attorney of Vernon County, Mo., Repre-
sentative in the Forty-ninth, Fiftieth, and Fifty-first Congresses,
and governor of Missouri. He was a member of the Democratic
National Committee from 1896 to 1904, vice chairman of the com-
mittee from 1900 to 1904, and in 1903 was elected to the United
States Senate, to which office he was twice reelected. He was regent
of the Smithsonian Institution from 1913 until his death.

CHARLES WARREN FAIRBANKS,

Charles Warren Fairbanks, A. B., A. M., LL. D., twenty-sixth
Vice President of the United States, regent of the Smithsonian In-
stitution, was born in Union County, Ohio, May 11, 1852; died
June 4, 1918. Mr. Fairbanks was educated at Ohio Wesleyan Uni-
versity, was admitted to the Ohio bar in 1874, and established prac-
tice at Indianapolis, Ind. He was delegate and chairman in several
national political conventions, United States Senator from Indiana
from 1897 to 1905, Vice President of the United States from 1905
to 1909. During his term as Vice President he was ex officio regent
of the Smithsonian Institution, and was again regent by resolution
of Congress from 1912 until his death.

Respectfully submitted.
Cuartes D. Waucort, Secretary.
a ative pee
ae ON Sie
Pet pane 2

Wit

Fs

\ oe at a oe

ator Ber. sai tpaite

eas a e

<n ake i ¥ P

1 rt Ti

' if . a E ee. ithe

ql ASE

APPENDIX 1.

REPORT ON THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Sir: Owing to the death on July 16, 1918, of Mr. Richard Rathbun,
Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution in charge of the
National Museum, the duty devolves on me of submitting the follow-
ing report on the operations of the United States National Museum
for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1918:

WAR ACTIVITIES.

During the trying conditions that have prevailed in the United
States since it entered the war, the National Museum has demon-
strated its value as a national asset in many ways. Members of its
staff of experts, its great collections, its laboratories, and all the in-
formation in its possession, have been placed unreservedly at the serv-
ice of the executive departments and other Government agencies, and
have been freely used by a number of them. Some of its exhibition
halls have been closed to visitors and turned into office quarters for
one of the important war bureaus of the Government. Facilities for
the comfort and recreation of officers and men stationed in the vicinity
and drilling on the Mall have been provided in the buildings, and the
reading rooms of the libraries have been equipped with tables and
writing materials for all men in uniform.

Its department of geology has been frequently called upon to fur-
nish the Bureau of Standards, Naval Experiment Station, Depart-
ment of Agriculture, Geological Survey, the Carnegie Institution, and
various arsenals, materials for experimental work. A single call from
the Bureau of Standards embraced 27 varieties of minerals, many of
which were rare. To meet all of these demands, it has been neces-
sary to make trips into the field to secure additional supplies. At the
request of the National Research Council the head curator of this
department has taken over the entire work of securing optical quartz
for the needs of the United States and of Great Britain, involving a
large volume of correspondence and travel to different points.

The division of mineral technology has concentrated its activities
for the year upon the interrelationships, and consequent interdepend-
ence, existing in the industries sustained by mineral resources. In
addition to instructive exhibits, the curator and his assistants, in the
solution of the problems connected with the fertilizér, sulphur, fuel,
and power situations, have prepared for publication pamphlets which

25
26 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

have been not only in great demand by publishers of technical papers,
engineers, and business enterprises interested, but of particular value
to the Government bureaus handling these matters. They have fur-
nished, also, a large amount of data to the Shipping Board, the fuel
and fertilizer administrations, and the War and Navy Departments,
including suggestions for insuring a sustained source of oil, and for
the systematic assemblage of industrial data as a basis for reconstruc-
tional work in man power.

The division of physical anthropology has furnished a large
amount of information on raeial questions, particularly relating to
the Balkans, to the National Research Council, and the Army and
Navy Intelligence Bureaus.

In the conservation of food, the curator of the division of textiles,
having charge of food and animal products, cooperated with the
Food Administration in planning graphic exhibits for use through-
out the country on the subject of conservation. He was also ap-
pointed exhibits director in the District of Columbia and served as
chairman of the campaign committee to carry out food conservation
in the District. Incidentally he has prepared and placed on exhibi-
tion an instructive exhibit of foods in the National Museum. Infor-
mation was also furnished by him to the United States Shipping
Board on raw commodities, and assistance in working out a system
for classifying commercial data on vegetable fats and oils.

The Museum photographer has rendered valuable assistance in
connection with the organization of laboratories in the War and
Navy Departments, and also in confidential matters.

Other lines of work in which the Museum was active included geo-
logical and biological problems arising in gas warfare, peat investi-
gations, questions in connection with the construction of concrete
ships and other similar problems, the translating of communica-
tions, etc.

Since the war commenced 24 employees of the Museum have been
granted furloughs to enter the military service of the country.

Bureau of War Risk Insurance.—In October, 1917, at the request
of the President of the United States, space in the natural history -
building of the Museum was placed at the disposal of the newly or-
ganized Bureau of War Risk Insurance of the Treasury Department,
the foyer on the ground floor and the adjoining rooms being con-
verted into offices for the preliminary stages of the work. By re-
arranging some exhibition halls and by closing others, additional
space was given for the purpose from time to time as the force of the
bureau increased, so that at the close of the fiscal year the bureau
occupied 69,286 square feet in the foyer, adjoining rooms, auditorium,
and ranges on the ground floor, and in the rotunda and the exhibi-
tion halls on the first floor, extending from the center of the north
REPORT ON THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM. Zi

hall around east through the southern section of the west hall, pro-
viding accommodations for 3,059 employees. This occupancy nec-
essarily involved many changes and inconveniences, including the
closing of the auditorium, with the cancellation of meetings and
congresses. The importance of the work with which the bureau
is charged—not only of providing insurance for the soldier and sailor,
but of paying to their dependent families the allotments made by
them and by the Government—more than justified any and all sac-
rifices required, and the heartiest cooperation and assistance was
cheerfully rendered by the entire staff of the Museum.

On July 16, 1918, at the further request of the President, the
Board of Regents closed the natural history building to the public,
in order to make every foot of space in the exhibition halls available
for the Bureau of War Risk Insurance.

COLLECTIONS.

The additions to the collections, received in 1,288 accessions, aggre-
gated approximately 142,902 specimens and articles, classified by sub-
jects as follows: Anthropology, 11,058; zoology, 61,537; botany,
38,123; geology and mineralogy, 11,370; paleontology, 17,896; tex-
tiles, woods, medicines, and other miscellaneous animal and vege-
table products, 1,532; mineral technology, 308; and National Gallery
of Art, 1,078. Seven hundred and eighty-one lots of material were
received from various parts of the country for examination and
report.

Space here permits the mention only of some of the important
additions of the year.

Anthropology—tThe ethnological collections were increased by
some 400 specimens collected in Celebes by Mr. H. C. Raven and pre-
sented by Dr. W. L. Abbott; examples of the work of the Dyaks of
Borneo, donated by Mr. Alfred M. Erskine; African, Chinese, Fili-
pino, and Porto Rican ethnologica from Miss Josephine A. Rohrer;
baskets from the Koasati Indians, a pottery-making series of the
Catawba Indians, Sioux and Chippewa objects, and Voodoo drums
and charms from Haiti.

Through explorations under the Smithsonian Institution came
relics from ancient cliff and cavern dwellings in New Mexico col-
lected by Dr. Walter Hough, and archeological objects from Utah
gathered by Mr. Neil M. Judd. The Museum of the American
Indian, Heye Foundation, sent an exchange of ancient Indian relics
from the Virgin Islands, including stone implements and pottery.
Stone implements were also received from Mr. J. G. Braecklein, and
prehistoric implements gathered in Mexico from the Bureau of
American Ethnology. Effigy earthen vessels from the Casas
Grandes, Mexico, were donated by Miss Edith Symington, and an-
28 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

tique pottery with glaze color designs from Arizona by Mr. Victor J.
Evans. The Royal Ontario Museum of Archeology, Toronto, con-
tributed, by exchange, important Old World archeological objects,
including Babylonian inscribed cuneiform tablets, stone implements
from Egypt, France, and England, bronze and iron implements
from Greece and Italy, besides Egyptian pottery, beads, coptic cloth,
and arrowheads. A unique roasting spit found near the Colosseum,
a marble head of Hercules, and some Roman coins were among the
objects donated by Capt. Clarence Wiener of the British Army;
of particular interest also were a bronze lamp, a rosary of Ken-
tucky coffee beans, and a prayer book and selections from the Scrip-
tures arranged for Jews serving in the Army and Navy of the
United States.

The division of physical anthropology was enriched by Indian
skulls and other bones from Alaska, Florida, Illinois, and the Navaho
Reservation, a skull from the French Congo, an interesting cranium
from the Malay Archipelago, a skull and part of the skeleton of an
Eskimo, various other skeletal specimens, and plastic restorations of
certain supposedly early man.

The original full-sized Langley flying machine of 1903 and a dupli-
cate set of cylinders for the engine were deposited in the Museum
by the Institution. Begun by former Secretary S. P. Langley for the
War Department in 1898, in the interest of national defense, this
machine has been demonstrated to be the first aeroplane constructed
capable of sustained free flight carrying a man.

To the mechanical collections were added also revolvers and swords
of Santo Domingo manufacture; modern firearms of English and
American make, including a British Enfield rifle, model of 1914, and
an up-to-date high-power sporting rifle; three guns which belonged to
the late William Cost Johnson, Member of Congress from Maryland,
1833-18438; primitive appliances used with sporting rifles from 1840
to 1870; a crude iron box with flintlock attachment designed for firing
an explosive; molds for casting lead bullets; a signal pistol used by the
United States Navy in 1884; and a blunderbuss said to have been
used in defending mail coaches running between Baltimore and
Washington in the olden time.

Mr. Hugo Worch added 26 pieces to his previous munificent dona-
tion illustrating the history and development of the pianoforte, and
including dulcimers, spinets, clavichords, harpsichords, and organs,
increasing the extent of this notable collection to 148 instruments.

The J. Lewis Ellis and Olive M. Ellis Memorial Collection was
increased by an extensive series of articles in glass, porcelain, silver,
and embroidered handkerchiefs and other textiles. Examples of
Venetian glass, showing miniature portraits and landscapes by the
famous glassworker, Jacopo Franchini, were received from Cavaliere
REPORT ON THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM. 29

Salvatore Arbib through the American consul at Venice, Mr. B.
Harvey Carroll, jr. Two bronze vases presented by the Government
of Japan in 1884 to Commander John B. Bernadou, United States
Navy, reached the Museum through bequest of his widow. Among
loans were period china and Dresden groups and Japanese and Chi-
nese lvory carvings.

To the division of graphic arts came woodcut blocks and progres-
sive proofs from them, the work of Gustave Baumann; specimens
of intaglio color printing from Miss Gabrielle De V. Clements; illus-
trations of the new process “ brulegravure,” from the inventor, Mr.
John Williams Robbins, and an akrograph portrait made by Lord
Kelvin.

The historical relics included a flag flying on the Zeppelin Z-49 at
the time of its capture at Bourbonne les Bains, France, October 17,
1917, by Lieut. Lefevre, of the French Army, which reached the
Museum by transfer from the United States Marine Corps, through
Maj. Gen. George Barnett, commandant. This was accompanied by
small fragments of the gas bag and of the outer envelope of the Z-49.
Another trophy, received through President Wilson, was the Ameri-
can flag made at Islay House, Islay, Scotland, for use at the funerals
of American soldiers lost with the transport Tuscania, February 5,
1918.

The original note written by Gen. U. S. Grant to Lieut. Gen.
Simon B. Buckner, Confederate States Army, demanding the un-
conditional surrender of Fort Donelson, was contributed by Mrs.
Glenn Ford McKinney, and a large collection of relics pertaining to
Maj. Gen. George B. McClellan, United States Army, including a
number of swords, came as a gift from his son, Hon. George B.
McClellan.

Among other historical relics received were a gold watch owned
by Maj. Gen. C. C. Washburn; uniform chapeaux, epaulets, military
insignia, and uniform buttons worn by Col. John N. Macomb,
United States Army; a uniform coat of Gen. Samuel Jones, Con-
federate States Army; a fragment of the Confederate military bal-
loon made in Richmond, Va., of silk dresses; relics of the War of
1812-1815, the War with Mexico, and the Civil War, brought together
by Bvt. Maj. Gen. Edward D. Townsend, United States Army; a
sword carried by Col. William Dudley during the War of 1812-1815;
and a snuffbox given by Rear Admiral Charles Stewart, United
States Navy, to Coxswain William C. Parsons, who in turn pre-
sented it to Rear Admiral George H. Preble, United States Navy.
The naval service was further represented by relics relating to Ad-
miral David G. Farragut, from the estate of his son Loyall Farra-
gut, augmenting the large collection received a year ago. A sword
and pair of flintlock pistols owned by Brig. Gen. Daniel Roberdeau
30 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

during the Revolution, and a spyglass and steel tape measure used
by Lieut. Col. Isaac Roberdeau, when assisting in laying out the
city of Washington, were among objects lent to the Museum, as was
also a portion of the set of chinaware presented by Gen. Lafayette
to Mr. and Mrs. George Graham, of Virginia.

To the historical costumes were added knee breeches and waist-
coat worn during the Revolution by Col. Tench Tilghman; the
official costume and sword of William L. Dayton, American minister
to France in 1861-1864; the official costume and sword of William L.
Dayton, jr., secretary to the American Legation in Paris during that
period; and a satin dress worn by Mrs. Annette Henry Alger, wife of
Russell A. Alger, Secretary of War, 1897-1899.

Particularly noteworthy is the collection of medallic Lincolniana
assembled through many years by Mr. Robert Hewitt, of New York
City, and presented by Mrs. Hewitt, consisting of 1,200 medallic
souvenirs, including medallions, plaques, medals, coins, tokens, and
badges. The Robert Hewitt collection is remarkable for the very
wide range of subjects and types of numismatic material which it
covers, and constitutes an epitomized medallic record of the career
of President Lincoln. The United States Mint contributed a large
series of bronze replicas of United States military and naval service
medals, commemorative medals, and medals of award.

The philatelic material in the Museum was augmented by 3,186
specimens. Of the 2,706 transferred from the Post Office Depart-
ment, 1,506 represented new issues received by the Department from
the International Bureau of the Universal Postal Union.

Biology—While the various divisions of this department report a
decrease both quantitatively and qualitatively in the additions of the
year, it is notable that they relate in most instances to the floras and
faunas of foreign lands remote from the scene of war and war
preparations.

Another trip to Haiti by the indefatigable collector and generous
friend of the Museum, Dr. W. L. Abbott, resulted in important
material for the Museum from that and adjoining islands, including
new and rare forms of birds and reptiles. Mr. H. C. Raven, operat-
ing under the auspices of Dr. Abbott, continued collecting birds and
mammals in Celebes, moving toward the middle of the island and
visiting one or more of the high peaks. He obtained interesting
species and genera not found at lower levels, some of the species
apparently new to science and several genera new to the Museum
collection. Coming from the border country between north and south
Celebes, the faunas of which differ considerably, the full significance
of the series can only be appreciated when the entire Celebes
collection has been carefully studied.
REPORT ON THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM. 31

The Bureau of Science at Manila contributed a large lot of plants
from Amboina, Borneo, and the Philippines. From the Philippines
came also an important collection of named chaetognaths transferred
by the Bureau of Fisheries, and land shells donated by Mr. Walter F.
Webb; and butterflies from the Philippines and Yucatan were con-
tributed by Mr. B. Preston Clark. “Hawaii sent a large lot of plants
collected by Mr. A. S. Hitchcock, besides algae and mollusks.

South America was represented by the important collections of
mammals, amphibians, and reptiles collected by the Peruvian expe-
dition of 1914-15, under the auspices of Yale University and the
National Geographic Society, adding the first fully representative
series in these groups received by the Museum from any large area
of South America. The Museum has been and is even now extremely
deficient in material from that continent, and the collections pre-
sented by the authorities responsible for this expedition are therefore
of the utmost value as forming the basis of future work by American
zoologists in that long-neglected field. A collection of fishes from
western Colombia, received by exchange from the Carnegie Museum,
Pittsburgh, supplements material obtained a few years ago in connec-
tion with the Smithsonian biological survey of the Isthmus of Pan-
ama, as did also a series of plants from Panama contributed by Mr.
Ellsworth P. Killip. From Argentina, Venezuela, Curacao, and the
Galapagos Islands came large lots of plants.

South and Central America, as well as western United States, were
represented in the donation by Dr. Harrison G. Dyar, custodian of
Lepidoptera, of personal collections aggregating some 35,000 insects
and including some 15,000 named Lepidoptera, 1,000 named sawflies,
and large series of mosquitoes and miscellaneous Diptera.

A new genus and species of river dolphin from Tung Ting Lake,
China, afforded a remarkable novelty in the increment to the mammal
collection, belonging to a group of porpoises which includes nu-
merous extinct forms found fossil in Europe and the eastern United
States, its only known living relative occurring in the large rivers
of South America.

In northern China interesting series of birds, mammals, fishes, rep-
tiles, and insects were collected for the Museum by Mr. Arthur de C.
Sowerby, who has lately returned to England for war duty. These
supplement collections made by him in that country for the Museum
during the past 10 years. From China came also some 1.200 plants
from the Canton Christian College, and Chinese and Japanese plants
were obtained from the Arnold Arboretum of Harvard University.

The Collins-Garner Congo expedition, on which the Museum is rep-
resented by Mr. C. R. W. Aschemeier, sent large lots of well-prepared
mammals and birds and smaller numbers of insects, plants, and shells
from the French Congo, greatly needed for comparison with the
32 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918,

remarkable East African series in the Museum. Of birds alone this
contains 10 or more species hitherto not possessed by the Museum
and at least 1 genus.

The Public Library Museum and Art Gallery of Western Aus-
tralia, at Perth, supplied in exchange a number of particularly de-
sirable mammals, birds, reptiles, atid batrachians from Australia.

Even the Arctic contributed to the additions of the year. Nearly
700 crustaceans and mollusks collected by the Canadian Stefansson
Expedition to the Arctic, 1913-1916, were presented by the Dominion
Commission of Fisheries, Department of Naval Service, Ottawa, in
recognition of services rendered by members of the Museum staff in
identifying material.

During his explorations in British Columbia, Secretary Walcott
collected for the Museum a number of large mammals, including a
family of moose, which form a valuable addition to the North Amer-
ican series of mammals. The activities of various Government agen-
cies, mainly the Bureau of Fisheries and the several bureaus of the
Department of Agriculture, resulted in much material for the
Museum from the United States, representing practically every
branch of biology and including particularly large series of grasses
and insects. Of North American material mention should also be
made of especially well prepared bird skins and skeletons from
southern California presented by Mr. Edward J. Brown; marine
invertebrates collected in Magdalena Bay by the donor, Mr. C. R.
Orcutt; a killer whale from Florida representing a genus new to the
coasts of the United States contributed by Mr. Lawrence S. Chubb,
and plants from Alaska and California from Prof. W. L. Jepson.

Various localities, both domestic and foreign, were represented in
an exchange from the Boston Society of Natural History of over
2,300 crustaceans and mollusks, and some 12,000 specimens of Ameri-
can and foreign bird eggs were lent to the Museum by Dr. T. W.
Richards, U. S. Navy.

Geology.—Special attention was paid to building up the collection
of minerals heretofore classed as rare earths and rare metals, which
have become of importance through the outbreak of the war. A
group of exhibition specimens secured mainly through the efforts of
Mr. F. L. Hess consists of a large mass of scheelite ore weighing
2,614 pounds, showing the full width of the vein and said to be the
largest mass of tungsten ore yet mined; about 100 pounds of molyb-
denum-copper ore showing the interesting geological associations of
molybdenite; partly oxidized tungsten showing the atmospheric
alteration of the common tungsten ore mineral wolframite; scheelite
ore replacing limestone and showing unusually large cleavage sur-
faces of the ore mineral; a sawn mass of brecciated ferberite ore—
the so-called “ peanut ore;” a specimen of molybdenite; molybdenite
REPORT ON THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM. 33

and molybdite in altered rhyolite; a mass of the newly discovered
sulphide tungstenite; crystallized ferberite; and a collection of 15
ores and minerals, including molybdenite from Canada, carnotite
replacing wood, ferberite in the form of iridescent crystals, and a
specimen of the rare uranium-vanadium mineral uranite impreg-
nating friable sandstone.

The exhibit of steel-hardening metals was further augmented by
specimens of vanadium ores with incrustations of crystals of the
ore minerals vanadinite and descloizite. Other gifts of interest in-
clude a series of specimens from the famous nitrate deposits of
Chile showing the caliche and its natural associations, a cross-fiber
vein of asbestos showing unusually long pure fibers, and sandstone
impregnated with the blue molybdenum sulphate, ilsemannite.

Collections made for the division by members of the staff included
large exhibition specimens illustrating unconformities, conglom-
erates, rock phosphate, and phosphatic limestone secured by Dr. R. S.
Bassler; albite crystals of unusual type, columbite, black mica, stau-
rolite, bauxite, and quartz, the last named mainly for use by the Sig-
nal Corps of the Army, collected by Dr. George P. Merrill; rocks to
illustrate weathering, obtained by Dr. J. C. Martin; sphalerite with
associated minerals and brecciated chert, and apatite and hematite,
collected by Dr. Edgar T. Wherry.

A mass of graphite, showing an unusual columnar structure, was
transferred from the United States Geological Survey, as were also
blocks, fragments, and pebbles from an Alaskan glacial ground mo-
raine of Silurian age, and a choice figured specimen of arborescent
calcareous sinter from the Mammoth Hot Springs, Yellowstone
National Park.

Of meteorites there were added a newly found stone from Eustis,
Fla.; a slice of the Carleton siderite; 280 grams of an undescribed
stone from Kansas City, Mo.; and an 826-gram specimen of the
Burkett (Tex.) meteoric iron.

In the division of mineralogy and petrology gifts of exceptional
value from Mr. C. S. Bement included particularly fine exhibition
specimens of hetaerolite, crystals of rhodonite, zincite, leucophoeni-
cite, manganosite crystals, a cut gem, a free crystal and an embedded
erystal of willemite, and willemite with friedelite and white zeolite,
all from Franklin, N. J.; calamine, pyrite, and milky quartz, from
Colorado; free crystals of scheelite and scheelite crystals attached to
chalcopyrite, from Mexico; an exceptionally fine, large twinned crys-
tal of quartz and an unusual crystal of danburite, from Japan; the
rare mineral achtaragdite and a variety of vesuvianite—wiluite—
from Siberia.

The American consul at Changsha, China, Mr. Nelson T. Johnson,
donated a specimen of twinned cinnabar crystals from China, show-
34 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

ing seven groups of crystals more than half an inch in diameter, and .
as far as known the finest of its kind in the United States.

Other additions included crystals of tetrahedrite embedded in
quartz, galena with crystals of anglesite, gem stones of variscite,
opalized shells from the Cretaceous of South Australia, beryl, milky
quartz crystals, crystals of selenite, large pyrites, aragonite crystals,
besides type specimens presented by Dr. Henry S. Washington, of the
Geophysical Laboratory, and minerals described by Prof. A. S.
Eakle, of the University of California, and by Dr. W. F. Hillebrand,
of the Bureau of Standards.

Specimens illustrating the geology and ore deposits of the Tintic
district, Utah, the basis of Professional Paper 107, of the Geological
Survey, by Prof. Waldemar Lindgren and Dr. G. F. Loughlin, were
received as a transfer from the Survey, and an interesting series of
rocks collected in the Orient by Dr. J. P. Iddings, in 1910. was
formally turned over to the Museum.

Of the increment to the collections of invertebrate paleontology
mention should first be made of about 10,000 specimens of Middle
Cambrian fossils obtained by Secretary Walcott from the celebrated
locality at Burgess Pass, British Columbia, comprising the study
and reserve material of this wonderful fauna, the types of which
were previously received as were these, by deposit from the Smith-
sonian Institution.

A number of large fossils, mainly corals, and fossiliferous limestone
slabs were collected by Dr. Bassler for enlarging the coral reef in-
stalled in the exhibition series last year.

Well preserved invertebrate fossils from the Cretaceous formation
of Tennessee constituted the most important addition to the Mesozoic
collections. Of interest both for exhibition and study were fossil
insects preserved in copal resin, collected by Prof. D. 8. Martin by
searching the gum copal from the Pleistocene deposits of East
Africa shipped in large quantities to the varnish factories in the
vicinity of Brooklyn.

Paleozoic and Mesozoic fossils especially selected to round out the
study series of European forms, and ammonites from the Jurassie
rocks of France needed in the revision of the exhibit of these forms,
were secured by exchange. To the study series were added Tertiary
fossils from the Pacific coast, and the Devonian stratigraphic series
was increased by a rather complete representation of fossils from
the Hackberry and Hamilton groups of Iowa. Small lots of well-
preserved Eocene insects and a fossil fish collected in Colorado were
of interest because of their rarity.

The section of vertebrate paleontology secured from the United
States Geological Survey, the most important collection of fossil
turtle remains ever brought together from the southwestern part of
REPORT ON THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM. 35

the United States, many specimens being suitable for exhibition and
no less than 49 are sufficiently well preserved to be identified specifi-
cally. Other well-preserved turtles acquired included the type of a
box turtle described by Dr. O. P. Hay, and an example from the
Cretaceous of Georgia, valuable chiefly on account of its locality.

Fossil bones of the mammoth, rhinoceros, and horse collected for
the Museum in Siberia by Mr. John Koren to supplement the ma-
terial obtained by the Koren expedition in 1914-15, included a beau-
tifully perfect mammoth humerus over 3 feet in length, indicating
an animal of magnificent proportions.

Type material comprised the important additions in paleobotany.
Fossil plants from Wyoming, the basis of a paper by Dr. F. H.
Knowlton, were transferred from the survey; two lots from South
America were contributed by Prof. E. W. Berry, the first from the
Tertiary rocks of Bolivia, valuable not only as type specimens, but in
furnishing data for additions to the geologic history of that country,
the second from the Miocene of Peru; and specimens from Beaver
County, Okla., described by Prof. Berry, were donated at his re-
quest by Prof. E. C. Case.

Textiles—tThe efforts of domestic manufacturers to take advan-
tage of the opportunity afforded by the war is shown by upholstery
velvets and velours manufactured in this country from mercerized
cotton, mohair, or silk, or combinations of these, including antique
venetians made of mercerized cotton in imitation of old French and
Italian fabrics and intended to take their place at a reasonable price.

The silk goods series was augmented by new figured novelty silk
representing beautiful effects in the cross-dyeing of combinations of
cotton, wool, artificial silk and spun silk, brocaded piece-dyed satins,
figured cross-dyed crépe georgette, crépe meteore, and fabrics printed
in designs suggesting water movements, silk poplins, georgette crépe
printed in spiderweb-like design called “camouflage,” and suggest-
ing Japanese batik work, “* Moon-Glo” crépe, a novelty crépe weave
fabric with metalliclike surface, and a rough surface fabric printed
with an all-over oriental design.

Fine silk fabrics ornamented with attractive designs by means of
discharge printing are believed to be among the best examples of this
method of printing fabrics that have been produced in the United
States. These included Luxor taffeta, in Persian, Saracenic, and
Italian designs of the eighth, thirteenth, and fourteenth centuries,
copies from ancient Peruvian fabrics, and Wedgwood prints which
carry out remarkably the relief effect copied from Wedgwood
pottery.

Woolen fabrics of the worsted type, woven from combed wools, are
well represented in the Museum collections, but the carded woolen
industry has not been adequately covered heretofore. Particularly
36 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

welcome therefore were some excellent examples of this type of fab-
ric, comprising broadcloth, beaver, zibeline, chinchilla, flannels, over-
coatings, and a strong corkscrew-weave fabric used for shoe tops.
Owing to the need of conserving wool for use in the manufacture of
military clothing, new types of fabrics for civilian use have been put
on the market by manufacturers. One of these reaching the museum,
“ Honey cloth,” is a cotton warp worsted having the weft threads
composed of one-fourth mohair and three-fourths wool.

To the series of implements used in preparing and weaving textile
fibers were added an old flax breaker and two small looms of the
types employed in producing Gobelin and Beauvais tapestries, to-
gether with a repairing board used in mending such fabrics. Some
of the first embroidery machines brought to the United States from
Europe are doing war work by embroidering service insignia for the
Government. A contribution of 107 specimens of such official emblems
of the United States Army, the United States Navy, the Food Admin-
istration, and the Boy Scouts of America, on standard uniform fab-
rics, makes a popular exhibit.

In emphasizing the importance of food conservation a large series
of foodstuffs received as gifts from manufacturers or as transfers
or loans of Government property enlarged the old section of foods
and permitted an exhibit along the line of the Food Administration.
Besides series of wheat substitutes, examples of the conservation of
surplus fruits and vegetables by dehydrating and by canning were
secured, and material to show the high food value of soy beans and
peanuts. An exhibit of 74 models of ordinary articles of diet, each
one representing a quantity of food sufficient to produce a heat value
of 100 calories, shows graphically the relative heat value of the vari-
ous articles in a manner easily comprehended by everyone.

Hand samples of woods produced by 344 trees indigenous to North
America, carefully determined in the preparation of the Tenth Census
Report as to value as fuel and for construction, reached the Museum
from the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, and the New
York State College of Forestry contributed a collection of wood
specimens representing the more important species in use in the in-
dustries of New York State. Other additions to the section of wood
technology included log sections cut from trees felled in Smithsonian
and Seaton Parks in recently clearing the ground for the erection of
temporary buildings for the War Department; an elaborate display
of “ Korelock” doors; a standard aeroplane propeller and an impeller
also of laminated wood construction; specimens showing steps in the
manufacture of a baseball bat, of a wagon wheel, of an automobile
wheel, of a saw handle, of a billiard cue; and various specimens of
California redwood.
REPORT ON THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM. 37

In the division of medicine efforts were concentrated on obtaining
exhibition material of educational rather than scientific value. Tlus-
trating organotherapy was a series of fresh specimens of glands and
glandular tissues together with finished products of the different
forms in which they are administered. Specimens illustrating the
manufacture of pepsin and the finished product in various forms in-
cluded a sample of pure pepsin with a standardized strength of
1:20,000, that is, it has the power to dissolve 20,000 times its own
weight of freshly coagulated and disintegrated egg albumen. Other
exhibits of crude vegetable drugs, synthetic medicinal chemicals, in-
organic chemicals, plant constituents, opium and its products, cin-
chona bark, aloes, and cascara sagrada were secured.

Mineral technology.—tIn assembling collections representative of
mineral technology, comprehensive popular exhibits had been ar-
ranged at the beginning of the year, comprising abrasives, asbestos,
asphalt, cements, coal, copper, glass, gold, graphite, iron, lead, lime,
mica, petroleum, plaster, salt, sulphur, and tin. Under existing con-
ditions it was decided to confine activity to enhancement of what
was already established, deferring for the time being the various
projects for numerical expansion. Accordingly an exhibit was added
to the coal series showing the scope of recent American enterprise
in the direction of coal product manufacture. Tt consists of a 200-
pound lump of bituminous coal with derivatives in the form of dye-
stuffs and other chemicals to the number of 233. The series treating
of gold was enriched by a large panoramic model showing the occur-
rence and the various methods employed in winning the metal. The
magnificent panoramic model of the Bingham Canyon Copper Min-
ing operations was completed, as was also the model, in part placed
on display a year ago, showing the operations of lead manufacture.

In an effort to be of service in the present emergency of war five
lines of investigation, which have been under consideration for sev-
eral years in assembling exhibits, have been developed in the course
of the year. These comprised fertilizer materials, sulphur, coal
products, power, and petroleum. To mobilize the economic forces
of production and to fill in their gaps is as necessary as that of
effecting the requisite military organization, and far more intricate.
The difficulty in building up deficiencies as they become apparent
lies in the complexity of interrelationship. Especially is this true
among the chemically conducted industries. First, there is the group
relationship of progressive segregation, notably instanced in the
coal-product series, wherein the isolation of any one product entails
the work leading to the isolation of many others. Then comes the
group relationship of recombination into usable form, as in the case
of fertilizer manufacture, where an entirely different basis of inter-

136650°—20——4
38 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

dependence is established drawing variously upon the other groups
and linking them together. Thus to build up a deficiency in any one
specific direction it often becomes necessary to carry the work of
reconstruction far afield.

As applied to mineral derivatives, the question of interrelationship
has been a subject of special study in the division of mineral tech-
nology from the time of its establishment, and it was felt from the
outset that here lay the chief opportunity to render service. When
the country’s deficiency in fixed nitrogen came up for consideration
some two years ago occasion was taken to point out* that a nitrogen
situation as a thing apart and to itself did not and could not exist—
that it was inextricably involved with the coal-product situation
and fertilizer situation, and that the only remedy lay in giving heed
to this interrelationship. So it is with the work of mobilizing the
various other chemically conducted industries on a war-time basis.
The need of giving advance heed to this question was appreciated
by our enemies—Germany entered the war as fully prepared in this
field as in the military branches. It was inadequately appreciated
by those who eventually came to be our allies, however; while in
the United States, up to the actual outbreak of hostilities, it was
entirely disregarded as a national issue. Paramount among the
problems thus entailed are those presented by the industrial groups
having to do with the fertilizer materials necessary to an adequacy
of foodstuffs, and with the energy resources requisite to the work of
manufacture. In contributing to the solution of these two basic
problems, investigations projected by Mr. Chester G. Gilbert, com-
prising fertilizer materials, sulphur, coal products, power, and petro-
leum, have resulted in the publication of pamphlets on the inter-
pretation of the fertilizer situation, industrial independence in sul-
phur, an object lesson in the resource administration in coal products,
and the coal resource and its full utilization. Papers on power and
petroleum were completed but not published at the end of the year.
In view of the tendency toward duplication in the scientific work
in Government departments, it is of special note that it is not pur-
posed to initiate any new scientific or technical lines of work, but
merely to interpret technical facts in popular form. This is not only
of vital importance but it is peculiarly the function of the National

Museum.
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART.

In the last report it was stated that foundations had been laid for
a granite structure on the Smithsonian Reservation to house the
Charles L. Freer Collection. Though some delays were encountered

1Sources of nitrogen compounds in the United States, by Chester G. Gilbert, Smith-
sonian Institution Special Publication No. 2421, June, 1916.
REPORT ON THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM. 39

in procuring materials and labor, the construction of this building
has progressed during the year as rapidly as could be expected, con-
sidering the vast undertakings of the Government in constructional
enterprises in Washington due to the war. By June 30,1918, all of
the exterior walls were erected to entablature height and about half
of the architrave and frieze courses of the entablature were set.
Four-fifths of the interior walls had risen to gallery ceiling height
and all others were well advanced. The marble walls of the court
were completed to about two-thirds of their ultimate height. The
basement and first floor construction were completed, the drainage
system below the subbasement floor finished, and 10 per cent of the
heating and ventilating duct work in the subbasement installed.

During the year Mr. Freer increased the extent of his collection to
over 6,200 items by 928 additions, of which 20 are paintings by the
American artists Whistler, Tryon, Dewing, Melchers, Metcalf, Sar-
gent, and Brush; while the oriental objects, numbering 908, consist
of paintings, pottery, fabrics, jewelry, and objects of jade, bronze,
wood, stone, glass, and lacquer.

By bequest of Mrs. Mary Houston Eddy, of Washington, the gal-
lery received a collection of 12 paintings, 12 miniatures, 9 ivory
carvings, a Limoges enamel, a marble bust, a bronze statue, and mis-
cellaneous art objects, 140 items in all, to be known as the “A. R. and
M. H. Eddy Donation.” Other permanent acquisitions were por-
traits by Ossip Perelma of M. Boris Bakhmeteff, first ambassador to
the United States from the Russian Republic, and of Mr. Frank B.
Noyes, president of the Associated Press and editor of the Washing-
ton Star; a portrait of Vinnie Ream (Hoxie), by G. P. A. Healy; a
marble statue of Puck, by Harriet Hosmer; two miniatures by Isa-
bey, one of Napoleon I, the other of Marie Louise; two old English
silver snuff boxes and two large plaster landscape models made in
1902 of the park system proposed for the city of Washington by the
commission appointed by the Senate Committee on the District of
Columbia.

The special loan exhibitions consisted of a collection of Joseph
Pennell’s lithographs of war work in Great Britain and the United
States, displayed from November 1 to 24, 1917, with a special view
on the evening of the 1st; and a series of architectural drawings by
Charles Mason Remey, being preliminary designs showing varying
treatments in different styles of architecture of the proposed Bahai
Temple for Chicago, exhibited during March, 1918.

As elsewhere stated, the natural history building is, under normal
conditions, greatly overcrowded with the collections of its depart-
ments of biology, geology, and anthropology and of the art gallery,
nearly one-fourth of its space being given over to art in its various
40 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

forms. The need of considering the erection of a building exclu-
sively for the National Gallery of Art is pressing and should early
receive attention. The gallery has already failed to acquire many
rich gifts of art works because of the impossibility of caring for them
in the present buildings, and other cities are being enriched at its ex-
pense. Because of this unpreparedness, treasures of art of great
worth well within its reach have gone elsewhere. Art works more
than any other national possession typify advanced civilization, and
the public demands means of acquiring and keeping and facilities
for utilizing such. Most modern nations have made their capital
cities principal centers of art development and art accumulation, and
progress in this respect may well be regarded as an index of the de-
gree of advancement of the people.

MEETINGS AND CONGRESSES.

The facilities afforded by the Museum for meetings were in greater
demand than usual for governmental and scientific gatherings and
were fully utilized until the latter part of October, when the com-
mittee rooms were temporarily given over to the Bureau of War Risk
Insurance. Meetings continued to some extent to be held in the audi-
torium until the last of December, when all engagements of accomo-
dations were canceled, and the auditorium was also placed at the dis-
posal of that bureau.

The Washington Society of the Fine Arts, as customary, was
granted the auditorium for its lecture courses for the season, but held
only five at the Museum. One of the committee rooms was assigned
to the Anthropological Society of Washington and to the Federal
Photographic Society for their regular meetings for the winter.
The former used it but once, holding four other assemblies in the
auditorium, and the Photographic Society went elsewhere, though it
used the auditorium twice in July for exhibitions of motion pictures.

The American Public Health Association held a three-day session
in the auditorium, on health problems and opportunities of the war,
with a reception on the opening night, and the Medical Society of the
District of Columbia celebrated its centennial anniversary by an
afternoon meeting there.

The facilities of the Museum were used by various Government
departments for conferences (1) to formulate plans for the produc-
tion and conservation of the live-stock industry of the United States,
(2) in the interest of fall wheat and rye planting, (3) of State agents
on home demonstration work in the South, and (4) on home eco-
nomics; for the pathological seminar of the Bureau of Plant Indus-
try; for a lecture on horticultural work in China; for a meeting
of the women employees of the Department of Agriculture to discuss
REPORT ON THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM. 4]

participation in war activities; for a second liberty loan meeting
of Post Office Department employees; for two exhibitions of motion
pictures relating to Army aeronautics for the Signal Corps of the
United States Army; for a three-day school of instruction in the
furtherance of the work of the United States Food Administration ;
and for lectures, on two occasions under the auspices of the National
Council of Women, on one under the District of Columbia Chapter
of the American Red Cross, and another under the Women’s Liberty
Loan Committee.

Before the auditorium was turned over to the Bureau of War Risk
Insurance, that bureau frequently made use of it for instructing and
organizing the field parties of officers and enlisted men who were to
be sent to the various camps to attend to the details relating to the
issuance of life insurance.

For two days the auditorium was given over to the annual meeting
of the Potato Association of America, and the Bureau of Commercial
Economics made use of it three times showing motion pictures of the
war, to Army officers, on the first two occasions, and to members of
the National Council of Defense on the last.

Besides the reception to the American Public Health Association
on the evening of October 18, there was a reception in the National
Gallery of Art on the occasion of the opening of the exhibition of
lithographs of war work by Joseph Pennell on the evening of No-

vember 1.
MISCELLANEOUS.

Over 8,000 duplicate specimens, included in 8 regular sets of mol-
lusks, 5 regular sets of fossil invertebrates, and a number of special
sets, were distributed to schools and colleges. Exchanges for secur-
ing additions to the collections involved the use of about 23,227 dupli-
cates, while more than 11,000 specimens, chiefly botanical and zoologi-
cal, were lent to specialists for study.

The attendance of visitors at the natural history building agere-
gated 306,003 persons for week days and 95,097 for Sundays, being a
daily average of 977 for the former and 1,828 for the latter. At the
arts and industries building and the Smithsonian building, which are
open only on week days, the totals were, respectively, 161,298 and
67,224, and the daily averages 515 and 214.

The publications of the year consisted of the annual report, one
volume of proceedings, one volume of the contributions from the
National Herbarium, and three bulletins, besides 40 separate papers.
The latter comprised 28 from the proceedings, 4 from the contribu-
tions, 7 parts of bulletins, and a catalogue of a special Joan collection
in. the National Gallery of Art.
42 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

The library obtained, by purchase, gift, and exchange, 6,162 vol-
umes, 42 parts of volumes, and 1,541 pamphlets. The more impor-
tant donations were the library of Biltmore Herbarium, and a large
series of pharmaceutical works transferred from the Hygienic Lab-
oratory.

Respectfully submitted.

W. ve C. Ravenet,
Administrative Assistant.
Dr. Cuartes D. Waucort,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
Ocroser 31, 1918.
APPENDDX 2.
REPORT ON THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

Sir: Pursuant to your request of July 3, I have the honor to sub-
mit the following report on the operations of the Bureau of Ameri-
can Ethnology during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1918, conducted
in accordance with the act of Congress approved June 12, 1917,
making provisions for the sundry civil expenses of the Government,
and in accordance with a plan of operations submitted by the ethnolo-
gist-in-charge and approved by the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution. The act referred to contains the following item:

American ethnology: For continuing ethnological researches among the
American Indians and the natives of Hawaii, including the excavation and
preservation of archzeologic remains, under the direction of the Smithsonian
Institution, including necessary employees and the purchase of necessary books
and periodicals, $42,000.

The administrative affairs of the bureau prior to March 1, 1918,
were conducted by Mr. F. W. Hodge, ethnologist-in-charge, when he
resigned to accept a position in the Museum of the American Indian
(Heye Foundation). On that date Dr. J. Walter Fewkes was ap-
pointed chief, and continued the administrative duties of the office to
the close of the year.

As the American Indian is rapidly losing many of his instructive
characteristics in his amalgamation into American citizenship, new
features of the future work of the bureau stand out prominently
pleading for investigation. Among these is the urgent necessity to
rescue linguistic, sociological, and mythological data of aboriginal
Indian life before its final extinction. When data now available
cisappear, unless recorded, they are lost forever.

The excavation and repair for preservation of archeologic remains,
by no means a new activity of bureau work, is in the same condition.
Both anthropology and popular approval call for the advancement
and diffusion of knowledge by the bureau along this line.

In addition to their duties in “ continuing ethnological researches ”
among the American Indians the members of the staff have devoted
much time to matters germane to their work. Answers to many let-
ters received by the bureau can not be written offhand, but demand
investigation and often considerable consultation of authorities in
the library. Their requests are not confined to Indian ethnology, but
include a wide variety of questions on race mixture in the United

43
44 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

States, Old World anthropology, and the like. Although the staff
is made up of experts in the study of the American Indians and the
appropriation is limited to the study of our aborigines, the chief
has not shrunk from the necessity of contributing what information
he could on these related subjects, recognizing the need in the near
future of a Bureau of Ethnology.

The “ethnological researches” of individual members of the staff
the past year are outlined in the following pages.

At the close of the last fiscal year Mr. F. W. Hodge had begun
excavations at Hawikuh, one of the “Seven Cities of Cibola,” situ-
ated near the present pueblo of Zuni, N. Mex. This work was con-
tinued in the summer months and yielded a large and varied collec-
tion of artifacts, which are now in the Museum of the American
Indian (Heye Foundation).

The excavations were confined to the great refuse heaps that cover
the western side of the elevation on which the ruins are situated, the
maximum height of the hillock being 60 feet above the eastern valley.
It was believed that this refuse would be found to follow the config-
uration of a gradual slope, but this proved not to be the case, for the
farther the excavation was carried toward the ruined walls on the
summit the deeper the refuse was found to be, and continuous work
for nearly three months in this direction failed to reach a natural
slope or escarpment.

The removal of the refuse, which had reached a depth of 15 feet
when the work was suspended for the season, brought to light many
features of interest, for, as was expected from the character of the
surface soil, this great deposit of débris, consisting: largely of ash
and other refuse from the dwellings, interspersed with quantities of
broken pottery and other artifacts, strata of drift sand, building
refuse, etc., formed one of the cemeteries of the pueblo, or, one might
say, the western area of a single great cemetery that surrounded the
pueblo which, with its appurtenances, covers an area of approxi-
mately 756 by 850 feet, or nearly 15 acres. Excavation of perhaps
a fifth of the cemetery area resulted in uncovering 237 graves.

Excavation had not proceeded very far before remains of walls of
dwellings much older than those of historic Hawikuh were encoun-
tered on the floor of the original surface, 15 feet below the maximum
deposit of refuse; yet, as the work progressed, it was found that
these walls had been built over and across the walls of other and
more ancient houses that had been erected, occupied, abandoned, and
filled in to afford space for the construction of the dwellings which
in turn preceded Hawikuh probably by many generations. The ma-
sonry of these earlier structures, on the whole, was much cruder than
that of Hawikuh proper; but if allowance be made for disturbance
caused by the burial of the dead through several generations, which
REPORT ON THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY. 45

included more or less comparatively recent pottery in the lower
levels, the earthenware of the earliest inhabitants of the site is of
finer quality and of finer decoration than that manufactured by the
historic Hawikuh people not long before the abandonment of their
settlement.

Although the study of the archeology of Hawikuh has been barely
commenced, the results of last season’s work give promise of a
material addition to our knowledge of an important phase of Pueblo
culture, and it is hoped will ultimately open the way to the solution
of related problems in southwestern archeology.

Besides the routine work of his desk Mr. Hodge gave what spare
time he could while in Washington to continuing his work on the
bibliography of the Pueblo Indians.

During July and August Dr. J. Walter Fewkes, ethnologist, com-
pleted his report on the Heye collection of West Indian antiquities
and in the autumn made a brief archeological reconnoissance in south-
western Colorado, returning to Washington the middle of November.
His plan of operations was to visit the ruins in the McElmo district
and determine their architectural features in order to define with
greater exactness the characteristics they share with the cliff dwell-
ings and pueblos of the Mesa Verde National Park. The object was
to gather material that would enable him to construct a classification
of the prehistoric buildings of the Southwest from structural data.
The Mesa Verde cliff dwellings and pueblos belong to a type or group
of ruins distinguished by the structure of the roof and other feat-
ures of the ceremonial room or kiva. The aim of the field work in
1917 was to investigate the distribution of this form of kiva and to
discover other peculiarities of the Mesa Verde type or group at points
remote from the plateau and thus enlarge our knowledge of the
geographical distribution of the types.

It was found that the ruins in Montezuma Valley and the McElmo
and its tributaries show extensions westward of the Mesa Verde type,
and as the field work progressed much was added to our knowledge of
the characteristics of great houses and towers, the examples of which
on the Mesa Verde have been little investigated.

The most noteworthy group of the ancient ruins visited in the
course of his field work were three clusters of great houses, castles,
and towers situated a short distance over the State line on the north-
ern tributaries of the canyons of the McElmo.

The most important result of the field work in 1917 is the conclu-
sion that the ruins of the McEImo region indicate a people allied to
those of Mesa Verde, who reached a high degree of architectural
technique, surpassing any in America north of Mexico. Evidence was
gathered that it was preceded by a stage indicated by one-house con-
struction, and the suggestion is made that it antedated pueblos, on
; *
46 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

which account it has been designated a middle phase in the Southwest.
A considerable number of small ruins of the same structural type
but with only one room were discovered in the tributaries of the
McEImo and Dolores Rivers.

As a sequel to the exploration of the great houses, towers, and
pueblos of Square Tower, Holly, and Hackberry Canyons, at the
suggestion of Dr. Fewkes, the Director of the Public Park Service,
Department of the Interior, has taken steps to have the ruins on these
and adjacent canyons set aside from the public domain as a reserve,
to be called the Hovenweep National Monument.

During the year Mr. James Mooney, ethnologist, remained in the
office, engaged, as impaired health permitted, in the elaboration of
his Cherokee sacred formulas. Throughout the winter and spring
months much of his time was given to assisting the various delega-
tions from the tribes of his working acquaintance, in the West, in
their efforts before Congress, particularly in regard to their native
Peyote religion, of which he has made a special study. The proof of
friendship in the assistance thus given has completely won the hearts
of the tribes concerned, and has opened the door to successful investi-
gation along every line of inquiry.

On June 28 he left Washington for an extended stay with the
Kiowa and associated tribes, among whom he is now at work.

During the past year, Dr. John R. Swanton, ethnologist, has de-
voted the greater part of his time to a study of three languages
formerly spoken on and near the lower course of the Mississippi
River—the Tunica, Chitimacha, and Atakapa (or Attacapa). The
results of this study have been embodied in four papers—sketches of
the grammars of the three languages in question, and a comparative
study. A sketch of the Tunica language, covering about 70 type-
written pages, has been accepted for publication in the International
Journal of American Linguistics. The sketch of Atakapa, of 40 or
50 pages, is practically complete and is designed for publication in
the same journal; that of Chitimacha covers about 100 pages. The
latter is withheld from publication for the present so that more
material may be added. Finally, the paper in which the three lan-
guages are compared and the conclusion drawn that they belong in
reality to but one linguistic stock, is to be published as a bulletin by
this bureau. This covers about 70 typewritten pages.

During the latter half of April and all of May Dr. Swanton was
engaged in field work in Louisiana, Mississippi, and South Carolina.
In the first-mentioned State he continued his investigation of the
Chitimacha language. His visit to Mississippi was principally for
the purpose of inquiring into the social organization of the Choctaw
still living there. In South Carolina he began a study of the Catawba
language, with the help of manuscript material left by Dr. Gatschet,
REPORT ON THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY. 47

and he plans to continue this study during the coming year. It is
important as the only well-preserved dialect of any of the eastern
Siouan peoples and that upon which must be based most of the rela-
tionship of the eastern Siouans to the other divisions of the stock.
A small amount of ethnological material along other lines was also
collected from the Chitimacha and the Catawba.

Dr. Swanton has also added some material to his history of the
Creek Indians.

In July, 1917, Mr. J. N. B. Hewitt, ethnologist, began a critical and
comparative study of the Cayuga texts relating to the Iroquois Fed-
eration, which he had recorded during the two previous field trips.
This manuscript matter aggregates more than 500 pages and treats
of more than 40 topics or features of the Federation of the Iroquois,
dealing with the principles and structure of this institution of the
Five “ Nations” or tribes.

This comparative study was carried to tentative completion and
involved not only the critical reading of the 500 pages of Cayuga text,
but also an equal number of pages of Mohawk and Onondaga texts.

Mr. Hewitt also read 200 galleys of proofs of the Seneca myths
and tales of the Thirty-second Annual Report of the Bureau of Ameri-
ean Ethnology, of which 20 were of native texts with interlinear
translations; he added to them nearly 200 numbered explanatory
notes and read also 632 pages of the first and second revises for this
same report, of which 100 pages are in native text with interlinear
translations.

During May and June, 1918, Mr. Hewitt was engaged in field
work in Ontario, Canada, among the Indians of the Six Nations of
Troquois. He took up the work in textual and literary criticism of
the many texts he has recorded relating directly to the institution of
the Federation cr League of the Five Tribes or Nations in earlier
field operations.

By far the largest, and also the most trustworthy, part of these
texts was recorded from the dictation of one of the best-informed
ritualists and expounders of the league, but much additional and sup-
plementary matter in the form of texts was recorded from the dic-
tation of other informants who had the reputation in the community
of being authorities in regard to the motives and plans of the found-
ers of the federation or league and the decrees and ordinances pro-
mulgated by them; but as these texts were given from memory it
was Inevitable that some of the most important details of the struc-
ture and working apparatus of the league have not been remembered
with the same fidelity by different persons, and so various views and
statements concerning the same subject matter are found. The prob-
lem for the student, then, is to ascertain by an adequate investiga-
tion upon what facts these conflicting views and statements were
originally based. The vocabulary of the national terms employed is
48 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

that of statecraft and ritualism—the utterances of the statesmen and
stateswomen of that earlier time, who had clear visions of institu-
tions which are to-day being formulated and written into the statutes
of our great republic. Among these may be mentioned the recall,
the initiative, the referendum, a full-fledged colonial policy, and
woman suffrage (limited to mothers), men having no voice in the
body which nominates their chiefs.

It is well-nigh impossible to find an interpreter among the Iroquois
who is such a master of both the English and the native Iroquoian
languages as to be able to translate correctly a large number of |
the most important native terms into the English tongue. The fol-
lowing may be taken as a typical example. Dekanawida, in detail-
ing the work of the founders in his “ farewell address,” used the
following term frequently, and it also occurs elsewhere. This word
is “ We’dwéfna’kera‘da’nyon’.” The literal meaning is “ We have
made types or symbols of things.” This is the only rendering known
to most native interpreters. But its technical signification is “We
have made ordinances, or laws, or regulations.”

Another form of criticism is the discovery of the reasons which led
to the variation of the ritual as used by the father and mother sides
of the league. As an example the following may be cited. One or the
other of these sides is the mourning side in the council of condolence
and installation. The side which is not the mourning side employs
all fourteen of the sections of the “ Requickening address.” But it
is customary for the mourning side, in replying, to employ only thir-
teen, omitting the ninth, which refers to the caring for the grave
of the dead chieftain. This omission may seem to be a small matter
to solve, but it is one which brings out the intense esoterism and meta-
phoric use of terms that characterize terminology of the institutions
of the federation or league of the five nations or tribes of the Iroquois.

This definition or meaning shows that the rules of procedure
among the Iroquois Five Tribes were not the commands of an auto-
crat or tyrant, but rather the formulated wisdom of a body of peers,
who owed their position to the suffrages of those who owned the titles
to them, and that the form of government was a limited democracy,
or, strictly speaking, a limited gynecocraey.

At the beginning of the year Mr. Francis La Flesche, ethnologist,
took up the task of putting together his notes on the “ Wa-sha-be
A-thi®,” a composite and intricate war ceremony of the Osage tribe.
The name signifies the determination of the warrior Who becomes a
member of the ceremonially organized war party to show no mercy
to the enemy and that he shall be even as the fire—a power that con-
sumes all things that happen to be in its destructive course.

The literal translation of the name, Wa-shi-be Athi*, is Wa-sha-be,
a dark object; A-thi", to have in one’s possession to carry. The word
REPORT ON THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY. 49

“Wa-sha-be” is here used as a trope for the charcoal that symbolizes
the merciless fire. The making of the symbolic charcoal forms an
important part of the great ceremony and each warrior is required to
carry with him a piece of this charcoal tied up in a little buckskin
pouch. When he is about to attack the enemy he must blacken his
face with this charcoal. If he happens to neglect this he will not be
permitted to recount the strokes he may deliver the enemy in the
attack and to count his war honors.

Originally there was only one “ Wa-sha-be A-thi"” ceremony and
this ceremony pertained strictly to defensive and aggressive war-
fare. Later this ceremony was employed for organizing a war party
to be sent out to slay some member of an enemy tribe in order to send
the spirit of the slain man to overtake and accompany the spirit of
the deceased member of the tribe and to be his companion to the
realm of spirits.

The original ceremony was described by Wa-xthi-zhi, who belongs
to the great division of the tribe which represents the earth and is
called Ho®-ga. The ceremony, when it is used as a mourning rite,
was described by Xu-tha-wa-to?-i", a member of the great division
representing the sky, and called Tsi-zhu.

The account of these two ceremonies, the text, the songs, with
their music, the recited parts of the ritual, and the illustrations and
diagrams cover 253 pages.

It required much time as well as the exercise of patience to secure
the details of these war ceremonies. Particularly was this true of
the wi-gi-es (the recited parts), which relate to the traditions of the
people, on account of their religious character and the superstitious
awe with which the men and women of the tribe regarded them.
Deaths have occurred during the study of these rites, and these deaths
have been by the people attributed to the reciting of the rituals
without regard to the traditional and prescribed rules.

In May, 1918, Mr. La Flesche visited the Osage Reservation for
the purpose of completing his investigations of the tattooing rite,
which he had started some time ago, and succeeded in securing 22
of the wi-gi-es (the recited parts) from one man at a continuous
sitting of two days—a remarkable feat of memorizing. Each of these
wi-gi-es belongs to a gens of the tribe, the male members of which
recite it at an initiation into the mysteries of the rite or at the cere-
mony of the actual tattooing. All of these wi-gi-es are recited simul-
taneously by their owners, and the volume of sound is like that of a
responsive reading in a church, with the difference that the reciting
is not in unison, as each man recites for himself independently of
the others. Fourteen of these wi-gi-es have been transcribed and
translated, and they cover about 100 pages of hand-written manvu-
script.
50 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918,

Besides these 22 wi-gi-es, Mr. La Flesche secured the penalty
wi gi-es owned exclusively by the Thunder gens. He also obtained
the penalty wi-gi-e owned in common by the various gentes of the
Tsi-zhu division and the one owned by the gentes of the Wa-zha-zhe
and Ho"’-ga subdivisions of the Ho*’-ga great division. These pen-
alty wi-gi-es are recited by their owners to the man who offers him-
self as a candidate for initiation into the mysteries of either the
fasting or the shrine degree of the tribal rites. Like the “sword of
Damocles,” the penalty hangs over the head of the candidate and
drops upon him the moment. he violates his initiation obligations,
and punishment comes to him by supernatural means. These two
wi-gi-es have been transcribed, but are yet to be translated.

While in the office Dr. Truman Michelson, ethnologist, was en-
gaged in correlating the Indian texts of the White Buffalo Dance
with the English translation, and revising the latter. He left Wash-
ington near the middle of July and, arriving at Tama, Iowa, re-
sumed his field work among the Sauk and Fox. His attention was
mainly directed to the esoteric meaning of the songs of the White
Buffalo Dance, and to verifying sociological work of the previous
season.. He obtained the names of nine-tenths of the Fox Indians
and obtained information regarding the gens and dual divisions to
which their owners belong. A number of ceremonies of these Indians
were witnessed and he also learned some facts on Fox eschatology.
During his work he purchased a number of sacred packs for the
Museum of the American Indian (Heye Foundation), receiving the
right to publish by the bureau the information pertaining to them.
On leaving Tama, Dr. Michelson proceeded to Mayetta, Kans., to .
conduct a preliminary survey of the Potawatomi, as it was very clear
that the dual divisions of the Sauk and Fox could only be thoroughly
understood after that of the Potawatomi was unraveled. Although
unable to completely work out the regulations governing member-
ship in the Potawatomi dual divisions, he determined definitely that
this division was for ceremonial as well as athletic purposes, as
among the Sauk and Fox. He successfully studied the gentile organ-
ization of the Potawatomi and obtained a number of folk tales in
English which show very clearly that a large body of European
(French) element have been absorbed by the Potawatomi and that
certain elements of the Plains Indians are present. To account for
the distribution of the surviving tales we must assume an early asso-
ciation with the Ojibwa and a later one with the Sauk and Fox group,
which is quite in line with what would be expected on linguistic and
historic grounds. Dr. Michelson returned to Washington in October
and prepared manuscript on a number of miscellaneous topics apper-
taining to the Fox Indians, to serve as an introduction to the pro-
posed memoir on the White Buffalo Dance, which, with the excep-
REPORT ON THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY. 51

tion of typewriting the Indian texts and the addition of a vocabu-
lary, is now ready to submit for publication. During the winter
Edward Davenport, a Fox pupil of the United States Indian School
at Carlisle, spent a week in Washington, assisting in a number of
points regarding the memoir.

In the spring Dr. Michelson made a preliminary translation of a
Fox text of the “owl sacred pack.” In June he went to Carlisle
and worked out the dubious points in the translation with this
informant, who dictated the Indian text twice from that in the
current syllabary, so that the entire text is phonetically restored.
The punctuation (with a few exceptions, added later at Tama) of
the Indian text and English translation was harmonized.

Dr. Michelson edited Part I of Jones’s Ojibwa Texts, containing
about 50 pages, which were published by the American Ethnological
Society, and collected the author’s proofs of Part II, numbering 750,
for a sketch of an Ojibwa grammar which will be offered for publi-
cation by the bureau.

Dr. Michelson has now in press an article in the Journal of
Linguistics showing that the Pequot-Mohegan belong to the Natick
group of the central division of the Algonquian language.

The beginning of the fiscal year found Mr. J. P. Harrington,
ethnologist, in the field engaged in linguistic studies among the
Mission Indians of Ventura County, Cal. At the close of this work,
near the end of September, Mr. Harrington returned to Washington
and spent the following months in the elaboration of recently col-
lected material and his Tanoan and Kiowa notes.

Mr. Harrington has discovered a genetic relationship between the
Uto-Aztecan, Tanoan, and Kiowa languages. The last two are so
closely related that if the Kiowa had been spoken in New Mexico
it would have been classed without hesitation by early writers as a
Tanoan language. The Uto-Aztecan is more remotely but not less
definitely related to the Kiowa genetically. The Kiowa sketch,
amounting to 850 typewritten pages, now includes a complete
analysis of all the important features of the language.

On June 9, 1918, Mr. Harrington proceeded to Anadarka, Okla.,
where he remained until June 26 revising for publication his entire
sketch of the Kiowa language, after which he proceeded to Taos,
N. Mex.

From July to August 15, 1917, Dr. Leo J. Frachtenberg was en-
gaged in confidential war work for the Department of Justice
(Bureau of Investigation). On his return to the bureau he con-
tinued his preliminary work on the grammar and mythology of the
Kalapuya Indians of central Oregon begun during the previous fiscal
year. He also continued his work of extracting, typewriting, and
editing all Kalapuya texts collected by Dr. Gatschet. The myth-
52 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918. -

ology of these Indians, who are almost extinct, constitutes a connect-
ing link between the tribes of the coast and those east of the Rocky
Mountains. While we possess numerous works dealing with the
mythology of the Indians of the northwest coast and of the Great
Plains, nothing has yet been published on the folklore of the tribes
that inhabit the area between the Coast Range and the Rocky Moun-
tains. Hence a volume on the mythology of the Kalapuya (and also
Molala) Indians will be a welcome contribution to our knowledge
of the folklore of the North American Indians.

SPECIAL RESEARCHES.

Dr. Franz Boas, honorary philologist, has been engaged in the cor-
rection of the proof of part 1 of his volume on the Kwakiutl-English,
which has been assigned to the Thirty-fifth Annual Report.

For various reasons part 2 of the Handbook of American Indian
Languages has been delayed.

Good progress has been made by Dr. Boas on the dialects and dis-
tribution of the Salish Tribe, much work having been done on the
maps. This work, which is based on field work supported by Mr.
Homer E. Sargent, was almost completed by Dr. Haeberlin, whose
unfortunate death has somewhat curtailed the work on these tribes.
A very important work on the basketry of the Salish Tribes, funds
for which were also provided through the generosity of Mr. Sargent,
has made good progress.

Prof. W. H. Holmes, of the National Museum, accompanied by
Mr. DeLancey Gill, of the bureau, made a brief visit to the Aberdeen
Proving Station, Maryland, where Indian remains had been reported
in excavations for Government buildings. He also continued the
preparation of the Handbook of American Antiquities, part 1 of
which will soon be published as Bulletin 60 of the bureau.

Provision was made out of the appropriations of the Bureau of
American Ethnology for a brief archeological reconnaissance in the
Walhalla Plateau overlooking the Grand Canyon, from the last of
April to the end of the fiscal year. Mr. Neil M. Judd, of the United
States National Museum, was detailed for this work. He found
remains of prehistoric buildings plentiful along the route of Kanab,
Utah, southeastward, in the northern portion of the Kanab forest, at
House Rock Valley, and in North, South, and Saddle Canyons.
These remains consist usually of one, two, and three room structures
constructed of unworked stone blocks. In many instances the foun-
dations of the walls were stones placed on edge, their tops separating
the masonry of the roof. Clusters of circular rooms, measuring from
4 to 10 feet in diameter, also occur. The floors of these rooms are
generally covered with burnt earth or ashes, mingled with clay that
bears impressions of willows and grass, as if parts of roofs similar
REPORT ON THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY. 53

to those of prehistoric rooms observed along the Colorado River in
the San Juan drainage.

Cliff houses also exist in the breaks bordering the Walhalla Pla-
teau, but these are as a rule small single rooms, apparently cists for
storage like those built by the people who inhabited the single-room
houses in the open, somewhat. back from the rim of the canyon.
Many small artifacts were found on the cliffs but few fragments of
pottery were reported.

Dr. Walter Hough was detailed from the National Museum to
begin a study of the ruins in the Tonto Basin, a country of great
archeological possibilities, situated between the valleys of the Little
Colorado and the Gila. The result of a brief examination of the
northern part of this region was encouraging, showing the existence
of large ruins in the open as well as cliff houses of considerable size.
Dr. Hough also made an examination of several important collec-
tions of artifacts, some of which are unique, and enumeration of the
ruins visited by him indicates a promising field for future research,
which it is the intention of the bureau to prosecute in coming seasons.

Mr. D. I. Bushnell, jr., continued the preparation of the manu-
script for the, Handbook of Aboriginal Remains East of the Mis-
sissippi. The introduction, containing much matter treating of sites,
has been completed and will be published in advance of the hand-
book. It contains a valuable discussion of village sites and ceme-
teries, treated in a historical manner, with reproductions of old
prints and maps.

Dr. A. L. Kroeber has elaborated certain portions of the Handbook
of the Indians of California and little remains to be done before it is
ready for publication.

The study of Indian music was continued by Miss Frances Dens-
more throughout the year. She has completed a report on the Ute
music, consisting of about 375 pages, and has submitted new material
on Ute, Mandan, and Chippewa music. Her account of the Mandan
Hidatsa songs contains 400 pages. A new feature has been introduced
in the study of the Ute melodies, where she has devised diagrams
consisting of curves on a background of coordinate lines. Miss Dens-
more’s main studies have been on ethnobotany of the Chippewa, and
include plants used in treatment of the sick and other subjects. The
general economic life and the industries of the people were also
studied, during which she made an extensive collection, which she
has photographed for use in her publications. She has likewise
adopted the method of tone photographs designed by Dr. Dayton C.
Miller, of the Case School of Applied Science, Cleveland, Ohio.

136650°—20-—_5
54 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.
MANUSCRIPTS.

The following manuscripts, exclusive of those submitted for publi-
cation by the bureau, were purchased:

Unique copy of the Journal of Frederick Kurz’s Travels through
the Western States (in German). In addition to the text (in Ger-
man) there are two jackets of photographs of original drawings of
great historical value.

Six letters on British Guiana written by J. Henry Holmes to his
wife, Mary Jane Holmes.

EDITORIAL WORK AND PUBLICATIONS.

On June 30, 1917, Mr. J. G. Gurley resigned his position as editor
and Mr. Stanley Searles was appointed to the vacancy July 1. Both
editors were assisted by Mrs. Frances S. Nichols. <A report of the
publication work of the bureau during the fiscal year follows:

Publications issued.

Bulletin 63.—Analytical and Critical Bibliography of the Tribes of Tierra del
Fuego and Adjacent Territory, by John M. Cooper. 2383 p., 1 pl.

Hawaiian Romance of Laieikawai.—By Martha Warren Beckwith. An advance
separate from the Thirty-third Annual Report. 3884 p., 5 pl.

Publications in press.

Thirty-second Annual Report—Accompanying paper: Seneca Fiction, Legends,
and Myths (Hewitt and Curtin).

Thirty-third Annual Report.—Accompanying papers: (1) Uses of Plants by
the Indians of the Missouri River Region (Gilmore) ; (2) Preliminary Account
of the Antiquities of the Region Between the Mancos and La Plata Rivers in
Southwestern Colorado (Morris); (8) Designs on Prehistoric Hopi Pottery
(Fewkes) ; (4) The Hawaiian Romance of Laieikawai (Beckwith). ~

Thirty-fourth Annual Report—Accompanying paper: West Indian Antiqui-
ties in the Museum of the American Indian (Heye Foundation) (Fewkes).

Thirty-fifth Annual Report.—Accompanying paper: Ethnology of the Kwakiutl
(Boas).

Bulletin 59—Kutenai Tales (Boas).

Bulletin 60.—Handbook of Aboriginal American Antiquities—Part 1 (Holmes).

Bulletin 61.—Teton Sioux Music (Densmore).

Bulletin 64.—The Maya Indians of Southern Yucatan and Northern British
Honduras (Gann).

Bulletin 65.—Archeological Explorations in Northeastern Arizona (Kidder
and Guernsey ).

Bulletin 66.—Recent Discoveries of Remains Attributed to Early Man in
America (Hrdlic¢ka).

Bulletin 67.—Alsea Texts and Myths (Frachtenberg).

DISTRIBUTION OF PUBLICATIONS,

The distribution of the publications has been continued under the
immediate charge of Miss Helen Munroe, assisted in the opening
REPORT ON THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY. ao

months of the year by Miss Ora A. Sowersby, stenographer and type-

writer, and later by Miss Emma B. Powers, Miss Sowersby having

been transferred to the Bureau of American Ethnology.
Publications were distributed as follows:

Copies.

AN MIA EReDORUS TaN MaSe Dale LS ssa me wees seeecerg ee EE eo = 1, 766
BUSES SED ane CS eer ane ee ne rae Tee ee ee ee 5, 460
Contributions to North American Ethnology (volumes and separates) _——__ {i
Ten ROCICHOMS Barbee a ee Ce see) Pee DT LS de I Ree ae eee pte te ei se 5
Miscellaneousspublications: 423s. a tenes 2 ae bev Arete | teh) fe lOG
BIOTA Ee 2 a pe 7, 344

As compared with the fiscal year 1917, there was a decrease of
4,640 in the total number of publications distributed. This was due
to the fact that during the fiscal year 1917 four publications were
sent out to the mailing list, whereas in the fiscal year 1918 only Bul-
letin 63 was distributed to the list. Twenty addresses have been
added to the mailing list during the year and 15 dropped, making a

net increase of 5.
ILLUSTRATIONS.

Mr. De Lancey Gill, with the assistance of Mr. Albert E. Sweeney,
continued the preparation of the illustrations required for the pub-

lications of the bureau and devoted the usual attention to photo-
graphing visiting Indians. A summary of this work is as follows:

Negatives of ethnologie and archeologic subjects_______-___-_____________ 271
Photographie prints for distribution and office use__________________ 525
Rhofostaimprintserrom books, andemanuseniptsa= = === ee eee 300
VIO USMC SC Cl eases eee OE nun ee re, SE ge en ee ee wees Se 800
Drawings and photographs prepared for publication as illustrations______ 517
RS iTAGLOnmeprOOnS nea de sal eke a eh We oe es ee ae 400
Roriraisnecatives, Of visiting Tndiang== = =. eee a ley
LIBRARY.

The reference library of the bureau continued in the immediate
care of Miss Ella Leary, assisted by Mr. Charles B. Newman.

There was presented to the library by Dr. J. Walter Fewkes the
Codex Hopiensis, consisting of three bound volumes of colored
pictures of Hopi Katcinas made by a Hopi Indian in 1900. This
is the material on which was based the article “ Hopi Katcinas” in
the Twenty-first Annual Report of the Bureau of American Eth-
nology.

During the year 430 books were accessioned, of which 148 were
acquir ed | by purchase, 84 by binding periodicals, and 198 by gifts and
exchanges. The periodicals currently received number about 760, of
which 16 were received by subscription and 744 by gifts and ex-
change. We have also received 200 pamphlets, giving us at the close
of the year a working library of 22,180 volumes, about 14,048 pam-
phlets, and several thousand periodicals.
56 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

During the year there were sent to the bindery 142 volumes, and
84 bound volumes were received.

In continuance of the policy of increasing the library by exchange
and filling in incomplete sets, letters were written for new exchanges
and for completing series already in the library. We have been able
to secure by this means many valuable and important acquisitions.

In addition to the regular routine of cataloguing, classification,
ordering from book dealers, making up for binding, and keeping the
serial and accession records, the efforts of the librarian were devoted
to making a subject, author, and analytical catalogue of books that
are represented in the old catalogue under the author only.

During the year there was an increasing number of students not
connected with the Smithsonian Institution who found the library
of service in seeking volumes not obtainable in other libraries of the
city. The library was used also by the Library of Congress and offli-
cers of the executive departments, and out-of-town students have
called upon the library for loans during the year.

In addition to the use of its own library it was found necessary to
draw on the Library of Congress from time to time for the loan of
about 450 volumes. Numerous typewritten biblographic lists have
been made for correspondents of the bureau and the Smithsonian
Institution.

The Monthly Bulletin for the use of the bureau staff has been
continued throughout the year.

COLLECTIONS.

The following collections acquired by members of the staff of the
Bureau, or by those detailed in connection with its researches, have
been transferred to the U. S. National Museum:

Seven baskets made by the Koasati Indians oF LTEGHE collected
by Dr. John R. Swanton. (61315.)

A roughly chipped implement of gray limestone from British
Guiana, presented by Dr. Walter E. Roth. (61325.)

Six ethnological specimens of the Mandan Sioux, Ute, and Chip-
pewa Indians, purchased from Miss Frances Densmore. (61578.)

A loom of the Osage Indians, collected by Mr. Francis La Flesche.
(62013.)

Twelve specimens of plants from Minnesota, collected by Miss
Frances Densmore. (62190.)

Twenty-five stone objects from the Hu: astec region, Mexico, pre-
sented to the bureau by Mr. John M. Muir, Tampico, Mexico.
(62253.)

Arrowpoints, spearheads (18) collected by Dr. John R. Swanton
in the vicinity of Rock Mill, 8. C. (62577.)
REPORT ON THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY. 57

PROPERTY.

Furniture was purchased to the amount of $167.02; the cost of
typewriting machines was $175, making a total of $282.02.

MISCELLANEOUS.

Quarters —Two rooms on the third floor of the north tower of the
Smithsonian Building, occupied by the bureau, were painted; also the
office of the chief. A glass partition was erected on the south front
of the space occupied by the librarian as an office, in order to render
the office more comfortable during the winter months. Three en-
larged photographs of Spruce-tree House, Mesa Verde National
Park, before and after repair, were painted and hung in the office of
the chief.

Personnel.—Changes in the personnel of the bureau during the
last fiscal year were as follows:

' Mr. F. W. Hodge, ethnologist in charge, resigned February 28,
1918, and Dr. J. Walter Fewkes succeeded him, with the title of chief,
March 1, 1918. Dr. Leo J. Frachtenberg’s official connection with
the bureau terminated October 30, 1917. Mr. Stanley Searles was
appointed editor July 1, 1917. Miss Florence M. Poast, clerk to Mr.

Hodge, resigned October 15, 1917; Miss Ora A. Sowersby, a ste-
-nographer and typewriter in the service of the bureau, was assigned
to that position November 1, 1918. The vacancy created by this
change was filled by the appointment of Miss E. B. Powers, Novem-
ber 5, 1917.

Clerical—tThe correspondence and other clerical work of the office,
including the copying of manuscripts, has been conducted with the
aid of Miss Florence M. Poast and Miss Ora A. Sowersby, clerks to
the ethnologist in charge, and later by Miss M. S. Clark, serving as
private secretary to the chief. Mrs. Frances S. Nichols assisted the
editor.

Respectfully, yours, J. WALTER FEWKES,
Chief.
Dr. Cuartes D. Watcort,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 3.
REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES.

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera-
tions of the International Exchange Service during the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1918:

The estimate submitted by the Institution for carrying on the
service during the year was $35,000. This amount was granted by
Congress, and, in addition, an allotment of $200 was made for print-
ing and binding. The various governmental departments and other
establishments paid the Smithsonian Institution for the transporta-
tion of exchanges $2,345.18, thus making the total available resources
for carrying on the system of exchanges $37,545.18.

The total number of packages handled during the year 1918 was
266,946. The weight of these packages was 182,825 pounds.

The number and weight of the packages of different classes are
indicated in the following table:

Packages. Weight.
Sent. |Received.| Sent. |Received.
Pounds. | Pounds.
United States parliamentary documents sent abroad..........- TSOSIGT Eee esessee 6459068) eee cts
Publications received in return for parliamentary documents. -.|....-.---- THOOS} EE s= ces 2,499
United States departmental documents sent abroad........-.-- SEI50G Al beeeepsace 50316384 ose r cee
Publications received in return for departmental documents... -.|..-.------ O81 E seeaeee na 3, 373
Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications sent abroad..} 23, 026 |....-..-.- AQ 509) es oeace cn
Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications received from
abroad for distribution in the United States.............-----|..-.------ CE GY Sy Eaemaanonc 29, 904
Total See oe eB Be Sy. Si petic Bow teeaee caceeeeeweuee 255, 499 11, 447 156, 049 26, 776
Grand totale! eas aac etna eae eee eee ce eeee tas 266, 946 182, 825

The disparity between the number of packages dispatched and
those received is not so great as indicated by the figures in the fore-
going table. Packages sent abroad usually contain only a single
publication each, while those received in return often comprise sev-
eral volumes. It is also a fact that many returns for publications
sent abroad reach their destinations direct by mail and not through
the exchange sérvice.

So far as the Institution has been advised, only three consign-
ments of exchanges have been lost through hostile action since the

58
REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES. 59

beginning of the war. Information has been received from the
Portuguese exchange service to the effect that the three boxes for-
warded to that service in September, 1916, per steamship Balto
were lost when that vessel was wrecked at sea. In reporting this
loss the Portuguese exchange service does not state whether the ves-
sel was sunk by the enemy.

The box of exchanges for the Jewish Agricultural Experiment
Station, Haifa, Palestine, which the Egyptian Government publica-
tions office at Bulaq kindly agreed to hold until the cessation of
hostilities, has been forwarded to its destination by that office. The
attention given to this matter by the Government publications office
and the trouble taken to reforward the consignment to its destina-
tion are much appreciated by the Institution.

New regulations adopted by the United States War Trade Board
governing importations into the United States from Great Britain
made it necessary for the Smithsonian agents in London to take out
a consular invoice for shipments sent to the Institution, giving the
full title of cach book. The matter was brought to the attention of
the Director of the Bureau of Imports of the War Trade Board,
who very kindly issued a general license to cover the importation of
international exchanges from the United Kingdom when consigned
to the Smithsonian Institution. This action has not only resulted
in expediting shipments from England, but has relieved the depleted
force of the London Exchange Agency of a great deal of labor in
connection with the forwarding of shipments to this country.

Aid has, as in previous years, been rendered to various govern-
mental and scientific establishments in this and foreign countries
in procuring desired publications. One instance in this connection
may be referred to here. A request was received through diplomatic
channels from the recently created French War Museum-Library, at
Paris, for copies of American documents and other material relating
to the war for deposit in a section of that library to be devoted to
the part taken by the United States in the conflict. The Institution
has taken the matter up with the several governmental establish-
ments, and has received a number of publications for the above-
mentioned library. Prof. Adolphe Cohn, of Columbia University,
New York, is the American representative of the French War
Museum-Library, and will take steps to procure publications and
material from organizations outside of the Government.

Only 443 boxes of exchanges were forwarded abroad during the
year. This does not represent an actual falling off in the number
of packages distributed abroad, as many were sent to their destina-
tions direct by mail. This method of transmission was adopted be-
cause it was found much cheaper to mail the packages than to for-
ward them in boxes, owing to the great advance in ocean freight
60 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

rates. Of the total boxes transmitted 103 contained full sets of
United States official documents to authorized depositories. The
shipment of boxes containing the series of governmental documents
was suspended during the latter half of the fiscal year, and will not
be resumed until regular consignments are again forwarded to the
distributing agencies.

The dates of transmission of the 443 boxes forwarded to foreign
countries is shown in the following table:

Consignments of exchanges for foreign countries.

Country. Ble Date of transmission.
Arcentinaeerecceeeasessaeeees 18 | Sept. 5, Nov. 3, 1917; Apr. 2, 1918S.
Boliviae cee sce eseteot ese ncSes 1 | Sept. 8, 1917.
WB razilsees cockioss aes s -etraoeie 15 | Sept. 5, Nov. 7, 1917; Apr. 8, 1918.
Britishicolonies=-eeee-e=ee 1 4 | July 28, Aug. 25, Oct. 3, Dec. 22, 1917.
[BiatH elles kesaseoaasancoue 1 | Sept. 11, 1917.
Canadaree Ssseechee tees cere 16 | Aug. 30, Nov. 21, 1917; Feb. 12, May 31, 1918.
Chiles ee ee eeeee setae ne 11 | Sept. 6, Nov. 9, 1917; Apr. 2, 1918.
Ohindeesesace se eee ae ee tee 13 | Aug. 17, Oct. 5, Nov. 22, 1917; Mar. 31, 1918.
Colombiajacaassssccccine sess = 9 | Sept. 7, Nov. 12, 1917.
Wostayhlcde emer emececastemtecieat 2] Nov. 14, 1917.
Ot so ccinansagscccossacebedos 4] Aug. 30, Nov. 21, 1917; Feb. 12, May 31, 1918.
Menmarker oes sceer eee aee 4] Aug. 4, 1917.
TIXGEENG GP ey sanadaccsaccoses sec 2 | Sept. 8, 1917.
WTANCGe seesceseecieeoecemec= 32 | Aug. 2, Sept. 27, 1917.
Great Britain and Treland, --.. 104 | July 28, Aug. 25, Oct. 3, Dec. 22, 1917.
Guatemalatsaceececnseeceeeeee 1 | July 28, 1917.
FT hi Geter ye ecie eee eis cer ais 3 | Sept. 7, Nov. 14, 1917; Apr. 1, 1918.
Honduraseoseemscce ses sess 1 | Sept. 8, 1917.
Undine 2s. Fetes irises 32 11 | July 28, Aug. 25, Oct. 3, Dec. 22, 1917.
Rtalyses cemetece stands sence 26 | Aug. 23, Oct. 20, Dec. 28, 1917.
anaicaterce cae eeiss Saetteceoe 1 | Sept. 14, 1917.
ABO Tae aS Acampo ceeieemer aie 34 | Oct. 10, 1917; Jan. 8, May 7, 1918.
IMexiCos 2022 =r. aaceiseinee sess 4 | Aug. 30, Nov. 21, 1917; Feb. 12, May 31, 1918.
New South Wales.......------ 18 | Sept. 16, Nov. 13, 1917; Apr. 2, 1918.

A
go
=
N
fas)
2
5
a

Sept. 28, 1917; Nov. 21, Apr. 2, 1918.

INI CALASTIAY ste. soca ee 1 | Sept. 8, 1917.

Jeeire tbe Wiiconseue sae aoaee' 305 2 Do.

IAD ss on ecooeae Sedo Tae CONS eIS 8 | Sept. 8, Nov. 10, 1917; Apr. 2, 1918.
PPORUUM PAM oa osc sees sis 4 | Aug. 4, Oct. 16, 1917.

Queensland... ...- Sane aerate te 4 | Sept. 20, Nov. 21, 1917; Apr. 2, 1918.
Salvadones2e2 9.29202 2e2 eee 1 | Sept. 8, 1917.

STAVE nee Ancnococe caudeecoBace 1 | Sept. 12, 1917.

SouthrAus tralia ec -<-'--i-- == 11 | Sept. 19, Nov. 17, 1917; Apr. 2, 1918.
Saint sae eres CS Ee | 12 | Aug. 13, Oct. 12, 1917; Jan. 9, 1918.
SWILIZenlanG sees asaeeeeeeeee es 5 | Aug. 10, 1917.

WWCMeRIE S556 SeeoepooneSsoeee 5 | July 28, Aug. 25, Dec. 22, 1917.
Union of South Africa.......-- 9 | Aug. 18, Dec. 7, 1917.

WMIgUa yee: seeet--cet e-he era 10 | Sept. 6, Nov. 10, 1917; Apr. 2, 1918.
Wenezclaseeosae soe see 6 | Sept. 6, Nov. 12, 1917; Apr. 2, 1918.
WAlti@ub eoarasouconnecacacesscc 14 | Sept. 18, Nov. 16, 1917; Apr. 15, 1918

Western Australia......-....-- 6 | July 28, Aug. 23, Dec. 22, 1917.

REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES. 61

FOREIGN Be SS ECT OF UNITED STATES GOVERNMENTAL
DOCUMENTS.

Ninety-one sets of United States governmental documents were
received during the year for distribution to the following deposi-
tories :

DEPOSITORIES OF FULL SETS.

ARGENTINA: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Buenos Aires.

AUSTRALIA: Library of the Commonwealth Parliament, Melbourne.

AustTRIA: K. K. Statistische Zentral-Kommission, Vienna,

BADEN: Universitiits-Bibliothek, Freiburg. (Depository of the Grand Duchy of
Baden. )

Bavaria: MG6nigliche Hof. und Staats-Bibliothek, Munich.

Betcium: Bibliotheque Royale, Brussels.

Brazizt: Bibliotheca Nacional, Rio de Janeiro.

Buenos Arres: Biblioteca de la Universidad Nacional de La Plata. (Deposi-
tory of the Province of Buenos Aires.)

CANADA: Library of Parliament, Ottawa.

CHILE: Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Santiago.

Cuina: American-Chinese Publication Exchange Department, Shanghai Bureau
of Foreign Affairs, Shanghai.

CoLtoMBIA: Biblioteca Nacional, Bogota.

Costa Rica: Oficina de Depdsito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, San
José.

CuBA: Secretaria de Estado (Asuntos Generales y Canje Internacional), Ha-
bana.

DENMARK: Kongelige Bibliotheket, Copenhagen.

FINGLAND: British Museum, London.

FRANCE: Bibliothéque Nationale, Paris.

GERMANY: Deutsche Reichstags-Bibliothek, Berlin.

GLascow: City Librarian, Mitchell Library, Glasgow.

GREECE: Bibliothéque Nationale, Athens.

Harri: Secrétaire d’Etat des Relations Extérieures, Port au Prince.

Hungary: Hungarian House of Delegates, Budapest.

InprA: Imperial Library, Calcutta.

TRELAND: National Library of Ireland, Dublin.

ITaty: Biblioteca Nazionale Vittorio Emanuele, Rome.

JAPAN: Imperial Library of Japan, Tokyo.

Lonpon: London School of Economics and Political Science. (Depository of
the London County Council.)

MANITOBA: Provincial Library, Winnipeg.

Mexico: Instituto Bibliografico, Biblioteca Nacional, Mexico.

NETHERLANDS: Library of the States General, The Hague.

NEw SoutH WALES: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.

NEw ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.

Norway: Storthingets Bibliothek, Christiania.

OnTARIO: Legislative Library, Toronto.

Paris: Préfecture de la Seine.

PERU: Biblioteca Nacional, Lima.

PorRTUGAL: Bibliotheca Nacional, Lisbon.

Prussia: K6nigliche Bibliothek, Berlin.

QUEBEC: Library of the Legislature of the Province of Quebec, Quebec.

QUEENSLAND: Parliamentary Library, Brisbane.
62 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

Russia: Imperial Public Library, Petrograd.

Saxony: Konigliche Oeffentliche Bibliothek, Dresden.

SerBIA: Section Administrative du Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Belgrade.

SoutH AUSTRALIA: Parliamentary Library, Adelaide.

Spain: Servicio del Cambio Internacional de publicaciones, Cuerpo Facultativo
de Archiveros, Bibliotecarios y Arquedlogos, Madrid.

SwEDEN: Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm.

SWITZERLAND: Bibliothéque Fédérale, Berne.

‘TASMANIA: Parliamentary Library, Hobart.

TURKEY: Department of Public Instruction, Censtantinople.

UNION or SoutH AFricA: State Library, Pretoria, Transvaal.

UruGuAy: Oficina de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Montevidio.

VENEZUELA: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.

VictortA: Public Library, Melbourne.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.

WURTPFEMBERG: Konigliche Landesbibliothek, Stuttgart.

DEPOSITORIES OF PARTIAL SETS.

ALBERTA: Provincial Library, Edmonton.

ALSACE-LORRAINE: K. Ministerium fiir Elsass-Lothringen, Strassburg.

Bortv1A: Ministerio de Colonizaci6n y Agricultura, La Paz.

BREMEN: Senatskommission fiir Reichs- und Auswirtige Angelegenheiten.

BritisH CotumpsiA: Legislative Library, Victoria.

British GUIANA: Government Secretary’s Office, Georgetown, Demerara.

BureariaA: Minister of Foreign Affairs, Sofia.

Cryton: Colonial Secretary’s Office (Record Department of the Library), Co-
lombo. :

Ecuapor: Biblioteca Nacional, Quito.

Heyer: Bibliothéque Khédiviale, Cairo.

FINLAND: Chancery of Governor, Helsingfors.

GUATEMALA: Secretary of the Government, Guatemala.

Hameure: Senatskommission fiir die Reichs- und Auswiirtigen Angelegenheiten.

HeEssE: Grossherzogliche Hof-Bibliothek, Darmstadt.

Honpuras: Secretary of the Government, Tegucigalpa.

JAMAICA: Colonial Secretary, Kingston.

LIBERIA: Department of State, Monrovia.

LourENcoO MARQUEZ: Government Library, Lourengo Marquez.

Lusrck: President of the Senate,

MapraAs, PRovINCE OF: Chief Secretary to the Government of Madras, Public
Department, Madras.

Matra: Lieutenant Governor, Valetta.

Monvrenecro: Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Cetinje.

New Brunswick: Legislative Library, Fredericton.

NEWFOUNDLAND: Colonial Secretary, St. John’s.

Nicaragua: Superintendente de Archivos Nacionales, Managua.

NorTHWEST TERRITORIES: Government Library, Regina.

Nova Scoria: Provincial Secretary of Nova Scotia, Halifax.

PaNnaMaA: Secretaria de Relaciones Exteriores, Panama.

ParAGuay: Oficina General de Inmigracion, Asuncion.

PRINCE Epwarp ISLAND: Legislative Library, Charlottetown.

RouMANIA: Academia Romana, Bucharest.

Satvapor: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador.

Sram: Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok.
REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES. 63

STRAITS SETTLEMENTS: Colonial Secretary, Singapore.

UNITED PROVINCES OF AGRA AND OupDH: Under Secretary to Government, Alla-
habad.

VIENNA: Biirgermeister der Haupt- und Residenz-Stadt.

INTERPARLIAMENTARY EXCHANGE OF OFFICIAL JOURNALS,

A complete list of the countries which have entered into the Inter-
parliamentary Exchange of Official Journals with the United States
is given below. The Congressional Records for those countries to
which it is not possible to forward consignments at present are being
held at the Institution.

Argentine Republic. France. Prussia.

Australia. Great Britain. Queensland.
Austria. Greece. Roumania.

Baden. Guatemala. Russia.

Belgium. Honduras. Serbia.

Bolivia. Hungary. Spain.

Brazil. Italy. Switzerland.
Buenos Aires, Province of. Liberia. Transvaal.

Canada. New South Wales. Union of South Africa.
Costa Rica. New Zealand. Uruguay.

Cuba. Peru. Venezuela.
Denmark. Portugal. Western Australia.

FOREIGN EXCHANGE AGENCIKES.

Consignments for India, instead of being forwarded through the
India Office in London as formerly, are now sent directly to the Su-
perintendent of Stationery at Bombay, which has been designated as
the establishment to undertake the distribution of exchanges in that
country. This change was made at the request of the Under-Secre-
tary of State for India in London.

Below is given a complete list of the foreign exchange agencies

and bureaus:

ALGERIA, via France.

ANGOLA, via Portugal.

ARGENTINA: Comisi6n Protectora de Bibliotecas Populares, Santa Fé 880,
Buenos Aires. ;

Austria: JK. K. Statistische Zentral-Kommission, Vienna.

AzorES, via Portugal.

Bercium: Service Belge des Nchanges Internationaux, Rue des Longs-Chariots
46, Brussels.

BouiviA: Oficina Nacional de Estadistica, La Paz.

Brazit: Servico de Permutacodes Internacionaes, Bibliotheca Nacional, Rio de
Janeiro.

BritisH CoLtonres: Crown Agents for the Colonies, London.

BriTISH GUIANA: Royal Agricultural and Commercial Society, Georgetown.

BritisH Honpuras: Colonial Secretary, Belize.

Butearta: Institutions Scientifiques de 8S. M. le Roi de Bulgarie, Sofia.

CANARY ISLANDS, via Spain.
64 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918,

CHILE: Servicio de Canjes Internacionales, Biblioteca Nacional, Santiago.

CHINA: American-Chinese Publication Exchange Department, Shanghai Bureau
of Foreign Affairs, Shanghai.

CoLtomBtaA: Oficina de Canjes Internacionales y Reparto, Biblioteca Nacional,
Bogota.

Costa Rica: Oficina de Depésito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, San
José.

DENMARK: Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes Selskab, Copenhagen.

DutcH GUIANA: Surinaamsche Koloniale Bibliotheek, Paramaribo.

Ecuapor: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Quito.

Heyer: Government Publications Office, Printing Department, Cairo.

FraNcE: Service Francais des Echanges Internationaux, 110 Rue de Grenelle,
Paris.

GERMANY: Amerika-Institut, Berlin, N. W. 7.

GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND: Messrs. William Wesley & Son, 28 Essex Street,
Strand, London,

GREECE: Bibliothéque Nationale, Athens.

GREENLAND, via Denmark.

GUADELOUPE, via France.

GUATEMALA: Instituto Nacional de Varones, Guatemala.

GUINEA, via Portugal.

Hartt: Secrétaire d’Etat des Relations Extérieures, Port au Prince.

Honpuras: Biblioteca Nacional, Tegucigalpa.

Huneary: Dr. Julius Pikler, Municipal Office of Statistics, Vaci-utca S80, Buda-
pest.

ICELAND, via Denmark.

InpIA: Superintendent of Stationery, Bombay.

ITraty: Ufficio degli Scambi Internazionali, Biblioteca Nazionale Vittorio .
Emanuele, Rome.

JAMAICA: Institute of Jamaica, Kingston.

JAPAN: Imperial Library of Japan, Tokyo.

JAVA, via Netherlands.

KorEA: Government General, Keijo.

Liperti: Bureau of Exchanges, Department of State, Monrovia.

LourRENCO Marquez: Government Library, Lourengo Marquez.

LUXEMBURG, Via Germany.

. MADAGASCAR, via France.

MapeErra, via Portugal.

MonTENEGRO: Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Cetinje.

MozAMBIQUE, via Portugal.

NETHERLANDS: Bureau Scientifique Central Néerlandais, Bibliothéque de l’Uni-
versité, Leyden.

New GuInea, via Netherlands.

NEw SoutH WALES: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.

New ZEALAND: Dominion Museum, Wellington.

NIcARAGUA: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Managua.

Norway: Kongelige Norske Frederiks Universitet Bibliotheket, Christiania.

PanAMA: Secretaria de Relaciones Exteriores, Panama.

Paracguay: Servicio de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Secciédn Consular
y de Comercio, Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Asuncion.

Persta: Board of Foreign Missions of the Presbyterian Church, New York City.

Peru: Oficino de Reparto, Depdsito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones,
Ministerio de Fomento, Lima.
REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES. 65

PorTUGAL: Servico de Permutacdes Internacionaes, Inspecgao Geral das Biblio-
thecas e Archivos Publicos, Lisbon.

QUEENSLAND: Bureau of Exchanges of International Publications, Chief Sec-
retary’s Office, Brisbane.

RouMANIA: Academia Romana, Bucharest.

RusstaA: Commission Russe des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Impé-
riale Publique, Petrograd.

SALVADOR: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador.

Sersra: Section Administrative du Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Belgrade.

Sram: Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok.

SoutH AusTRALIA: Public Library of South Australia, Adelaide.

Spain: Servicio del Cambio Internacional de Publicaciones, Cuerpo Facultativo
de Archiveros, Bibliotecarios y Arqueélogos, Madrid.

Sumatra, via Netherlands.

SWEDEN: Kongliga Svenska Vetenskaps Akademien, Stockholm.

SwitzerLanp: Service des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Fédérale
Centrale, Berne.

Syria: Board of Foreign Missions of the Presbyterian Church, New York.

TASMANIA: Secretary to the Premier, Hobart.

TRINIDAD: Royal Victoria Institute of Trinidad and Tobago, Port-of-Spain.

TUNIS, via France.

TuRKEY: American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, Boston.

UNION oF SouTH AFRICA: Government Printing Works, Pretoria, Transvaal.

Uruguay: Oficina de Canje Internacional, Montevideo.

VENEZUELA: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.

Victrorta: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.

WINDWARD AND LEEWARD ISLANDS: Imperial Department of Agriculture, Bridge-
town, Barbados.

Respectfully submitted.
C. W. SHoEMAKER,
Chief Clerk, International Exchange Service.
Dr. Cartes D, Watcort,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
Avecust 26, 1918.
APPENIDX 4.
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK.

Str: I have the honor to present the following report on the opera-
tions of the National Zoological Park for the fiscal year ending June
30, 1918:

The sum of $100,000 was provided by Congress in the sundry civil
act for all expenses except printing and binding, for which an addi-
tional allotment of $200 was made. Virtually the entire appropria-
tion was needed for actual maintenance, the cost of which continues
to increase from year to year, and only small sums could be expended
on necessary repairs or minor permanent improvements. There has
been difficulty throughout the year in keeping the required number
of employees in all departments of the force, while the resources of
the park have been taxed to the utmost to care properly for the
greatly increased number of visitors. Notwithstanding the diffi-
culties of the wild-animal trade and the great reduction in the num-
ber of specimens reaching this country from abroad, the collections
have been kept up to a fair standard in numbers without serious gaps,
and the popular and scientific value of the exhibition has not been
impaired,

ACCESSIONS.

Gifts—There were added to the collection by gift a total number
of 103 animals. The list includes many valuable and important ac-
cessions, among them several species not previously exhibited in the
park.

The first specimen of the glacier bear (Ursus emmonsii) ever
known to have been captured alive was received at the park July 25,
1917, as a gift from Mr. Victor J. Evans, of Washington, D. C., who
has made many donations to the collection in past years. The glacier
bear, or blue bear as it is sometimes called, has a very limited distri-
bution in the region of the St. Elias Alps, near Yakutat Bay,
Alaska. It was first described in 1895 and since that time only one or
two skins have been brought into Yakutat by the Indians each year.
The specimen secured by Mr. Evans was captured as a small cub by
an Indian at the head of Disenchantment Bay, a continuation of
Yakutat Bay, about the middle of May, 1916, and was soon after sold
to a trader in Yakutat. As one of the rarest and least known of the

66
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK. 67

great game animals of America, the glacier bear has, since its dis-
covery, been watched for eagerly by the officials of zoological gardens.

The New Zealand Government, through Mr. Ben Wilson of the
Department of Tourist and Health Resorts, made to the park the
most valuable gifts of birds received during the year. These in-
cluded six keas, or sheep-killing parrots (Nestor notabilis), and
eight wekas, or flightless rails (Ocydromus) from South Island, New
Zealand. The keas are beautiful and interesting parrots of large
size which inhabit the high mountains of New Zealand. Some indi-
viduals of the species have developed the habit of killing sheep,
and as a consequence the birds have been greatly reduced in numbers
by the stockmen. <A large outdoor cage with shelter attached was
constructed near the bird house and the keas have attracted great
attention. They are utterly unmindful of the cold, and during the
unusually severe weather of last winter they played in the snow and
bathed in icy water. The wekas, of which three species are repre-
sented in the collection, are members of the group of rails notable
for their imperfectly developed wings. They are of the size of a
well-grown pullet and are mischievous and quarrelsome even among
others of their kind. Unlike their relatives in North America they
are not aquatic, but inhabit dry woods and scrub.

Two interesting collections of Trinidad snakes were received from
Mrs. James Birch Rorer and from Hon. Henry D. Baker, Trinidad,
British West Indies. Included in the lot from Mr. Baker was a
large boa constrictor nearly 11 feet in length.

Among the miscellaneous donations for the past year were some
valuable parrots from individuals as noted below. Not less than
sIx species of amazons, of which the white-fronted (Amazona albi-
frons), yellow-cheeked (Amazona autumnalis), and Santo Domingo
(Amazona ventralis) were new to the collection, were received in
this manner. The Brazilian green macaw and Haitian paroquet
were also previously unrepresented.

The complete list of donors and gifts is as follows:

Mr. Norman Anderson, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Mr. G. Gordon Bailey, Washington, D. C., red-tailed hawk.

Hon. Henry D. Baker, Trinidad, British West Indies, boa constrictor, tree
boa, three lora snakes, and three water coral snakes.

Mrs. Barefield, Washington, D. C., Cuban parrot.

Mr. J. Barnes, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Maj. E. R. Beadle, Paris Island, S. C., peacock.

Miss Pearl Beard, Herndon, Va., American crow.

Mr. William Blum, Chevy Chase, Md., opossum.

Mr. 8S. Howe Bonar, Moundsville, W. Va., great horned owl.

Mr. C. F. Borden, Brookland, D. C., white-fronted parrot.

Mr. J. T. Boston, Washington, D. C., American coot.

Mrs. J. Bourke, Washington, D. C., two alligators.

Mrs. C. V. Brooks, Del Ray, Va., alligator.
68 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

Mr. Bobby Bulkley, Chevy Chase, D. C., alligator.

Mr. Willard Burton, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Camp Meigs Band, Quartermaster Corps, United States Army, Washington,
D. C., turkey.

Mr. James L. Chase, Washington, D. C., yellow-cheeked parrot.

Mr. Waldo A. Clarke, Washington, D. C., opossum.

Miss Pauline Corson, Guinea Mills, Va., raccoon.

Mrs. M. B. Crawford, Washington, D. C., yellow-headed parrot and two
double yellow-head parrots.

Mr. Ernest W. Davis, Asheville, N. C., Margarita capuchin.

Department of Tourist and Health Resorts, New Zealand Government,
through Mr. Ben Wilson, six kea parrots and eight weka rails.

Mr. Victor J. Evans, Washington, D. C., glacier bear.

Mr. L. R. Grabill, Takoma Park, D. C., alligator.

Miss Catherine N. Hinton, Petersburg, Va., white-throated capuchin.

Mr. A. B. Hodges, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Mr. A. V. Hoffman, Washington, D. C., Brazilian green macaw.

Lieut. C. D. Holland, Washington, D. C., two double yellow-head parrots.

Mr. J. M. Horton, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Mr. C. E. Hunt, Washington, D. C., two mourning doves.

Mr. T. A. James, Augusta, Me., two black ducks.

Mr. F. H. Johnson, Washington, D. C., two alligators.

Mr. E. S. Joseph, Sydney, Australia, dingo, two Tasmanian phalangers, two
stump-tailed lizards, and three blue-tongued lizards.

Mr, C. Herbert Kreh, Frederick, Md., copperhead.

Krey, Price & Co., Washington, D. C., bald eagle.

Miss F. I. Latham, Brookland, D. C., bobwhite.

Mr. ©. C. Lets, Chevy Chase, D. C., water snake.

Mrs. Macklehaney, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Mr. R. H. Macneil, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Mr. William M. Mann, Washington, D. C., crocodile.

Mrs. John H. McChesney, Washington, D. C., Haitian paroquet and Santo
Domingo parrot.

Mrs. F. McManamy, Chevy Chase, Md., screech owl.

Mrs. Thomas P. Morgan, Washington, D. C., Philippine macaque.

Mr. H. A. O’Dwyer, Washington, D. C., barred owl.

Mrs. Charles Parks, Washington, D. C., albino squirrel.

Mr. A. H. Peterson, Washington, D. C., screech owl.

Mr. J. S. Rector, McLean, Va., barred owl.

Mrs. C. 8S. Rockwood, Washington, D. C., ring-necked duck.

Mrs. James Birch Rorer, Trinidad, British West Indies, anaconda, lora
snake, and slug-eating snake.

Mr. Charles E. Schaffner, Washington, D. C., canvasback duck.

Mr. Milford Schwartz, Washington, D. C., barred owl.

Mrs. J. V. Shipp, Chevy Chase, D. C., Cuban parrot.

Miss Marjorie Smith, Fort Meyer Heights, Va., alligator.

Mrs. T. K. Smith, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Mr. J. E. Taylor, Oxford, Md., red fox.

Mr. Joseph Turner, Washington, D. C., black bear.

Mrs. Frank Walter, Washington, D. C., yellow-headed parrot.

Mr. F. L. Waters, Washington, D. C., two alligators.

Mr. Alexander Wetmore, Washington, D. C., American crow.

Mr. Walter L. Whitney, Takoma Park, D. C., coyote.

Mr. Bertram Wills, Washington, D. C., two alligators.
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK, 69

Hon. Woodrow Wilson, Washington, D. C., turkey.

Mr. Nelson R. Wood, Washington, D. C., cedar waxwing.

Mr. E. 8. Wright, Lassiter, Va., black-crowned night heron.

In addition to the vertebrate animals listed above and regularly
catalogued in the collection, a most interesting exhibit of crabs was
maintained throughout most of the year. The specimens were pre-
sented by the collector, Dr. Paul Bartsch, of the National Museum,
and comprised 69 West Indian hermit crabs (Ca@nobita clypeata)
from Bush Key, and 37 West Indian land crabs (Gecarcinus mater-
alis) from Loggerhead Key, Dry Tortugas, Fla. Some specimens
of the work of beavers, stumps and cuttings made by the animals in
the construction of dams and lodges, were collected in the Adiron-
dacks, and presented to the Park by Mr. W. E. Talmage, of Cleve-
land, Ohio. Arranged on a stand constructed for the purpose in the
beaver inclosure, they have added greatly to the interest. of the public
in this animal and its work.

Births.—Sixty-three mammals were born, and 45 birds were
hatched during the year. The births include 1 Brazilian tapir, 1
yak, 2 bison, 2 Rocky Mountain sheep, 2 nilgais, 1 black buck, 2
guanacos, 3 llamas, 1 black-tailed deer, 1 Virginia deer, 1 Manchurian
deer, 2 American elk, 5 red deer, 1 fallow deer, 4 axis deer, 2 hog
deer, 4 Japanese deer, 1 barasingha deer, 4 great red kangaroos, 1
brush-tailed rock kangaroo, 1 rufous-bellied wallaby, 1 common pha-
langer, 2 Tasmanian phalangers, 4 raccoons, 9 coypus, 1 paca, 2
Peruvian wild guinea-pigs, and 2 rhesus monkeys. The birds
hatched include Canada geese, wood ducks, mallards, East Indian
black ducks. American coots, cormorants, night herons, and pea-
fowls. —

The tapir, born February 22, is the ninth young reared in the park
since 1903 from a single pair of animals.

Hechanges.—In exchange for surplus animals born in the park
there were received during the year 11 mammals, 25 birds, and 6
reptiles. Some valuable additions were made to the collections from
this source, including a female Manchurian tiger, a young Himalayan
bear, a blesbok, two striped hyenas, and a number of Australian
mammals, birds, and reptiles. A pair of straw-necked ibises (Car-
phibis spinicollis), the first of the species ever shown in the park, was
received in May.

Purchases —The only mammals purchased during the year were
12 prairie-dogs to restock the “ dog town,” the population of which
had been greatly reduced in numbers, and one specimen of the Ari-
zona mountain sheep. Birds to the number of 104, mostly waterfowl
and small aviary species, were added to the collection by purchase.
Perhaps the most noteworthy accession by purchase among the birds

136650°—20——6
70 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

is a pair of thick-billed parrots (Rhynchopsitta pachyrhyncha) from
the Chiracahua Mountains of Arizona. This species is the only
member of the order of parrots, excepting the almost extinct Caro-
lina paroquet, known to occur within the United States. At inter-
vals a number of years apart flights of thick-bills appear in the
mountains of southern Arizona, coming from Mexico. The birds
obtained for the park were captured in January in the pine forested
Chiracahuas, when the ground in the higher altitudes where the
birds occur was covered with snow. A single reptile, a rattlesnake,
was purchased during the year.

Transfers.—The Biological Survey of the Department of Agricul-
ture, as in the past, contributed to the collection by the transfer of
a number of specimens captured by field agents of the bureau.
Seven plains wolves, including one black wolf, were received from
Montana, Wyoming, and Utah. From New Mexico the Biological
Survey sent a specimen each of the western horned owl, ferruginous
rough-leg hawk, and Abert’s squirrel.

Captured in the park.—Three* mammals, five birds, and one rep-
tile captured within the boundaries of the park were added to the col-
lection.

Deposited —Myr. E. 8. Joseph, of Sydney, New South Wales, de-
posited with the park in September, 1917, a specimen of the brown
hyena (Hyena brunnea) of South Africa. The species is one of the
rarest of mammals and had not heretofore been exhibited in Wash-
ington. It is now possible for the first time to compare in the col-
lection living examples of the three distinct types of hyenas—the
spotted, striped, and brown. Birds received on deposit and not
otherwise represented in the collection are the Panama parrot
(Amazona farinosa inornata) from Mrs. M. W. Gill, Washington,
D. C., and the blue-winged parrotlet (Psittacula passerina) from Mr.
W. J. La Varre, jr., Washington, D. C. Fur-bearing animals from
the Biological Survey and eight alligators from the Pan-American
Union were received on deposit during the year.

REMOVALS.

The following surplus animals were exchanged to other zoological
gardens: Five aoudads, 1 tahr, 2 bison, 2 lamas, 2 guanacos, 1 Ara-
bian camel, 5 red deer, 6 fallow deer, 2 Japanese deer, 2 axis deer,
1 Kashmir deer, 4 baboons, 1 monkey, 1 tiger, 1 raccoon, 13 coypus,
6 East. Indian black ducks, 4 Canada geese, 3 peafowl, and 6 alli-
gators. A few specimens on deposit were returned to owners.

Among the specimens lost by death were a few of the oldest ex-
hibits in the park—animals that had been here for many years. The
female Steller’s sea-lion died of gastroenteritis on January 22. This
fine specimen was received October 23, 1900, and had therefore been
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK, al

in the park, in good health, for over 17 years. Its age at the time
of arrival was uncertain, but it was probably over 2 years old.
The Somaliland lioness, Duchess, which was received at the park
December 17, 1902, when about 3 years old, from Hon. E. S. Cun-
ningham, United States consul at Aden, died June 15, 1918, at an
age of about 19 years, 15} years of which had been spent in the
park. It is extremely doubtful if a wild lion ever reaches so advanced
an age. A male Brazilian tapir received from Commander C. C.
Todd, United States Navy, May 19, 1899, died September 17, 1917,
after a period of 18 years and 4 months of life in the park. Among
the birds, a yellow-throated caracara (/bycter ater) received from
Hon. E. H. Plumacher, United States consul at Maracaibo,
Venezuela, October 19, 1904, after 13 Deas and 4 months of life
in the bird house, died on February 22, 1918. A male cassowary
died October 21, 1917, of aspergillosis; it had been in the collection,
in excellent health, for eight years. Others of the more serious
losses were a wombat, a Japanese bear, the sable antelope, an eland,
and a Cape Barren goose.

Through cooperation with the Department of Agriculture, post-
mortem examinations were made, as usual, by the pathological
division of the Bureau of Animal Industry.*

Of the animals lost by death, all specimens of Weouaire importance
or needed for museum work, 19 mammals, 20 birds, and 16 reptiles,
were transferred to the United States National Museum for study
and permanent preservation.

ANIMALS IN THE COLLECTION JUNE 30, 1918.

MAMMALS.

MARSUPIALIA, Dusky phalanger (Trichosurus fulig-
AIUOSUS)) ee et ee a 4

Virginia opossum (Didelphis virgini- Brush-tailed rock kangaroo (Petro-
(ON) Sa ee ee ee Se eee 6 GUC SD CTULCULLLEG) =e ee ee ES

Tasmanian devil (Sarcophilus  har- Great gray kangaroo (Macropus
AUS) ea 2 OVWGAnteusi) oo 8 See ee 2
Phalanger (Trichosurus vulpecula) — 3 | Red kangaroo (Macropus rufus) —--- 8

1The following list shows the results of autopsies, the cases being arranged by groups:
CAUSES OF DEATH.

Mammals.—Marsupialia: Pneumonia, 2; gastroenteritis, 1; peritonitis, 1. Carnivora:
Pneumonia, 4; tuberculosis, 1; gastroenteritis. 2; enteritis, 1; septicemia, 1; cystic
chondroma on head, 1. Pinnipedia: Gastroenteritis, 2. Rodentia: Pneumoenteritis, 1.
Primates: Pneumonia, 1; tuberculosis, 1; gastroenteritis, 4; severe constipation, 1.
Artiodactyla: Pneumonia, 3; tuberculosis, 2; gastroenteritis, 2; pyaemia, 1. Perisso-
dactyla: Tuberculosis, 1.

Birds.—Ratite : Aspergillosis, 1. Ciconiiformes: Digestive disorder, 1; enteritis,
impaction of crop, 1. Anseriformes: Tuberculosis, 3; aspergillosis, 3; enteritis,
eatarrhal gastritis, 1; pericarditis, 1; avian gout, 1; anemia, 2; internal hemorrhage,
no cause found, 4. Falconiformes: No cause found, 1. Galliformes: Tuberculosis,
enteritis, 8; coccidial enteritis, 1; peritonitis, 1; no cause found, 4. Gruiformes:
Exposure, 1; no cause found, 3. Charadriiformes: Enteritis, 5; ulcerative enteritis, 4
caseous tumor in peritoneal cavity, 1; no cause found, 1. Cuculiformes: Enteritis, 1;
no cause found, 2. Coraciiformes: Hepatic hematoma, 1; septicemia, 4. Passeriformes :
Enteritis, 1; inflammation of mucosa of duodenum, 1; anemia, 1; no cause found, 5.

Reptiles.—Serpentes: Parasitism, 1,

nr Oe
{o ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

Kangaroo Island kangaroo (Macropus
MelAN0NS) —-2=—— = eee
Wallaroo (Macropus robustus)_—____
Black-tailed wallaby (Macropus uala-
GOTH S))) ee
Rufous-bellied wallaby (Macropus
billandiertt) =e 2 Sree reas Pe
Parma wallaby (Macropus parma) —_
Nail-tailed wallaby (Onychogale
URAL) oe 2 ee Se ee
Wombat (Phascolomys mitchelli) ——

CARNIVORA,

Kadiak bear (Ursus middendorfi) —~
Alaska Peninsula bear (Ursus gyas) —
Yakutat bear (Ursus dattt) =~ =—
Kidder’s bear (Ursus kidderi)_~_--~-~
Buropean bear (Ursus arctos) ~~~
Grizzly bear (Ursus horribilis) _____
Himalayan bear (Ursus thibetanus) —
Black bear (Ursus americanus) ~~~
Kenai black bear (Ursus americanus

DI CTIVIG C1.) aes ae eee
Cinnamon bear (Ursus americanus

ennamomun) (=. eee
Glacier bear (Ursus emmonsii) ——__~—
Sloth bear (Melursus ursinus) ~~~
Polar bear (Thalarctos maritimus) ——
Dingor (Canis dingo) ——
Eskimo dog (Canis familiaris) ~~—_~
Gray wolf (Canis nubilus)________—
Southern wolf (Canis floridanus) ~~
Woodhouse’s wolf (Canis frustror) _—_—
Coyote: (Canisilatnens)) = =
Red fox (Vulpes fulva) _—___
Gray fox (Urocyon cinereoargen-

COUS)) ats Se ee ee in ee
Raccoon (Procyon, lotonr)——— ==
Gray coatimundi (Nasua narica) —__~—
Kinkajou (Potos flavus) ——.—-_=---=
Herret (Uastetayfuro) -_ = ee
TNayra (Hhayracbaroarg) 22-2.
Skunk (Mephitis nigra) _——
American badger (Tawvidea tarus) ~~
European badger (Meles meles) —__~
Florida otter (Lutra canadensis

African civet (Viverra civetta) ____
Genet (Genetta genetta)__________
Spotted hyena (Crocuta crocuta) —_~
Brown hyena (Hyena brunnea)____
Striped hyena (Hy@na hyena) ____~
African cheetah (Acinonya# jubatus) —
Tone (Hels eleo) ae eee
Bengal tiger (Felis tigris) _________
Manchurian tiger (Felis tigris longi-

DUS) ete = See eee
Leopard (Felis pardus)_~_________
Hast African leopard (Felis pardus

Suachenca) =a = = reese
JACUAT ACHES ONCd) te Bee See
Mexican puma (Felis azteca) ______
Mountain lion (Felis hippolestes) ——
Canada lynx (Lynw® canadensis) ~~~
Bay lynx (Lyno 7uffus) 22-2
California lynx (Lynw californicus) —

Co bo

=

WrEwWARN be

—

RP RDN RP RRR | OT a el OwnronvrnreF bb

bob

> 02 CS bo eH

PINNIPEDIA,

California sea-lion (Zalophus  cali-
FOPNLANUS ea ee eee
Harbor seal (Phoca vitulina) ______

RODENTIA,

Patagonian cavy (Dolichotis pata-
GONE) 321 SS Se eek 28
Peruvian guinea pig (Cavia tschudii
DOGO i ee
Guinea pig (Cavia porcellus) ______
Coypu (Myocastor coypus)_——_______
Mexican agouti (Dasyprocta mewi-
CONG) ata tgs See eee
Azara’s agouti (Dasyprocta azara) —
Crested agouti (Dasyprocta  cris-
CEG) eek ee a ee
Pacay(Cumeulus paca) a.
Viscacha (Lagostomus maximus) —_~
Crested poreupine (Hystrix  cris-
CUEG) 233 a = eS eee
Woodchuck (Marmota monar)_—___~
Dusky marmot (Marmota flaviven-
b118 AOUSCURG) A Ss Ee
Prairie-dog (Cynomys ludovicianus) —
Albino squirrel (Sciurus carolinen-
SHS)! Se A ees ae Dates rahe 2a
American beaver (Castor canaden-
STS) es ee ee A EL CR ee

LAGOMORPHA,

Domestie rabbit (Oryctolagus cunic-
AVULS ) i ee a eee

EDENTATA.

Hairy armadillo (Huphractus villo-

PRIMATES.

Black lemur (Lemur macaco)__~_——~
White-throated capuchin (Cebus ca-

puCinNs) — SSS ee
Margarita capuchin (Cebus marga-
Pte WV SSE es ee eS eee
Chacma (Papio porcarius) ——_—--—_~—
Hamadryas baboon (Papio hama-
NY OS) SSeS = SS eS See

Mandrill (Papio sphing) ——~--_—--_—
Drill (Papio leucopheus) _____-___~-
Moor macaque (Cynopithecus mau-

MLS) eee yee at SS eee
Brown macaque (Macaca speciosa) —
Japanese monkey (Macaca fuscata) —
Pig-tailed monkey (Macaca neme-

String) 22a Seen 2 ee Se Se
Rhesus monkey (Macaca rhesus) —-~
sonnet monkey (Macaca sinica) ~~
Javan macaque (Macaca mordaz) —_—
Philippine macaque (Macaca sy-

TEORTC) Ee eee ee
Sooty mangabey (Cercocebus fuligi-

Nosus)\\EeL eee * ee ae sae ee

bo

ft bo

b

bo
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK,

Green guenon (Lasiopyga callitri-
SY MTHS) gps Si St HE ale se _ si A a aK
Vervet guenon (Lasiopyga pygery-
UT. i) ae ee ee ee
Mona (Lasiopyga mona) _______-__~
Roloway guenon (Lasiopyga_ yrolo-
AU Cj) rer Pe a a os es tes ore

Patas monkey (Hrythrocebus patas) —
Chimpanzee (Pan troglodytes) _—_—__

ARTIODACTYLA.

Collared peceary (Pecari angulatus) —
Wildiboara(Swzs) scrofa) 2 ae
Wart-hog (Phacocherus ethiopicus) —
Hippopotamus (Hippopotamus am-

TUT ON ALS) eae eee ee ee ee Le
Batrician camel (Camelus bactrian-

Guanaco (Lama huanachus) —~~~-~-~
llama (Lama sgtama) = ———— =
Alpaca. (Lama pacos) -2==—-—______
Vicuna (Lama vicugna)__________-
Fallow deer (Dama dama)___—-~--~-~
Axisndeern(A aie iaris)) ie. ase
Hog deer (Hyelaphus porcinus) __—_~
Sambar (Rusa unicolor)—____-___-—
Luzon deer (Rusa philippinus) ——~—_~
Barasingha (Rucervus duvaucelii) —_
Japanese deer (Sika nippon) —~-~-_~
Red deer (Cervus elaphus)__~~_____
Kashmir deer (Cervus hanglw)_ ~~~
Bedford deer (Cervus xanthopygus) —
American elk (Cervus canadensis) __
Virginia deer (Odocoileus virginian-

ALS) pete = = See Se tee
Mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) ~~~
Black-tailed deer (Odocoileus colwm-

(BETO ESN) eee ee a eae le SD

RATITA,

South African ostrich (Struthio aus-
AERO) \y LG 2 SS Od oh et te tee an
Somaliland ostrich (Struthio molyb-
CODIVGMES) ee ee ee
Rhea (Rhea americana)_____-____
Emu (Dromiceius novehollandie) ——

CICONIFORMES.

American white pelican (Pelecanus
CLYLIVTOTNUN CGS) ee
European white pelican (Pelecanus
ONGCUOLGINES) eee ee
Roseate pelican (Pelecanus roseus) —
Australian pelican (Pelecanus con-
SUCULAL WS ree ee Ee ae ee eel
Brown pelican (Pelecanus occiden-
CEN ATED Voge ab tae Ea ed OES = on a OF ee
Florida cormorant (Phalacrocoragr
auritus floridanus) ~_..---22~- =.

Blesbok (Damaliscus albifrons) —_——~

eft White-tailed gnu (Connochetes
TU) JS ee ee oe RY de oe le
2 Oefassa water-buck (Kobus defassa)
3 | Indian antelope (Antilope  cervi-
(HCG sac 2 ee
al Nilgai (Boselaphus tragocamelus) —_
3 | Congo harnessed antelope (Tvragel-
1 CUTUSE ORCS) te ee
East African eland (Taurotragus
oryo lioingstonit) = — = ==
Tahr (dlemitragus jemlahicus) ~~~
1 Aoudad (Ammotragus lervia)_—____
1 | Rocky Mountain sheep (Ovis cana-
ze CDG) 2 oe ae ee
Arizona mountain sheep (Ovis cana-
3 densisigailtardi)\ 22 ees
Barbados sheep (Ovis aries) __~-~~—_~
2 Zebu (Bos indicus) === eee
Anoa (Anoa depressicornis) ~~ —~_____
2 | Yak (Poéphagus grunniens) _______
5 | American bison (Bison bison) ______
9
2 PERISSODACTYLA.
1
2 Brazilian tapir (Tapirus terrestris) —
6 | Mongolian horse (Hquus_ przewal-
{6 I) ea OE ag ON SP eee
2 | Grant’s zebra (Hquus _ burchelli
1 OGRONTL Sa ee 2 ee ree
12 Grevy’s zebra (Hquus grevyi) ——___~
10 | Zebra-horse hybrid (Hquus grevyi-
16 COUCH USA 2 2 tae ee ee
4 | Zebra-ass hybrid (Hquus grevyi-asi-
5 AUULS ea sts Slee
ti
PROBOSCIDRBA.
aft!
4 | Abyssinian elephant (Lowodonta afri-
cana oxyotis) === en een TES
4
BIRDS.
Great blue heron (Ardea herodias) —
Snowy egret (Hgretta candidissima) —
Black-crowned night heron (Nycti-
4 corax nycticorar nevius) —_——__-__
Boatbill (Cochlearius cochlearius) __
1 White stork (Ciconia ciconia)_____
2 | Black stork (Ciconia nigra) ________
2 | Straw-necked ibis -(Carphibis spini-
COULUS i Lee Ee a ee ee ee
Sacred ibis (Threskiornis cthiopi-
CALS NN a a sw ne gs oo 2
White ibis (Guara alba)___________
9 Scarlet ibis (Guara rubra) _______-__
Roseate spoonbill (Ajaia ajaja)____
2 | European flamingo (Phenicopterus
2 TOSCUS) t= eee 2 Se ee
Z ANSERIFORMES.
3 Black-necked screamer (Chauna tor-
CO LHIR AG) OO SD one Oe ey ere ee
18 | Mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) ~~-~~

13

6

bo

He co bo

Fe)

re
0 I cd
74 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

East Indian black duck (Anas

DUYTRYNCHOS Val) a
Black duck (Anas rubripes)_—____~
Gadwall (Chaulelasmus streperus) ——
Baldpate (Mareca americana) ______
Green-winged teal (Nettion caroli-

COTS) eae ee ee
Cinnamon teal (Querquedula cyan-
CODE CK)) pee ee en ee ee
Ruddy _ sheldrake
COI PIT A) i ae a ig cnt tp ed IE
rata CPD ULE) es
Wood duck (Aiz sponsa)__________
Mandarin duck (Dendronessa gale-
SU CALU OLE ()) Were ae tate ee eee ee
Canvasback (Marila valisineria) ____
Redhead (Marila americana) ___—__~
Lesser scaup duck (Marila affinis)_—
Ring-necked duck (Marila collaris) _—
Rosy-billed pochard (Metopiana pe-
(DOS C.CO) ee ee
Snow goose (Chen hyperboreus) ____
Greater snow goose (Chen hyper-
OO CUBETULLOUUS) pene ee eee
Blue goose (Chen cwrulescens) _____
Ross’s goose (Chen rossit) _________
White-fronted goose (Anser albi-
[GONS) Ses =e ee Eee eee
American white-fronted goose (An-
ser albifrons gambeli) .____-______
Toulouse goose (Anser cinerus do-
MILES CLCUS ) are eee ee
Bar-headed goose (Anser indicus) __
Canada goose (Branta canadensis) —_
Hutchin’s goose (Branta canadensis
nutohins)) eee
Cackling goose (Branta canadensis
PUTT Oh) ee ee ee es
Brant (Branta bernicla glaucogas-
A) i eee al iS ipl ot ee at ele ee
Barnacle goose (Branta leucopsis) —
Upland goose (Chloéphaga leucop-
CON) oe Se eee eee ee ee
Spur-winged goose (Plectropterus
OC GNUDETISTS) tees ee ee ee ee
Cape Barren goose (Cereopsis no-
BETO LE)) rene et eee
Wandering tree duck (Dendrocygna
OR CUCLD) nS enone ee ere ee
White-faced tree duck (Dendrocygna
LULL) hee ee ea eee
Mute swan (Cygnus gibbus)_______
Whistling swan (Olor columbianus) —
Trumpeter swan (Olor buccinator) —
Black swan (Chenopis atrata)__~-___

FALCONIFORMES.

South American condor (Vultur

OEUDRUS)\ pa ee ee
California condor (Gymnogyps cali-

fOTNAGNATS) ee ee ee
Turkey vulture (Cathartes aura) _—_—~
Black vulture (Coragyps urubu)__—
King vulture (Sarcoramphus papa) —

(Cascara ferru-

“Nm Oe

=
wo

bo

bo

Oo

C2 bo Cl He

Secretary bird (Sagittarius sepenta-
AAU) Eien 2 US ete ie ae eee
Griffon vulture (Gyps fulvus)__~—___
Cinerous vulture (Aegypius mona-
C1 UTE) \ ED ED ELAS PRE LS
Caracara (Polyborus cheriway)_—__~
Crowned hawk eagle (Spizgaétus cor-
OMUGTWS)) a ee ee ee
(Uroaétus au-

Golden eagle (Aquila chrysaétos) ___
Bald eagle (Haliwetus leucocepha-

VALS) a ae wae ee ee eS
Alaskan bald eagle (Haliwetus leuco-

cephalus alascanus)) =
Sparrow hawk (Falco sparverius) _—_—
Ferruginous rough-leg (Archibuteo

FEVPUgun Cus)» = ee
Red-tailed hawk (Buteo borealis) __
Swainson’s hawk (Buteo swainsoni) —

GALLIFORMES.

Mexican curassow (Craxz globicera) —
Daubenton’s curassow (Craxv dauben-
CON) Sa 5e eta ok Fa a Soe ee ee
Domestic turkey (Meleagris gallo-
DODO) eet a
Wild turkey (Meleagris gallopavo sil-
UC SUIUS) ig ee are eee Ee
Peafow! (Pawo cristatus) ———-—
Peacock pheasant (Polyplectron  bi-
COLCOL COLUM) a ee ee eee
Silver pheasant (Genneus nycthe-
DY CONUS 1) ee
Lady Amherst’s pheasant (Chrysolo-
DRUS CMRersii@)) == ee
Golden pheasant (Chrysolophus pic-
CAS) jes ee ee se
Bobwhite (Colinus virginianus) ___~
Scaled quail (Callipepla squamata) —
Gambel’s quail (Lophortyx gam-
Celli) be os. Eee
Valley quail (Lophortyz californica
VGLICCIO) St See Oe ee

GRUIFORMES.

American coct (Fulica americana) __
South Island weka rail (Ocydromus

CU SUT LVUS)) ee pe
Short-winged weka (Ocydromus bra-

CRUD CCHS) a Se
Earl’s weka (Ocydromus earli)__—__
Whooping crane (Grus americana) __
Sandhill crane (Grus meavicana)___
White-necked crane (Grus leucauc-

Indian white crane (Grus leucoge-

CLO S)) a oe a ee ee en ee ee
Lilford’s crane (Grus lilfordi)______
Australian crane (Grus rubicunda) —

Demoiselle erane (Anthropoides
DUT Oe a ae ee
Crowned crane (Belearica pavo-
MY [LER gree eon a lee ania Dro Ries Beri ae N

Cariama (Cariama cristata) ~-~______

ay HoH

hm bo
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK,

CHARADRIIFORMES.

Great black-backed gull (Larus ma-
CROLL ES) eo es oe Se ee eee
Herring gull (Larus argentatus)_—~—
Laughing gull (Larus atricilla)____
Australian crested pigeon (Ocyphaps
LODTWOLES ase eee ee ee
Wonga-wonga pigeon (Leucosarcia
DiC) ee ao = ae ee
Speckled pigeon (Columba pho.
NOC) ree ee
Snuow pigeon (Columba leuconota) _—
White-crowned pigeon (Patagiwnas
UG I GNOAN UMD = Be ee Oe
Land-tailed pigeon (Chlorwnas fas-
CLUE) a ee a
Red-billed pigeon (Chlorenas flavi-

RO SENES)) ee pat ena a Eh al ag ae
White-winged dove (Melopelia asi-
ELC!) ape ee ee eee
Mourning dove (Zenaidura macro-
AUT) ee ees ee

Zebra dove (Geopelia striata) ______
Cape masked dove (Oena capensis) —
Inca dove (Scardafella inca) _______
Blue-headed quail-dove (Starnenas

CUCILOGEDIRGLO) ge en Le ee
tinged turtle-dove (Streptopelia ri-

SOLO) eee eet Re ee ELS oe

CUCULIFORMES.

White-crested touraco (T'uracus co-
TIL) ae ee: ee ae
Grass paroquet (Melopsittacus un-
Culatwe SaaS a Sa eee
Black-tailed paroquet
TILCLOTUUT ee ee eee
Banded paroquet (Palwornis fasci-
ELC) pee SS a le Bue
Lesser yasa parrot (Coracopsis ni-
gra)
Gray parrot (Psittacus erithacus) —
Haitian paroquet (Aratinga chio-
roptera)

LGlue-winged parrotlet (Psittacula
USS CYANO) ae a ee
Cuban parrot (Amazona  leuco-
GEG) ) 3 ee

Yellow-shouldered parrot (Amazona

bOnVadensts)\ eee
Festive parrot (Amazona festiva) —_
White-fronted parrot (Amazona al-

OtfTONS) ne ee eee
Orange-winged parrot (Amazona
UMAZONICH) pete = eee
Santo Domingo parrot (Amazona
BENTTGLI8)), .- 3 2 eBay sis ie

Yellow-headed parrot (Amazona och-
POCCDROALG) eo = a ee eS
Yellow-naped parrot (Amazona au-
TODO) eee eee
Double yellow-head parrot (Ama-
ZON Ga OF LIND) 2 eae RIES Se ERE
Yellow-cheeked parrot (Amazona au-
PUAN TELUBS) hee as ee #

Nee

Plain-colored parrot (Amazgona fari-
MOSG NORIO) =
Quaker parrot (Myiopsitta mo-
OCHS) Bae eee ee ee ee
Thick-billed parrot (Rhynchopsitta
POCRTNY NCHA) o a= oe eee
Brazilian macaw (Ara severa)_____
Red-and-blue macaw (Ara chlorop-
UCT. Ch) ee a ee ene ee
Red-and-blue-and-yellow macaw (Ara
WUXI O)) yan en ee oe
Blue-and-yellow macaw (Ara ara-
TRHONDON, (eae 2 Se eee
Sulphur-crested cockatoo (Cacatoes
CULCTULC) ae ree ae ea ae = ee
Great red-crested cockatoo (Caca-
COESMNLOLUCCENS.S)
White cockatoo (Cacatoes alba)___~
Leadbeater’s cockatoo (Cacatoes lead-
beater) Ss =— a eS
Bare-eyed cockatoo (Cacatoes gym-
NODStS) 22S So ee Se
Roseate cockatoo (Cacatoes reoseica-
pilla)
Kea (Nestor notabilis) = -=—

CORACIIFORMES.

Giant kingfisher (Dacelo gigas) ~~~
Concave-casqued hornbill (Dichoceros
DICOTNIS) ea See a
Barred owl (Strigz varia) ____-__-_=-~
screech owl (Otus 2810) ===
Great horned owl (Bubo_ virgini-
anus)
Western horned owl (Budo. virgini-
anus pallescens) ==

PASSERIFORMES.

ked-billed hiil-tit (Liothrix luteus)_
Australian gray jumper (Struthidea
ner eh) = eee
Green jay (Xanthoura luxuosa) ___~-
Australian crow (Corvus coronoides)
European raven (Corvus corag)___~
Malabar starling (Spodiopsar mala-
Daricius) Se ee eee
Napolean weaver (Pyromelana afra)
Crimson-crowned weaver (Pyrome-
lana: fliammaceps) === =
Madagascar weaver (Foudia mada-
OAS COVLCTUSUS) he = ee
Paradise weaver (Steganura para-
USEC) ape eae
Cut-throat finch (Amadina fasciata)
Zebra finch (Teniopygia castanotis)
Black-faced Gouldian finch (Poéphila
GOULAIE) ME Re Sees By ee eee
Red-faced Gouldian finch (Poéphila
CLL AUN D HATH Cs 242-40 BE EV a ESE I BES ts eae es eee
Strawberry finch (Amandava aman-
CON) ee re ee ee So
Black-headed finch (Munia_ atri-
COG ITD \t Lae ees Rea Se OE
Nutmeg finch (Munia punctularia) —_
Java finch (Munia oryzivora) _-___~

75

12

Hea

“1 lo
76 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

White Java finch (Munia oryzivora) — 4 , Saffron finch (Sicalis flaveola)______ 9
Vera Cruz red-wing (Agelaius phani- Canary (Serinus canarius)——_______
ceus richmondi)=—— = 2 | Green singing finch (Serinus icterus) Z
Seng sparrow (Melospiza melodia) __ 3 | European chaffinech (Fringilla calebs) 4
Tree sparrow (Spizella monticola) __— 1 | Red-crested cardinal (Paroaria cu-
White-throated sparrow (Zonotrichia Cullatan ete ce eee we 2
Qlbicollis) Fas See ae 1 | Cardinal (Cardinalis cardinalis) —___ 1
REPTILES.
Crocodile (Orocodylus acutus)_____ 1 , Water snake (Natria sipedon)_____ 2
Alligator (Alligator mississipiensis) — 31 | Coach-whip snake (Coluber /iagel-
Mena Island iguana (Cyclura stejne- LAL) er 2 Seen aetes ee Ace a eee ae 1
GOCTR) aaa aan a wm SB ee os 2 AN 1 | Chicken snake (Elaphe quadrivit-
Gila monster (Heloderma suspec- COLO) ee ee ee 2 ee ae 2,
CRU ING:) ite al a a te ee eee AN 6 | Slug-eating snake (Petalognathus
Blue-tongued lizard (Tiliqua_ scin- PCOULLALUS)) re en ea ee al
CO1dES)p a= 2S ee oak SRS 1 | Dunean Island tortoise (Testudo
Rock python (Python molurus)_——_— 3 EDTRUD DIL) ee ees ee ee il
Diamond python (Python spilotes) __ 1 | Albemarle Island tortoise (Vestudo
Anaconda (Hunectes murinus)_—____ 2 UCUIUG) Min Ne rl nd. | es al

Boa constrictor (Constrictor con-
SUNVCCOT) - ei re eee aS 4

STATEMENT OF THE COLLECTION.

ACCESSIONS DURING THE YEAR.

Presented : Transferred from other Govern-
IMeimimna ses ea ee 14 ment departments:
Birds ae SE a re 50 WW NTNORE IG, Le 8
Reptileg ae a 39 Birds. 2.22 ARs es 2
— 103 10
Born and hatched in the National Captured in National Zoological
Zoological Park: Parke
WE VCTOO NIE ae on ee ee 63 Mammals 2 ee 3
SUC Se eee 45 Binds ss ae eee 5
108 Reptilesc. se 1
Received in exchange: ee Soh aetO
Mammals 2280s oe slat Deposited :
Birds tees) ss cee Bere Dy Mammals ___ s 3
Rep tiles: 125 iiarer Lee 6 OUD 0 Sip MERE ceca IRL oo mpi 6
mare ies Reptiles; 2S’ eae ae 9
Purchased: eee |
Wir maoedeN ise ee Sa ee 13 ==
Birds ice Soeee Gate 104 Motaleaceessionse ame 408
Reptiles _ ae 1
— 118
SUMMARY.
Amimalsson hand: Jnillyads TOs ee Secs Seem eis pecs Se Soper Eat alee
AWEecessionsidunin gsi he: yea ee 25 eee a i ee ee 408
1, 631
Deduct loss (by exchange, death, and return of animals on deposit) ______ 384

Animalsonvhand: JuneysO a Oils = ss ee ee 1, 247
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK. ae

«

aes . Individ-
Class. Species. ore
Ryan el Sees Se Gk Sone acesp bes de SAG 4S pce SS kobe tence ScoeeNepSecopoeDee | 149 483
TRIKE Nios de ob see SSS eIOSE Hed deter Seo Soe Sas n ee Ob rn ac PERERA HE Ses CObee = Bae BaSOOr See 190 706
IRGYOUNES So bet Bde betes tge eee aes bes Sect b be cabeen aoe Sr ash See euabe. ser eee nme er 15 58
Weibel tees ee aa Rees eee ee See eR See oie see a te mesa acne neal wala 354 1, 247
VISITORS.

All records for the numbers of visitors to the park have been ex-
ceeded during the past year. The total number of people admitted
to the grounds, as determined by count and estimate, was 1,593,227,
a daily average of 4,365. The greatest number in any one month was
202,793 in March, 1918, an average per day of 6,542. The attendance
by months was as follows:

In 1917: July, 76,100; August, 157,700; September, 195,350; Octo-
ber, 175,350; November, 158,600; December, 70,850. In 1918: Janu-
ary, 35,850; February, 56,300; March, 202,793; April, 189,934; May,
187,300; June, 137,600.

These numbers exceed the attendance records for last year by 486,-
427, and are 436,117 over the attendance.for 1916—the record year
up to that time. Heretofore there has usually been a falling off in
the number of visitors during the heat of summer; but, with the
population of Washington so increased by war workers, the attend-
ance throughout the past heated season has hardly diminished from
that of spring and autumn.

The great increase in the number of visitors to the park in the
past. three years is graphically shown in the following statement of
attendance records for the last 10 years:

BUSS) Bese odes = arr me Se ee ee a pe be as be gl a 564, 639
TUE a i RN aD le et a ny oo us 721, 555
BUS) ial een wt Se a NE oe te ge ne Na ed aa 521, 440
Oia ees te ere ee eee BRE gene ee ee ee ee ae RE 542, 758
SLOG) lhe Sae ee ARG PE ER TR Vs STA ERA Vi SEES, I ee ee 633, 526
ship Rape Eek cower ed) ES. PEERS eek 298 ye ae} en ft SEE 2 Eb es Pe 733, 277
C1 a SoS eee. ees 2a eee ae ren Sees pen gS aay Sane 794, 530
EEG tee en i ese PS Sr ce pe eS eh ee ae Se 1,157, 110
TRS EG ea Tae tnt A ah lag Be a dla a I ao ie er ee 1, 106, 800
SLCHI a ERE CEE PMO PS LAE SERNA 5 AND Bee Ee 8 ES ee ES 1, 593, 227

Seventy-eight schools and classes visited the park in 1918, with a
total of 4,945 individuals.

IMPROVEMENTS.

Owing to a lack of sufficient funds for any substantial improve-
ments, only minor repairs or additions were made during the year
to the buildings and equipment of the park. New boiler tubes and
some other fittings in the central heating plant were provided at a
78 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

cost of about $800. The restaurant building was repaired, the kitchen
enlarged, and new counters provided. The old slippery and badly
worn pavement was removed from the large elephant house and was
replaced with a floor of concrete. The old and smaller elephant house
was fitted up for winter quarters for certain of the waterfowl. Much-
needed repairs were made to the lion-house roof, the western half of
the north extension and the adjoining portion of the main roof were
covered with new paroid-felt roofing, and a ventilator was placed in
the main building over the public space. Minor repairs were also
made to the bird house, the antelope house, and the Henderson out-
door parrot cage.

A large concrete bathing pool was constructed in the yak’s in-
closure and the tanks in the bear yards were all repaired. The
fences of the bear yards, antelope yards, and some others of the out-
door cages and inclosures were painted. An outdoor cage 16 feet
square, with shelter attached, was constructed for the kea parrots re-
ceived as a gift from the New Zealand Government. The indoor
chimpanzee quarters, in the lion house, were reconstructed with
gratings of three-fourths inch iron pipe, which provide a much
better hold for the animal’s hands and feet than did the old three-
eighths inch bars. Concrete walls and bases for shelter houses were
built at some of the deer paddocks, the cinder footpaths were ex-
tensively repaired, and a concrete walk and stairway was built lead-
ing up the west hill side from the suspension bridge and connecting
with the walk around the eland yards. Part of the stable building
near the office was rebuilt for a chicken house and, in a further
effort to lessen the cost of food for animals, the garden acreage
was again materially increased.

THE FLORA OF THE PARK,

In addition to an extensive native flora, the park contains many
exotic trees and shrubs. It is important that records be kept
of all introductions. During the past year Mr. William Hunter,
gardener, who has been in the service since the inception of the park,
has prepared an annotated list of all the trees and shrubs found
growing within the boundary fence. The list has been copied on
cards for filing, and will be carefully edited and revised during the
present season. Information is given as to the abundance and loca-
tion of native species and, in the case of exotics, the source, date
of introduction, location, or any additional information likely to be
needed for future reference. Efforts will be made to secure speci-
mens of trees properly belonging to the flora of the District of
Columbia and not represented in the park, in order that all the
native species may be found within this reserve. A similar list of
herbaceous plants, prepared several years ago, will be brought un
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK, 79

to date, thus furnishing a complete catalogue of the flora of the park,
which, it is to be hoped, may later be published in some form as part
of a guide to the natural features of the park. Lists of the native
mammals, birds, and reptiles of the park, with pertinent data, are
also in preparation for some similar purpose.

ALTERATION OF THE WESTERN BOUNDARY.

By an act approved June 23, 1913, Congress appropriated $107,200
for the purchase of certain lots and parcels of land between the west-
ern boundary of the National Zoological Park and Connecticut Ave-
nue, from Cathedral Avenue to Klingle Road, this land, together
with the included highways, to become a part of the park. The ap-
propriation was not a continuing one and lapsed at the end of one
year, before legal proceedings for the purchase were completed.
Ttems for the reappropriation of this sum and for the additional
amount necessary to meet the figures fixed by the court in proceed-
ings of condemnation have since been submitted to Congress in the
estimates each year, but have not been favorably considered.

The principal entrance to the park will always be from Connecti-
cut Avenue, and the importance of a frontage on that thoroughfare
at and bordering the gate can not be overestimated. The necessary
land should be acquired before it is too late, in order that when the
time comes a dignified entrance gate can be constructed and the near-
by land comme fel by the park authorities.

IMPORTANT NEEDS.

Roads, bridle paths, and automobile parking.—As mentioned in
the report for last year, the question of providing space for the
parking of automobiles near the main buildings is serious. The
enormous increase in the number of cars visiting the park makes it
difficult to care for the safety of the public without adequate park-
ing space. More than 4,500 automobiles sometimes pass through
the park in a single day, and many of the large sight-seeing cars
regularly visit the Zoo. During the coming year it will be neces-
sary to make extensive repairs to roads and walks, and some change
should be made in the bridle path in order that riders would not
be forced to use the bridge and main road from the Harvard Street
gate to the crossroads.

Grading and filling—As soon as practicable the work of grading
and filling, commenced two years ago but discontinued for lack of
funds, should be completed. As left, it makes an unsightly and
unfinished-looking place in one of the most conspicuous points in
the park bordering the main road. The further cutting away of
the irregular hill in the center of the western part of the park and
the filling in of the near-by ravine will level nearly 70,000 square
80 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

feet of ground which is now of little use and make available a
further 25,000 square feet of ground at the ravine. This will elimi-
nate a dangerous curve in the automobile road.

Repairs to antelope house—Practically the whole west side of the
antelope house needs reconstruction. The building is over 20 years
old and the timbers and other woodwork on the west side are almost
beyond repair. When the work is undertaken the walls should be
fixed properly with concrete and the cages considerably enlarged.
It is estimated that an expenditure of about $2,000 will be necessary
to put this building in good condition.

Adams Mill Road grade and stairway—The work of grading
Adams Mill Road between Clydesdale Place and Harvard Street,
recently commenced by the District, will make necessary some ex-
penditure on the part of the park to care for the resulting fill above
the stairway and walk leading into the park from the Adams Mill
Road gates. At present it is impossible to estimate the exact amount
of work that will be needed, but it is probable that a new bridge
and walk will have to be built at one point, with a substantial re-
taining wall at the base of the fill for the safety of the public. A
very narrow strip of land between Adams Mill Road and the park,
from Clydesdale Place to Ontario Road, still in private ownership,
should be added to the park for the protection of this point.

Additional lake for waterfowl—Exhibits of waterfowl are among
the most popular and instructive features of the park. An additional
lake, to be used for the birds in summer and for skating in winter,
could be built at comparatively small expense on the open flat near
the Harvard Street entrance.

Aviary building—The need of a new house for the exhibition of
birds has been felt for some years and is becoming more pressing
because of the greatly increased numbers of visitors now cared for
in the park. Such a building should be provided with commodious
public space. The aisles in the old bird house are far too narrow
for the crowds of the present day, and the exhibition of birds,
important and valuable as it is, can not be properly displayed.

Reptile house-—A public exhibition building, properly constructed
and equipped for the display of reptiles and amphibians, would be
greatly appreciated by visitors. The small collection of reptiles now
kept in inadequate and wholly unsuited quarters in the lion house
is very popular. The reptile house should be planned to show in
natural environment the various types of reptiles of economic im-
portance, those sought and used for food, and those feared by man
in many countries. The educational value of such a building could
be developed to a point of great importance.

Outdoor quarters for mammals.—Many species of mammals, espe-
cially some of the larger carnivores, now kept in cages in heated

REPORT ON THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK. 81

buildings, could be much better shown and more pleasantly and
healthfully located in outdoor quarters with warm but unheated
shelters. A large African lion, kept in the park for two winters
without artificial heat, has shown marked improvement from such
treatment. Such provision should be made for the exhibition of
certain of the lions, the Siberian tigers, and other mammals. Out-
door cages, adjoining the winter quarters, should be constructed on
the east side of the lion house for the leopards, jaguars, and hyenas.
The unsightly row of cages along the crest of the hill north of the
bird house should be replaced by new sanitary yards with comfort-
able but unheated retiring quarters attached.

Owing to the great increase in the number of people who take
advantage of the recreational and educational features of the park,
the necessity for a substantial increase in the appropriation for
regular maintenance expenses is apparent. For the safety and com-
fort of the public the number of policemen, attendants, keepers, and
caretakers must be augmented, as the force now maintained is not
greater than was considered necessary when the attendance was
barely half its present figures.

Respectfully submitted.

N. Hotuister, Superintendent.

Dr. Cuartes D. Watcort,

Secretary Smithsonian Institution,
Washington, D.C.
APPENDIX 5.
REPORT ON THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY.

Sir: The Astrophysical Observatory was conducted under the fol-
lowing passage of the sundry civil act approved June 12, 1917:

Astrophysical Observatory: For maintenance of Astrophysical Observatory,
under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution, including assistants, pur-
chase of necessary books and periodicals, apparatus, making necessary observa-
tions in high altitudes, repairs and alterations of buildings, and miscellaneous
expenses, $13,000.

For observation of the total eclipse of the sun of June eighth, nineteen hun-
dred and eighteen, including purchase of necessary apparatus and supplies,
transportation of equipment to and from observing station, hire of temporary
assistance, transportation and subsistence of observers, and miscellaneous
expenses, $2,000.

The observatory occupies a number of frame structures within an
inclosure of about 16,000 square feet south of the Smithsonian Ad-
ministration Building at Washington, and also a cement observing
station and frame cottage for observers on a plot of 10,000 square
feet, leased from the Carnegie Solar Observatory on Mount Wilson,
Cal.

Its equipment comprises special optical, electrical, and other appa-
ratus adapted to measure radiation of the sun, the sky, and terrestrial
sources. Much of the apparatus has been built at the observatory
instrument shop on the Smithsonian grounds in Washington ac-
cording to designs of the director. The instrument maker, Mr. A.
Kramer, has been employed by the observatory nearly 30 years
in this experimental construction work, and his experience and
skill, added to his natural ability, render him invaluable. New
designs are continually being worked out as new experiments are
being made.

The present value of the buildings and equipment is estimated at
$50,000. This estimate contemplates the cost required to replace
the outfit for the purposes of the investigations. Owing to the
highly specialized character of the apparatus no such value could be
obtained at public sale.

WORK OF THE YHAR.

At Washington—As heretofore the work of measuring and com-
puting from the records obtained in the field on Mount Wilson has

82
REPORT ON THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY. 83

gone on steadily in charge of Mr. F. E. Fowle, aided by Miss F. A.
Graves, computer, and Mr. R. Eisinger, messenger.

Mr. Fowle completed and published? his investigation of the ab-
sorption of long wave rays by long columns of air containing known
quantities of water-vapor. His results give the relations between ab-
sorption and atmospheric humidity, wave-length by wave-length,
from the visible spectrum down to waves of more than 20 times the
maximum visible wave-length, and for quantities of water ranging
from +}, to three times that which prevails in the vertical thick-
ness of the atmosphere above Washington in clear spring weather.
Many difficulties which were met required tedious subsidiary investi-
gations which are described in the paper.

Notwithstanding the greatness of this contribution to meteorologi-
cal science the subject of the relations of water-vapor and terres-
trial radiation demands yet more investigation adapted to cover the
range of wave-lengths from 16 microns to 50 microns, where Mr.
Fowle was forced to give over the investigation temporarily, because
no substance suitable to make a prism for forming the spectrum of
these rays was known.

Mr. Aldrich has since investigated at the observatory a great num-
ber of natural crystalline and other substances, including many pure
chemical preparations. None was found appreciably more trans-
parent than rock salt, which was used by Mr. Fowle, except potassium
iodide. Apparently this substance, if it could be procured in large
crystals, or fused into a noncrystalline structure, would be suitable
to carry the work to much longer wave-lengths. Efforts have been
made, as yet unsuccessfully, to procure blocks of this substance of
suitable proportions and inner structure for making large prisms.

Mr. Aldrich has carried on a number of investigations on the ab-
sorption and reflection of atmospheric-water-vapor, liquid water,
lampblack, gelatin, and other substances to rays emitted by a black-
ened reservoir filled with boiling water. In these experiments he
has employed rock salt transmission plates to roughly separate the
total radiation into two parts, whose wave-lengths are respectively
greater and less than about 20 microns, where rock salt ceases to be
transparent. The results on water-vapor agree well with what Mr.
Fowle’s spectrum work would tend to indicate. They also show
that an atmospheric layer about 50 meters deep, containing water-
vapor equal to 0.05 centimeters of precipitable water, would probably
absorb all the rays sent out by the 100° C. radiator which are non-
transmissible to rock salt, that is above the wave-length 20 microns.
This is in harmony with observations of the sun and of nocturnal
radiation made by Mr. Aldrich on Mount Wilson, to which reference

1 Water Vapor Transparency to Low-temperature Radiation. Smiths. Mise. Coll., Vol.
68, No. 8, 1917.
84 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

will be made below. The results on liquid water show it to be com-
pletely opaque in layers of 1 centimeter or more thickness to all rays
of the above described 100° C. radiation. The reflecting power of
water surfaces to these rays varies with the angle of incidence as fol-
lows:

incidences === aes te aA pare (OEE 630)
Reflection 0/o________ hy AN Misael Ae y acy, Sonia 9S Pe 3

LO eae

From this it follows that though perfectly opaque in layers ex-
ceeding 1 cm. thickness, water is not a perfect absorber or a per-
fect radiator for long-wave rays. It may be regarded as emitting
about 90 per cent as much radiation as the perfect. radiator at
temperatures from 0° to 100° C.

Lampblack paint proved partially transparent and partially re-
flecting. Further experiments are required before publishing defi-
nite results, but evidently those who employ lampblacked surfaces
in experiments with long-wave rays should consider these imperfec-
tions of radiating and absorbing power.

An investigation was made on possible regularities of periodicity
in the short-interval variability of the sun? observed at our Mount
Wilson station. Dr. H. H. Clayton had made such an investigation
for the year 1913 and found indistinct tendencies toward a repetition
of “solar constant” conditions after intervals of 12 and 22 days.
Computations were made here to extend the investigation to the other
years from 1908 to 1916, excepting 1912.

Well marked relatively hot and cold hemispheres of the sun seem
to have prevailed for several months in 1915, giving a “Solar con-
stant” periodicity of about 27 days. In 1916 an extraordinary
regular periodicity of 34 days seemed to be indicated. In other
years tendencies to periodicities of other intervals were found, and
generally more marked than in 1913, but not as prominently seen
as In 1915 and 1916. On the whole the irregularity of period of the
fluctuations of solar radiation would seem to be the most outstanding
result of the inquiry.

In accordance with the wish expressed by Secretary Walcott, the
facilities of the observatory have been employed whenever possible
to assist in military investigations. This is not the time to detail
the results of this effort further than to say that a large part of the
work of the director and of Mr. Aldrich has been devoted to several
such investigations, and with highly appreciated results. Naturally
this has diminished the astrophysical output of the observatory.

Chilean expedition.—Preparations and arrangements for a South
American solar-radiation expedition occupied much of the time of
the director and that of the instrument maker. As stated in last

a

1On Periodicity in Solar Variation, Smiths, Mise, Coll., Vol. 69, No. 6, 1918.
REPORT ON THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY. 85

year’s report, a proposed expedition under the auspices of the Hodg-
kins fund to observe the solar radiation in the most cloudless region
of Chile was temporarily postponed on account of the entry of the
United States into war, and the expedition was diverted for a time to
Hump Mountain in western North Carolina. Observations of the
solar constant of radiation were made there, when weather permitted,
until March, 1918. By that time it had grown to be certain that the
site was too cloudy for the work, and, notwithstanding grave difficul-
ties brought about by the war, the expedition was sent to Chile as
originally proposed.

Director A. F. Moore and Assistant L. H. Abbot landed at Anto-
fagasta, Chile, on June 16, 1918, with a large equipment of apparatus
and supplies suitable to the investigation. They were greatly aided
by the governor of the Province, the United States consul, and others,
and the Chile Exploration Co. generously gave them the use of build-
ings and other valuable facilities at their disused mine at Chorillos,
near Calama. Calama is a station on the railroad east of the nitrate
desert, on the bank of the River Loa, at latitude N. 22° 28’, longitude
W. 68° 56’, altitude 2,250 meters. Manuscript of daily meteorologi-
cal records of two years, most kindly copied by Dr. Walter Knoche,
former director of the Chilean Meteorological Service, lead us to hope
for as many as 300 days per year favorable to solar-constant work
there. The experiments are to be continued daily, as far as possible,
for several years. They should furnish meteorologists with a firm
basis for estimating the effects of the solar variability on the terres-

trial climate.
TOTAL SOLAR ECLIPSE.

Owing to the pressure of military investigations our preparations
for observing the total solar eclipse of June 8, 1918, were not exten-
sive. The observations proposed were confined to observing the
eclipse phenomena visually, photographing the solar corona, and de-
termining the sun and sky radiation during the partial phase, and
the “nocturnal” radiation during the total phase by means of the
pyranometer.

Necessary apparatus was prepared at the observatory shop. It
comprised parts for two 11-foot focus cameras, each of 3 inches aper-
ture with equatorial mounting and driving clockwork, and two pyra-
nometers. The observations were in charge of Mr. L. B. Aldrich,
who was assisted by Mr. A. Kramer and by Rev. Clarence Woodman,
a volunteer observer who had aided us in 1900.

The station selected was near Lakin, Kans., not because it was the
most favorable, but because the more favorable parts of the eclipse
track farther west would be occupied, it was known, by many eclipse
parties, so that the chances of having clear weather at some station

136650°—20-——7
86 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

were materially increased by the choice of one so far east as Kansas.
Magnetic observers sent out by Dr. Bauer were also at Lakin, and,
being already on the ground, aided materially in establishing Mr.
Aldrich’s party.

The observers chose the site on Monday, June 3, and were hospitably
entertained at the home of Mr. Pittenger, a rancher. The cameras
were set up in a barn looking out westward through a slot cut away
for the purpose. Unfortunately cloudy and rainy weather hindered
the preparations and prevented the rating of the clock and the photo-
graphic focusing of the lenses on the stars, so that the adjustment
could be made but roughly.

On eclipse day, Saturday, June 8, no hope was felt of fair weather
during the forenoon, but fortunately the sky became nearly free from
clouds about 1 Seace and continued so until after nightfall and dur-
ing Sunday. All times of contact were observed by Rey. Fr. Wood-
man, who also exposed the cameras, as follows:

Batitudes= a bE DEE pel ODORS fhe eis SEL Si <bB" 0442 25Ne
Rongitude: 2k Sk =A prego tel aes te) eee eee 1019 SA oy b1SSaeWes
Contacts (Greenwich mean time) :
He an: S:
MPs SOE NE PR EEN OU 2 eee eee eee 10 19 48.5
Second? fest ancient {ames ito BE stern 1x0 3 ae Te ial Pare alas i
Li abt (6 po ore SRE Rae 6 See WP EME Oy ee f Epler OMEOlaS
OUI EY oe ee ee eee Sees ey ee ee ee ee ee eee if Dee 29 SA:

The observers regarded the eclipse as unexpectedly dark and the
phenomenon as more than usually grand.

Very good photographs of the corona were obtained, showing ex-
tensions to about 3 diameters of the sun in some directions. Owing
to lack of opportunity to rate the clock there was some evidence of
imperfect following. The negatives were developed, with the kind
permission and advice of Director E, C. Pickering, by Mr. King at
Harvard College Observatory.

Messrs. Aldrich and Kramer observed successfully throughout the
afternoons and early night hours of June 8 and June 9 with the
pyranometer. The results obtained measure the gradual diminution
of the radiation of the sun and of the brightness of the sky as the
eclipse progressed, the outgoing radiation from the earth’s surface
during totality, the gradual increase of sun and sky radiation after-
wards, their decline toward sunset, and the outgoing radiation from
the earth’s surface after nightfall. Numerical values will be pub-

lished later.
; WORK AT MOUNT WILSON.

Mr. L. B. Aldrich occupied the Mount Wilson station until Octo-
ber 11, 1917, and again after June 14, 1918. He continued the usual
solar constant determinations and the determinations of the distribu-
tion of radiation over the sun’s disk. Two improvements were intro-
duced in the apparatus.
REPORT ON THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY. 87

The coelostat used in solar constant work was provided with stel-
lite mirrors in place of silver on glass, so that now the optical train
of the spectrobolometer for solar constant work contains exclusively
nontarnishable mirrors. This allows us to compare as never before
the distribution of radiation in the solar spectrum from day to day.
We hope now to determine surely whether the variations of solar
radiations are uniform over the whole spectrum or predominate in
certain wave lengths.

A specially designed vacuum bolometer like the one employed at
Hump Mountain and in Chile and wholly sealed in glass so as not
ever to require attention to renew the vacuum has been substituted.
This bolometer was constructed to exact specifications as to length,
breadth, and thickness of strips in accordance with completely
worked-out unpublished theory of the bolometer. We are sure that
it is the last word on the subject as regards adaptability to our in-
vestigation. All expected results are obtained in its actual use.

The sky was more cloudy than usual on Mount Wilson both in 1917 °
and 1918, during the time of our expeditions. In the winter, in
November, December, and January of 1917-18, the Carnegie Institu-
tion observers reported unusually good weather for the season.

Mr. Aldrich carried on in 1917 some investigations to determine
whether long-wave rays, not transmissible by rock salt (that is, ex-
ceeding 20 microns in wave length), occur in the solar beam at the
earth’s surface. The experiments indicated that they do not. He
also investigated the transmissibility of the atmosphere for rays of
more than 20 microns in wave length by means of the pyranometer
with and without a rock-salt cover. The experiments showed that
even toward the zenith these rays are wholly cut off by the lower
layers of the atmosphere. Hence we may conclude from both the
solar and nocturnal observations that our atmosphere is opaque to
rays exceeding 20 microns in wave length, such as are emitted in
recognizable quantities by bodies at terrestrial or solar temperatures.
This result is in harmony with Mr. Aldrich’s laboratory experiments
above mentioned.

In June, 1918, experiments were begun at Mount Wilson to deter-
mine the distribution of solar radiation along that diameter of the
solar image which is at right angles to the east and west diameter
investigated in our usual tower telescope work. A special apparatus
was arranged to slowly rotate the second mirror of the coelostat, and
thus produce a regular drift of the solar image along any desired
diameter. Preliminary results obtained show that the differences, if
any, between the distribution of radiation along different solar di-
ameters do not amount to 1 per cent.
88 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.
PERSONNEL.

R. Eisinger resigned from our service in June, 1918, and after
service in the Treasury Department enlisted in the Army.

SUMMARY.

During the year covered by this report, great advance has been
made in the study of very long wave-length rays and their trans-
missibility in our atmosphere. Solar constant work at Mount Wil-
son has been continued and improved. An expedition under the
auspices of the Hodgkins Fund of the Smithsonian Institution, but
equipped and directed from the Astrophysical Observatory, has ob-
served the solar constant at Hump Mountain, N. C., and now is lo-
cated for a term of years in exceptionally favorable circumstances at
Calama, Chile. The total solar eclipse of June 8, 1918, was success-
fully observed. The variability of the sun is shown to have vestiges
of periodicity, though predominantly irregular. A great deal of
‘attention has been given to war problems.

Respectfully submitted.
C. G. Assort,
Director Astrophysical Observatory.
Dr. C. D. Wa.cort,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 6.

REPORT ON THE LIBRARY.

Srr: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi-
ties of the library of the Smithsonian Institution during the fiscal
vear ended June 30, 1918:

Conditions abroad have curtailed exchanges to a great extent.
Notwithstanding, a large number of foreign publications are being
received regularly and the sets on file are up to date. Special atten-
tion has been given to exchanges with South American countries, with
very gratifying results, and the same can be said of the domestic
exchanges.

There were received during the year 27,212 packages, an increase
of 2,920 over the year preceding. Of these, 26,230 were received by
mail and 928 through the international exchanges. Correspondence
connected therewith amounted to 1,087 letters and 2,725 acknowledg-
ments on the regular printed forms.

SMITHSONIAN LIBRARY.

Main library—Publications for the Smithsonian Main Library,
after entry on the records, are forwarded to the Smithsonian deposit
in the Library of Congress. During the fiscal year 2,773 were acces-
sioned, consisting of 2,369 complete volumes, 419 parts of volumes,
954 pamphlets, and 88 charts. The accessions numbers were ex-
tended from 527,151 to 529,924.

The cataloguing included 3,331 volumes, 95 charts, and the addi-
tion of 1,334 new titles; 1,925 volumes were recatalogued; 1,050 cards
were typewritten, and 4,086 printed cards from the Library of Con-
gress, for publications deposited by the Institution, were filed in the
catalogue. In accordance with the established policy, the public
documents presented to the Smithsonian Institution, numbering
3,442, were transferred to the Library of Congress without stamping
or recording.

Dissertations were received from the Universities of Pennsylvania,
Johns Hopkins, Kénigsberg, Toulouse, Lund, and Breslau, and the
technical schools of Dresden and Berlin.

The securing of exchanges in return for Smithsonian publications
and missing parts to complete sets has been continued. Two hundred
and twenty want cards for series in the Smithsonian Division at the
Library of Congress were considered, and 168 volumes and 3889 parts

89
90 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

of volumes were secured. Ninety-eight wants were completed. Ac-
tion on the 85 want cards received from the periodical division re-
sulted in the securing of eight volumes and 240 parts of volumes. The
order division obtained, in response to 19 cards, 19 volumes and 18
parts of volumes. The total number of wants completed was 142.

Office reference library.—The accessions for the office library, which
includes the Astrophysical Observatory and the National Zoological
Park, amounted to 555 publications, distributed as follows: Office
library, 278 volumes and 164 pamphlets; Astrophysical Observatory,
58 volumes and 49 pamphlets and parts of volumes; National Zoolog-
ical Park, 91 volumes and 1 pamphlet.

Aeronautical library.—The importance and value of books relating
to aeronautics has been manifested through their use by the student
who has returned day after day to follow up a subject. There have
been added during the year 128 volumes. The bibliography of aero-
nautics, which I have had in preparation for the National Advisory
Committee for Aeronautics, has been completed and, with the close
of the year, it is ready for the printer. The appropriation for print-
ing was approved just at the close of the year.

Reading room.—The frequent use of the reading room is especially
worthy of note. There were in circulation 3,520 periodicals, an in-
crease of 153 over the year preceding.

During the summer months the use of the library was extended
to the soldiers who drill each day on the Mall. Adequate facilities
for letter writing were provided, and the room has been filled with
soldiers daily during their rest periods.

Employees’ library.——The number of volumes circulated in the
employees’ library has increased to 336. There has been practically
no addition to the number of volumes, as the greater portion of the
reading wants of employees can be supplied through the reading
room and the war library of the Museum.

NATIONAL MUSEUM LIBRARY.

There has been one exceptional and important addition to the
library of the United States National Museum, and that is a part
of the botanical and horticultural publications brought together by
the late Mr. George W. Vanderbilt on his estate at Biltmore, N. C.
This collection formed the working library of the Biltmore Herbar-
ium and was presented by Mrs. Vanderbilt. In 1916 the building
on the Biltmore estate was inundated by a local flood which destroyed
the larger part of the library, but fortunately many valuable vol-
umes were saved. Some of these are distinct editions of works not
heretofore available.

The museum received by transfer a collection of pharmaceutical
works from the hygienic laboratory, May 15, 1918. This collection,
‘

REPORT ON THE LIBRARY. 91

brought together by Dr. M. G. Motter, the librarian, consists of 932
volumes, 12 pamphlets, and 2,060 periodicals.

The continued interest of Dr. William H. Dall in books for the
sectional library of the division of mollusks has resulted in the
further enriching of this collection by gift from him of 2387 titles
during the year. Other contributions to the library were received
from Dr. Charles D. Walcott, Dr. O. P. Hay, Dr. C. W. Richmond,
Dr. W. H. Holmes, Mr. W. R. Maxon, Dr. G. C. Maynard, Mr. Wil-
liam Palmer, Mr. J. M. Flint, Mr. G. S. Miller, jr., Mr. B. H. Swales,
Dr. AleS Hrdli¢ka, Mr. J. P. McLean, and Mr. R. C. Paine.

Accessions—There were accessioned during the year 3,230 vol-
umes, including 1,010 completed volumes of periodicals, 42 parts of
volumes, and 1,529 pamphlets. The number of books in the library
is now 137,008, consisting of 52,513 volumes, 124 manuscripts, and
84,371 pamphlets.

Cataloguing.—The cataloguing covered 1,436 volumes, 48 parts of
volumes, and 1,938 pamphlets. Four thousand four hundred and
twenty section cards were made.

Loans —HEleven thousand two hundred and thirty-seven books were
loaned during the year, of which 2,658 were borrowed from the
Library of Congress and 122 from other libraries. The number of
books consulted in the reading room is estimated at 6,110.

Binding —With the additions to the library from the Library of
the Biltmore Herbarium and the collection of works from the Hy-
gienic Laboratory, the binding needs have become more acute, but
everything is being done to relieve the situation in so far as the
funds will allow. One thousand seven hundred and six books were
sent to the Government binder during the year, and 841 have been
returned.

Technological series.—Additions to the Technological Library, ex-
clusive of duplicates, numbered 281 volumes, 3,863 parts of volumes,
454 pamphlets, and 4 maps. Periodicals entered on records and
shelved number 35 volumes and 2,663 parts of volumes. Two hun-
dred and thirty-one cards for books catalogued were filed in the li-
brary’s catalogue. In the scientific depository catalogue 1,880 author
cards were filed and, to 3,762 additional cards, subject headings were
added and filed, making a total addition to the catalogue of 5,642
eards.

Duplicates received number 28 volumes, 278 parts of volumes, and
105 pamphlets. These were arranged and filed with the collection of
duplicates.

The books and periodicals loaned during the year number 225
volumes and 157 parts of volumes and pamphlets, making a total
circulation of 382; 142 completed volumes of periodicals were sent
to and returned from the bindery during the year.
92 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

Biltmore Herbarium.—Of the collection of 2,000 volumes of works
on botanical subjects, 404 titles and 37 files of periodicals have been
checked and made ready for cataloguing and entry. Fifty of these
volumes had not been represented before in any Washington library.
They were accordingly catalogued in detail and it is expected that
cards will be printed for them by the Library of Congress.

Pharmaceutical series—The collection received by transfer from
the Hygienic Laboratory numbered 932 volumes and 12 pamphlets.
For these, 194 accession cards and 160 catalogue cards were made.
There were catalogued 78 volumes and 5 pamphlets. Two thousand
and sixty periodicals were entered and 324 cards written.

Sectional libraries —Sectional libraries have been created for the
registrar’s office and for the war library and the Division of Wood
Technology. Following is a complete list of sectional libraries:

Administration. Mesozoic fossils.
Administrative assistant’s office. Mineral technology.
Anthropology. Minerals.

Biology. Mollusks.

Botany. Oriental archeology.
Comparative anatomy, Paleobotany.

Editor’s office. Parasites.

Ethnology. Photography.

Fishes. Physical anthropology.
Food. Prehistoric archeology.
Geology. Property clerk.

Graphic arts. Registrar’s office.
History. Reptiles and batrachians.
Insects. Superintendent’s office.
Invertebrate paleontology. Taxidermy.

Mammals. Textiles.

Marine invertebrates. Vertebrate paleontology.
Materia medica. War library.
Mechanical - technology Wood technology.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY LIBRARY.

This library is administered under the direct care of the chief of
the bureau, and a report of its operations will be found in the report
of that bureau.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY LIBRARY.

The collection of reference works relating to astrophysics has been
in constant use. Fifty-eight volumes, 6 parts of volumes, and 48
pamphlets were added during the year.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK LIBRARY.

The library of the National Zoological Park is not extensive, being
a strictly working library. Ninety-one volumes were added during
the fiscal year.
REPORT ON THE LIBRARY. 93
SUMMARY OF ACCESSIONS.

The accessions during the year, with the exception of the library
of the Bureau of American Ethnology, may be summarized as fol-
lows:

To the Smithsonian deposit in the Library of Congress, including parts

LORCOmMpleteySetS= seek Se te A eR NE Sk EN 2, 118

To the Smithsonian office, Astrophysical Observatory, and National Zoo-
ROP CaGT ar ea eeen ene wee oy eee ed SE ee SE Ee es. Pea Be 641
NoyiheyUnited:StatessNationalj Museums: 1 ie eee SOO
EEC ake ee a ee rE ces ee eae oe ee eT 6, 644

Respectfully submitted.
Paut Brockert,

Assistant Librarian.
Dr. Cuartes D. Watcort,

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 7.

REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE OF
SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE.

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera-
tions of the United States Bureau of the International Catalogue of
Scientific Literature for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1918.

The war in Europe, which has now lasted four years, is throwing
ever-increasing difficulties in the way of satisfactorily carrying on
the work of the International Catalogue. A number of the countries
now engaged in hostilities are falling behind in their subscriptions
and the Central Bureau and all of the regional bureaus are having
difficulty in obtaining suitable aid to compile and publish the index.
The Governments of the countries taking part in the enterprise ob-
viously have prior claims on all services needed in carrying on the
war and on this account the Catalogue work has fallen somewhat in
arrears. However, it is gratifying to be able to state that approxi-
mately two-thirds of the normal number of volumes, which would
have been published in time of peace, have been published since the
war broke out.

When hostilities began in 1914 the tenth annual issue of the Cata-
logue had just been completed and in addition 10 volumes of the
eleventh issue and one of the twelfth issue. Since the outbreak of
war the eleventh and twelfth issues have been completed, together
with the greater part of the thirteenth issue and part of the four-
teenth issue, the actual figures being as follows:

Eleventh mcsies =. fs Ue es
TiweltihsiSSi@s 2: eine Lege 16
Thirteentheissue: 22 ues ie ae 14,
Fourteenth 1sciesnss5 ees 4.
Total <2 ee Se 41

The London Central Bureau of the Catalogue, whose duty it is to
edit and publish the references sent in from the various regional bu-
reaus, is dependent entirely for its support on the receipts derived
from the subscribers to the Catalogue throughout the world, and as
six of the regional bureaus, namely, Germany, Austria, Hungary,
Poland, Belgium, and Russia, are in arrears to the extent of almost
$9,000 per annum, it will be necessary to obtain a subsidy from some

94
REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE. 95

source to finance the fifteenth annual issue of the Catalogue as was
done in 1916 when grants from the Royal Society of London and
from the Carnegie Foundation of New York enabled the Central
Bureau to make up the first deficit caused by the war and provided
funds for the publication of the fourteenth annual issue.

It is felt that every effort should be made to continue the organiza-
tion as it now stands in spite of present and temporary difficulties
caused by the war, for even if the work is delayed and also to some
extent incomplete it is obvious that it would be a much simpler and
more satisfactcry method to continue this great international under-
taking until the war is over with the present organization than it
would be to reorganize the work should it be allowed at any time to
cease or fall too far in arrears. The task of indexing much of the
literature being published in the countries mentioned above, whose
regional bureaus have closed, has fallen on the London Central
Bureau, and already 15,000 reference cards for the German literature
of 1915 have been prepared there. Whether it will be possible when
peace is restored to resume the former cordial cooperation with all
of the now hostile countries is a matter open to serious question,
_ but if this can not be done for some years to come the literature pub-
lished in those countries could be indexed by the Central Bureau,
as is evidenced by the fact that the Central Bureau has already put
this plan into operation. These and other questions will, however.
have to be finally decided by another international convention after
the war.

As has been pointed out a number of times before, the International
Convention in London in 1910 authorized a committee to take all
necessary steps to obtain further assistance and cooperation from
other similar organizations in the preparation of the Catalogue in
order to prevent duplication of work. This would not only lead to
economy of labor, but would provide scientific workers with a com-
plete and uniform reference to the literature of all sciences. Much
is yet to be done in order to completely carry out the intent of the
convention, and it can not be too strongly urged that as soon as war
conditions allow the complete activities of the Catalogue to be re-
sumed every effort be made to obtain such cooperation.

Not only is it strongly advisable to consolidate and cooperate
with the publishers of scientific bibliographies, but also to so broaden
the scope of the Catalogue as to include many of the technical in-
dustries whose investigations and methods of production are so
closely allied with the progress of research in pure science as to
render it practically impossible to draw a line of demarcation be-
tween pure science and many of the applied sciences.

Many difficulties have arisen to interfere with the work of this
Regional Bureau, not only in having the classification properly done,
96 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

but also in obtaining sufficient clerical assistance to ‘carry on the
regular routine.

This in addition to difficulties of forwarding manuscript to
London on account of dangers from submarines has reduced some-
what the number of index cards normally issued, but the methods of
work have been so readjusted as to meet requirements in spite of
temporary chaotic conditions.

Very respectfully, yours,
Lronarp C. GUNNELL,

Assistant in Charge.
Dr. Cuartes D. Watcort,

Secretary Smithsonian Institution.
3 APPENDIX 8.
REPORT ON THE PUBLICATIONS.

Str: I have the honor to submit the following report on the publi-
cations of the Smithsonian Institution and its branches during the
year ending June 30, 1918:

The Institution proper published during the year 13 papers in the
series of Miscellaneous Collections, 1 annual report, pamphlet copies
of 27 papers from the general appendices of these reports, and 5
special publications. The Bureau of American Ethnology published
1 bulletin and 1 advance separate belonging to a report now in press.
_ The United States National Museum issued 1 annual report, 1 volume
of the proceedings, 39 separate papers forming parts of these and
other volumes, and 5 bulletins.

The total number of copies of publications distributed by the In-
stitution and its branches was 134,284, which includes 1,591 volumes
and separate memoirs of Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge,
26,412 volumes and separate pamphlets of Smithsonian Miscellaneous
Collections, 19,815 volumes and separate pamphlets of Smithsonian
Annual Reports, 75,300 volumes and separates of National Museum
publications, 7,344 publications of the Bureau of American Ethnol-
ogy, 2,929 special publications, 14 volumes of the Annals of the
Astrophysical Observatory, 44 reports of the Harriman Alaska Expe-
dition, and 676 reports of the American Historical Association.

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS.

Of the Miscellaneous Collections, volume 66, the title-page and
table of contents was published; volume 67, 1 paper; volume 68, 7
papers; volume 69, 3 papers; in all, 11 papers, as follows:

VOLUME 66.
Title-page and table of contents. 5 pp. (Publ. 2478.)
VOLUME 67.

No. 8. Cambrian Geology and Paleontology. IV, No. 3. Fauna of the Mount
Whyte formation. By Charles D. Walcott. May 9, 1917. 59 pp.

(Publ. 2480.)
VOLUME 68.

No. 6. Meliaceae Centrali-Americanae et Panamenses. C. de Candolle. July 28,
1917. 8 pp. (Publ. 2479.)
No. 7. Descriptions of two new birds from Haiti. Charles W. Richmond. July
12,1917. 3 pp. (Publ. 2481.)
97
98 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

No. 8. Water-vapor transparency to low-temperature radiation. Frederick E.
Fowle. October 27, 1917. 68 pp. (Publ. 2484.)

No. 9. A new river dolphin from China. Gerrit S. Miller, jr. March 30, 1918.
12 pp. (Publ. 2486.) :

No. 10. New rodents from British Hast Africa. N. Hollister. January 16,
1918. 3 pp. (Publ. 2489.)

No. 11. The Marine Algae and marine Spermatophytes of the Tomas Barrera
Expedition to Cuba. Marshall A. Howe. April 9, 1918. 13 pp.
(Publ. 2491.)

No. 12. Exploration and field-work of the Smithsonian Institution in 1917. 134
pp. (Publ. 2492.)

VOLUME 69.

No. 3. Atmospheric scattering of light. Frederick EK. Fowle. May, 1918. 11
pp. (Publ. 2495.)

No. 6. On periodicity in solar radiation. C. G. Abbot. January, 1918. 8 pp.
(Publ. 2499.)

No. 7. Report on aircraft supply of Great Britain and a discussion of the difli-
culty involved in production. June, 1918. 8 pp. (Publ. 2500.)

SMITHSONIAN ANNUAL REPORTS.

The completed volume of the Annual Report of the Board of Re-
gents for 1916 was received from the Public Printer in December,
1917.

Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, showing
operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the year ending
June 30, 1916. xii, GOT pp., 148 pls. (Publ. 2449.)

The general appendix contained the following papers, small edi-
tions of which were printed in pamphlet form:

Administration and activities of the Smithsonian Institution. By A. Howard
Clark. 19 pp. 22 pls. (Publ. 2450.)

News from the stars. By C. G. Abbot. 12 pp. 5 pls. (Publ. 2451.)

The distances of the heavenly bodies. By W. S. Eichelberger. 11 pp. (Publ.
2452.)

A census of the sky. By R. A. Sampson. 12 pp. 6pls. (Publ. 2453.)

Gun-report noise. By Hiram P. Maxim. 6 pp. Tpls. (Publ. 2454.)

Molecular structure and life. By Amé Pictet. 13 pp. (Publ. 2455.)

Ideals of chemical investigation. By Theodore W. Richards. 11 pp. (Publ.
2456. )

The Earth: Its figure, dimensions, and the constitution of its interior. By T. C.
Chamberlin, Harry Fielding Reid, John I. Hayford, and Frank Schlesinger.
30 pp. (Publ. 2457.)

Dry land in geology. By Arthur P. Coleman. 18 pp. (Publ. 2458.)

The petroleum resources of the United States. By Ralph Arnold. 15 pp.
(Publ. 2459. )

_ The outlook foriron. By James Furman Kemp. 21 pp. (Publ. 2460.)

The origin of meteorites. By Fr. Berwerth. 10 pp. (Publ. 2461.)

The present state of the problem of evolution. By M. Caullery. 15 pp. (Publ.
2462.)

Some considerations on sight in birds. By J. C. Lewis. 9 pp.. 5 pls. (Publ.
2468. )
REPORT ON THE PUBLICATIONS. 99

Pirates of the deep: Stories of the squid and octopus. By Paul Bartsch. 29 pp.
19 pls. (Publ. 2464.)

The economic importance of the diatoms. By Albert Mann. 10 pp. 6 pls.
(Publ. 2465.)

Narcotic plants and stimulants of the ancient Americans. By W. E. Safford.
388 pp. 17 pls. (Publ. 2466.)

New archeological lights on the origins of civilization in Hurope. By Arthur
Evans. 231 pp. (Publ. 2467.)

The great dragon of Quirigua. By W. H. Holmes. 14 pp. 10 pls. (Publ. 2468.)

A prehistoric Mesa Verde pueblo and its people. By J. W. Fewkes. 27 pp.
15 pls. (Publ. 2469.)

The art of the great earthwork builders of Ohio. By Charles C. Willoughby.
12 pp. 18 pls. (Publ. 2470.)

A half century of geographical progress. By J. Scott Keltie. 21 pp. 2 pls.
(Publ. 2471.)

The relation of pure science to industrial research. By J. J. Carty. 9 pp.
(Publ. 2471.)

Mine safety devices developed by the United States Bureau of Mines. By
Van H. Manning. 12 pp. 7Tpls. (Publ. 2472.)

Natural waterways in the United States. By W. W. Harts. 34 pp. 9 pls.
(Publ. 2473.)

Theodore N. Gill. By William H. Dall. 8 pp. 1 pl. (Publ. 2474.)

The life and work of Fabre, by EK. L. Bouvier. 11 pp. (Publ. 2475.)

: REPORT FOR 1917.

The report of the executive committee and proceedings of the
Board of Regents of the Institution and report of the secretary, both
forming part of the annual report of the Board of Regents to Con-
gress, were issued in pamphlet form in December, 1917:

Report of the executive committee and proceedings of the Board of Regents of
the Smithsonian Institution for the year ending June 30, 1917. 17 pp. (Publ.
2488. )

Report of the secretary of the Smithsonian Institution for the year ending
June 30, 1917. 110 pp. (Publ. 2487.)

The general appendix of the report for 1917, which is now in press,
contains the following papers:

Projectiles containing explosives, by Commandant A. R.

Gold and silver deposits in North and South America, by Waldemar Lindgren.

The composition and structure of meteorites compared with that of terrestrial
rocks, by George P. Merrill.

Corals and the formation of coral reefs, by Thomas Wayland Vaughan.

The correlation of the Quaternary deposits of the British Isles with those of
the continent of Europe, by Charles HE. P. Brooks.

Floral aspects of the Hawaiian Islands, by A. 8S. Hitchcock.

Natural history of Paradise Key and the near-by everglades of Florida, by
W. E. Safford.

Notes on the early history of the pecan in America, by Rodney H. True.

The social, educational, and scientific value of botanic gardens, by John Merle
Coulter.

Bird rookeries of the Tortugas, by Paul Bartsch.
100 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

An economic consideration of orthoptera directly affecting man, by A. N.
Caudell.

An outline of the relations of animals to their inland environments, by Charles
C. Adams.

The National Zoological Park: A popular account of its collections, by N.
Hollister.

Ojibway habitations and other structures, by David I. Bushnell, jr.

The sea as a conservator of wastes and a reservoir of food, by H. F. Moore.

National work at the British Museum—Museums and advancement of learning,
by F. A. Bather.

Leonhard Fuchs, physician and botanist, by Felix Neumann.

In memoriam: Edgar Alexander Mearns, by Charles W. Richmond.

William Bullock Clark.

SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS.

The following special publications were issued in octavo form:

Publications of the Smithsonian Institution issued between January 1 and
March 31, 1917. 1p. (Publ. 2448.)

Publications of the Smithsonian Institution issued between January 1 and
June 30, 1917. 1p. (Publ. 2482.)

Publications of the Smithsonian Institution issued between January 1 and
September 30, 1917. 1p. (Publ. 2485.)

Publications of the Smithsonian Institution issued between January 1 and
December 31, 1917. 3 pp. (Publ. 2490.)

Publications of the Smithsonian Institution issued between January 1 ané@
March 31, 1918. 3 pp. (Publ. 2496.)

PUBLICATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM.

The publications of the National Museum are: (a) The annual
report to Congress; (0) the Proceedings of the United States Na-
tional Museum; and (c) the Bulletin of the United States National
Museum, which includes the Contributions from the United States
National Herbarium. The editorship of these publications is vested
in Dr. Marcus Benjamin.

During the year the Museum published an annual report, one vol-
ume of the Proceedings, 39 separate papers forming parts of this
and other volumes, and five bulletins.

The issues of the Proceedings were as follows: Volume 51 complete.

The issues of the Bulletin were as follows:

Bulletin 39. Parts A and D, Directions for collecting birds, and Directions for
collecting, preparing, and preserving birds’ eggs and nests.

Bulletin 67. Directions for collecting and preserving insects.

Bulletin 95. The fishes of the west coast of Peru, by Barton Warren Evermann,

Sulletin 97. The Grapsoid crabs of America, by Mary J. Rathbun.

Bulletin 101. The Columbian Institute for the promotion of arts and sciences.

A Washington society of 1816-1838, which established a museum and botanic

garden under Government patronage, by Richard Rathbun.
Bulletin 102. Part 1, Coal products; Part 2, Fertilizers; Part 3, Sulphur; Part 4,

Coal.
REPORT ON THE PUBLICATIONS. 101
PUBLICATIONS OF THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

The publications of the bureau are discussed in Appendix 2. The
editorial work of the bureau is in charge of Mr. Stanley Searles,
editor.

During the year one bulletin and one advance separate from the
Thirty-third Annual Report were issued, as follows:

Bulletin 63. Analytical and Critical Bibliography of the Tribes of Tierra del

Fuego and Adjacent Territory, by John M. Cooper. 2383 pp. 1 pl.

Hawaiian Romance of Laieikawai, by Martha Warren Beckwith. An advance
separate from the Thirty-third Annual Report. 384 pp. 5 pl.

There are at present four reports and seven bulletins in press.
REPORT OF THE AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION.

The annual reports of the American Historical Association are
transmitted by the association to the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution and are communicated to Congress under the provisions
ot the act of incorporation of the association.

The annual report for 1915 was published during the year, and the
second volume of the 1914 report. The report for 1916 was in press
at the close of the fiscal year.

REPORT OF THE NATIONAL SOCIETY OF THE DAUGHTERS OF THE
AMERICAN REVOLUTION.

The manuscript of the Twentieth Annual Report of the National
Society of the Daughters of the American Revolution for the year
ending October 11, 1917, was communicated to Congress on June 4,
1918.

THE SMITHSONIAN ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PRINTING AND
PUBLICATION.

The editor has continued to serve as secretary of the Smithsonian
advisory committee on printing and publication. This committee
passes on all manuscripts offered for publication by the Institution
or its branches, and considers forms of routine, blanks, and various
other matters pertaining to printing and publication. Thirteen
meetings were held during the year and 68 manuscripts were acted
upon.

Respectfully submitted.

A. Howarp Crarx, Fditor.

Dr. Cuartes D. WatcorTt,

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

136650°—20-—_8
vi no mreralt z
4 wu

a tnt SRNR i een .
i =F ae Lh at ’
‘itty eam Male astictD jeanbluh nx shankar gb
tae th TMT wel Th yyy ‘gpa
RE BS ay SRS Oa ea SP
ee asain. a Reena let wrTin es ciate v4 Paint
ot tS Raabe 64 sep OS ar SE Crastnnd. Be ke
7 5 See Fie Dasa, 2 = " ONE)
— ry ae tik iii ieottiad ro ist anon ore la tu iat
el ¥ ; ¥

cal

AMREE SS faiok a: jit ee Baer ci aire

os Tan; art ie

wisi rata TO Alas lt” wis Tue NiWA aay lo ibd abit

ternpeddinns ‘ert te eapsritheet oily i creat seepees" ony yd bok
pinatarriry pants “bia b eaattiitn Soy Date Sitar, estes bows ‘NoyM

i HOME IOgeE ! 4d? To dotwan TION to ono 7

; nif bite vaoy add wit Lenght le licpapm, ICL nol dune Lousua-oclE a

SERGE M128 MLE: yet ‘sage ad't tenor RCL arly te Seolow baosge

sisi he 7) os inet oth onthe wld ae

ER A) dO) S/S OT ee FI Ty i MA teehee ,

het Sy MORE URHIFE HADNT As ‘ ne

x

Wari. a0 ros Sah Ts aah t6rpet ony 4 ity eee, wie
TT ontd "TH neitnlowall jive A, Seti bu nat gie aii} PAX

ff endl, ne eatatto) of batesramsios 71 NEO! tds ee

d ‘ A
fi . i ‘ MLL Stat

OAR 7 TL ee OE KROaT TH :
MTA Aa brie Tent i

ta : Aa
Am yale adi té TIRIG SOS Bee thy i Lynireyt Ssh x Pag anita gk t
evn sit ~ noitasddig fi if Brinice ih et ee yaa
tritlent ady Vil cite italics Ot, dy: riatio ¢ QEK ai In NO sued:

wITK) Bite papal Aiuos tO arte aTabianes pe hi. yan: pate ak Ry .
Haat 4 afi velar ti Ick: seri seit 179) OF, Snir! LES ca ART Z| “ayo _

ae

baiep oi Hfiissnindar 80 bak 084 pit RTiee ish, Bolt uf soe, ieee

; ; Ae ii sinlaSoagente es
p: ips waki, mo ib cat i 2 SS Ne ee ms Jide, ‘ag
ca
Ta Hep ete We. iP iheio!) =o

> ‘ vy
sualiad vie ah seri veka wh Ne: Pion ope os
stati, Tied . ae)

we ted

“Gir —

—

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF
REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR THE
YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1918.

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

Your executive committee respectfully submits the following report
in relation to the funds, receipts, and disbursements of the Institu-
tion, and a statement of the appropriations by Congress for the
National Museum, the International Exchanges, the Bureau of Ameri-
can Ethnology, the National Zoological Park, the Astrophysical Ob-
servatory, the International Catalogue of Scientific Literature, etc.,
for the year ending June 30, 1918, together with balances of previous
appropriations:

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

; Condition of the fund July 1, 1918.

In addition to the total sum of $1,000,000 deposited in the Treasury
of the United States and authorized under section 5591, Revised
Statutes, the details of which were given in our last report, there has
accumulated from incomes, bequests, and by transfer the sum of
$60,024.38, which has been invested in bonds of approved character
for the following specific accounts and carried on the books of the
institution as the consolidated fund, viz:

Hodasins ceneraleshind === ase ane Sree pi tS es Ey pm eo ae Ss PA OO
PVR sper Uptempo Os me CT de det GH bn ay Fis AM Nets ies pA 37. 00
PVC tyee nT (eee ees ee Se ee ee Se a ea ee eer 10, 020. 38
Madison Lt Red=tind=222s====s ai atl F praia eee Pla nin fee dn mega tid 672. 00
Lucy T. and George W. Poore fund_____- Beg af alt epee el ey oi Ne 1, 295. 00
(CHOIR RIEL TE, TSPRME OTEYG bE) UC Ee ag eet ng aE 74. 00
SIMichsonetund == ass sea bk fap cles Sais eae a Sl eae Senet Nh 5 651. 00
Chambertoins fun disantesese aware Pete tre ee ee See 10, 000. 00

ONO a ec a ae a eee ee ee 60, 024. 38

The guaranteed bonds of the West Shore Railroad Co., previously
reported by your committee at their par value, have now been trans-
ferred to the consolidated fund with specific credit to the Hodgkins
general fund at their market value.

One of the three pieces of real estate bequeathed to the Institution
by the late Robert Stanton Avery has been sold, and the proceeds
reinvested in bonds comprising the consolidated fund.

103
104

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

Statement of receipts and disbursements from July 1, 1917, to June 30, 1918.

RECEIPTS.

Cash on deposit and in safe July 1, 1917_--------------------------
Interest on fund in United States Treasury_— $60, 000. 00
@thenmeinterest ese ee eee ee ayy SHY?

$9, 232. 56

165, 135. 02

174, 367. 58

$63, 552. 02
Repayments, rentals, publications, et¢_-_-------_______ 13, 503. 13
Contributions for specific purposes___-——----~---______ 24, 358. 87
PilisMreceiyn)) lew ee 8 REE ee 55, 000. 00
Proceeds from sale of real estate_____-----~---~----__- 8, 721. 00
DISBURSEMENTS.
Buildings, care and repairs———--—-----—---~-------—-~-------------
Furniture and fixtures__—----~--_---------~------~---------------
General expenses :
Salanies==s====—=—= Deedee aR Bc 1 EN aE wy she SS SULT, O29
Meetings _ ce Te ee eee ee ee 20. 00
Statlone rye eens eee ee 646. 57
Postage, telegraph, and telephone_——--—~ -----______ 625. 29
Rig) ted (| See ee on eae 24.13
incidentals, tuelwand ich(s=== =e 930. 00
G@aracve. 22 5 Cee ih Lia re a Pa
Library _-_-----------+--------------~-------------------------=-
Publications and their distribution :
Miscellaneous Collections______-____-_-________---_ 2, 040. 69
Contributions to Knowledge == = ss = 120. 00
Reportsa2. sSioa eur Saye. 2 Daeg ee eet 46. 45
Special, publications==2 SS 186. 09
Publication supplics=a=s = === eee 185. 32
Salaries. 2-4... se ee Ste Pee te IG Oat
Explorations, researches, and collections_______________--____---_-
Hodgkins specific fund, researches, and publications______________-_
International Hxchanges= == = ee eee
Gallery. OL Antes ee ee ee eee
Consolidated fund: Ginvested) 222222) = ee eee
Bills receivable—time certificates__ Senate Rae ere UR I
Imtenest- accrued-——consolidated tund=2 222225522 eee
United. Stacesothird Wibenty:loane= ==] eee

Advances for field expenses. ete z

$6, 216. 39
1, 395. 14

21, 861. 42
2, 160. 86

9, 103. 92
4, 229.10

' 4, 836. 47
. 00
. 52
12, 725.
50, 000.
53. 78

10, 000.
49, 859.

Deposited with Treasurer of the United States___________
Gashkon) ame = Sew sais te Pe ne gee oe eee ie a ees

1, 089. 90
200. 00

174, 367.

173, O77.

1, 289.
58
REPORT OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 105

The itemized report of the auditor confirms the foregoing state-
ment of receipts and expenditures and is approved. A summary of

the report follows:
CaPiITaL AUDIT Co.,
METROPOLITAN BANK BUILDING,
Washington, D.C.

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE, BOARD OF REGENTS, SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

Sirs: We have examined the accounts and vouchers of the Smithsonian In-
stitution for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1918, and certify the following to
be a correct statement :

Totaly disbursements = === == Lok LEH sd wee eee ot _ $173, OTT. 68
PRGta ereCelD i Seeeeats a= were eee ee ee eee 165, 185. 02
EEXCess7oOn GisSbunSeMments: OVEL receipts = ee ee (, 942. 66
Amount from July 1, 1917_____-__ 52 eo 4 Ee ee ee 9, 232. 56
Balan cevonenand ah Une sOs LO iS ae ee ree ee 1, 289. 90
Balance as shown by Treasury statement as of June 30, 1917______ 5, 794. 38
Hessroutstandine, cheeks] == _ =. == S085 eee ee 4, S06. 25
WS ae O iS Pea CE es es ea eh a Fh 988. 13
BalancesamericaneNational Banles =e. 22 eS er ea ie 101. 77
OPUS Hy ToL aL EN NG | Se OE OE ees Ted Sad fu Jos Ves pv ede PEPE ete meme el ae ier EON 200. 00
PS RL AICC AMUN G30. 1O1G ee re ae en i er 1, 289. 90

The vouchers representing payments from the Smithsonian income during
the year, each of which bears the approval of the secretary, or, in his absence,
of the acting secretary, and a certificate that the materials and service charged
were applied to the purposes of the Institution, have been examined in connec-
tion with the books of the Institution and agree with them.

CapiTtaL Avupit Co.,
By WitiiaM L. YAEGER, President.

All payments are made by check signed by the secretary on the
Treasurer of the United States, and all revenues are deposited to the
credit of the same account, except in some instances small deposits are
now made in bank for convenience of collection.

The practice of investing temporarily idle funds in time deposits
has proven highly satisfactory. During the year the interest derived
from this source has amounted to $1,275.

Your committee also presents the following summary of appro-
priations for the fiscal year 1918 intrusted by Congress to the care
of the Smithsonian Institution, balances of previous appropriations
at the beginning of the fiscal year, and amounts unexpended on June
30, 1918.
106 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

Available Balance
after June 30,
July 1, 1917. 1918.

International exchanges, 1916

Internationslexchan res (Otis nee eo ee ee see ee ee eee $4, 957.76 $859.93
Interna hlonahexchanpes. 10182 sce wa ye 0 eet eae a GeO ee ee 35, 000. 00 5, 296. 80
ZAsmiprican hEhnplosyl OIG} 2 eae ee se ee ee 334.97 1314. 87
‘American thnolovy, 1997/22. 2222222. eo ene as ee eee 1, 523.28 138.31
American’ Ethnology, 1918. * 2-220 l ess Te as A ene ee 42, 000. 00 3, 817.51
International Gatalopue: O16. one. on a ue. i ear eee eS ee eee 282. 96 1139.65
international Catalogue; S907. 2. bees oc ce lea ae eee eee eee eee 466. 00 226.77
international Catalopue; W918s_. oii 0. -24 2122. 2: SRe.. ee ee 7, 500. 00 963. 64
IANStrophysical (Observatory, 1916-52. 2-22 an ee eee So eee 38. 06 138.06
‘Astrophysical Observatory, Os: 5 2s ee ee eee eee 1, 051.32 570. 46
Astrophysical'Observatory, lOi8e 22 oo een a ee ee nce ee ener eee 13, 000. 00 1,771.14
Bookstacks for Government bureau libraries, 1915-16-- 62.12 162.12
Opservations, eclipse/ofisun,1918e=> = cece en ere ee eee eee 2,000. 00 1,929.88
National Museum: :
Murnitureandfixtures71916 5 sos 2 ee ee ee 11.36 | 111.36
Furniture. and fixtures; 1917-2252: -.~: 2s eee bee eee ee eee 2, 246.79 | 18.97
MUTINEUTO anid fix FHres OTR eee eae ee eee ee ae ee ee epee 25, 000. 00 6, 845.77
Heating: and lighting: 1016) so ain = ce caee oe aa eee ee eee 202. 67 | 1 202. 67
iHestine and TiehtinesG1 canes ses ase ee ee eee 5, 374.93 | 699. 24
Heating. and jiehting 3191828 29-2 SS. Si a ee ee eee 2 46,000. 00 6, 103.7
Preservation Of Collections; 1916 2 ae « see en eee eee 1,777.93 1 430.34
iPresorvationofcollections:I9I7ES 22 40212 aa se ee eens Oe ee 6,371.60 | 647. 87
Preservation of collections, 1918522 02s) eee ey eae ee 300, 000. 00 12, 903. 59
Books; 1916 52.2. <= se sets aes aes - e Se e eee 235. 31 1159.48
BOOKS AGE eros cca wcce ens waa on ne eee emote see Ree Eee mel 911.13 450. 60
TET Sd) ee een RS ae SONNE REN ROE 72 Romie: ES 2,000.00 | 1,227.60
WPostare MOS 2s 8. Soc See sc cece sete eS ee Eee a enone eeeee aI AU OI Beso ses-aeee
Building repairs, 1916 < ooo. cosh ae wens eee eee eee oe ee 3.63 13.63
Building repairs; TOU so lo.2- oot. eo eee eee een ees 2, 120. 83 195. 59
Building repairs, 1918 202. one Sees oes Nate eae Oe eee eee eee 10, 000. 00 2,174.38
National Zoological Park, W916 2. copa nines woe se aces see coke ane See ee eee 9.38 13.38
National ZoologicalsPark-i917) G22 25S U ee 2322 cee oe eee 2, 402. 35 &3. 30
National Zoological Park. 19185225 farses Sara ses sees eee ere eee ee 100, 000. 00 9, 743. 24
TNCTeASOON COMIPCHS ALI ONS O18 Sees ae ee ee nee eee ae aes eee 21,236.40) | Soe ced. oe
1 Carried to credit of surplus fund. 2 Supplemental appropriation, $5,674.

Statement of estimated income from the Smithson fund and from other sources,
accrued and prospective, to be available during the fiscal year ending June
80, 1919.

Balance; June 30) TOG ae cee ace ae ec $1, 289. 90
IB TITS 2. ECOL a Teese ear ene eee eee a $20, 000. 00
Interest on fund deposited in United States Treasury due
July 1. 1918 and Jans 91901 Oe ee eee 60, 000. 00
Interest from miscellaneous sources___________________ 3, 422.10
Exchange repayments, sale of publications, refund of ad-
VANCES etcLLel he Zi Gadi AU LL ea ee el SWLGS$ (ak
Deposits for- specific: purposes ss 2S Sis eae 12, 000. 00
———___—— 127, 075. $1
Total available for year ending June 30, 1919_______________ 128, 365. 71
’ Respectfully submitted.
Gro. Gray,
ALEXANDER GRAHAM BELL,
Henry Wuirr,

Executive Committee.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITH-
SONTAN INSTITUTION FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDING JUNE
30, 1918.

, ANNUAL MEETING DECEMBER 13, 1917.

The board met at the Institution at 10.15 a. m.

Present: The Hon. Edward D. White, Chief Justice of the United
States, chancellor, in the chair; Senator Henry Cabot Lodge, Senator
Henry F. Hollis, the Hon. E. W. Roberts, the Hon. George Gray, Mr.
John B. Henderson, the Hon. Henry White, and the secretary, Dr.
Charles D. Walcott.

APPOINTMENT OF REGENTS.

The secretary announced the following appointments of regents
of the Institution: On March 4, 1917, the Hon. Thomas R. Marshall,
Vice President of the United States, ex officio; on March 4, 1917, by
the President of the Senate, the Hon. Henry Cabot Lodge, to succeed
himself; on January 15, 1917, by joint resolution of Congress ap-
proved by the President, the Hon. Henry White, a citizen of Mary-
land, to succeed the Hon. Andrew D. White, resigned: on January 19,
1917, by joint resolution of Congress approved by the President, Mr.
John B. Henderson, a citizen of Washington, D. C., to succeed himself
at the expiration of his present term, on March 1, 1917.

RESOLUTION RELATIVE TO INCOME AND EXPENDITURE.

Mr. Roberts, of the executive committee, offered the following
resolution, which was adopted:

Resolved, That the income of the Institution for the fiscal year ending June 30,
1919, be appropriated for the service of the Institution, to be expended by the
secretary with the advice of the executive committee, with full discretion on
the part of the secretary as to items.

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

The secretary submitted the annual report of the executive com-
mittee, showing the financial condition of the Institution for the fiscal
year ending June 30, 1917, stating that it had been supplied to the
regents in printed form.

On motion, the report was adopted.

107
108 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

VACANCY IN EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

Mr. Roberts said that his term as a regent expired in a few days,
and tendered his resignation as a member of the executive committee,
which was accepted.

On motion, Mr. Henry White was elected to fill the vacancy thus
created.

ANNUAL REPORT OF PERMANENT COMMITTEE.

Hodgkins fund.—tIn its last report, the committee gave a state-
ment of the allotments and expenditures under a yearly grant of
$5,000 to the Langley Aerodynamical Laboratory for three years,
showing the termination of this grant, with approved outstanding
liabilities amounting to $4,725.53. These liabilities included an allot-
ment of $2,000 for tests with the Langley machine and one of $2,500
made to the United States Weather Bureau for investigations which
would result in the mapping of the atmosphere up to 20,000 feet over
the United States and adjoining area. Of these, the first has been
paid and the second has been relinquished by the Weather Bureau
as funds for this and other research have been provided by congres-
sional action. There remains as liabilities, therefore, the small sum
of $225.53.

An allotment of $5,000 per annum for three years was made to
Dr. Charles G. Abbot, director of the Astrophysical Observatory of
this Institution, for the establishment of an astrophysical station
in the Argentine Republic. Owing to conditions brought about by
the war, the location has been abandoned for the present, and the
station has been established at Elk Park, N. C. Of the two allot-
ments already made, $6,261 have been expended.

No changes have occurred in the other bequests in which the Insti-
tution is interested, and which have been the subject of previous
reports.

Freer Art Building.—The funds originally placed with the Insti-
tution by Mr. Charles L. Freer, of Detroit, for the construction of
the building for his art collections, amounted to $1,000,000 in cash
and 2,000 shares of the capital stock of Parke, Davis & Co., of De-
troit. At present the condition of the fund is as follows:

Balance sheet.

Bullding-sfundt}\(Cash)))=— 28s esse as ee eal ani ee $1, 000, 000. 00

Stock’ (book value)i.222s.-. 2 2) 2 ee ee eee pe ere 250, 000. 00
Interest'and "dividend S222 ok Se eee ee ee 50, 779. 05
Construction: .. 2-5 Se oe a Ee oe $159, 462. 10
INT CHILECE S) TSCPVICOS = 2a BE ee ee eee 30, 000. 00
ArchitectisiexpenSesGe =. 222.8 - oe ea eee 11, 852. 95
SSW CC OLUS EHTSTN GC Gs) OT ce ase ps 1, 500. 00
ARES GHP CSTS BTV ES Vi Mtet Ls SAND Te ae 5, 526. 02
sills receivable (certificates cf deposit) ~_______ 810, 000. 00
SOCKS 0 2 ee ee eee RIE ee a 250, 000. 00
Cash... eee te ee 32, 437. 98

1, 300, 779.05 1, 800, 779. 05
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 109

Smithsonian fund.—Y our committee is pleased to report that the
Smithsonian fund in the United States Treasury has reached the
maximum sum authorized by law of $1,000,000.

On motion, the permanent committee’s report was accepted.

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

The secretary presented his report of the operations of the Insti-
tution for the year ending June 30, 1917, which was accepted.

THE SECRETARY'S SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT.

The secretary made the following statement in relation to recent
operations in the various lines of the Institution’s activities:

National Musewm.—Attention is called to the necessity for in-
creased appropriations for the Museum. Under heating and light-
ing a deficiency of $5,824 has been requested for this year, due to
the increased cost of coal—which is about 66 per cent greater than
last year—and to the additional amount of coal required for properly
heating and lighting the spaces occupied by the Bureau of War
Risk Insurance. Under preservation of collections, Congress has
been requested unsuccessfully to give sufficient funds not only for
additional members of the staff for the department of arts and
industries, but for some additional assistance in ethnology and bi-
ology. Particular stress, however, should be laid on the fact that
the salaries for the watchmen, laborers, and certain classes of clerks
and preparators are inadequate in view of the extremely high cost
of living. The Museum is constantly losing members of its staff
to the new bureaus of the Government where salaries are much
larger, and also to private firms. It is urged that Congress take
steps to increase the salaries of the watchmen and laborers, as well
as to continue the 5 per cent and 10 per cent increases granted for
the present fiscal year to employees receiving $1,800 and less.

There are two notable historical acquisitions. One consists of a
number of personal relics of Maj. Gen. George B. McClellan, United
States Army, including swords, uniforms, and other military para-
phernalia owned by him during the war with Mexico and the Civil
War, presented to the Museum by his son, Maj. George B. McClellan,
U.S. R. The second is the well-known Robert Hewitt Collection of
Medallic Lincolniana, donated by Mrs. Robert Hewitt. This contains
some 1,200 medallions, medals, tokens, and badges commemorating
the life and services of President Lincoln, and is an exceptionally
complete aggregation of medallic souvenirs of that President, dating
from the period of the Civil War to the early part of the twentieth
century. die

In biology several hundred mammals and birds have been received
from the Collins-Garner expedition in Africa, and by gift of Dr.
110 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

William L. Abbott important collections in anthropology and zool-
ogy have come from the Celebes, collected by his representative, Mr.
H. C. Raven, and from Haiti, collected by Dr. Abbott personally.

In geology mention should be made of an almost complete skeleton
of the unique fossil Dimetrodon, a carnivorous reptile distinguished
for the extraordinary length of its spinal processes; one of the best-
known crystal aggregate of cinnabar (mercury sulphide) from Hu-
nan Province, China, as a gift from United States Consul Nelson T.
Johnson, of Changsha; a meteoric stone from Eustis, Fla., of interest
as being but the second find of meteoric stones within the State
limits; besides some 16,000 specimens of invertebrate fossils from
various sources.

Among the normal activities carried forward by the Division of
Mineral Technology may be mentioned:

The practical completion of a large model showing occurrence
and recovery of gold. A complete model of lead manufacture, cost-
ing $7,500, received and being set up. Donation from the National
Lead Co. A supplementary exhibit of lead, costing about $3,000,
planned for and promised by the National Lead Co. and others. A
coal-tar products exhibit of products now being made in this coun-
try. This has been assembled.

Under special war emergency activities there have been published:

A résumé of the fertilizer situation in the country, and needs in
the way of remedial action. A similar résumé for sulphur. The
same for coal products, this latter being strictly an interpretation
of the coal-products exhibit. A résumé, under preparation and
nearly ready for the printer, on the fuel situation, including coal,
oil, and hydroelectric power.

In further connection with the activities of this division, it may
be mentioned that a tentative offer has been made by the fertilizer
industry of $80,000 to $50,000 for use in the assembling of an exhibit
for the museum in that field.

A recent paper by the assistant secretary, entitled “The Columbian
Institute for the Promotion of Arts and Sciences,” is of particular
moment, since the museum of the institute was the nucleus of the
United States National Museum, some objects in the latter being
clearly traced to the earlier establishment. This is true of the uni-
form worn by Washington in resigning his commission.

National Gallery of Art—The exhibition of a large collection of
paintings, by Ossip Perelma, was continued from the preceding half
year. The gallery is indebted to this artist for excellent portraits
of Secretary Walcott, Mr. Frank B. Noyes, and Boris Bakhmeteff,
the Rusian ambassador. An excellent portrait of the American sculp-
tress, Vinnie Ream (Vinnie Ream Hoxie), by G. A. P. Healy, was
presented by Brig. Gen. Richard L. Hoxie.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. piel

In November a most interesting collection of 100 lithographs of
war-work subjects in Great Britain and in the United States, by
Joseph Pennell, was exhibited in the central room of the gallery,
and attracted much attention. This exhibition was formally opened
on the evening of November 1, by the Secretary of the Navy.

A number of important loans of art works have been recorded by
the gallery.

Museum space taken up by the Bureau of War Risk Insurance.—
Through inability to find appropriate quarters elsewhere in the city,
the Bureau of War Risk Insurance, at the request of the President
of the United States, was given headquarters on the ground floor
of the new building of the National Museum—consisting of the foyer
with adjoining rooms, two rooms on the south side of the east north
range, and the whole clear space in the west north and west ranges
between the laboratories and the north and west walls—in all, aggre-
gating over 25,000 square feet. This area, part of which furnished
space for meetings, special exhibitions, etc., and a passage to the audi-
torium from the north entrance of the building will, for a time, there-
fore, be closed to the public.

Urgent requests have been received for a great deal of additional
space, and the correspondence on the subject was submitted for the
information of the board. After a full discussion the ‘following
resolution was offered by Mr. Roberts and was adopted:

Resolved, That there shall be a committee of the board of regents
on the use of the National Museum buildings by the departments of the Govern-
ment, and the erection of structures on the Smithsonian grounds, which com-
mittee shall act for the board with full power on all matters comprehended by
this resolution.

Resolved, That such committee shall be appointed by the chancellor, who
shall be ex officio a member thereof.

The chancellor thereupon appointed the following committee :

The Hon. Henry White;

The chancellor (Chief Justice White) ;
Senator Lodge;

Senator Stone;

Representative Ferris;

Mr. Henderson.

The secretary will act as the secretary of the committee.

On motion of Mr. Roberts the board approved the action of the
secretary in assigning to the Bureau of War Risk Insurance the
amount of space mentioned.

Freer Gallery of Art.——Progress on the construction of the build-
ing for the Freer collections has proceeded as planned.

Tn this connection it may be remarked that at the last meeting the
board was informed of the project to bring about the cancellation by
Congress of the assessment of $13,252.21 against Mr. Freer as an
,

112 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

income tax on profit on a sale of certain shares, $1,000,000 of which
had been presented to the Institution for the purpose of erecting a
building to house his great gift of art objects. I am glad to report
that the sundry civil act of June 12, 1917, carried a provision author-
izing the cancellation.

The Springer collection—F¥or some years past office and exhibi-
tion space has been allotted to Dr. Frank Springer, a valued col-
laborator of the Museum, for his comprehensive and _ instructive
collection of fossil crinoids and related groups of echinoderms.
Recently Dr. Springer decided to give the Smithsonian Institution
the title and custody of these collections in perpetuity. He has exe-
cuted an indenture providing for this, reserving their use to himself
during his lifetime, and arranging for a fund of $30,000, the income
of which is to be devoted solely to the administration of the collec-
tions under the specified conditions. The terms of the gift were
placed before the permanent committee, which approved its accept-
ance,

On motion the board approved the action of the permanent com-
mittee in accepting the gift of Dr. Frank Springer on the terms as
laid down in the indenture.

Bureau of American Ethnology.—Field researches of the Bureau
of American Ethnology were continued in New Mexico, where im-
portant excavations were conducted in the ruins of the great pueblo
of Hawikuh, and an archeological reconnaissance was made in west-
ern Colorado, which brought to light the remains of many interest-
ing prehistoric tower-like structures of excellent masonry, many of
which had not hitherto been known to science.

Ethnological investigations were continued among the remnants of
various tribes in southern California which are on the verge of ex-
tinction; also among the Iroquois of Canada, the Fox Indians of
Towa, and the Chippewa of Minnesota.

National Zoological Park.—The readjustment of the western
boundary, a matter of vital importance to the park, is still pending,
efforts to have the necessary appropriation made at the last session of
Congress having failed. The amount necessary for the purchase of
the land to be taken, including the cost of the proceedings, is $175,-
641.48. The matter is urgent, because the area of active improve-
ment on Connecticut Avenue has reached the border of this land and
is likely to extend in the near future. A marked increase in the num-
ber of visitors to the park has been noted. During the first four
months of the present fiscal year the attendance was 604,500, an
increase of 230,450 over the corresponding months of last year and
greatly in excess of the figures for the same period in the record year.
This is no doubt due to the great number of strangers and troops in
the city.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. EES

Astrophysical Observatory.—sSolar constant observations were con-
ducted by the Astrophysical Observatory at Mount Wilson, Cal., dur-
ing the past summer and autumn. Results were obtained showing that
the earth’s atmosphere is entirely opaque to rays of more than 20
microns in wave length and that all such rays were found cut off in
a path of 12 feet in air. This is important to meteorology, because
about one-fourth of the rays emitted by the earth’s surface are above
20 microns wave length.

Expeditionary observations at Hump Mountain, N. C., under a
grant from the Hodgkins fund are progressing and will be continued
all winter. The work includes measures of the solar constant of radi-
ation, measures of the brightness of the sky, measures of nocturnal
radiation, and experiments bearing on frost prediction.

The Astrophysical Observatory is continuing the study of the trans-
parency of the air to long-wave rays such as the earth sends out.
The atmosphere on clear days appears to transmit only about 20 to
30 per cent of the earth’s rays outward to space, the quantity trans-
mitted decreasing as humidity increases.

The reduction of the Mount Wilson observations is nearly up to date.
An investigation of the periodicity of solar radiation is under way
and is about to yield interesting results. A periodicity attending the
period of the sun’s rotation is found in 1915 when there was much
sun-spot activity.

A determination of the constant of the formula for total radiation
is in progress.

Langley Aerodynamical Laboratory—tIn the report of the secre-
tary of the board at its meeting on December 14, 1916, a brief state-
ment was made on the development that had taken place in connection
with the Langley Aerodynamical Laboratory.

In this statement attention was called to an allotment of $2,500
for the investigation of problems of the atmosphere in relation to
aeronautics in cooperation with the United States Weather Bureau of
the Department of Agriculture. Through the representations of the
National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics, Congress appropri-
ated $100,000 for work in this important field by the Weather Bureau,
and the $2,500 allotted by the Institution have been credited back into
the fund of the Langley Aerodynamical Laboratory.

The work of the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics
has enlarged rapidly during the past year. At its suggestion the
Council of National Defense appointed a Committee on Aircraft Pro-
duction, which was later reconstituted under an act of Congress
the Aircraft Board, with power to consider all questions of aircraft
production and to make recommendations to the military departments
for the production and purchase of aircraft and aircraft appliances.
114 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

The experimental laboratory of the Advisory Committee is now
in process of erection at Langley Field, near Hampton, Va. In the
meantime experimental work is being conducted under the direction
of the committee at several laboratories.

The original Langley man-carrying flying machine has been
brought back from Hammondsport after its successful trials, and
soon will be placed on exhibition in the old National Museum build-
ing. It is the first heavier-than-air, man-carrying machine ever
built, although it did not have a successful flight until more than 10
years after its construction. It is also an important historical relic,
as it confirms the claim that Secretary Langley was the first to de-
sign and construct a heavier-than-air machine capable of carrying a
man in flight. There has never been any question that he was the
first to successfully fly a heavier-than-air machine propelled by its
own power.

Borneo and Celebes expedition—Owing to the generosity of Dr.
W. L. Abbott, a valued collaborator of the National Museum, an ex-
tensive expedition has been in operation in these islands for several
years, under the leadership of Mr. H. C. Raven. Collecting is now
being carried on in central Celebes, and the Museum has received a
new lot of objects which is especially, rich in ethnological material.
Previous mention has been made of the results of this expedition
and of the gifts of Dr. Abbott, who has contributed the sum of
$21,000 for this purpose since 1912.

Santo Domingo and Haiti expedition—Dr. Abbott is now per-
sonally continuing his collections in Santo Domingo and Haiti, from
which he has secured for the National Museum many interesting
mammals and birds.

Biological work in North China—Mr. A. de C. Sowerby is con-
tinuing his exploration work in northeastern China, and a small col-
lection was received from him in May, 1917. His work has been
attended with considerable difficulty, however, owing to the unsettled
condition of the country. It will be remembered that this expedition
is being financed by a friend of the Institution, who declines to
allow his identity to become known.

Collins-Garner Congo expedition—In November, 1916, Mr. A. M.
Collins, of Philadelphia, asked the Museum to participate in an ex-
pedition to the French Congo which he was organizing in conjunc-
tion with Mr. R. L. Garner, Mr: Collins assuming the main financial
burden of the expedition. It was arranged that the Smithsonian
Institution should send a zoological collector, pay his salary and
transportation, and in addition turn over $1,200 to Mr. Collins, for
which sum he agreed to give our representative the privileges of the
expedition until the end of September, 1917. Mr. Garner and our
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 115

representative, Mr. C. R. W. Aschemeier, sailed about the middle of
December, but were unable to reach “the collecting grounds until
March. They encountered many difficulties along the way, but these
were finally overcome, so that serious work began in April. One
shipment of material has already been received and another is on
the way. Both mammals and birds from West Africa are of great
importance to our collections for comparison with the East African
material brought together by the Smithsonian African expedition
and the Rainey expedition.
“TEM ats
Gua t fos
ee

GENERAL APPENDIX

TO THE

SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1918.

136650°—20——9 117
ne ee — te a ee
ee ot a cae

é
*
ae
iy
4
|
'
~~
—
ag)
ADVERTISEMENT.

The object of the GrnrraLt Aprenprx to the Annual Report of the
Smithsonian Institution is to furnish brief accounts of scientific dis-
covery in particular directions; reports of investigations made by
collaborators of the Institution; and memoirs of a general character
or on special topics that are of interest or value to the numerous
correspondents of the Institution.

It has been a prominent object of the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution, from a very early date, to enrich the annual
report required of them by law with memoirs illustrating the more
remarkable and important developments in physical and biological
discovery, as well as showing the general character of the operations
of the Institution; and this purpose has, during the greater part of
its history, been carried out largely by the publication of such papers
as would possess an interest to all attracted by scientific progress.

In 1880 the secretary, induced in part by the discontinuance of an
annual summary of progress which for 30 years previous had been
issued by well-known private publishing firms, had prepared by com-
petent collaborators a series of abstracts, showing concisely the
prominent features of recent scientific progress in astronomy, geol-
ogy, meteorology, physics, chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zoology,
and anthropology. This latter plan was continued, though not alto-
gether satisfactorily, down to and including the year 1888.

In the report for 1889 a return was made to the earlier method of
presenting a miscellaneous selection of papers (some of them origi-
nal) embracing a considerable range of scientific investigation and
discussion. This method has been continued in the present report
for 1918,

119
As Vo Fides lnwnnid a0 of eo dae itt ee
Sats as ae ay itd) eg sdimtosoa tottd Revels a ot eh) Pra
pr sd, alate - eahtinyiiea vate se ehronrl ; satobarttb qnlnnt

SF” Sotonthdd Irons «to etioment Bae : HoLudideaL 8A). to é oie
oe pacer odd oF oul ae jestohai Jo mre tailt autor Ine sie

ay 7

ee = oibaritan f, sili 10 Sine

a ett Yo: wasaesl to bisa aid ig tootde: Jrpniceney 18
poe. Iepiina al diienes od ara qing $i Ley x moth orient es
_ = great 3103 wretigaresoie fi Lspomtiee ine. al: att nach to ‘botiupot,

; pi fadie aie i enaniqoleyoh: tuats ong ‘fitts-ol
eae prolieTegs aa to as wedunes Perera int Sopa Bia a tow iui 3st

nore O ankh pileiea bd yeh oe ah fue. bor rks ndad “Lio
Peep h sitet e sid itaine va hatjswi tin iis of Sermius Sidi cAaPaOKg De Qe
ie tS Soren sih sad fo dopy thi i. nen UU aIOOR ody O88 “al
need Gast adore Bens 0€ sok -daidweesrgo1d: to Spisicane | ra
ts *. ‘wlth. 7c Haracts if Hast cers wdideldig ewig iitood- Ate 4 id 9
; ad} ylesisnou: wnivode jaloes eld to eee xoseiodellod:
fora. -zieoaoven. we seeiaGid — india toe ayiadt- wes:
rughios “adhad sraclesou in eae y generat qgolorosiont ¥
ofle Jen deo di beiteiingds 2k W al iy qadial ad t srgolngortsan]
‘= 2281 ney od) yibulont bate odo eliaianteites
1a Ix ie sified ad? otebenvany einer aR aa ot Frag. 9
mario molt te°eoros)* aaa to wadelse eyoremtagattar iG ‘gai
bysrs inuideovsrt ofitsotie Fo onagt pldasbirantod fh Lge
Pits: tnsest adh at Betiaii 109 fied endl Lyoiliaan: bine

THE DISCOVERY OF HELIUM AND WHAT
CAME OF IT.

By C. G. ABBoT,
Assistant Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

This story is about a chemical element that was discovered in the
sun, confirmed in the stars, recognized long after upon the earth,
was instrumental in realizing the dreams of the alchemists, and
finally found a useful place in the great war. It came upon our
stage at the time of one of those wonderful natural phenomena called
total solar eclipses.

About once every year the moon comes exactly between the sun
and the earth, and as its apparent size is generally slightly greater
than that of the sun, although in reality far smaller, it covers over
the brilhant disk of the sun and allows us to see those objects which
are so close to the sun in their apparent position as ordinarily to
be obscured by the brilliant glare of the sky in the solar neighbor-
hood.

On August 18, 1868, a very notable total solar eclipse was visible
in India. Many astronomers journeyed there to observe it, among
them the French astronomer, Janssen. It was only a few years before
this that the spectroscope began to reveal the inmost nature of
substances when these are heated sufficiently to give off ight. Many
astronomers employed the spectroscope at the Indian eclipse and all
made substantially the same report. They found that the bright
prominences which shot out to different heights about the sun’s disk,
and which had been seen in many previous eclipses, revealed spectra
consisting of bright lines. Conspicuous among these lines were the
lines of hydrogen, but other bright lines were seen in the prominence
spectrum, among them one of yellow, which they mistook for the
characteristic bright line of sodium. Their observations completely
demonstrated the fact that the prominences are enormous masses
of highly heated gaseous matter shot up to immense distances above
the surface of the sun, and that of these gases hydrogen is among
the most prominent. So far all were agreed, but Janssen went beyond
this. The lines were so brilliant during the eclipse, as seen in his
spectroscope, that he believed he could see them also in full sun-

121
122 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

light. Clouds prevented him from trying the experiment that after-
noon, but the next morning he completed the necessary adjustments
and drawing his spectroscope toward that portion of the sun’s edge
where the day before the most brilliant prominences had been seen
during the eclipse, he found that the same lines came out again
clear and distinct. Now he could study them at his leisure, not
hurried by the quick rush of the eclipse phenomena, and he de-
termined accurately the positions of the lines in the spectrum. He
immediately confirmed his first conclusion that hydrogen is the
most conspicuous of the prominence materials, but found that the
yellow line which had been attributed to sodium was slightly dis-
placed from the position of the real sodium lines and must probably
be the revealed characteristic radiation of a new chemical element.

Messrs. Lockyer and Frankland confirmed the results of Janssen,
and proved definitely that the yellow line could not be ascribed to
the spectrum of any known terrestrial element. Frankland pro-
posed for the new discovery the name of “ helium,” from the Greek
“helios,” the sun, and this name has been universally accepted for it.

After some years the yellow line of helium and some others which
appeared to be associated with it were detected in the spectra of
some of the stars. These lines are found as dark absorption lines in
the spectra of the Orion stars, but bright in the spectra of certain
others, and both bright and dark in the spectra of some of the so-
called new stars.

Much searching was done to find this new element upon the earth,
but, until 1895, without success. In that year Dr. Ramsay, a collabo-
rator with Lord Rayleigh in the discovery of argon in the atmos-
phere, made an examination of the gas given off on digesting with
acid specimens of Norwegian cleveite. He found in this spectrum
the conspicuous yellow line of helium as theretofore known in the
sun. Associated with helium he found also argon and other gases.
Cleveite is a species of pitch-blende and is one of the ores of uranium.
It was soon found that the gas helium was quite widely distributed
upon the earth, though in minute quantities, and was found in other
ores of uranium and also in the gases given off by certain mineral
springs, even found free in the atmosphere in traces, and was also
to be found associated with natural gas in the gas wells of the United
States. It was also found in meteoric iron.

Of course the spectrum and all the properties of the new element
were carefully studied, and it was found to be an inert chemical.
Its molecule contains but one atom, whereas hydrogen and oxygen
molecules have two. The greatest efforts have been made to cause
it to combine with other chemical elements. Every device known to
science has been employed, but without success. No combinations
whatever can be made between helium and any other known chemi-
HELIUM—ABBOT. 33

cal elements. This is a property which it shares with some of the
other rare gases discovered about the same time—argon, neon, xenon,
and others. .

Readers will admit that up to this point the history of helium had
been one of surprises. Found originally in the sun, 90,000,000 miles
away; traced to the stars, thousands of times as far away as the sun;
over a quarter of a century elapsed before it was found upon the
earth, and when found, although a chemical element, it differed from
almost all chemical elements in being wholly indifferent to all other
constituents of the world. But the wonders of the story had hardly
begun.

In 1898 the discovery of radium, another chemical element, sur-
prised the world, for the properties of radium were found more
strange than those of helium. Radium was found to be continually
giving off portions of itself. It was found to be capable of fogging
photographic plates through solid sheets of metal entirely opaque
to light. It was found to be continually giving up heat, and some
persons thought that here at last was a violation of the well-known
second law of thermodynamics, which maintains that heat can not
continually flow by a self-acting process from a cooler body to a
warmer one. This paradox was later understood, for it was found
that the shooting off of a part of itself by the radium made available
those stores of inner chemical energy which could be continually
converted into heat energy almost inexhaustibly in point of time.
With the discovery of this extraordinary property of radium the
mystery of the long existence of life upon the earth and the next
corollary to it, the long existence of the sun as a source of radiation,
became less puzzling. For although no sources of energy known up
to that time had been suggested which were competent to maintain
the sun’s radiation for the hundreds of millions of years demanded
by the geologist and the zoologist to account for the phenomena they
study, yet if there be chemical elements which decompose their
inmost atoms with a continual evolution of heat, here may be an
almost unlimited source from which to draw for all demands of
geology and biology, as far as they relate to the sun.

But what became of the particles shot off by radium? They were
found to consist of gases, and some of these gases themselves were of
short life and eventually split up into others. Two stable products
of the decomposition of the atoms of radium and its immediate prod-
ucts were at length recognized. One of these is the well-known metal
lead, the other is our friend helium. Not only does radium break
up with the evolution of helium, but also uranium, thorium, and
possibly also other chemical elements. Thus was explained the
tendency of helium to be associated with uranium ores, for un-
124 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

doubtedly the uranium comprised in these ores is continually de-
generating and forming the helium as it does so.

Thus the dreams of the old alchemists had almost come true. For
centuries they had endeavored to transmute the chemical elements,
thus to produce the precious metals, such as gold and silver. In this
they had always failed. But nature, that more powerful alchemist,
had now revealed its secret that the chemical elements are not im-
mutable but may be transmuted one into the other. Unfortunately
for commercial applications, no processes have ever been discovered
by means of which the change of radium and its associates into
helium and other metals can either be hurried or retarded. Nature
retains full control of the apparatus. Hitherto man has been unable
to usurp the government of it.

Among the properties of helium has been noted its chemical inert-
ness. In other words, no combinations of helium with other chemical
elements can be made. This means that helium can not be burned.
We well know that hydrogen burns with tremendous energy in
oxygen or in air, but nothing of the kind takes place with helium.
By no process whatever can helium be burned. Another most inter-
esting physical property of helium gas is the extreme difficulty of
liquefying it. During the nineteenth century almost all of the so-
called permanent gases were liquefied. Hydrogen resisted the attack
the longest, but even hydrogen was at last liquefied and even solidi-
fied. Fe laws however, resisted that degree of cold and pressure to
which hydrogen had yielded itself as a liquid, and it was only in
1908 that Kamerlingh Onnes, the distinguished Dutch physicist, sue-
ceeded actually in liquefying helium. The temperature at which he
arrived in this process was but 4° C. above absolute zero, that unique
beginning of all motion of the molecules and of properties of many
kinds. Measured on the absolute centigrade scale, the temperature of
the sun is about 6,000° to 7,000°; that of the earth about 285°;
freezing water, 273°; liquid oxygen, 90°; liquid hydrogen, 20°; and
liquid helium, 4°.

Onnes was able to reach almost to 2° absolute by employing helium
in a special way, and employed this new extreme of cold to test the
electrical and other properties of metals. Very extraordinary results
were found. Tin, lead, and mercury (which is a solid, of course, at
these temperatures) suddenly lost their properties of electrical re-
sistance. Thus a thread of mercury that measured several hundred
ohms at room temperatures, at 2245 Abs. C. had so little electrical
resistance that it could not be detected, and certainly less than
paooee «(Of What it had at the temperature of freezing water.
Probably this curious sudden change of electrical behavior occurs
with other metals, too.
HELIUM—ABBOT. 125

Here, then, we have read two new chapters of the wonderful his-
tory of helium, its relation to the dreams of the alchemists, and its
approach to the extreme limit of the realm of cold. The last chap-
ter of the story deals with the great war.

For two decades previous to the invasion of Belgium the Germans
had been constructing their Zeppelins, and the possibilities of this
new war weapon were variously estimated. Their employment of it,
however, to scatter destruction over undefended towns had not been
dreamed of, and the horror which their earlier raids across the
Channel into England roused will not soon be forgotten. However,
this diabolical engine of destruction proved not to be invulnerable.
The hydrogen gas with which these great ships were filled in order
to make them lighter than air was in tLe highest degree inflammable,
and when the airplanes reached their high degree of efficiency the avi-
ators were able to destroy the Zeppelins by means of inflammatory
bullets. Experiments made in the United States have shown that
about one in four of the inflammatory projectiles which pierce a
hydrogen filled balloon is apt to set it on fire. In this way the Ger-
mans lost several Zeppelins, and recognizing the danger of their em-
ployment and the comparatively meager results achieved, they at
length discontinued the employment of them. But they continued
their devilish raids by the use of airplanes, which had reached such
large dimensions and such degrees of adaptability for maneuvering
that long trips could be made with them to scatter death and destruc-
tion over civilian populations.

At length the Allies retaliated. They also sent their airplanes
to give the Germans some realization of that kind of warfare. Their
aerial fleets outnumbered the Germans, and with the entrance of the
United States into the war probabilities of still further aerial attacks
upon Germany became far stronger. But it occurred to allied officers
that if a noninflammable gas could be used, then the Zeppelins them-
selves, which were far more capable of carrying great weights of
guns and bombs, and were capable of making long flights into enemy
territory, would be even more suitable for this kind of warfare.
Ammonia and hot air were suggested and tested for such purposes,
but owing to their comparatively considerable weight as compared
with hydrogen they were not altogether satisfactory. But some
enthusiast suggested that if helium, which is next lightest to hydrogen
of all the gases, could be used the problem would be solved. Noth-
ing apparently was more absurd. Kamerlingh Onnes had spent an
enormous amount of time to collect for his experiments on liquefac-
tion of helium so little as 2 cubic meters of gas. A terrible misfor-
tune occurred to him, for an accidental leakage in his apparatus
caused the Joss of much of this precious store
126 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

The cost of producing helium at the outbreak of the war was
about $1,600 per cubic foot, and Zeppelin balloons would require
many hundreds of thousands of cubic feet. Apparently the sugges-
tion was merely a wild dream absolutely incapable of realization.
However, there are in Texas and Oklahoma certain gas wells which
yield as much as nine-tenths of 1 per cent of helium. Plants were
constructed to recover helium from the natural gas by means of
liquefaction. As the temperature and pressure are properly adjusted
and the temperature reduced, the natural gas first liquefies and runs
away; after this the nitrogen and oxygen which may be present, and
so on, one after another of the various gases of which the mixture is
composed, until at length helium stands alone. In this way it was
found possible to recover about 60 per cent of the helium in the mix-
ture, so that a yield of about one-half per cent was obtained from the
original natural gas. Of course, no waste of the natural gas itself for
combustion occurred, for the liquefied gas could be warmed and could
be quite as useful as before for purposes of combustion.

Several large plants were operated by the Government in Texas
for the recovery of helium. The matter was, however, kept a well-
guarded sceret. Even the name was hidden. Photographs of the
plant taken, were labeled “argon” manufacturies. The idea was
spread that the purpose of the experiments was to produce a new va-
riety of poisonous gas for warfare, or perhaps a special variety of
gasoline for use in airplanes. All sorts of camouflage were adopted
to prevent the enemy from learning the true purpose of the experi-
ments. So far had the work progressed that at the time the armis-
tice was signed a consignment of 150,000 cubic feet of helium was
on the dock at New York, waiting to be sent to France to be used
by the Allies for their balloons. Plans were on foot for increasing
the output of helium enormously, so that it is probable that had the
war lasted until the summer of 1919 the Allies could have employed
helium gas for observation balloons and for Zeppelins with entire
immunity from all possibility that they could be shot down with
incendiary bullets.

It seems a far cry from the peaceful sun, 90,000,000 miles away,
and the still more peaceful stars that dot the summer night, at more
immeasureable distances, to the horrible war which has just been
ended upon our little earth, but yet who knows when he goes about
an investigation to increase the bounds of knowledge, however re-
mote his subject may be from the ordinary walks of life, what apphi-
cations the future may have in store for the results he gains?
AN ACCOUNT OF THE RISE OF NAVIGATION.’

By R. H. Curtiss.

One of the most obvious practical benefits directly traceable to
astronomical research is found in the application of celestial observa-
tions to the solution of the problems of navigation. Though other
sciences have contributed their quota, it is mainly astronomy that has
made the ocean safe for the navigator.

The fundamental problem of navigation is: Given the position on
the earth of the port to be reached, to determine the ship’s positions
and the best courses to be steered at suitable intervals from the begin-
ning to the consummation of the voyage. This problem, so important
commercially, is, strictly speaking, one of science, for it depends
chiefly for its accurate solution on the application of the principles
and methods of practical astronomy.

For obvious reasons the accuracy attainable in determinations of
position and direction at sea is much inferior to that possible on
shore. The unsteadiness of the platform of a ship, the uncertainties
of atmospheric refraction near or on the horizon, and the intervention
of cloudy periods while the ship is progressing through disturbing
currents and winds are formidable difficulties which the navigator
must meet. But the results attainable with care leave only a small
element of risk affecting modern transportation at sea.

Quite different was the position of the navigator in early times.
‘The compass was introduced generally into Europe about 1400 A. D.
Before this time the only practical means of navigating a ship on
the Atlantic and Mediterranean was to keep in sight of land, or
occasionally, for short distances, to direct the ship’s course by refer-
ence to the sun and stars. But this latter rough method failed in
cloudy weather, and even during short voyages on the Mediterranean
in such circumstances the navigator became hopelessly bewildered as
to his position. Frequently on the China Sea and the Indian Ocean
vessels were able to traverse long distances out of sight of land
by running directly before the steady winds, called the monsoons,
which prevail in those localities. But the compass was an important

1Reprinted by permission from Popular Astronomy, Vol. XXVI, No. 254, April, 1918.
The author expresses acknowledgements especially to the United States Hydrographic
Office and the Encyclopedia Brittanica for material used in this article.

127
128 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

adjunct even there, and such methods of navigating were makeshifts
at best.

The general adoption of the mariner’s compass, about 1400 A. D.,
was followed by a period of progress in navigation, particularly
among the Portuguese, whose exploring expeditions during the fif-
teenth century led to important discoveries in the Atlantic. Prior
to this time the methods in use were very rude, uncertain, and dan-
gerous. When a fleet of merchant vessels was sent to distant ports
the trader was content if one or two returned and he fixed the prices
on his precious imports accordingly.

But even at the beginning of the seventeenth century, navigation
was still in a very backward state. That the compass needle does not
point true north had been noticed early; that the amount of variation
from north was different for different localities had been noted by
Columbus or Cabot about 1490; but that the variation of the com-
pass changes from year to year at the same base was not known
until 1635.

At this time (about 1600) a navigator’s equipment included a com-
pass for directing the course; a rough weight and line for making
soundings; a cross-staff or astrolabe for measuring angles; a fairly
good table of the sun’s distance north or south of the equator; and
corrections for the altitude of the pole star. The last four appliances
were used solely to determine the latitude or the distance on the
earth’s surface north or south of the terrestrial equator. Occasion-
ally a very incorrect chart helped determine the ship’s position. In
this connection the motion of the ship was usually determined by
estimating the speed every two hours or so, or, in some cases, by
throwing out a float from the bows of the ship and noting the inter-
val of time between its passage abeam of two observers standing on
the deck at known distances apart.

By observations with the cross-staff and astrolabe on the sun or the
pole star, latitude could be measured at sea with sufficient accuracy
to fix the observer’s position north or south of the equator within 20
miles or so, but no method was available for finding longitude or
position east or west on the earth, except the rough expedient of esti-
mating the run of the ship, taking wind, tide, and current into ac-
count. The only mode of arriving at a port of destination was to
steer so as to get into the latitude of such a port either to the east-
ward or westward of its supposed position, and then to approach it
on its parallel of latitude by steering a course due east or west. Ob-
viously this method, though the best then available, might prove
fatal if the error in longitude were too great.

The advice on longitude finding given by a nautical authority of
repute at this time illustrates well the status of the problem up to
the eighteenth century. He observes:
NAVIGATION—CURTISS. 129

Now there be some that are very inquisitive to have a way to get the
longitude, but that is too tedious for seamen, since it requireth the deep
knowledge of astronomy, wherefore I would not have any man think that the
longitude is to be found at sea by any instrument; so let no seamen trouble
themselves with any such rule, but (according to their accustomed manner)
let them keep a perfect account and reckoning of the way of their ship.

Such a record of the way of a ship appears to have been made
with chalk on a wooden board called a log board which folded like
a book and from which each day a position for the ship was deduced.

But while the longitude problem at sea remained unsolved, con-
tributions to progress in navigation were being made in other direc-
tions. Mercator and Wright developed a correct sailing chart about
1600. Gunter’s tables in 1620 made possible the application of
logarithms to navigation. In 1631 a device, called the vernier, for
accurate reading of scales became known. In 1635 Gellibrand pub-
lished his discovery of the annual change in the variation of the com-
pass needle. In 1637 Norwood helped remove one of the greatest
stumbling blocks in the way of correct navigation by determining
improved values of the length of a minute of are on the earth’s
surface, or the true nautical mile. His value was about six-tenths
of 1 per cent too large. In 1699 Halley constructed the first com-
pass variation chart.

In the meantime some progress was being made with the longitude
problem. It was recognized that the only accurate method of
determining the longitude is by knowing the difference at the same
instant between the time at the meridian of Greenwich and that of
the observer. The determination of the local time for the observer
by astronomical observations of the altitude of suitably situated
heavenly bodies was an old, well-known and frequently practiced
operation. But the simultaneous determination of Greenwich time
presented great difficulties. Obviously if the ship were near enough
to a station on the Greenwich meridian a rocket or a loud explosion
could be used as a signal at some stated Greenwich time. The ship’s
time for the same instant could then be observed and the difference
between these two times for the same instant would be the longitude
of the ship east or west of Greenwich. But for ships out of signal
range from Greenwich observations of celestial phenomena had to
be employed. At present chronometers are carried on board ship
which, after being corrected and rated at departure, keep accurate
Greenwich time throughout the voyage and thus render longitude
determination relatively easy. But chronometers of satisfactory
accuracy were not available till late in the eighteenth century.

The best method known for determining Greenwich time at sea
by observation before the chronometer became available was that
depending upon the measurement of the distance of the moon from
130 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

selected stars. For the moon makes a rapid circuit of the sky once
each month and in so doing passes close to a number of bright stars.
Hence if the navigator can be provided with tables giving the
Greenwich time when the moon should be found to be distant from
a given star by a given amount which he has measured, then the
Greenwich time of the instant of that observation becomes known
and may be kept by an hour glass or watch for a few minutes while
the ship’s time is being found.

This method for determining longitude was foreseen as early as
1514, but its practical application was attended with difficulties, not
surmounted indeed before another and better method had been de-
veloped through the invention of the accurate chronometer. The
difficulties in the way of the lunar distance determination of longi-
tude were imperfect knowledge of the moon’s motion and the crude
character of the instruments for measuring angles, together with
some inferiority inherent in the method.

The study of the longitude problem was stimulated by a prize of
1,000 crowns offered by Philip III of Spain, followed by another of
10,000 florins by the states-general for the discovery of a method of
finding longitude at sea. Asa result it was brought out that methods
depending on the moon’s position offered the best solution at that
time, but that the lunar tables extant were useless, and that much
study and observation would be necessary to make them available.
Primarily to attack this lunar problem England established her
national observatory in 1675. Fifty-six years later the astronomer
royal in charge of the Greenwich Observatory announced that he
hoped to be able to compute the moon’s position within such limits
that longitude errors would be reduced to 60 geographical miles
at the equator. Apparently progress had been slow.

In 1714 England’s commission for the discovery of longitude at
sea had been constituted with power to grant large sums in prizes.
For a method of determining the longitude within 60 geographical
miles, to be tested by a voyage to the West Indies and back, £10,000
was offered; within 40 miles, £15,000; within 30 miles, £20,000.

The importance of further progress in methods of navigation at
this time is brought out by accounts of actual casualties showing
what the dangers were. Admiral Wheeler’s squadron, in 1694, leav-
ing the Mediterranean, ran on Gilbraltar when it was thought the
strait was safely passed. Sir Cloudesley Shovel’s squadron, in 1707,
was lost on the rocks off Scilly, by erring in the latitude. Several
transports in 1711 were lost near the St. Lawrence River, having
erred 45 miles in their reckoning. Lord Belhaven was lost on the
Lizard in 1721, the same day on which he sailed from Plymouth,
England.
NAVIGATION—CURTISS. 131

At this point two most vital discoveries making for advancement in
navigation were made. The rise of modern navigation may fairly be
dated from the invention of the sextant by Hadley in 1731 and of the
chronometer by Harrison in 1735, The sextant is an instrument for
the measurement of angular distances. As such it replaced the cross-
staff and the astrolabe, than which it is far more convenient and ac-
curate. The cross-staff required the observer to sight in two direc-
tions at once, while the sextant forms two images of the object or
objects observed as near together as desired in a small telescope. The
astrolabe was suspended and was supposed to be kept plumb by grav-
ity, but the movement of the ship rendered accuracy impossible.
Three observers were required to manipulate it. The sextant is easily
handled by one observer, who, with practise, soon acquires great pro-
ficiency and accuracy in the measurement of angles although his posi-
tion may be on the unsteady deck of a ship at sea.

The chronometer is a timepiece like a watch in that it is actuated
by a spring and depends upon a balance wheel for the measurement
of time. It is however much larger and usually much more accurate
than a watch, and it is mounted on gymbals so that it may by its own
weight remain face up when its case is tipped. .

In early times mariners used the compass as a rough sundial for the
determination of time: Waterclocks and sandclocks were employed
for rough purposes of keeping time on board ship, and it is curious to
note that hour and half-hour sand glasses were used in the British
navy until 1839. When watches were introduced in 1530 they were
not accurate enough to supersede even the primitive devices then in
use. The practical difficulty arose from their very irregular rates,
owing to change in temperature and the motion of the ship. Har-
rison’s great invention, which made possible the chronometer and
greatly improved the watch, was the principle of compensating the
balance wheel by the use of two metals with different coefficients of
expansion, together with a device by which the eener tar retains
its motion while being wound.

Harrison was eager to try for the longitude prizes with the help of
his new invention. He believed that his timepiece, if set and rated
carefully before embarking, could be relied upon to keep Greenwich
time for a voyage of several months with such accuracy that greatly
improved longitude determinations at sea could be effected. In 1735
he was allowed to test one of his first watches on a voyage to Lisbon,
with a result so satisfactory that he received a grant of £500 to carry
out further improvements. The official trial journey to the West
Indies was begun in November, 1761, with an improved chronometer ;
and during the whole voyage of five months the total error unallowed-
for was 1 min. 54.5 sec. or the equivalent of 18 geographical miles in
132 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

the latitude of Portsmouth, an amount well within the limit of 30
miles specified for the grand prize of the longitude commission.

Apparently Harrison had won the prize of nearly $100,000.00; but
the invention of the sextant, which had helped Harrison by facilitat-
ing the determination of local time, had been especially favorable to
certain powerful competitors who hoped to gain the reward by meas-
urement of lunar distances from stars. Much improved lunar tables
had been submitted by Mayer in 1755. These were pronounced gen-
erally correct within a minute of arc; and Maskelyne, after a trial
voyage to St. Helena in 1761, during which he determined longitudes
within 90 miles or so, prepared a guide, issued in 1763, in which he
asserted his belief that the lunar method would determine longitudes
always within 60 geographical miles on the equator and generally
within 30 miles, if applied to careful observations. Encouraged by
this progress, though the process involved was too laborious for sea-
men to undertake, the House of Commons withheld the prize from
Harrison and left an open chance for a lunarian during four years
from 1768.

In March, 1764, on another trial voyage to the West Indies, Har-
rison’s watch made a record even better than before, running four
months with an error not greater than 10 geographical miles in
longitude. Accordingly in the following year he was awarded one-
half of the prize of £20,000; but at the same time, authority and
funds were given for the publication of the Nautical Almanac, con-
taining among other things tables of the moon’s distance from the
sun, when suitable, and from seven fixed stars at intervals of three
hours. Apparently the longitude commissioners were still in doubt.

The tables of lunar distances in the Nautical Almanac, together
with Maskelyne’s auxiliary tables, facilitated greatly the lunar
method for finding longitude. But steady progress toward the per-
fection of the chronometer maintained the superiority of the chrono-
meter method of longitude determination, and soon after 1800 the
longitude controversy may be considered to have been settled in favor
of the accurate timepiece.

The marvelous accuracy of the modern chronometer—of even the
cheaper chronometers used in the mercantile marine—is illustrated
by the steamship Orellana sailing from London to Valparaiso. Ina
voyage of 63 days the mean accumulated error of her three chrono-
meters was only 2.3 seconds of time, or six-tenths of a mile in longi-
tude at the equator, and less in higher latitudes.

At the present time, since the Greenwich time can be sent out by
wireless from shore stations, in the problem of longitude determina-
tion even less dependence need be placed on the chronometer, and the
accuracy of such determinations is not necessarily appreciably dif-
ferent from that of latitudes.
NAVIGATION—CURTISS. 33

Equipped with the compass and log, sextant, chronometer, lead,
Nautical Almanac, and the Requisite Tables the navigator was ready
to sail with comparative safety over long voyages early in the nine-
teenth century. The crying need was for more and better charts and
for better knowledge of tides, winds, and currents. The establish-
ment of the Admiralty Hydrographic Office of Great Britain in 1795
marked a great step in advance in these directions. The first official
catalogue of the Admiralty, issued in 1830, listed 962 charts. And
in 1832 official tide tables were issued also by the Admiralty. At
present the navigator’s charts cover all the important coasts and
seas, with very full data of tides, winds, and currents.

In the United States, marine chart work began in the Navy De-
partment in 1837. From 1844 to 1861 the United States Observatory
and Hydrographic Office under Lieut. M. F. Maury devoted itself
not only to astronomical and hydrographic work but also to im-
portant research in marine meteorology. This period is notable for
the issuance of Maury’s famous “ Wind and Sailing Charts” and
“ Sailing Directions.” It was Maury’s wish that the wind and sail-
ing charts should be an exclusively American contribution to world
navigation. In 1866 the hydrographic and meteorological branches
were disconnected from the Naval Observatory and given to the
present Hydrographic Office, and in 1904 the work of marine meteor-
ology was transferred to the Weather Bureau. The United States
Hydrographic Office conducts marine surveys, collects information
for nautical publications, and prepares manuals, charts, sailing direc-
tions, and nautical tables for the use of navigators generally. In
a single year it prints about four hundred thousand charts and
many more pamphlets and bulletins. It sells about one hundred
thousand charts and books to navigators each year. The United
States Coast and Geodetic Survey, as part of its activities, prepares
and distributes tide tables and also charts and pilots of our coasts.

In recent times the great development of modern ships in both
size and speed has increased enormously the demands on those who
command and navigate them and has led to careful study and im-
provement of methods in navigation. Simplified procedure, better
tables, and a higher standard of preparation of the navigator have
been realized. On the instrumental side the sextant and chronometer
have been carried toward perfection, the sounding machine much
improved, and the gyro-compass introduced. The original model
of one of the best modern types of magnetic compass was patented
by Lord Kelvin in 1876. The gyro-compass is used side by side
with the magnetic compass, but can not be said to have superseded
it. The rotary or patent log came into general use about 1836, but
was introduced in the form usually employed at present in 1878. It

136650°—20——10
®
134 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918,

records the revolutions of a small screw towed by the ship and,
like a speedometer, registers the speed of the ship and the distance
run at any instant.

The important features of modern practice in navigation may be
brought out by a brief account of methods now employed. In plan-
ning out in advance a long ocean voyage the navigator would first
lay down on a chart the track from port to port. For this purpose
the monthly Pilot Chart, which is a Mercator projection, would be
preferred. It would be the navigator’s object to adopt the shortest
route available, taking into account currents, winds, ice and other
undesirable features of high latitudes, as well as specified lanes of
traffic, and the intervention of land. Since the great circle route
is always shorter than any other, especially between ports far apart
in longitude and in high latitudes of the same name, a great circle
chart is often used, for on such charts a great circle appears as a
straight line. But since the track will be transferred finally from
the great circle chart to one on a Mercator’s projection, which is
more convenient for purposes of navigation, the course may be.
entered in the beginning on a Mercator’s chart using the method
proposed by Airy for drawing approximate great circles. On a
Mercator’s chart the track followed by a ship steering a continuous
course is a straight line (technically known as a rhumb line), and
since ships rarely, if ever, steer on great circles and, instead, follow
a series of rhumb lines like chords of the great circle track, differ-
ing successively one or two degrees in direction, it is desirable to
use a Mercator’s chart upon which each such course appears as a
straight line. any

Having thus planned the most advantageous general track to fol-
low, three methods are used to determine the position of the ship
at any time during the voyage. These are (1) projecting the track
on charts, (2) simple trigonometrical calculations based upon the
course steered and distance run as shown by compass and log, and
(8) astronomical observations with sextant and azimuth circle.

Of these the first is generally least trustworthy owing to the un-
avoidably small scale of the charts. But when a ship approaches
or leaves a coast, chart sailing becomes obligatory and large scale
charts are available for the purpose.

On leaving harbors, the so-called point of departure is found,
possibly by astronomical observations but preferably by sighting on
objects on shore as mapped on the chart of the port. In hazy weather
especially, a continuous line of soundings at fairly even distances
apart affords an additional control on one’s position, and for this
purpose the sounding machines invented by Lord Kelvin, permitting
satisfactory soundings at speeds of 15 or 16 knots, are most useful.

While in sight of land the course can be followed best by land
sights and soundings, a metho@ of navigation usually referred to as
NAVIGATION—CURTISS. £35

piloting. Before losing sight of land the longitude and latitude of
the last well-determined position found by methods of piloting is
taken from the coast chart and transferred to the ocean or small
scale chart and is considered as the point of departure.

The point of departure is the starting point of the ocean voyage;
and from that point the course and distance are laid down, being
rectified whenever astronomical observations are available. More
accurately, though less vividly than on the chart, the changes in
longitude and latitude involved in each change of course are com-
puted by plane trigonometry, using so-called traverse tables for the
solution of the right-angled triangle involved. Such a method of
keeping account of a ship’s position on the basis of the course as indi-
cated by the compass and the distance as indicated by the log, al-
lowing for wind, current, and tide, is called dead reckoning. As
bearing upon the accuracy of the log, it is interesting to note that
some authorities, in the case of steam vessels, consider that the revo-
lutions of the ship’s propeller, taking into account the ship’s draught
and the condition of the ship’s bottom, afford the best means of esti-
mating speed.

Astronomical reckoning affords the most accurate means of ascer-
taining positions at sea, dead reckoning being carried along partly
as a check but also to be relied on when weather does not permit
observations of the heavenly bodies.

Navigators will generally prefer to determine position from ob-
servations of the sun, measuring the altitude of that body above the
sea horizon. But simillar observations of the planets and brighter
stars in twilight, when the horizon is well defined, afford even better
determinations of positions at sea. In such a case the careful navi-
gator, by observing for latitude two stars, one north and one south
of the zenith, and for longitude two stars, one east and one west of
the zenith can depend on a good result, especially if the stars in each
pair are about at the same altitude and not too low in the sky. Since
the moon also may be used when occasion arises, it is evident that the
navigator seldom needs.to go along without a good fix or determina-
tion of position.

The chief astronomical observations made at sea are those for
ascertaining (1) latitude, (2) time and longitude, (3) compass error,
and (4) latitude and longitude simultaneously.

The plan of many navigators is to observe with a sextant the
altitude of the sun in the morning when that body is nearly above
the east point, to determine local time and longitude. In the com-
putation of local time it is necessary to adopt a latitude obtained by
dead reckoning, but if the sun is well placed errors in the assumed
latitude will introduce relatively small errors in the resulting ship’s
time. The longitude is obtained by taking the difference between the
136 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

ship’s time and the corresponding Greenwich time recorded by the
ship’s chronometers. This longitude is carried forward to the fol-
lowing noon by dead reckoning. The latitude at noon is determined
by measuring the altitude of the sun on or very near the meridian.
Another time sight may be made before sunset. Or if stars are
used at twilight one is observed east or west for longitude and an-
other north or south for latitude. A longitude by dead reckoning
may be used first to derive the latitude and then with the observed
latitude the longitude may be obtained, though in unfavorable cases
more trials may be necessary.

The newer methods, which are rapidly superseding other modes
of ascertaining a ship’s position, are based upon the use of the Sum-
ner line of position. In these methods each sextant altitude of a
heavenly body is used to determine all it ever can actually give,
a line on the sea on which the ship must be situated. Such a line,
though in practice nearly always sensibly straight, is in reality an
are of a small circle on the earth’s surface having its center im-
mediately under the celestial object observed with a radius equal to
the zenith distance of that object. The Sumner line may be defined
by two points, in which case two longitudes or two latitudes are as-
sumed or based upon dead reckoning and the other coordinate com-
puted from the celestial observation. Or the line may be defined
by one point derived in this or a similar way from the celestial ob-
servation, together with the direction of the line, which will be at
right angles to the direction of the body observed at the time of
the observation. If the Sumner point, thus used in defining the
Sumner line, is to be adopted as a point of departure, it is important
that it should be a probable position, taking advantage of the evi-
dence furnished by dead reckoning. In the Marc St. Hilaire method,
which is generally preferred, this point is the intersection of the
Sumner line with the vertical plane of the celestial object observed,
assuming for the observer the position obtained by dead reckoning.
Or, in other words, it is the point of the Sumner line nearest to the
dead reckoning position.

Some help toward an understanding of Sumner’s method will be
found in an account of its discovery. Sumner sailed from Charles-
ton, South Carolina, in November, 1837, bound for Greenock, Eng-
land. After passing longitude 21° W, about 800 miles west of Lon-
don, no observations could be made until soundings had indicated
that the ship was near land. About midnight of December 17, dead
reckoning indicated that the ship was within 40 miles of Tuskar
light off the Irish coast opposite Wales, and the ship stood off the
supposed shore to await developments. About 10 o’clock the next
morning an altitude of the sun was observed and the chronometer
time noted, but, having run so far by dead reckoning, it was plain
NAVIGATION—CURTISS. 13%

that the knowledge of the latitude was not sufficiently reliable to
afford a determination of longitude. Nevertheless Sumner computed
his longitude, using the latitude by dead reckoning, and got a po-
sition 15 minutes east of that by dead reckoning. Then in order to
determine how far errors in his assumed latitude would affect the
computed longitude he assumed a second latitude 10 minutes farther
north and got a position 27 miles east northeast of the former posi-
tion and toward the danger. <A third assumed latitude still farther
north gave a third point 27 miles still farther east northeast of the
first point. Upon plotting these positions on a chart they were seen
to be on a straight line and this line passed through Small’s light
off the coast of Wales. Credit is due Sumner because he realized
then that anywhere on the line he had determined the altitude of
the sun at the time of observation would have had the value he
measured, and that such would be the case only on that line. He
therefore assumed that he was on that line and, keeping his course
east northeast along it, made Small’s light in less than an hour.
After hours of uncertainty off a rocky lee shore in the midst of a
winter gale what must have been Captain Sumner’s relief when the
lighthouse appeared ahead. Later it developed that at the time of
his uncertainty his latitude by dead reckoning was 8 miles too far
south and his longitude 45 miles too far west. The result to the
ship might have been disastrous had this wrong position been
adopted.

In using Sumner’s method in its simplest form, altitudes are
measured of two suitable objects in quick succession or of the same
object at two suitable times. Each observation gives a line upon
which the ship must be situated. The intersection of these two lines
of position gives the position of the ship. If the two observations
are separated in time and the ship is moving, dead reckoning must
be used to allow for the ship’s change in position between obser-
vations.

Important advantages of the line of position methods are not hard
to find. Every observation for position is treated in the same way.
The method makes clear to the navigator how much information
his observation actually yields. With available tables, including
Lord Kelvin’s Sumner Line Table, the calculations may be com-
pleted entirely without logarithms and with a minimum amount of
work. When the value of the newer methods is realized by navi-
gators it is not to be doubted that calculations for position will be
based universally on the Sumner line.

Tn considering the foregoing methods of fixing astronomically the
position of a ship it is evident that, always when the two elements
of latitude and longitude are determined at different times and fre-
quently when they are determined by Sumner’s method, the navi-
138 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

gator has to depend partly on dead reckoning; also during cloudy
weather out of sight of land he has to depend entirely on this method
for his knowledge of the ship’s position. Clearly then frequent de-
termination of the error of the compass is a most important duty.
In practice this error is found very simply by comparing the com-
pass bearing or direction of a heavenly body with its bearing, de-
termined by calculation if necessary, but usually taken from a table.

The total error of the compass includes that due to actual known
variation of the needle and also that due to deviations caused by the
attraction of the iron of the ship. The former error can be found
from charts and easily allowed for, but the latter is variable and un-
certain and thus makes necessary the frequent determination of com-
pass correction. It is customary to reduce the deviation error as
much as practicable by the use of artificial magnets, as well as
spheres and bars of soft iron, mounted about the compass before the
ship leaves port, but no arrangement known effects a permanent
correction.

A careful record of everything pertaining to the navigation of
the ship with the results of all observations and calculated positions
is kept in an official book, called the ship’s log. Each day at noon the
ship’s position is computed by dead reckoning from the previous
noon and also by astronomical observations when such are available.
The course and distance made good from the previous noon are then
computed using astronomical position if available. Finally the
course and distance are computed from the position of the ship at
noon to either the port of destination or some prominent position or
danger near which the vessel must pass.

The needs of our rapidly expanding naval forces and the demand
of our new merchant fleet for thousands of officers have centered at-
tention in instruction for the preparation of navigators. The ship-
ping board schools, the naval schools and colleges, and also our uni-
versities are making a creditable effort to meet the situation. The
concrete result in trained men will undoubtedly fill all important
requirements. But in addition it is reasonable to think that progress
in the improvement of the art of navigation, in this country at least,
will be stimulated. Awkward relics of former times may be hurried
aside. Such obstacles as the astronomical day may be removed.
Certainly beneficial cooperation will follow in greater measure
among navigators on vessels of the Navy and the Merchant Marine
and those who are experts in related fields on shore.
THE TORNADOES OF THE UNITED STATES.

By Prof. Rosert DeC. Warp,
Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

[With 1 plate. ]

NATURE OF A TORNADO.

The relation of a tornado to human life and property depends
upon its nature. What it does is determined by what it 7s. Briefly
stated, a tornado is a very intense, progressive whirl, of small diam-
eter, with inflowing winds, which increase tremendously in velocity
as they near the center, developing there a counter-clockwise, vorticu-
lar, ascensional movement the violence of which exceeds that of any
other known storm. From the violently agitated main cloud-mass
above there usually hangs a writhing, funnel-shaped cloud, swinging
to and fro, rising and descending. With a frightful roar comes the
whirl, advancing almost always toward the northeast with the speed
of a fast train (20 to 40 miles an hour or more), its wind velocities
exceeding 100, 200, and probably sometimes 300 or more miles an
hour; its path of destruction usually less than a quarter of a mile
wide; its total life a matter of perhaps an hour or so. It is as
ephemeral as it is intense.

Fortunately for man, tornadoes are short-lived, have a very narrow
path of destruction, and are by no means equally intense throughout
their course. Their funnel cloud, which indicates the region of
maximum velocity of the whirling winds, ascends and descends
irregularly. Where it descends, the destruction is greatest; where it
rises, there are zones of greater safety. The whirl may be so far
above the ground that it does no injury whatever. It may descend
low enough to tear roofs and chimneys to pieces. It may come down
to the ground and leave nothing standing.

DAMAGE AND LOSS OF LIFE IN TORNADOES.

The central low-pressure core of the tornado is surrounded by
radially inflowing winds of moderate strength, and then, closer to the

1Reprinted by permission from Nature, vol. 101, July 18, 1918, pp. 8395-399; abridged
by the author from Quarterly Journal of the Royal Meteorological Society, vol. 63, No.
183, July, 1917.
139
140 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

center, by spiraling and ascending winds of terrific violence; strong
enough to crush and wreck the strongest buildings; ascending’ with
sufficient velocity to carry aloft objects so heavy that for wind to
lift them seems almost impossible. The surface winds which take
part in the vorticular inflow and ascent seem to be chiefly responsible
for the damage and loss of life. There is, however, an additional
factor. The central “ core,” surrounded by its whirling winds, has its
pressure greatly reduced by the centrifugal force of the whirl. It
therefore exerts a powerful explosive effect upon near-by air at ordi-
nary pressures, within buildings or in other more or less well-inclosed
spaces. This curious but very widely-attested explosive effect ac-
counts for many tornado “ freaks”. which can not be explained by
any controls, either of radially or spirally inflowing winds, whatever
their velocity.

The damage done by tornadoes may be roughly classified as fol-
lows: (1) That resulting from the violence of the surface winds, blow-
ing over buildings and other exposed objects, crushing them, dashing
them against each other, etc.; (2) that caused by the explosive
action; and (3) that resulting from the uprushing air movement
close around the central vortex. Carts, barn doors, cattle, iron chains,
human beings, are carried through the air, whirled aloft, and dashed
to the ground, or they may be dropped gently at considerable dis-
tances from the places where they are picked up. Iron bridges have
been removed from their foundations; beams are driven into the
ground; nails are forced head first into boards; cornstalks are driven
partly through doors; harness is stripped from horses; clothing is
torn from human beings and stripped into rags. The damage is
greater and extends farther-from the center on the right of the track
than on the left, for the wind velocities are greater on the right, as
in the “dangerous semicircle” on the right of the track of tropical
cyclones.

The explosive effects are many and curious. The walls of build-
ings fall out, sometimes letting the roof collapse onto the founda-
tions; or the roof may be blown off, leaving the walls standing. The
accompanying photograph (pl. 1) illustrates some of the damage
which was done by the St. Louis, Mo., tornado of May 27, 1896.
The surface of the ground may be swept clean, as if with a broom.
Articles may be blown out of houses and carried to great distances.
Empty bottles are uncorked; feathers plucked from barnyard
poultry; doors and windows blown out; soot rises from chimneys;
mud penetrates clothing.

Property damage in the United States due to tornadoes varies
greatly from year to year, depending, as it does, upon the “acci-
dental” passage of tornadoes through well-populated or through
sparsely settled districts. In half an hour the St. Louis tornado
“£jo100g [eotsopor0ojoy [eAOY OT} JO [eUIMOL Aprioysiend oy} Wo01T
‘Nyvg YVO 4O HOSYM “9681 ‘1% AVIA ‘OGVNYOL “OW ‘SINO7 ‘LS

aa prone Baya

*| alvwid "PABM—'BL6L ‘HOdey uBIUOSY}yIWS
“

i

TORNADOES—-WARD. 141

(May 27, 1896) destroyed property to the amount of $10,000,000
in iSt. Louis alone. In some years the damage for the whole
United States falls to but a few hundred thousand dollars.

Figure 1 illustrates the tragic fate of one family in a tornado
(May 30, 1879).1. A house was moved entirely from its foundation
to the southeast, then broken to pieces and scattered along the
tornado track to the northeast for more than a mile. The members
of the household, consisting of father, mother, and four children,
ran outdoors as the storm came. They first turned northwest, but,
thinking that the tornado was coming toward them, they turned
toward the east. One by one they were caught up and carried by
the wind. The father and baby were carried 150 yards into a field
to the northeast, and found in the agonies of death. The mother
was carried eastward 75 yards, and dashed against a tree, around
which she was partially
twisted; her skull was aheRtNa
crushed and her clothing BAgy
was stripped from her
body. <A girl was found
dead 50 yards northeast
of the house, in the
direct path of the storm.
A boy was blown into
a haystack 45 yards to
the northeast, and a
girl was found 80 yards
to the northeast lying
in the tornado track.
Neither of these two
children was_ seriously
injured. Disasters simi-
lar to this one come all too frequently in the American tornado
belt.

Finley listed some 600 tornadoes, of which 40 were fatal to human
life, causing a loss of 466 lives and injuring 687 persons.? In the
case of the St. Louis tornado (May 27, 1896) the loss of life was
306. In fact, in this one storm the fatalities and the damage to
property were greater than in any other single tornado on record.
Prof. Mark W. Harrington, formerly chief of the United States
Weather Bureau, estimated that the chance that a tornado may, in
any year, cross the particular locality where any individual may

Fig. 1.—Tornado, May 30,1879. From the Quarterly Journal
of the Royal Meteorological Society.

1J. P. Finley, “‘ Report of the Tornadoes of May 29 and 30 in the States of Kansas,
Missouri, Nebraska, and Iowa.’’ Professional Papers, United States Signal Service, No. iv,
(Washington, D. C., 1881.)

2J. P. Finley, ‘Report on the Character of Six Hundred Tornadoes,” Professional
Papers, United States Signal Service, No. vii. (Washington D. C., 1884.)
142 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

happen to be is 1 in 625,000, and “not worth worrying about.”
The late Prof. Cleveland Abbe concluded that even in the so-called .
“tornado States” the probability of tornado destruction is less than
that of lightning or fire.*

DISTRIBUTION OF TORNADOES IN PLACE AND TIME.

The real home of the tornado is over the great lowlands east and
west of the central and upper Mississippi and of the lower Mis-
souri valleys, and, to a less marked degree, over some of the South-
ern States. Tornadoes are rare west of the one hundredth meridian,
and very rare or unknown in the mountain areas. They have been
reported from all States east of the Plains, but decrease markedly
in frequency toward the north. They are rare in the Appalachian
Mountains, and also infrequent along the Atlantic and Gulf coasts.
The widespread impression that tornadoes are increasing in number
in the United States is without foundation of fact. Tornadoes are
reported with greater accuracy than formerly, and they are lkely
to do more damage than they used to do because the country is more
densely populated.

Tornadoes may appear in any month and at almost any hour of
the day or night. Like thunderstorms, however, they distinctly pre-
fer the warmer months, and the hours closely following the warmest
part of the day. Thus spring and early summer (April to July) and
3 to 5 p.m. are their favorite times.

TORNADO WEATHER TYPES.

Tornadoes have much in common with thunderstorms. In fact,
they are, in reality, special local developments, of greater violence,
in connection with severe thunderstorms. The general conditions
which produce these two phenomena are, to a large extent, identical.
The essential difference comes in the formation of the vorticular
whirl in the tornado. Thus, like the largest and most severe Ameri-
can thunderstorms, tornadoes occur as attendants of the parent
cyclones of which they are the offspring. They are born, in the
large majority of cases, in the area of warm, damp southerly winds
flowing northward from the Gulf of Mexico in front of a general
cyclonic storm. This storm is usually more or less elliptical or
V-shaped, its major axis extending north to south or northeast to
southwest from the Great Lakes, across the central lowlands well into
the Southern States. The “wind-shift line” or “critical axis” is
usually well marked. North and west of the wind-shift line northerly
to westerly winds are blowing with relatively low temperatures, and

1M. W. Harrington, “About the Weather,” p. 164 (N. Y., 1899).

“Cleveland Abbe, “ Tornado Frequency per Unit Area,’ Monthly Weather Review, vol.
xxv, p. 250. (Washington, D: C., June, 1897.)
TORNADOES—WARD. 143

not infrequently with rain or snow. South and east of the critical
axis there is a great flow of southerly or southwesterly winds with
higher temperatures, usually sultry and oppressive weather, and
often with rain squalls. When conditions are favorable, tornadoes
are likely to occur in a district some 300, 400, 500, or more miles to
the southeast, south, or southwest of the cyclonic center, near, but
usually to the east of, the wind-shift line. Here the contrast be-
tween the warm, damp southerly and the cool, dry northerly and
westerly winds is sharp. Here is inevitably a zone of great dis-
turbance; of overrunning, underrunning, and mixing; of turbulence;
of instability; of local whirls. Here, aided by the local warming
due to sunshine, are favorable conditions for breeding thunder-
storms and, fortunately much less often, for developing tornadoes.

The parent cyclone may travel many thousands of miles, a good
part of the way round the world, yet in only one portion of its long
course, in-the Mississippi Valley region of the United States, and
usually only at one time of the year, in spring and summer, is just
the right combination of conditions attained for developing the
dreaded tornado, ;

PROTECTION OF LIFE,

The possible protection and preservation of human life in tor-
nadoes are very real and vital questions over large areas of the
United States. From a long and intimate study of tornadoes, Finley
deduced certain rules for the protection of life which have over and
over again proved their accuracy and value. If a tornado is ap-
proaching from west or southwest, and the observer is on or very
near its probable path, the best thing to do, if there is time, is to run
north. “ Dugouts” or tornado-cellars should be provided near the
house. The safety secured by means of “ dugouts” is that they re-
move persons who seek refuge in them from risk of injury from
flying débris; also from the danger of being picked up by the winds.

If there is no time to escape, the safest place is to stand, face for-
ward, against the west or south wall of the cellar, as near the south-
west corner as possible. The reason for these precautions is this, that
the débris of the house will, if the building is destroyed, be more
likely to be carried toward the northeast. Hence northeast or east
rooms and walls are least safe. If caught outdoors, and otherwise
unable to escape, the best thing to do, as a last resort, is to le flat
on the ground in an open space, face downwards, the head to the
east, and the arms placed over the head for protection.

PROTECTION OF PROPERTY: TORNADO INSURANCE,

In regard to the protection of property certain things are fairly clear.
Tornadoes can not possibly be prevented, and no buildings, certainly
144 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

none of any practical use, can be built to withstand the violence of
the wind in the vortex of a well-developed tornado. Hence the only
resource left is to protect life and property to the best of our ability
and with a knowledge of the facts which have been brought to hght
by a sane, unprejudiced, scientific study of the phenomena. Owing
to the varying intensity of tornado violence and of the velocity of
the surface winds, the damage done to different sorts of buildings
varies greatly. If the intensity of the storm is not sufficiently great
to destroy everything in its path, the damage done by the less violent
winds will obviously depend largely upon the strength of construc-
tion and upon the building materials. It was Finley’s advice to
build “as you would without the knowledge of a tornado.” He
found, however, that, other things being equal, a frame building
seems to resist destruction better than one of brick or stone. The
modern steel-construction buildings have some of the “elastic”
quality which renders frame structures safer than the more stable
and solid ones of stone or brick of the older style. It makes little or
no difference in the end whether a building is in a valley or on a
hill. -

In view of the property loss occasioned by tornadoes it is natural
that tornado insurance has become a widespread and popular method
of financial protection. So far, however, the business has not been
carried on upon a thoroughly scientific basis. Tornado insurance to
the amount of several hundred millions of dollars is carried, largely
by general fire insurance companies, and partly by local mutual
insurance companies. The definition of a tornado is usually crude
and unscientific, and there is much unnecessary confusion. It is true
that the more conservative companies do prohibit some “risks,”
such as windmills, old and frail buildings, large plate-glass windows,
and the like. It is interesting to note the marked rise and fall of
the amount of tornado insurance with the occurrence in any year of
severe or destructive tornadoes. Closely following the St. Louis
tornado of May, 1896, there was an increase of tornado insurance of
nearly $10,000,000, and after the Omaha (Nebraska) tornado of
Easter Sunday, 1913, several million dollars’ worth of tornado in-
surance was written in Omaha and the surrounding districts, which
were at once thoroughly canvassed by insurance agents. Many new
dugouts and cellar caves were built at the same time. As Prof. H. E.
Simpson? has pointed out, tornado insurance risks differ from
others in several ways, notably in the fact that there is no criminal
hazard present; for people can not remove, or explode, or destroy
their buildings for the sake of the insurance, on the plea that the
damage was done by a tornado. It is obviously wise to scatter

1H, LE. Simpson, “Tornado Insurance.’’ Monthly Weather Review, vol. xxxiii., pp.
534-539. (Washington, D, C., December, 1905.) <A short bibliography is appended.
TORNADOES—WARD. 145

tornado risks across, not along, the usual path followed by tornadoes.
The complete destruction often caused by a single tornado makes it
extremely unsafe for any local mutual insurance company to insure
over a small area only, where the loss occasioned by one tornado
may ruin the company. On the whole, general tornado insurance
in the “tornado belt,” and buildings erected without regard to the
possibility of tornado occurrence, seem to be the best policy. The
present status of tornado insurance in the United States is an ex-
cellent illustration of the mistakes which are made when thoroughly
well-established scientific facts, which are easily accessible to the
public, are disregarded.
a AT ot at
litte) ie wre

_ bean OB AROP |

2 oT Netlig valli oe are
ee) Wh! ai eae padtin® i ees it
WEES ty ber! ohh hi o'te

an. a egy ae ib it at

bed sou. Wold. woe ek bli sicialee «ten reals
fens Saver, eat.’ Sthesct eines} reir wo Bi « ire

‘ heust ANeatryclien, TeRer, Diet vee at “brig eat, ;
eehoonstruction Hildine:s “hive ‘enna of vty,

el bay ebm, | -

es i
ya

7 hs
a ay izeipcr
. panibing .
.
' " . : sea
re, 3

=. a
;

qa
+

: % ce ee,
Diy > : 0 ie i Pon Lag!
a) Ee
P PPR. ATR an
4 2
us tay

it ale wit) .
Surat * eve is ‘t any gd
eae [> aan . Hoos 1 eeAR Ad coe
py S, screral million, Gotiars” eg ips? ated fundies =
| . 1 pial the wiitred sieges eel

aur Aa + Hanes le Many nes

: wi wie bine ee rok “ou
nas : lor ny , Spans eae differ Deepa)

we Aes s ri dein, the ict dust home is Ge corny al

— wiles &: + Yoh pene, eae éxplisli: te oe ‘beats ny,
a hing : x Loser as bie ples phat hu.
nn fagie.7 ike, Te i Ev iehyaly rise Mb. weltd

J - Pt Gil - a oe ——~ aa
‘ . pee artis Ane.) Metey. Webteeiesing ork se
7 ee oe aves, tetas ~ Agee i ene te oryne dud

WIND POWER.’

By JAMES CARLILL.

There used to be windmills; why have they gone? Those who
watched their gradual disappearance probably looked upon it as a
sign that the age of steam had superseded the age of wind. But
the explanation is inadequate. There were a great many factors
involved in the decay of the old windmills. They were, in the first
place, costly to build, involving the erection of a lofty tower stand-
ing on a considerable area of land; then they were difficult to
manage, the process of reefing in bad weather being attended with
many accidents and not seldom with loss of life; again, they were
uneconomical in working, utilizing but a small fraction of the avail-
able wind energy; they were seldom erected in the most favorable
positions, and were most numerous in those parts of the country
in which our wind power is least exhibited. But the most potent
cause of the decay was a growing preference on the part of the
public for a white loaf made of blended flour; this it was which
finally gave an overwhelming advantage to the steam mills situate
near the ports of entry for foreign grain.

Still, the windmill never quite ceased to exist; it continued to
do pumping work in the Cornish mines and in the Lincolnshire
fens; and its great utility as a pumping agent led to its revival in
an altered form for this particular purpose. Small mills on steel
frames, of what is known as the American type, began to appear
in our nursery gardens, in private estates, in farmsteads, and even
in public undertakings, until, at the present day, there are more
windmills working in England than there were 60 years ago. No
doubt their use for public water works would have been more exten-
sive but for the regulation of the local government board which
practically forbade district councils to use them unless accompanied
by auxiliary steam power. The regulation seems a little difficult
to justify, except on the principle that it is better to have no water
at all rather than to have it for six days out of seven. Those
councils who have complied with the stipulation of the board have
usually found that the auxiliary plant has not been required.

Two instances will suffice to show the very substantial nature of
the work accomplished by these pumping engines. One windmill,

1 Reprinted by permission from The Edinburgh Review, October, 1918.

147
148 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

40 feet in diameter, erected by a private firm on an estate in York-
shire, raises during a steady breeze 3,000,000 gallons of water
through a height of 10 feet in 24 hours. Another mill of similar
dimensions installed by a district council to supplement a steam
pumping plant has saved the council 200 tons of coal per annum
and has cost nothing in upkeep. It may seem strange that a power
showing such substantial results should not have been applied to
other purposes. But it may be remembered that for many years
after Watt’s inventions the steam engine still continued to be used
for no other purpose than pumping. And in the case of the wind-
mill there are certain specific drawbacks which have militated
against its general adoption as a prime mover.

The first defect is that the power hitherto obtained has been but
a small fraction of the available wind energy. The old corn mill
probably did not extract more than 5 per cent of the energy
theoretically obtainable from wind pressure on its sail area. The
modern or American type does better, perhaps to the extent of 10
or 12 per cent of the available energy, but not more. The figures
quoted above (30,000,000 foot-gallons a day) sound large, but they
do not represent more than 7 horsepower, as against 40 horsepower
which might be obtained from a thoroughly efficient wind engine of
equivalent area. .

In the second place, the speed of the sails at their circumference
is greater than the speed of the wind, and it increases without
limit, so that in violent storms the disruption point is reached. In
the old type that was avoided only by reefing; in the American
type it is avoided by adjusting the inclination of the vanes; but
in neither case is safety assured. The chance of being wrecked by
storms has led to a preference for small mills.

In the third place, the variability of the power, while it does not
matter for pumping, is a stumbling block in the way of direct ma-
chine driving. So long as the mill is pumping only it does not matter
whether it is pumping faster or slower; but if it were driving a
circular saw or a loom some provision would have to be made for
adjusting the speed to tolerable uniformity.

Three things are therefore desirable in a really efficient engine:
First, the devising of a motor which would utilize more of the wind
energy; secondly, the invention of means of regulating speed; and
thirdly, the devising of some means of storing power. All these re-
quirements have now been met.

In 1881 Lord Kelvin (then Sir W. Thomson) referred to the sub-
ject of wind-power utilization at the meeting of the British associa-
tion. He pointed out that since the invention of storage batteries
there was no longer any need to neglect such an important natural
source of energy since the surplus power of a period of high winds
WIND POWER—CARLILL. 149

could be accumulated and utilized in a period of calms. Acting upon
this hint, one of Lord Kelvin’s pupils, James Blyth (afterwards pro-
fessor at Glasgow Andersonian College) made a series of experiments
which led to the construction of a very efficient and economical wind
motor. Bernoulli and Maclaurin had shown that in theory the most
efficient form for a windmill would be a cup or box consisting of
half a sphere or half a cylinder revolving in the line of the wind.
Robertson adopted this type for his anemometer, the four cups of
which are familiar objects at our observing stations. These four cups
constitute a body revolving in a resisting medium, and can not ex-
ceed a certain limiting speed. In the usual form of anemometer
‘that speed is one-third that of the wind.

Upon this sound theoretical foundation Professor Blyth saw the
possibility of designing a wind motor which would develop more
power than the old sails, while it would be more economical in con-
struction and free from their defects in working. For the cups of
the anemometer he substituted boxes, semicircular in section, which
he mounted on arms extending at right angles from the shaft. Using
boxes 10 by 6 feet, he found that his motor developed eight horse-
power in a very moderate breeze, and, moreover, it justified his ex-
pectations in other respects, and could be left free to run by itself
in the strongest gales without suffering injury. After using his mill
for some years for the purpose of electric lighting, Professor Blyth
was sanguine enough to prophesy that before long electric light and
power would be supplied over a large part of Great Britain by the
use of wind engines on his model.

Possibly the inventor’s early death led to the oblivion which his in-
vention has suffered. More probably the neglect is due to our pre-
occupation with the ideas of coal and steam, which lead us to con-
template any alternative source of power with a smile of derision.
We have grown accustomed to regard the hewing and carrying and
burning of coal as the first essential of industry and even of life, and
have regarded the multiplication of railway sidings with their miles
of laden or empty trucks as signs of material prosperity. But the

yar has opened our eyes on this subject as on others, and in some
measure we are prepared for the conclusion that the internal trans-
port of coal is a wasteful and disagreeable necessity which in a well-
ordered community would be reduced to a minimum. And when, in
addition, we are confronted with a rise in price to at least double
its pre-war quotation, the question of an alternative source of power
which does not need railway transport and storage, and does not
require the assistance of highly paid middlemen and brokers, be-
comes a question of truly practical politics. There ought, therefore,
to be a chance for the element which has so often befriended us.

136650°—20——11
150 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

The first consideration is whether we have a sufficiency of wind-
power presented to us by Nature in these islands. It is the firm
conviction of the land dweller that nothing is more uncertain or in-
constant that the wind; and even the yachtsman would agree with
him that there are times of provoking calm and seasons of needless
activity. But neither the pedestrian nor the yachtsman is an ade-
quate authority. Calm as it may seem on land or on the surface of
the water, there is almost always a movement of the upper air. The
records of the too short-lived observatory on Ben Nevis disclosed
many occasions on which the observers had to struggle, roped to-
gether, against an 80-knot breeze at a time when scarcely a ripple
disturbed the surface of Loch Linnhe below. The records of Amer- ’
ican observatories confirm the conclusion that wind speed uniformly
increases with the elevation at which it is recorded.

Even near the ground a condition of absolute calm is rarer than
would be anticipated. The longest continuous records that we
have are those of Greenwich Observatory, and they show an average
of 15 days calm in a year. But the Greenwich anemometer is not
favorably placed, being unduly sheltered from the south and south-
west, and it is quite certain that if it were 50 feet higher its record
of calm would be diminished. It seems probable that at a height
of 100 feet from the ground the existence of absolute calm is an
event of extreme rarity, and that if we could place a wind motor at
a height of 1,000 feet above the surrounding land we could rely on
its working for nineteen-twentieths of the time.

The records of the meteorological office furnish us with actual
experience of the wind movement at different observing stations for
several years past. Some of these stations are, it is true, badly
placed, and their instruments are not so favorably situated as a
windmill would be; but they are for that reason a safe guide to the
minimum of expectation. The following facts emerge clearly from
the records. Our prevalent winds are southwesterly, or a few points
on each side; these occur on 188 days in each year. It is therefore
obvious that the area in which the best windpower is developed lies
on or near our western coasts. On the other hand, the easterly
breezes which are felt most strongly on the eastern coasts do not lose
quite so much of their force in passing over the midlands as do the
southwesterly winds, which are partially intercepted by the higher
ground of our western counties. There are, therefore, three zones
of decreasing wind strength, the western coasts being the highest,
next, the eastern coasts, and last, the midlands. Taking the average
of seven observatories near the western and southern coasts, it ap-
pears that a wind velocity of 4 miles an hour and upward is ex-
perienced during 7,450 hours out of the 8,760 hours in a year, and
the wind velocity most frequently recorded is from 15 to 17 miles
WIND POWER—CARLILL. 151

an hour. Again, taking the average of nine observatories on the
eastern coasts and inland, a wind velocity of 4 miles an hour and
upward is experienced for 7,106 hours in 12 months, and the most
usual velocity experienced at these stations les between 11 and 13
miles an hour. In both areas there are certain stations at which
these figures are much exceeded, some places recording a working
breeze for more than 8,000 hours, and one or two stations giving
a most usual wind speed of 19 miles an hour. For the reason already
given the average both in duration and intensity may safely be
taken as an underestimate.

It is clear that a power which is presented to us in such quantity
is worth using for purposes other than pumping, and that wind-
power stations might with great economical advantage be established
in all those parts of our islands which are remote from the coal-
fields. The objection from an engineering point of view would
doubtless be that such power would have to be developed in small
units. If the only object in generating power were to use it on a
large scale such an objection would be conclusive. We are never
likely to construct a wind engine which would develop even a
thousand horse-power at one spot; and there are of course certain
specific objects for which a larger power than this is required, such,
for instance, as the extraction of nitrogen from the atmosphere, or
the preparation of aluminum. But if the power at the generating
station is required simply for the purpose of distribution in small
units over a large area, then the object might equally be attained by
local generation in small quantities. It becomes purely a question
of economy, in ‘which the determining factors are the original cost
of construction, the expense of maintenance, and the loss of power
through leakage in transmission.

It is these factors which distinguish the case of electric generation
in industrial districts. Here there is power required which must be
got from coal; it is required, moreover, in different quantities, for
different purposes, and in different parts of a certain well-defined
area. It would be wasteful in the extreme—or, rather, we should
say it is wasteful in the extreme—to have a number of generating
stations working on different systems, serving adjoining portions
of the area. The committee which has been investigating this sub-
ject has presented a report in which there is no trace of doubt, reser-
vation, or hesitation whatever. It shows that our existing system
of electrical generation involves an absolute waste of 50,000,000
tons of coal a year. There are 600 electrical undertakings in Great
Britain, and their average size is one-thirtieth of the size of a really
economical power-station unit. In only one part of England has
an ideal electrical station been established, and that is on the north-
east coast, with Newcastle as its headquarters. Electrical power is
152 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

available all over this area for less than a halfpenny a unit. Com-
pare this with Lancashire, a larger and more densely populated area—
in fact, the greatest industrial area in the world. In Lancashire
there are 23 borough generating stations, and the charges per unit
vary from three times to six times the charge in the Newcastle area.
There can be no doubt that if the Lancashire district were supplied
from one center the cost of electric power in the county would in-
stantly sink to even less than the price in Newcastle.

The attention of our engineers has very naturally been directed to
the generation of power from coal or falling water. Nor can any-
thing be more completely satisfactory than a water-power station in
a situation where nature has provided the necessary head. But in
our islands such opportunities exist only in small and isolated units,
and the fluctuating character of our waterfalls is sufficient to convince
us that the construction of a large installation is at the best a doubt-
ful experiment. The amount of our rainfall is easily exaggerated.
Figures of 130 inches taken from one locality in Cumberland, and
100 inches from one locality in Inverness, seem to show that the
quantity is sufficient to justify a large experiment. But as a fact the
areas over which such a fall occurs are exceedingly circumscribed.
There are only five small patches of ground in which an average fall
of more than 80 inches is recorded—one in the lake district, one in
the Snowden range, one in Ross, and one in Inverness; there may be
a sixth not yet identified. But even including those isolated patches
there are only nine stations in Great Britain in which an average
fall exceeding 60 inches has been recorded. It is therefore evident
that in order to secure a steady head of water for a large installation,
an extensive area has to be inclosed and converted into a water-tight
reservoir. The recent project of the aluminum company involved
the inclosure of 250 square miles of country, and the expenditure of
2,500,000 sterling. And, after all, it would have given employment
to but a handful of people; whereas the expenditure of the same
capital on 2,000 separate wind-power stations might conceivably
double the productive capacity of a considerable section of the
population.

There is, however, a possibility of providing water power on a
large scale on the coasts of these islands, provided only that we use
sea water and employ windmills to pump it. There are on the
western coasts certain inlets with narrow entrance and considerable
internal capacity. If the entrance were closed, up to the summit
of the cliffs, a windmill or two on the top of the sea wall would
suffice to maintain a head of 150 feet of water. The cost of construc-
tion would be trifling when compared with the cost of an inland
power station, while the cost of upkeep would be very small. There
WIND POWER—CARLILL. 153

is one such fjord which, so treated, would furnish a power station
comparable with any in Europe, but for the sake of our dwindling
scenes of peaceful beauty we may hope that it will escape the notice
of the large-power enthusiasts; for all England is not yet an in-
dustrial area, and we need something which, without involving the
extension of the industrial areas, will render our handiwork more
productive in the village and the countryside which yet remains
unspoilt.

Let us imagine one form which a wind-power station might
take. A steel shaft with four semicylindrical boxes at right angles,
the shaft revolving in a cup which is itself secured by four chains
extending to the ground, would constitute the motor, and it would be
entirely unconnected with the main building except by the belting
from the flywheel below to the shafting in the machinery annex.
The millhouse would consist of the central hall through which the
shaft rises and in which the flywheel revolves. The four annexes
would diverge from this central hall. One would contain dynamo
and gear, accumulator cells, and other electrical equipment; a second
would contain circular saw, planing machine, and other woodwork-
ing appliances; a third would be devoted to chaff cutters, grindstone,
root-pulpers, and other agricultural machinery ; and the fourth would
be reserved for looms, heavy sewing machines, or any other ma-
chinery likely to be in special demand in the district. When there
was a working wind, power could be communicated direct to the
shafting in one or other of the machine rooms; and when the
machines were not in actual use it could be communicated through
the dynamo to the accumulator cells, or else could be utilized to pump
water into an elevated reservoir. If both reservoir and batteries
were fully charged the belting could be withdrawn and the shaft left
to revolve by itself.

The ground space occupied by such an installation need not ex-
ceed 2 acres; the building would require little strength or solidity,
and might be constructed of the partition blocks with which neces-
sity has recently made us familiar; the whole installation, of dimen-
sions capable of giving 40 horsepower with a 15 mile breeze, could be
erected for a few hundred pounds. If such a powerhouse were
built in. a suitable locality, it would not take many months to out-
live the first period of ridicule and neglect, and within two years many
parish and district councils would desire to become possessed of their
own stations, from which they could supply electric hight and power
in their own neighborhood, and in which they could let the use of
specific machinery at so much per unit or per hour.

There is even a possibility of the employment of windpower on a
larger scale. In Denmark, where small wind installations have been
154 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

at work for some years and where they have lately increased rapidly
in number, a station intended to develop 200 horsepower is now in con-
templation for the use of a bacon factory. The project may be too
ambitious, but that it should be in contemplation is proof that the
plan has been a commercial success in a country in which the average
windpower is decidedly less than in Great Britain. And it may be
added that certain devices recently invented by Prof. La Cour of
Copenhagen have completely solved the mechanical difficulties in
the way of adjusting the variable power of the motor to the work-
ing of a dynamo without injury to the accumulators from any sud-
den drop in wind energy.

Meanwhile the winds have another call upon us—a call from the
sea, no less insistent than that on land. They are constantly re-
minding us that we are an island people with vast dominions across
the seas, and that our home is not only these islands but also these
possessions and the ocean which les between. In the Crown colonies
there are territories which have been in our possession for 150 years—
territories teeming with produce awaiting our handling, and yet in
whose ports a British ship is rarely seen. Trade has not followed the
flag, and one reason is that the sailing vessel has been neglected
to the point of disappearance.

Here, again, as in the case of the windmill, it is advisable to con-
sider the specific causes of disuse. Let us carry our minds back to
the year 1830. A committee of the House of Commons was then
sitting to consider the possibility of sending the Dublin and Holy-
head mail by steamer. This, be it remembered, was nearly a genera-
tion after Fulton and Symington, and at a time when steamers had
been plying on the Mississippi for 20 years. It was the time, more-
over, when the experts, headed by Doctor Lardner, had demon-
strated to their own satisfaction that useful as a steamer might be
on a river it could not possibly undertake a long ocean voyage.
Up to that time the winds had not merely ground our corn, but hac
borne all our ocean traflic, maintained our colonial connections, con-
ducted our commerce, won our naval victories, and established our
position in the world. “Sea power,” to use Mahan’s phrase, then re-
solved itself into capacity for utilizing wind power. It is largely
the truth that our Empire was created, preserved, and sustained by
our skillful use of the wind. But that era was already drawing to a
close. With the improvement of marine engines, and especially with
the great economy in fuel following the introduction of compound
engines, Dr. Lardner’s prediction that the steamer could not pro-
vide cargo space was falsified, although it was a perfectly reasonable
objection at the time it was uttered.

There followed a period in which the sailing ship was so far de-
veloped and improved that it frequently distanced the steamer bound

—-
WIND POWER—CARLILL. 155

on the same voyage. But the screw and the compound engine to-
gether decided the issue of the duel. Then came the question whether
the new power could not be used in combination with sails. Many
experiments, now forgotten, were tried with this object. The navy
was very unwilling to part with the power which had so long been
its prime mover. Even merchant shipowners were reluctant to part
with the clippers which had built up their commerce. But in the
course of experiments to combine sail and steam it became apparent
that the space demanded by engine and boilers and bunker coal, to-
gether with the quarters of an engineering staff in addition to the
large number of hands required by a full-rigged ship, were too great
a tax on the cubic capacity of the hull and left little space available
for cargo.

Now, if we consider the conditions of the problem we shall see
that they have much altered since the days when it was dismissed
as impracticable. The invention of the internal combustion engine
with oil as fuel has reduced the space taken up by the engines by
nine-tenths. It is now possible to fit a sailing ship with auxiliary
screw and oil engines without interfering materially with her carry-
ing capacity, and experimental voyages undertaken by the firm of
Preuthout le Bland, of Havre, have demonstrated the commercial
economy of the sailing ship so equipped. Moreover, for certain voy-
ages—routes in which the trade winds play an important part—it
has been demonstrated both by German and French shipowners,
before the war, that it is actually cheaper to tow a sailing vessel to
the trades than to employ steam for the whole voyage. A fortiori
with coal at double the price the advantage will be greater.

It has now become a matter of importance to us that our coal re-
serves should not be wasted in work which can be done equally well
by power which is supplied to us gratuitously. Of the 20,000,000
tons of coal which we annually export to our coaling stations abroad,
a considerable portion might be carried by the wind, just as well as
by steam. Part also of our annual imports might without dis-
advantage be carried by the same agency. But an even more im-
portant consideration is the opening up of trade routes to certain of
our crown colonies which are neglected by the steamship because
they do not afford sufficient opening for regular periodical voyages.
In these smaller trades to out-of-the-way places there is undoubted
scope for sailing ships fitted with auxiliary petrol engines. Here is a
considerable field of enterprise which is open to the sailing ship with-
out challenging by direct competition the lines of traffic already occu-
pied by steamship companies. And it is moreover a field in which
the ancient spirit of the merchant adventurer may be revived.

Ever since the complete triumph of steam the tendency of mer-
chant shipping has been toward consolidation. combination, amalga-
156 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

mation of rival companies, and the like forms of monopoly. Compe-
tition and commercial rivalry are becoming extinct, and the ocean,
like the land, is parcelled out into spheres of influence and zones of
exclusive dealing. The sailing vessel alone furnishes the chance for
the small capitalist. It can be built at a more moderate outlay, its
upkeep costs far less, it deteriorates less rapidly, and may still keep
the water long years after the steamer has been broken up for scrap
iron. <A sailing vessel gives a chance to cooperative enterprise, for
there is no reason why the profit sharing, which was the basis of
the old whaling voyages, should not be applied to every trading voy-
age. Just as the ship may be owned by 64 individuals, so the profits
of the voyage may be shared by the adventurers, the master, and the
hands, every one having his personal profit in the success of the voy-
age. Under such a system the merchant service would receive a
great impetus. It would attract a higher type of recruits and it
would call forth and educate their best qualities. After all, Great
Britain is and will be what her seamen make of her and what she
makes of her seamen. So long as her young men desire to go to sea,
and so long as she treats them well when they have entered on her
service, be it naval or mercantile, so long is Great Britain’s position
among nations secure, even against the enhanced rivalry with which
we are threatened after the war.
ie
S

Ryoe,

;

1 yy 5

Smithsonian Report, 1918.—Leffmann. PLATE |.

SAMUEL PIERPONT LANGLEY.
A TRIBUTE.—SAMUEL PIERPONT LANGLEY:
PIONEER IN PRACTICAL AVIATION.’

By Henry LEFFMANN, Member of the Franklin Institute.

[With 9 plates.]

It may be safely assumed, I think, that mankind from its earliest
period of self-consciousness had aspirations of flying. In primitive
times birds were more abundant and varied than at present, at least
in civilized countries, and the ease and grace of their flight must have
profoundly impressed the rudest races. The legend of Icarus and his
waxen wings is one of the expressions of this feeling. Among the
world-wide and very ancient witchcraft legends we find the gift of
flying a usual feature. In the later phases of these superstitions,
especially as they appear in English-speaking nations, the highly un-
romantic method of broomstick flight is eminently characteristic.

Notwithstanding all aspirations, no practical method of flight by
human beings can be demonstrated until 1783, when the brothers
Montgolfier sent up a hot-air balloon. Hydrogen gas was soon after
substituted for air, and the balloon in substantially its present form
was produced. The standard form of balloon, however, does not fly
in the full sense of the word; it simply floats in the air, subject to the
currents thereof. Its modification, the dirigible, which has acquired
such prominence in recent years, especially in the form known as the
Zeppelin, has solved some of the problems of flight, but it is an ex-
pensive, complicated, and untrustworthy form, and has very limited
practical application.

All creatures that fly are heavier than air, and this leads to the
view that it will be by the method they use—namely, reaction upon
the air as a material substance—that true flight will be obtained.

This was Langley’s view, and it is to his honor that he insisted on
this principle, and pointed the way, both in theory and practice, to its
accomplishment. It is the purpose of this paper to summarize his
main work, and to present his claims to the gratitude and admiration
of the American people. The history of the later years of his life,

1Presented at a meeting of the Alumni Association of the Franklin Institute, held
Thursday, Oct. 31, 1918. Reprinted by permission from the Journal of the Franklin
Institute, vol. 187, No. 1, January, 1919.
157
158 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

when he was approaching the solution of the problem, in fact, had
attained it, is one of the tragedies of science, and a painful reminder
of the gap that still exists between the true scientist and the mass of
the community, even in highly civilized lands.

It would, however, be inaccurate to claim for Langley absolute
priority for the idea that a heavier-than-air machine can be made to
fly. To think of an invention is a simple mental effort, and there are
few of the great inventions or discoveries of the modern time that
can not be found foreshadowed in the records of the past. A Greek
poet describes in set terms the invention of submarine warfare, when
Seyllus and his daughter, expert swimmers, dived at the sides of
Xerxes’ ships, cut the mooring cables, and thus caused many ships
to drift to their destruction.

About the time of the discovery of America that remarkable and
versatile genius, Leonardo Da Vinci, wrote an essay on the flight of
birds, and referred to the possibility of human flight. I have not
been able to consult the original essay, but notes thereon, by Da Vinci,
have been translated,! and from this text I make a few selections:

I have divided the Treatise on Birds into four books: of which the first treats
of their flight by beating their wings; the second of flight without beating the
wings, and with the help of the wind; the third of flight in general, such as
that of birds, bats, fishes, animals, and insects; the last of the mechanism of this
movement. * * *

Remember that your bird should have no other model than that of the bat,
because its membranes serve as armor, or rather as a means of binding to-
gether the pieces of its armor, that is the framework of the wings. * * *
The bat is aided by the membrane which binds the whole together, and is not
penetrated by the air.

Dissect the bat, study it carefully, and on this model construct the machine.

The bird I have described ought to be able by the help of the wind to rise toa
great height, and this will prove to be its safety; since even if all the above-
mentioned revolutions were to befall it, it would still have time to regain its
equilibrium; provided that its various parts have a great power of resistance,
so that they can safely withstand the fury and violence of the descent, by the
aid of the defences which I have mentioned; and the joints should be made
of strong tanned hide, and sewn with cords of very strong raw silk. And let no
one encumber himself with iron bands, for these are soon broken at the joints,
or else they become worn out, and consequently it is well not to encumber one’s
self with them.

Tt will be seen from these quotations that Da Vinci’s plan was to
equip a man with wings to be operated by his muscles, probably
those of both legs and arms, for in another note he states that the
muscles of the legs are much more powerful than the ordinary work
done by them requires. He did not contemplate the use of machinery.
It must be borne in mind that in that day, no powerful, portable
prime mover was known.

1Leonardo Da Vinci’s Note Books. Translated by Edward McCurdy, A. M. London,
Duckworth & Co., 1906.
‘ramod 1Mo0 S}t Aq WOATIP “OUTYPOLUT ITe-Uvl{}-IOIAvoY, & Aq VyStp yssooons 4sIy OTL

A Soorquenety 42% ‘gggt ‘9 Avy Wo OUTYORUT ST} Aq opeur sea

*IOATYY DVUIOJO OT} JOAO “°V
"GON SwWoudoEAYy

mocsl 9 (VN
G°N IWOHGOLIY

‘uUeWUJJaET—'SI6L ‘4odey UBIUOSY}US

Smithsonian Report, 1918.—Leffmann. - PLATE 3.

THE QUARTER-SIZE MODEL FLYING OVER THE POTOMAC RIVER ON AUGUST 8,
1903.

This machine was built in 1900-1901, principally to test certain features of balancing, etc., for the large
machine, and flights were first made with this model as early as June, 1901.
LANGLEY—LEFFMANN. 159

Attempts have been made to credit Da Vinci with the anticipation
ef the modern aeroplane, but there is nothing in his essay which can
justify this claim. He made a study of the flight of birds, but his in-
ferences were not correct in some important respects, and while we
may give him credit for scientific method, it is apparent that he
“thought of” rather than “thought out” the problem of human
flight. Langley does not appear to have been acquainted with Da
Vinci’s work, at least it is not quoted in any of his writings that T
have consulted, and in the article in the ninth edition of the Ency-
clopedia Britannica, which is given among his references, there is no
mention of Da Vinci’s investigations, but these are briefly noted in
the eleventh edition (article on “ Flight and Flying”).

Claims have been made for many experimenters and investigators,
as having made flights with small machines, but definite data have
rarely been furnished, and it is probable that Langley is justified in
his claim that until the experiments in May, 1896—to be later de-
scribed—no true flight of a heavier-than-air machine had been made.

Machines based on the principle that Da Vinci discussed have been
built and operated by several investigators. These have been mostly
“ oliders,” enabling the person to make a slow, inclined descent from
a high point, but not conferring the power of rising from the ground
or alighting at a given place at a considerable distance from the
starting point. A glider of this type was constructed by Otto Lilien-
thal, and operated many times in the year 1896. He was killed by
the upsetting of his machine in a gust. Percy Pilcher made many
such flights in 1899, but also lost his life in an accident. Octave
Chanute, however, made over a thousand flights without injury to
himself. These operators sometimes made their flight by running
the machine, or having it pulled, against the wind and thus rising
from the ground much the same way as a kite is flown. It is obvious,
however, that these machines do not solve the problem of flying in
its important practical applications. It is also obvious that modern
flying machines, whether the dirigible balloon or the aeroplane, do
not act wholly on the principles of flight by the bird or insect.

It is interesting to note that in animals the ratio of wing area to
weight diminishes as the weight increases. Thus, according to the
Encyclopedia Britannica, the wing area of the dragon fly is, in pro-
portion to its weight, nearly 25 times that of the pigeon.

Langley began his investigations in 1887 at the Allegheny Ob-
servatory. At that time he was not aware that any other investigator
had accomplished anything along the lines that he was working, but
he subsequently found out that A. Pénaud, an ingenious French
mechanician, had made in 1872, a machine about 20 inches long
resembling some of the simpler modern aeroplanes, using twisted
rubber as a motive power. He had described this in a journal called
160 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

L’Aéronaute. No copy of this journal is accessible to me, but the
details of Pénaud’s machine, with pictures, are given in the memoir
quoted below. Pénaud stated that he had obtained a flight of 60
meters during 13 seconds. Langley was never able to obtain such
results, but states that twisted rubber has a very high potential, be-
ing much more efficient than any steel spring he tried.

From the start Langley proceeded in a truly scientific manner,
studying the mathematics and physics of the problem preliminary
to construction of apparatus. His results are set forth in two pub-
lications, The Internal Work of the Wind and Experiments in Aero-
dynamics. He discovered that the law laid down by Newton, and
accepted by most mathematicians and physicists—namely, that at-
mospheric resistance to inclined surfaces is proportionate to the square
of the sine of the angle of inclination, is not founded in fact, the
resistance being really proportionate to the angle directly. The in-
teresting story of the invention of the practical aeroplane is to be
found in the ponderous quarto of over 300 pages, entitled The Lang-
ley Memoir on Mechanical Flight, published by the Smithsonian
Institution, and consisting of two papers, one mostly by Langley him-
self, the other by his faithful and efficient assistant, Charles M.
Manly. It is from this publication that I have drawn most of the
material for this essay.

Notwithstanding that the problem of flight had engaged human
attention for many centuries, and had attracted all classes of per-
sons, ranging from such a profound genius as Da Vinci to mere
cranks and dreamers, yet when Langley took up the matter there
were but few data available, and there was almost no one disposed
to give him encouragement, tangible or sentimental. Distinguished
scientists deprecated investigations into the subject. As late as
1900 a prominent astronomer and mathematician declared that it
would be impossible to construct a machine capable of sustaining
the weight of the largest known birds, not knowing that two of
Langley’s machines had already accomplished more than this. “The
truly blind are those who will not see.”

After several years’ assiduous labor he was able to announce that
it is possible to give such velocity to inclined surfaces that bodies
indefinitely heavier than air could be driven through it with great
velocity. As a concrete instance he states that a plane surface, 76.2
centimeters by 12.2 centimeters (about 1 square foot) weighing 500
grams, could be driven through air in absolutely horizontal flight
at the rate of 20 meters per second with 0.01 horsepower. This is
equivalent to a weight of 200 pounds driven through air by 1 horse-
power at 40 miles per hour.

Following up this conclusion, a number of machines were con-
structed and tried out, some of them, of course, quite small, others of

LANGLEY—LEFFMANN. 161

considerable size. For all the machines he made Langley coined
the word “ Aerodrome,” from two Greek words meaning “ air run-
ner.” This word is now often used as the name for the shed in
which the flying machine is stored.

In passing from very small machines in which twisted rubber or
steel springs can be used, which are mere toys, to large machines
which can make reasonably long flights, the question of motor be-
came of great importance. Questions of stability, both lateral and
longitudinal, also required answer. I will not enter into a considera-
tion of stability problems. They were most carefully investigated
by Langley, and involved mathematical as well as mechanical
methods. It is now well known that the stability of aeroplanes has
been satisfactorily attained.

When Langley began his experiments the only motor that seemed
to offer practical application was the steam engine. This had been
for a long while the only one applicable to a moving object, as is
indicated by its extensive use in both land and water transportation.
The steam engine is heavy, and also requires fuel and water, so
that the total weight is considerable. In the ordinary uses of it in
land transportation this is not a very serious matter, for the locomo-
tive draws best when it presses strongly on the rails, and even in
water transportation the weight of engine, fuel, and water are
probably of less importance than the space they occupy. Langley,
in 1891, canvassed the portable motors then known. These were, in
addition to steam, compressed air, liquid carbon dioxid, electric
batteries, gunpowder, and the internal-combustion engine. The last-
named, which is now the only motor used in flying machines, was
at that time but little developed, and was rejected, as were all the
others except the steam engine. The requirements were that the
apparatus should be light, capable of developing steam rapidly and
at. considerable pressure, and using a fuel of high heating efficiency.
Water-tube boilers were alone suitable, alcohol or gasoline as the
fuel. Oscillating engines were used at first. Many experiments
were made with boilers and with burners, and much difficulty was
experienced in getting and maintaining sufficient pressure. Langley’s
accounts of the failures and disappointments make painful reading,
but space does not permit a summary of these matters, especially as
the steam engine has ceased to be important in the field with which
we are now concerned.

After many months of weary working it was finally thought to
be possible to secure a flight in the open air, and preparations were
made for this. The story of the failures, disasters, and disappoint-
ments that preceded the actual flight—told with much vividness in
the “ Memoir ”—is a striking instance of the will power and self-
162. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

reliance of the inventor, and of his possessing to a high degree that
characteristic of genius, “the infinite capacity of taking trouble.”

After succeeding in the construction of a power-driven flying ma-
chine, two problems were presented in connection with open-air
trials; a suitable locality and a method of launching. It was decided
that it would be safest to launch the machine over water, as in case
of a fall it would be not seriously damaged and be readily recovered.
It was, of course, also advisable that the location should not be far
from Washington, at which place the construction was being carried
on, and should not be in a populated district. The spot chosen was
a small island in the Potomac River, about 30 miles below
Washington.

For launching the machine a sort of house boat was built by put-
ting a frame room on a scow, and on the roof of this a horizontal
track with releasing apparatus. The room served for storing the
machine and was fitted with apparatus for repair work.

In the later part of 1893 an aerodrome, designated as No. 4, was
taken to the trial ground, but though eight trips were made for trials,
none was successful, and the year closed without any demonstration
of the capacity of the machine. The year 1894 was also passed with-
out any successful flight, although a few short movements had been
secured, and the machine seemed to be less erratic and the power was
shown to be sufficient for the work. Little better results were ob-
tained during 1895, but much information as to the defects of con-
struction were obtained, so that with the opening of the following
year this problem was much nearer solution, in fact, was solved.

In the early part of 1896 two aerodromes, 5 and 6, were available,
and on May 6 of that year, Langley with A. Graham Bell and several
assistants were at the trial ground. The wind was so high during
the morning that no attempt at flight was made, but at 1 p. m. it had
become much less active,and at 1.10, aerodrome No. 6 was launched,
but owing to some entanglement with the launching apparatus, it
settled directly into the water. Aerodrome 5 was then tried. At
3.05 it was launched with a steam pressure of 150 pounds, and started
directly into the gentle breeze that was blowing.

The height of the launching track above the water was about 20
feet ; the machine first descended about 3 feet, but immediately began
to rise until the midrib made an angle of about 10° with the hori-
contal, and maintained this mostly through the entire flight. After
leaving the boat, it circled to the right and moved with great steadi-
ness, making a spiral path of two complete turns and part of a third.
During the first two turns the apparatus was constantly ascending,
and at the end of the second turn had reached a height esti-
mated at over 75 feet. The power then began to give out and the
machine slowly descended, striking the water in approximation to a

’
OS NO ew ek thd a Nae ace LN lel a ar RL TAAL NES A ATG laa ae a ie Slat
"6061 ‘2 YAdOLIO
JO Wid S3HL 3y04d3q LSNL 1vogasnoH SHL NO AWOYGOEsY ONIAYYVO-NVIAI SZIS-11N4 AHL AO MAIA AGIS

‘yp ALlvid "UURWJJaI—'SLEL ‘HOdeYy uBlUOSYIWS
“qu ST oor Ut ATEN’ SVAA JI OLOJoY PAVATLMOp ATIUOIOTA
poxsol oq 0} OUTYORUT OT} Jo PUD JUOI OY} SuIsNeo ‘pavayovq JUG Sv pUB Ivo SuTYOUN, ey} Uo 4Aoddns s}t UL yYysnvo ysod Ans yuosy OU

"YOLVIAW NV DNIAYYVO SANIHOVIA] 39YV7] SHL AO IWINL “E06! ‘2 YSSOLOO SHL

oe
ae

page a mae TE NE Ni OTE : e :

G 31V1d *UUBWOI—'SI6L ‘WOodey UBlUOSYyyIWS
LANGLEY—LEFFMANN, 163

“nose dive,” having been in the air 80 seconds and traveled about
3,300 feet, which would mean a rate of about 20 miles per hour. The
machine was recovered at once, and being found not injured, a sec-
ond trial was made, with somewhat similar result, making three
turns at a height of about 60 feet, during 91 seconds, over a path esti-
mated as carefully as possible at 2,300 feet. Several photographs
were taken during these flights.

These flights, of course, meant much to the patient inventor and
his friends. For the first time in the history of the world a heavier-
than-air machine had actually flown through the air and preserved
its equilibrium without the aid of a guiding intelligence. Moreover,
a second trial had been made, thus showing that the first was no
mere accident.

It seems somewhat curious that these striking results were not
immediately followed up. No explanation of the suspension of the
experiments is given in the “Memoir,” except to say that the inven-
tor left for Europe, intending to be away until fall. Instructions
were given to the mechanicians to remedy certain small defects in
the machines.

On November 27 a trial was made of aerodome 6, but owing to
the breaking of a pin, the trial was a failure. In the afternoon of
the next day, a successful flight was made, the machine going in a
curved path of about three-quarters of a mile in 105 seconds, a rate
of about 30 miles per hour. “ints coronat opus.”

Obviously the success of the aerodromes led to the thought of the
construction of a man-carrying machine. Langley hesitated on ac-
count of the many duties in connection with his official relations with
the Smithsonian Institution, yet the longing to take the final step was
too attractive to his scientific mind and soon took possession of him.
Ten years had been passed in laborious experiment, full of disheart-
ening difficulties, and he thoroughly realized that the construction of
a machine large enough to carry a man would be a mighty labor,
but his spirit was no flickering flame like that of light straw, but
determined and devoted to the object of science—the discovery of
truth.

In undertaking the construction of a large aerodrome, Langley
was much influenced by President McKinley, who had become im-
pressed with the value of the instrument in war. It will not be
necessary to set forth here the official procedures which led up
to the work, but merely to state that in the latter part of 1898, an
appropriation of $50,000 was made for the purpose through the
Board of Ordnance and Fortification.

Langley had always recognized that one of the most important
problems in a fiying machine is the motor, which should be light,
powerful and capable of maintaining its action for a long time on
164 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

a small volume of fuel and other supplies (such as water). The
internal-combustion engine, then coming into notice, was obviously
the most promising form, but as he was not familiar with this appa-
ratus, he deemed it proper to delay definite action until a satisfactory
engine could be secured. After much searching, a contract was
placed on December 28, 1898, for a 12 horsepower engine to weigh
not more than 100 pounds, and the construction of an aerodrome
for use with this engine was at once begun. Notwithstanding the
amount of research that had been given to the mathematics and
physics of flight to heavier-than-air machines, it was felt that the
new problem required much more investigation and research, and
of course, a new element entered into it, namely that of preventing
the injury or death of the operator.

The great complexity of the problem induced Langley to seek the
services of a mechanical engineer, and on the recommendation of
Professor Thurston, Mr. Charles M. Manly was appointed, and
proved to be a most efficient and faithful worker. It was hoped that
the engine could be obtained and the frame-work of the new aero-
drome completed by the early part of 1899, but this was not to be.
The engine builder though he exerted himself to the utmost and,
indeed, lost much money in his effort, was not able to produce an
engine which would give anything like the desired horsepower within
the allowable weight. Another series of disheartening failures and
disasters followed. As a preliminary, an aerodrome one-quarter size
of the proposed man-carrying one was constructed and trial. flights
made with success, but this small machine could not, of course, carry
an operator. In addition to the problem of the construction of the
large machine, a new apparatus for launching was devised and a
new location, about 40 miles below Washington on the Potomac was
selected. It became necessary here to have a tug-boat and housing
for the workmen, who could not come and go from Washington every:
day.

Nowadays, when aeroplanes are among familiar objects and almost
everyone has seen them start and land, it seems that a serious mistake
was made in the elaborate launching apparatus, and in the principle
of launching over water, but it is easy to be wise after the event,
and we must always keep in mind that Langley was working in a
field in which there was no definite guidance, save his own studies
and experiments.

The engine builder having finally given up the problem, efforts
were made to get some European builder to manufacture the appa-
ratus, Europe being, it was thought at that time, ahead of America
in the application of the internal combustion motor. No one could
be found willing to undertake the contract. Under these circum-
stances, Mr, Manly undertook the work. He obtained the parts of
Smithsonian Report, 1918.—Leffmann. PLATE 6.

Aa
=
me
ee
——
Ba
—

FIG. l.—FIVE-CYLINDER GASOLINE ENGINE OF 52 HORSEPOWER AT 950
REVOLUTIONS PER MINUTE.

This engine, which was used in the full-size machine, was built in the Smithsonian shops under
Prof. Langley’s direction and is now on exhibit in the National Museum.

Fic. 2.—THE LARGE LANGLEY FLYING MACHINE AS AT PRESENT ON
EXHIBITION IN THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM.
Near it (directly above the John Bull engine) is the quarter-sized model.
"A 'N ‘LYOdSGNOWNVH LV ‘PIG
‘9G AVIA) AO LHDIT-| SL} YOs NOILWYWdSud NI ANIHOVIA) ASTONV7] 39YV7 AHL OL SNOOLNOd GNV SONIA ONIHOVILY

oe eK /aal "UUBWJJOI—'SI6L ‘Wodey uBIUOSY}IWS
LANGLEY—LEFFMANN. 165

the engine which the American builder had made and in the latter
part of 1900 began his work. He was able in September of that year,
to construct an engine weighing 108 pounds which gave on the
Prony brake, 18.5 horsepower at 750 revolutions per minute. The
cylinders were, however, without water jackets, being cooled with
wet cloths, which, of course, would permit only short runs.

The details of the development of the engine, of the difficulties
with sparking apparatus, carburetors, pistons, packing, lubrication,
and all the other vexations that go to make up what are collectively
known as “engine troubles” are described vividly and fully in the
“Memoir,” but space does not permit of even a brief summary here.
Not the least of the troubles in the history of the affair was the
weather, which was very often exceedingly unfavorable.

Finally, however, an engine was built which recorded 52.4 horse-
power at the average speed of 950 revolutions per minute, with an
approximate weight for the engine proper of 124.17 pounds, or, in-
cluding the improved water jackets, fly-wheels, spark coil, batteries,
etc., complete, a total of 187.47 pounds.

Mr. Manly volunteered to be the operator for the first trip of the
aerodrome. His chief consented to this, though with much reluc-
tance. Every possible precaution was taken to prevent serious acci-
dent, and on October 7, 1903, about 16 years after the work had be-
gun at the Allegheny observatory, the machine was launched with
Manly in the aviator’s chair. It was a little after noon that the
machine glided down the launching track. The operator soon felt
the sensation of being free in the air, when he noted that he was plung-
ing downward at a very sharp angle, and instinctively grasped the
wheel which controlled the Pénaud tail, intending to throw it up
so as to depress the rear, but the effort failed, the machine crashed
into the water and it was with some difficulty that the operator was
saved from drowning. The machine was recovered from the water
and certain slight defects discovered as the cause of the mishap.
Arrangements were made to remedy these and the party returned
to Washington, after giving out a brief statement to the press. For-
tunately, an excellent photograph had been secured just as the ma-
chine left the launching platform, and also another taken close to
the wings, from which certain important facts can be easily estab-

‘lished.

Examination showed that the machine was not seriously injured
and it was decided to make another attempt, but for convenience a
spot much nearer to Washington was chosen. On account of the
lateness of the season, favorable weather was unusual, and it was
December 8 before conditions were satisfactory. Some delay oc-
curred in getting the machine taken to the place of trial, and dark-

136650°—20 12

166 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

ness was setting in and the wind had become strong and gusty.
Nevertheless, Manly took his station at the wheel, and the machine
was launched, but something happened that has never been clearly
determined. The machine shot upward and then fell into the water,
entangling the pilot, who again narrowly escaped drowning. Owing
to the darkness the official photographer got no pictures, as his
shutters were set to too high speed, but a representative of the
Washington Star secured a small photograph, which on enlargement
showed some points of importance, principally that the accident
was due to the rudder becoming entangled in the launching track,
owing to the breakage of some part of the mechanism by which it
was connected to the main frame.

The situation became very distressing. The inventor felt that he
could not ask for further funds from the Smithsonian Institution,
and the Board of Ordnance and Fortification having been severely
criticized on the floor of Congress for its original allotment for the
work, it was deemed inexpedient to ask for further aid, as it might
incur a curtailment of the funds placed at the disposal of the board.

In 1904 Manly made efforts to secure assistance from wealthy
Americans, but all whom he approached declined to aid unless ar-
rangements would be made for later commercialization. Langley
had years before tempting offers of this character, but had always
declined and he again declined to accept these conditions. In 1906
he died. Had he been spared a few years he would have seen all
his hopes realized as the sequel shows.

THE SEQUEL.! 3

May 6 is celebrated in Washington, informally, as Langley Day,
being the anniversary of the first satisfactory flight of a heavier-
than-air machine. In March, 1914, Glenn H. Curtiss, aviator and
inventor, was invited to take part in the ceremonies on the next
occasion. He replied: “I would lke to put the Langley aerodome
itself in the air.” Secretary Walcott, of the Smithsonian Institution,
at once granted the request, and in April the machine was taken to
the Curtiss plant on Lake Keuka, Hammondsport, N. Y. It was over-
hauled but not materially changed, except to put hydroplane floats
on it. On May 28, 1914, two months before the great war broke
out, and 18 years after the successful flight of the first aerodrome,
the craft of 1903 was lifted into the water with Curtiss at the wheel,
and many eager camera men waiting with loaded weapons. Pointed
somewhat across the wind, the machine automatically headed into it,
rose in level poise, soared steadily for 150 feet and landed softly in
the water. After a few more flights, the engine and propellers were

1 lor most of the data of this paragraph I am indebted to an article by Dr. A. F. Zahm,
in Ann. Rep. Smithson. Inst. for 1914.

*19}VA OY} WIJ SuTSH Svar JI sv qsnf pogdvasozoyd svar ouyqowut oy} “Fos S,JopLIAv otf} UT SSTANY “AE UTE) UJIM

"AN ‘LYOdSGNOWNVH LV ‘Vana 3HV1 YSAO ,,ONINV1d,,

‘UUBWYJoI—'BL6L ‘odey UB!UOSYyyWWS

"8 ALVId
“OUTIVUL PUL OUISUO [CUISTIO Of} YIM OPCUl O1OA\ SIYSTY L£10j0RJSTVVS ‘poppe suoojuod Jo spunod og WIL pus ‘sstyND Aq popoyg
"A 'N ‘LYOdSGNOWNVH Lv ‘vaxNay AAV] YsAO ‘pIGI ‘SG ANN AO LHOIIA AO M3lA

"6 ALVid “UUBUJJOI—' SLEL ‘HOdeYy UBlUOSYyPWS
LANGLEY—LEFFMANN, 167

replaced by an 80-horsepower Curtiss motor, and direct-connected
tractor propellers. In the absence of Mr. Curtiss, a pupil of his
school, Mr. Doherty, took the wheel. Beginning September 17, a
number of flights were made, which demonstrated that the general
principles of Langley’s construction were perfectly sound, and to him
must be given the credit of being the pioneer in practical aviation,
and of having, by his devotion and persistence, helped to bring into
a field of scientific inquiry what had been previously almost entirely
in the possession of visionaries or charlatans. In this connection
we must not overlook the services of Manly, to whom is due largely
the construction of a satisfactory gasoline engine, then first used in
an aeroplane, and who twice risked his life in trials of the large
machine.

The following paragraphs are copied verbatim from the article
indicated in the footnote on page 166:

Dr. Langley’s aerotechnic work may be briefly summarized as follows:

1. His aerodynamie experiments, some published and some as yet unpublished,
were complete enough to form a basis for practical pioneer aviation.

2. He built and launched, in 1896, the first steam model aeroplane capable
of prolonged free flight and possessing good inherent stability.

3. He built the first internal-combustion motor suitable for a practical man-
earrying aeroplane.

4. He developed and successfully launched the first gasoline model aeroplane
capable of sustained free flight.

5. He developed and built the first man-carrying aeroplane capable of sus-
tained free flight.
1D 4 dy :

" € ¥ ae iden: me
R ‘, © y 4 7,
ibleceal ait vel nite

- ‘.

; het
ae? Cry ee ceed!
We Pate “ "ew

Rene TYG) bee

TWENTIETH CENTURY PHYSICS.’

By R. A. MILnirkKan.

My position to-night is somewhat reminiscent of a story which my
father used to be fond of telling of a Scotch preacher who thought
that all of the italicized words in the Holy Writ were meant to be
emphasized, and so he read “ And Abraham said unto his servants,
saddle me an ass, and they saddled him.” When one of his parish-
loners expostulated with him and told him that he didn’t think that
was really what was meant, being a Scotchman, the preacher kept
his own opinion, but being endowed also with a certain amount of
worldly wisdom, he said he would change it, and so the next time he
read, “And Abraham said unto his servant, saddle me an ass, and
they saddled him.”

The point of the story is that it doesn’t make any difference where
the emphasis is placed, the situation remains entirely unchanged. I
am, however, really glad to be saddled tonight, because T
should like to do a little bit, if I can, towards bridging the chasm
which we have foolishly—I had almost said idiotically—allowed to
grow up between the physicist and the apphed physicist, who com-
monly is called an engineer. The chemists have been very much
more sensible; they have not split up into two groups, called chem-
ists and applied chemists, and there is absolutely no more reason why
we should have done so, for obviously the physicist is merely the
vanguard in the army of engineers, the scout, the explorer, who is
given the task of trying to open up new paths for human progress, of
prospecting for new leads to nature’s gold, and it is just as important
that the engineer know where the scout is and what he is doing as it
is that the scout know where the army is which is behind and which
supports him.

If you have any respect for my subject or any respect for me you
will not expect me to outline in the space of one brief hour the work
of modern physics. It is utterly impossible to do, and I can say that
without affecting an inordinate egotism. I had the good fortune to

1A lecture delivered at the Fifth Midwinter Convention of the American Institute of
Electrical Engineers, New York, Feb. 15, 1917. Copyright 1917, by A. I. E. E. Reprinted
by permission from the Proceedings of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers,
September, 1917.
169
170 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918,

listen a little while ago to a series of lectures by our honored ex-
President, Mr. Taft, on “ The Executive Power,” and he said in those
lectures that his friend, Mr. Roosevelt, had somewhere classified the
Presidents of the United States into two groups—the first, the group
that had interpreted the executive power broadly and exercised it
largely, and the second, the group that had interpreted it narrowly
and exercised it sparingly, and, said Mr. Taft, “ Mr. Roosevelt began
the first group with Lincoln and closed it with himself, and he began
the second group with Buchanan and closed it with myself.” Then,
with his inimitable chuckle, Mr. Taft said, “ That reminds me of a
story about a little boy who came home from school and said, ‘ Papa,
did you know I was the brightest student in the class?’ His father
replied, ‘No, I didn’t know it. When did the teacher tell you so?’
The boy answered, ‘ The teacher didn’t tell me so at all, I just noticed
it myself.”

If I appear at all, in what I say, to have just noticed it myself, I beg
of you at any rate to believe me that the appreciation is an apprecia-
tion of the subject, of the method which it uses, of the spirit which
underlies it, and of the results which have actually flowed from it,
and not an appreciation of any individual or group of individuals.

The spirit of modern science is something relatively new in the
world’s history, and I want, as an introduction to the main address,
to give an analysis of what it is. JI want to take you up in an
airplane which flies in time rather than in space, and to look down
with you upon the high peaks which distinguish the centuries, and
let you and me see together what is the distinguishing character-
istics of this century in which we live. I think there will be no
question at all, if you get far enough out of it so that you can see
the woods without having your vision clouded by the proximity of
the trees, that the thing which is characteristic of our modern civil-
ization is the spirit of scientific research—a spirit which first grew
up in the subject of physics and has spread from it to all the
other subjects of modern scientific inquiry.

That spirit has three elements. The first is a philosophy, the
second is a method, and the, third is a faith. Look first at the
philosophy. I say that is new for the reason that all primitive
peoples, and many that are not primitive, have held a philosophy
that is both animistic and fatalistic. Every phenomenon which is
at all unusual, or for any reason not immediately intelligible, used
to be attributed to the direct action of some invisible personal
being. Witness the peopling of the woods and streams with spirits
by the Greeks, the miracles and possession by demons of the Jews,
the witchcraft manias of our own Puritan forefathers, only two or
three hundred years ago.

PHYSICS—MILLIKAN. 1

Now, that a supine fatalism results from such a philosophy is to
be expected, for according to it everything that happens is the will
of the gods, or the will of some more powerful beings than ourselves.
And so, in all the ancient world, and in much of the modern also,
three blind fates sit down in dark and deep inferno and weave out
the fates of men. Man himself is not a vital agent in the march
of things, he is only a speck, an atom which is hurled hither and
thither in the play of mysterious, titanic, uncontrollable forces.

Now, the philosophy of physics, a philosophy which was held at
first timidly, always tentatively, always as a mere working hypothe-
sis, but yet held with ever-increasing conviction from the time of
Galileo, when the experimental method may be said to have had its
beginnings, clear up to the present time, is the exact antithesis of
the above. Stated in its most sweeping form it holds that the uni-
verse is ultimately rationally intelligible, no matter how far from a
complete comprehension of it we may now be, or indeed may ever
come to be. It believes in the absolute uniformity of nature. It views
the world as a mechanism, every part and every movement of which
fits in some definite, anit way, into the other parts and the
other movements; and it sets itself the inspiring task of studying
every phenomenon in the confident hope that the connections between
it and other phenomena can ultimately be found. It will have
naught of caprice in nature. It looks askance at mysticism in all its
forms whether put forth by Dionysius in Greece in 300 B. C. or by
the devotees of Bergson in Paris in 1915. That is the spirit, the
attitude, the working hypothesis of all modern science, and let me
say that this philosophy is in no sense materialistic, because good,
and mind, and soul, and moral values, which is only another word
for God, these things are all here just as truly as are any physical
objects, and with that kind of a creed they must simply be inside and
not outside of this matchless mechanism.

Second, as to the method of science, it is a method practically
unknown to the ancient world, for that world was essentially sub-
jective in all its thinking and built up its views of things largely
by introspection. The scientific method, on the other hand, is a
method which is completely objective. It is the method of the work-
ing hypothesis which is ready for the discard the very minute it
fails to work. It is the method which believes in a minute, careful,
wholly dispassionate analysis of a situation; and any physicist or
engineer who allows the least trace of prejudice or preconception to
enter into his study of a given problem violates the most sacred duty
of his profession. This present cataclysm which has set the world
back a thousand years in so many ways, has shown us the pitiful
spectacle of scientists who have forgotten completely the scientific
172 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 1918.

method, and have been controlled simply by prejudice and by pre-
conception. This is no reflection on the scientific method; it merely
means that these men have not been able to carry over the methods
they use in their science into all the departments of their thinking.
The world has been controlled by prejudice and emotionalism so long
that reversions still occur, but the fact that these reversions occur
after all does not discredit the scientist, nor make him disbelieve in
his method. Why? Simply because that method has worked, it is
working to-day, and its promise of working to-morrow is larger
than it has ever been before in the world’s history.

Do you realize that within the lifetime of men now living, within a
hundred years, or 180 years at most, all the external conditions under
which man lives his life on this earth have been more completely
revolutionized than during all the ages of recorded history which
preceded? My great-grandfather lived essentially the same kind of
a life, so far as external conditions were concerned, as did his Assy-
rian prototype 6,000 years ago. He went as far as his own legs or the
legs of his horse could carry him. He dug his ditch, he mowed his
hay, he did all the operations of his industrial life, with the power
of his own two arms, or the power of his wife’s two arms, with an oc-
casional lift from his horse or his ox. He carried a dried potato in
his pocket to keep off rheumatism, and he worshipped his God in
almost the same superstitious way. It was only in the beginning of
the nineteenth century that the great discovery of the ages began to
be borne in upon the consciousness of mankind through the work of a
few patient, indefatigable men who had caught the spirit which
Galileo perhaps first notably embodied, and passed on to Newton, to
Franklin, to Faraday, to Maxwell, and to the other great architects
of the modern scientific world in which we live—the discovery that
man is not a pawn in a game played by higher powers; that his ex-
ternal, as well as his internal destiny is in his own hands.

You may prefer to have me call that not a discovery but a faith.
Very well. It is the faith of the scientist, and it is a faith which
he will tell you has been justified by works. Take just this one
illustration, suggested by the opening remarks of your president.
In the mystical, fatalistic ages which preceded, electricity was simply
the agent of inscrutable Providence; it was Elijah’s fire from Heaven
sent down to consume the enemies of Jehovah; or it was Jove’s thun-
derbolt hurled by an angry God; and it was just as impious to study
so direct a manifestation of God’s power in the world as it would be
for a child to study the strap with which he is being punished, or
the mental attributes of the father who is behind the strap. It was
only 150 years ago that Franklin sent up his famous kite, and showed
that these thunderbolts were identical with the sparks which he
could draw on a winter’s night from his cat’s back. Then, 30 years

that these thunderbolts were identical with the sparks which he
could draw on a winter’s night from his cat’s back. Then, 30 years
