i it ir ] i { i fi
i Wait Aan
a

He
a an
Haier

ey Sis
aes ae
cy

ANNUAL REPORT

OF THE

BOARD OF REGENTS

OF THE

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

SHOWING

THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION
OF THE INSTITUTION

Ee oY WA BR t8Sss.
WASHINGTON:

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE.
1885.

~
revues ica:
FORTY-FIGHTH CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION.

The following resolution was agreed to by the Senate June 10, 1884, and concurred
in by the House of Representatives June 24, 1884:

Resolved by the Senate (the House of Representatives concurring therein), That the annual
report of the Smithsonian Institution for the year 1883 be printed; and that there be
printed sixteen thousand and sixty extra copies, of which three thousand shall be for
the use of the Senate, six thousand and sixty for the use of the House of Representa-
tives, and seven thousand copies for the use of the Smithsonian Institution,

i

LETTER

FROM THE

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

ACCOMPANYING

The annual report of the Board of Regents of that Institution for the year
1883.

JUNE 24, 1884.—Ordered to be printed.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, D. C., January 21, 1884.
Sim: In accordance with section 5593 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, I have the honor in behalf of the Board of Regents to
submit to Congress the annual report of the operations, expenditures,
and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year 1883.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
SPENCER F. BAIRD,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution.

Hon. GEORGE F’. EDMUNDS,
President of the United States Senate.
Hon. JOHN G. CARLISLE,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR
THE YEAR 1883.

SUBJECTS.

1. Proceedings of the Board of Regents for the session of January,
1884.

2. Report of the Executive Committee, exhibiting the financial affairs
of the Institution, including a statement of the Smithson fund, the re-
ceipts and expenditures for the year 1883, and the estimates for 1884.

Report of the same committee on the inauguration of the Henry
Statue.

3. Annual report of the Secretary, giving an account of the operations
and condition of the Institution for the year 1883, with the statistics of
collections, exchanges, &c.

4, General appendix, comprising a record of recent progress in the
principal departments of science, and special memoirs, original and
selected, of interest to collaborators and correspondents of the Institu-
tion, teachers, and others engaged in the promotion of knowledge.

RV

ee ee
CONTENTS.

Page.
Resolution of Congress to print extra copies of the Report....-..----..----- ik
Letter from the Secretary, submitting the Aunual Report of the Regents to
RE REERM Dan Se oat ota Acta a Puts ae nos sie Jane = nein atins suse mereneneuees tik
General subjects of the AnnualReport - 5... ..-225- 0-6 <ssse0 -semenleaceeetees iv
PC OHLOMUS OU beOpOL Ute sera sccm cise aise cinicisre Seicicieic's sata w'aio winnie ear eeneteomete ¥
HAIN OMPINBGERbLOU secre ones tenancies cco ia se aaisin J So%, cn ae eereee See Vilz
Hesents/of the Smithsonian Institution .-..-..----. .--------22<.----ssencce 2.5
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS .-.--...-----.--.-- xt
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE for the year 1883...............-- xiiz
Condition of the funds January 1, 1884 ...... .... 02-22. 22-2. cones cee xiii
BECP EIMUSOL THOT YVG REI ota 2 locteys onininwimaciacie smn eiai~ Se mwa ciensalcls afepaicicd a aiec xiik
LP MPPUOTNTES OM DNONY Gale oa. see olen sinne a anioaiesos he ee lasers ose se xiv
HRM ALON HOD NOSV OREN COL ces eas socio e Salemaajstie c asia mmcinecianise aac coe xiv
National Museum appropriations by Congress .............------------- xi¥F
PMP TeMTEMGHNTOn DLN OO MY soo. nanan nono se seciwee she enee a mtniiveeon oe sin xv
Pe rOpraiiGns) On Ex CUATN GOR 252%. oa 2n in wniacinsidamcin Semos sein ntelieeses ua xv
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE ON THE HENRY STATUE......--- XViz
Ceremonies at the unveiling of the statue ...... .... 2... 2.22 eee en eee- bah 3
MIP St OMOXOLCISOA eer ete te see So cniats So cee ane ics sae cmacocneiscmciceese= xx
IETAV CUD yynevs Diy iH Od@eratses tices |<scsas secs nincem maisicceesoaiceee xxii
CLOTessiOL CMibi: JUSULCONW AIUO soo =  ccicinncis co moodiaaisaweenoseeencinjases «= xxiii
SIaAnOD DYE TesIGenb NOAM EOCiOl=s «alanis se) saj = js daeee aiehh/ aces seem = xxv
Members ex officio of the Establishment....-. 2.2... .--0-. sc 22. sen nns soccee XXXViiz
Regents and officers of the Institution -.-.....-. 0.222. wees cece nce cccee-- XXXViii
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.
oe SMITHSONIAN INGTITUTION -..- 220202 2050 coca cocees acs socs een monn noes i
ROR UBT Yee ree an be noni 3) owicje wailnw c/s weowich’aecwwainroces saeeectsccess 3
PEPE OMC SNS RGIRO ren. - crcinn wats ah niece ne'sonvicess cued Seen gue e asam& I
Scientific writings of Professor Henry .......... 2.2222 eee eee nee oes z
Meetings of the Board of Regents...... ....+...---------------- Sadeadice 3
PiNANCORY seer seer ee ee eceeaie celta a biciieneclele SS aledccesccac aclu ewes evee &
Condition of the fand January, 1883 .... ...-- 2.2. cece ce enee cone cone 4
J 1 Ec SA Se na ee Heer gt) SMe ba pee Pewee vets eueces 4
Smithsonian building ~.....-2-.02- 022 .2cces ceocense ces cose ccossce 4
Progress in re-modelling and fire-proofing the east wing ..-.-..-..------ 4
National Museum building. .... .... 2-220 .20 nce cece coe ceccee coe ° 5
PURIGET DUORN Res. costed wncan oUt os aa oncbcnccseaabewedacects ao 6
Natural History workshop. ...... ...--+ s-2-0+ eeenes coc eee cenees ene ° 7
Necessity for an additional Museum building..-.-..-.--..----------- 7
Meetings of Scientific Bodies. .... .....--. 220-0. secces enn eee cece cece >
Ronineworkiol the vat tMblON see anos sceces ce ecine ec ens oemalcsee cemman 1k
VI CONTENTS.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.—THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION—Continued. a
AGMINISHALION sacisaie cos oe «cia cieeiate sie eclel ne aan nin\sioe meine setae ates eine all
Correspondence! ea -ces cn sseeniosesrelsetees (santas cusicwe ene camcnce 11

Explorations. .---- BeGoWG Bund EOaE BIOS OA OOS CaOeSos SoA begesIcb Hnod SOeSD¢ 11
abradorand Newioundland 2202 coscmosmecneccesres cece cco ese 12
Sy a ASR eae neice a obacintos 232005 bos Ie oBoOuSOoOnmaCans 14
ATOULC COBBU es: (ose seta eeale eet Ge Ee a ee econo teaiceasae coca 14
PATS SAN oa ieee eke cies Sie alelneeioec awele ielaloretele esas alee tatermietetere ete a arete ee 15
British Columbia, Washington, and Oregon Ba oP ae eee 19
COED ios0) oR Sec paosa oe SSab er QSeG5o Se cHotoa cade Scenb aeise 20
Lower California, Arizona, and New Mexico.........-......-...---- 20
The Atlantic sea-board..............- (eG pasos. sememnipe cans =ncmewes 22
NSCS STi oe ES Be Bee Bein Gee a Go SSco Apcoon mAboneCoScEoS Easiooc 24
Wien Gann. See ie tetas ela pie cole ae ee ee eee 24
Central Ameritaperens te sricce cee siecle ss sintcneele as claw ancien eerie 25
SouthvAmenicareeterrcwecc sees tec ncloscicsectseimer closer ete eeeeee 26
Japan, China ands oresen.creeacccsimaec <eescict: o cee aatesieenie ase 26
Othericouwtriesee asc. ke tees cine cle eeloace ee cbaese cee acetates 26

Publicationsteeseesess sae ee cs ae sole ee ieere aeleiclewiscel ee wis sai eiiete sake tester 27

Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge...............-....-0-- 27
Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections....-....-.-.....-.---.--e- 27
Twenty-fourth volume 7 -320.-./.\- se Ses eee eee ciele enee eee 28
wenty-fith: volume%> 3.2) 22S es cen See eee oases 28
Twenty-sixth volumes... aoe oe eee eee ee 28
Twenty-seventh volume. ue. 32. cl ocice eee snciee « eeeaet see 28
Separate: publications)... 5). sae wise ee wr oastemaereneereeens 20
General catalogue of scientific periodicals.............-.----- 30
Physical and meteorological tables ........-.-.-.------.----- 31
Bulletins of the National Museum.......--...---.------.---.. 31
Proceedings of the National Museum.-..-......---.------..... 32
Smivbsonian Annual Report).-- co. ses cs ees «se acm eealenmaieeee 33
Contents of Reportifor 1882-2202: vsslse. so ee eee eens 33

Astronomical announcements by telegraph..-.......-. .-----.---.------- 33
Transfer of the same to Harvard College Observatory.....--..--.-- 34

 Dite P Re SI he ead Neca Bue beese peedind Ses bdroost detides koeceote dese 35
International exchanvess.- S22 fcc. heiste = ce aches seme eee eaieeee emacs 35
Government exchanves i sac--cis= secu ccce scenes aeaeiaeweeelcciese cies 38

UAE Epo emeadecsre Cod SSon sa Sa adas ods Sse mecsace feeccinae scone 38
Additions forthetyedtasaqea as sateen apse (al aie inten a etcetera eters 39

Relations of the Institution to other bodies ...--.-...........-.--.----- 39
TheywNav ye Weparimenitvesn metre cme set ene tee er tee eet eae eee eat 39
The War Deparhmentias sess settee se seus peel ic eae sate caret ee 41

The United States Signal Service-.-..... Pperison Coo SHedboschaone 41
The Treasury Depaxrtnient--.--.-ssssseese essen ee ceeicee eds Se. eee: 42

Phe Wicht-House (Board eye tesa rset cerns esses aah ee wanna 42
The Interior Department. 2. 225. Saees Seseee eo eace aks soe kecaacee 42
Relations to foreien Governments). sceecsseses acer encase: ee emenes 42
Transportation! facilities) 22225 ccass > cece Scone sees seis setae clct= 43
International and State Exhibitions: 2. .sc fecees aes see. -- he noms 43
Electric-lizht accommodation ...!:2 see sewer daewe eens sceeeen 44
HOLeStryuIugUWITIeS 2 -.os 2 aoe ce ce ace cite eaeiemenee Sesh Jatiesy 44

INGOMMNO Rye Seika eee poe cece sce paces e CREE eae aaene ioe enaiseds 45
Baward 1H. Knight: oo 02654 did .2 pace aieense ete tne iets erates 45

Paul Schumacher ..-...... ess ORS ocrinoe 45
CONTENTS.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.—THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION—Continued.

Necrology—Continued.
Hemmanie Die htusO Me me- jase cate seis nanaieciauecick viccets wleaeas steeoeute
Bonn aw KONGoS he Merl) en vaca cocalncecosicnee snwacsewcutoase
SEER GRIN OE ea on aa'ne someon dle ee een ar Weeae) vaclewensasacoeas
appara AGalon MM. De psstil. cs scecdiceselenivtublocvoct soveudeucres
Tenn wrence oe; CONnLes: Ms, LD) Ssuccs. ccunecsceeclsiescca lneesicmcces

Breas eer aie late eita) Galan icleielneta ee mele minieefas sini aeielae aienisiclonaaieeus
PRB Mercen BeQuOst s<2 52 «<2 scicineoes secs cena eianeslaconueltccase
Navan RAGHM Of EY OIONG. = 2~)scceicnmnineeicceie eclccweees secon a Ssin
POLUGAE OL WAL WAN a cio sn) csin coclecin aig cues aeons rowelesee eer acotnaese
PME Sten. Mrinal 5 vos sk lio inka i, Jako es
Memorial objects in the new Pension building... .............--.----
Impiroemens) tor Cave ReseIChh ccs oe <) << se cncisisma een cauccsrses -
Obsequiesiof John) Howard, Paynes. 2/22 2555 25 ce oceoc oeaclesem odes

PATTON AESMUSMURE Cocca cnec cece siesictacciecae secccses cccesceswciscetcaucpe

PTAA D DHNOEO GY. a= ceciccce ic cicic sot er ecenaenlccecanwesle ecnicosaceces
RRR DRODARES: GHOLOGICAT: SURVEY cic cccc covccdcaucvesiscceeccacecccves
URALE STATES MISH: COMMISSION 6. cous sbcecdlesececeeeuiseee Lose cbee sce =

EMRE OTOS MS see cee eae oan vets sce somniacie nite tot wciccmelGnacecsidese
Sriine Oretne _VALDALTONS, 22 ose ociicasecteseei-oSelseac sacciceaeiseicces
PCED Po ea os 5 oa males pesuimede oe owaeldcueead muekeomnse
Bulletin of the Fish Commission....-..--.......-...---- «- Ficebaonos
The London International Fisheries Exhibition, 1883............-..

Hisheries branch.of the census: of 1880). 5). s)sac sect oSaseciesciowenrcccens

APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY .«... --6- cess -ccoes cence ccce

Correspondence on Astronomical Announcements .........--- ---+. -2----

Reaper on.exchanges for 18855220. 2 02s. . s-5 estes ecicceces stot oo see
Receipts of packages for distribution .--....----. -----2 escens cece

ONOUNNE ae ao eee te ae ee rennet. Soe ale a ailani ea eiae ane aewnieetatas
MIOMESING) 2 ante joe seal eae is bine sae seaueniaseeemeeloess

ONO MBs eraes Soe see de ses apse see ee a ieeen nt Salon ctetaws
Domestic ..-... SBC oc CAR BRO RCCL CCU REAC ERC COCO ECC Ene TEE ror
Governments 2225 secs LOL se tcsae tins euwslendv cin cadets cgsecnse
Correspondence relating to Government exchange........---..--.--
International Conference on Exchanges, at Brussels..-.-.......----
List of official publications from Public Printer, 1883 .......-......
aad apes on National Museum by Assistant Director and Curators .-.....-.
SeSSL HG IPeCLON A TepOMii. see clas a4 cas ten"s ees one cncsmacce|-wee cone
Materia MeHICn COUGG ION Ges cnet an acsle ns scic'sie sale/saseoclmcaeacivawe
Foods and textile industries collection .......-.--.-----.-----------
ATCHS OOPIGALCOMCCHION: ccaecs sas ccs cacesslse cco ssuslacecurissessa<e
Mamnimnigiian CONeGuON es. a s\oen onc aeelant aacians aes au sasomsl cacmlonat-
ARMM oe ote oe ec oc Lois dcnmceWasssakinamncesucnudaaes
Re pisHMICOMGCHOME eet esate ao asricaa aaa sc sceecais nesicesonulacmele
RABROUMECIOIe n= merle teas scan coscaclc lina acs=c/ocs\seacioaes sentee cana
Insect collection ..... See Pee ca tn ante tae ibaa ide emlal ameio mania
MESON, Sees nen wuelnce saad souewae'senenceecun causianae

een are eat yoo 8 occ ce ea Lenk sddwas pores vawoce\wodejnanc=
Geological and lithological collection .......--...---- ----08 eeee were

VII
VIII CONTENTS.

APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY—Continued. aie
Report on National Museum—Continued. |
Mineral collestion :- < [2.5 fccse2s 5 2ccondscee nena etee eects J eewee me 266
Metallurgy and economic geology collection.......-.--..-.00- sseeee 268
Library of ‘the National Musenm, :- 22... 02-cascesneeees sewecenneect 271
_ Appendix A, officers of the Nationa] Museum ..............-.-.---- 275
B, bibliography of National Museum, 1883 ........... aosa 276

C, list of contributors to National Museum, 1883.......... 322

®
GENERAL APPENDIX.

Page.
I.—RECORD OF SCIENTIFIC PROGRESS, 1883 ...--.. 2.22. eee ee ee eee ee eee 363
Introduction, by spencer=. Baird) 222252 c-= ececeeeeeecieneeee eee 363
Astronomy, by Edward 8. Holden... 25.2 ..2.5 ..c20ceumeandesm ewan cee 365
Geolapy voy i> verry HOnt <2... cc ucn oe man peeinieeeeeieerieinae as 443
Geography, by P.M. Greens. 62 co5c2. 205 ccscce seeeaee en seeecenianeee 465
Meteorology, by Cleveland Abbe ..............-sceeee Sco canoes Hasced 483
iPhysics,. by George Es Barker! .sss.0:ssssesiccs aoe toceseecicneeeneeene 571
Chemistry, by H. Carrington Bolton . 52. 52 ccs desesecaciccee pamene oe 629 -
Mineralogy, by Edward S. Dana......-.......-. ..--- csimmeoces scene 661
Botany; by WG. Parlowses-.sc. cise sess cease eee eee eee eee ee 681
Zoology, hy, Theodore Gul-u.. 02. 6125. ceee eee aeemaete eee es 699
Anthropology, by Otis‘T. Mason i. 1.2. \-sadscdebaceee enone ee eee ae ee 753
TT—MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS... 20/:515 J) cnse sceciecc cen teeandepaeeeenan seeeme 797
Papers relating to Anthropology /2..0/.2.2.- 2.23 Asus sees cose ane 797
Australian Group relations, by A. W. Howitt ...-....--....---....- 797
Mounds of Sangamon County, Illinois, by James Wickersham .. ... s 825
Mounds in Spoon River Valley, Illinois, by W. H. Adams... -........ 835
Ancient relics at Dayton, Ohio, by Aug. A. Foerste ..--..-..--.--.-- 838
Mounds in Butler County, Ohio, by J. P. MacLean...............-.. ~ 844
Earth-work in Highland County, Ohio, by J. P. MacLean ..........- 851
Mounds in Berrien County, Georgia, by William J. Taylor.......... 853

Mounds and shell-heaps on west coast of Florida, by S. T. Walker... 854
Stone mounds of Hampshire County, W. Virginia, by L. A. Kengla .. 868

Remains in Bucks County, Pennsylvania, by John A. Ruth......-.... 872
Relics in Poughkeepsie, N. Y., by Henry Booth ...............-.... 876
Notes on the Wampanoag Indians, by Henry E. Chase...........--. 878
Antiquities from Ometepec, Nicaragua, by Charles C. Nutting...... 908

On the Phonology of four Siouan Languages, by J. Owen Dorsey ... 919

InpExX to the volume ................... Lecce teteeces SE ee Coty ses 931
CONTENTS. IX

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.

Page.
Statue of Joseph Henry, on Smithsonian Grounds.................--...+--- xvii
Brepi imap ol Avgiralis) <3 <to25 stescene .rewes Ladi ecdeecee sd Momeeaigees tess 805
Ross Mounds, Sangamon County, Illinois - ......-.-.-2.- 2.2. 222.2 eens eeenee 826
Olcott Mounds, Sangamon County, Illinois...-....--.. 2.222. .2-22. ese e eee 827
Dawson Mounds, Sangamon County, Illinois...... ......-... 22... eee ee eeee 829
McClernard Mounds, Sangamon County, Illinois .--... 2... ..2222.. 2... ..22-. 829
Watson Mounds, Sangamon County, Illinois ........ 2.222. 2220. eee eee ee ee- 830
Lyon Mounds, Sangamon County, Illinois .... 2... 220.2. 12. e eee eee wee ween 831
Farr Mounds, Sangamon County, Illinois -...... .....-.. ...--. 2220 e202 seen 832
Group of Mounds, Ross Township, Butler County, Ohio.... ................-. 847
Monnd in fort, Ross Township, Butler County, Ohio. ...................----- 848
Fortified hill, Ross Township, Butler County, Ohio..................--..---- 850
Mound on fortified hill, Ross Township, Butler County, Ohio................ 850
Sketch of earth-work in Highland County, Ohio ............ ..---.---- 206+. 852
Map, Pensacola Bay and vicinity, Florida .......... 2.2.20 2-00 eececs moce ence 855
MApy aCEI DAO: EOIHt. EH LOTR ios ts oc. sce cle sacs jamen.caecehaadsaesiseniaesis 856
Mode of interment at Escribano Point, Florida ...... 2.2.22. .2..-. cece ceceee 857
MaonOhoctiwhaichee. Bay, FlOniGs 20 .- cas inne cute sowed sacbuslordeceeine 861
Plate of four figures, of baked clay, from Florida .........----. ..---.ecece- 863
Plate of four figures; of baked clay, from Florida ........2. 22.2. sss00e 00 864
Plate of three figures, of baked clay, from Florida .....................--- 866
Remains in Durham Township, Bucks County, Pennsylvania................ 873.
Grange ane Teuc sitesan Poughkeepsie, Ni Yc .200's\cecieisinisienjelemampncimeces aes 877
Sketch map of Cape Cod, Massachusetts.........-2. 2.2200 seeeee Sosoge Cobo aC 905

Stone figure from Ometepec, Nicaragua (front and side view) .......---.---- 911
REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

By the organizing act approved August 10, 1846, Revised Statutes,
title Lxxmm, section 5580, ‘ The business of the Institution shall be con-
ducted at the city of Washington by a Board of Regents, named the
Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, to be composed of the Vice-
President, the Chief Justice of the United States [and the Governor of
the District of Columbia], three members of the Senate, and three mem-
bers of the House of Representatives, together with six other persons,
other than members of Oongress, two of whom shall be resident in the
city of Washington, and the other four shall be inhabitants of some
State, but no two of them of the same State.”

REGENTS FOR THE YEAR 1883.

Term expires.
The Vice-President of the United States:
DAVIO DAVIE PTO LOM e wena taseorceemss sees ea caae ROCOCHaSe noESHc Mar. 3, 1883

GEORGE F. EpMuNDS (elected March 3, 1883)........... wisceswasece Mar. 3, 1885

The Chief Justice of the United States:
MORRISON R. WAITE.

United States Senators:
GEORGE F. Hoar (from Feb. 21, 1881. Resigned Jan. 19, 1883) ....Mar. 3, 1883

NATRANIED EEL (from May 195 168i) see e cence) ese eenioener Mar. 3, 1885
SAMUEL Bo Maxey. (from: May 19) 1881) coo eco Se taememten cee cleeeee Mar. 3, 1887
GEORGE F. EDMUNDS (appointed Jan. 19, 1883. Resigned Feb. 21,
Tete BABS Cr Hea SRE Sete Boe a CE SOS Cee SSI IE SEOe Oeccl meee nee mes Mar. 3, 1885
JUSTIN S. MORRILL (appointed Feb. 21, 1883) ................-.-..- Mar. 3, 1885
Members of the House of Representatives:
OrHo R. SINGLETON (appointed Jan. 7, 1884) ................-...-- Dec. 23, 1885
WILLIAM L. WILSON (appointed Jan. 7, 1884)..........-----. 20s. Dec. 23, 1885
WILLIAM W. PHELPS (appointed Jan. 7, 1884) ....--....----.------ Dec. 23, 1885
Citizens of Washington:
PETER PARKER (first appointed in 1868) ..-... 222-2. 222. .e eens ene Dec. 19, 1885
WILLIAM T: SHERMAN (first appointed in 1871) ..................-- Mar. 25, 1885
Citizens of a State: :
JOHN MACLEAN, of New Jersey (first appointed in 1868) -.......... Dec. 19, 1885
Asa GRAY, of Massachusetts (first appointed in 1874) ...... ........ Dec. 19, 1885
HENRY Corpks, of Pennsylvania (first appointed in 1874).......... Dec. 19, 1885
NoaH Porter, of Connecticut (appointed in'1878) eee ae Jan. 26, 1884

MorRISON R. WaITE, Chancellor of the Institution and President of the Board of
Regents.
x
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. |

WASHINGTON, D.C., April 19, 1883.
An adjourned meeting of the Board of Regents was held this day, at
4 o’clock p. m., to attend the ceremonies of unveiling the statue of Pro-
fessor Henry.
At the conclusion of the ceremonies the Board adjourned sine die.

WASHINGTON, January 16, 1884.
In Be dance with a resolution of the Board of Regents of the Smith-
sonian Institution fixing the time of the annual session on the third
Wednesday in January of each year, the Board met to-day at 10 o’clock
a. m.

Present: The Chancellor, Chief Justice MORRISON R. WAITE; the
Acting Vice-President, ee GEORGE F. EpMUNDS; Hon. NATHANIEL
P. HILL, Hon. SAMUEL B. MAxty, Hon. JUSTIN s. MORRILL, Hon.
- OTHO R. SINGLETON, Hon. WinL1AM L. WriLson, Hon. WILLIAM W.
PHELPS, Hon. PETER PARKER, General WILLIAM T. SHERMAN, Dr.
ASA GRAY, Dr. HENRY CoPpPEE, Dr. NoAH PORTER, and the Secre-
tary, Professor BAIRD.

The Secretary stated that since the last meeting the following changes
had taken place in the Board: Hon. G. F. Hoar had resigned as Regent,
and Hon. G. F. Edmunds had been appointed by the President of the
Senate to fill the vacancy. Mr. Edmunds had declined the appoint-
ment and Hon. J. 8S. Morrill had been appointed and accepted for the
term ending March 3, 1885.

Hon. G. F. Edmunds having been elected President of the Senate
became ex-officio Regent.

The Speaker of the House of Representatives (Mr. Carlisle) had ap-
pointed Hon. O. R. Singleton, Hon. W. L. Wilson, and Hon. W. W.
Phelps as Regents for the Forty-eighth Congress, in place of Hon. N.
C. Deering, Hon. E. B. Taylor, and Hon. 8S. 8. Cox.

The journal of the Board was read and approved.

A letter from Rev. Dr. John Maclean was read, regretting that the
condition of his health would not permit him to attend the meeting of
the Board.

xI
.
XII JOURNAL OF THE BOARD.

Dr. Parker presented the report of the Executive Committee, which
was read by General Sherman.
On motion of Dr. Gray the following resolution was adopted:

“ Resolved, That the report of the Executive Committee be accepted,
and that the income for the year 1884 be appropriated for the service
of the Institution upon the basis of the above report, to be expended by
the Secretary, with full discretion as to the items, subject to the ap-
proval of the Executive Committee.”

Dr. Parker, from the Executive Committee, presented a final report
on the Henry statue.

On motion of Dr. Coppée it was resolved that the report of the Exec-
utive Committee on the Henry statue be printed as a part of the annual
report of the Institution.

The Secretary presented the annual report of the operations of the
Institution for the year 1883, which was read in part.

On motion of General Sherman it was resolved that the annual report
of the Secretary be referred to the Executive Committee, with authority
to transmit it to Congress.

Dr. Coppée called the attention of the Board to the subject of the pub-
lication of the scientific writings of Professor Henry, and suggested the
propriety of providing that a part of the edition should be bound in
library style, and much better than that of the “Henry Memorial”
volume.

Dr. Gray suggested the importance of careful selection of the manu-
scripts of Professor Henry and judicious arrangement of the material,
which might require two volumes, one for his published scientific :
papers, the other for miscellaneous writings, extracts from correspond-
ence, &c.

The Secretary stated that nothing had yet been done in arranging the
material for the work proposed, but copies had been made of a large
number of Professor Henry’s letters, to be carefully examined before
printing. It would be edited by Mr. W. B. Taylor, of the Institution, a
gentleman perfectly acquainted with Professor Henry’s scientific work,
and in every respect well qualified for the duty.

After some discussion as to the scope of the work, on motion of Mr.
Edmunds it was—

‘“‘ Resolved, That the publication of the writings of Professor Henry
be supervised by a committee consisting of Dr. Gray, Hon. Mr. Wilson,
and Professor Baird, to act in conjunction with Mr. W. B. Taylor, the
editor assigned to that duty by the Secretary.”

Senator Edmunds called attention to the phraseology of the act
of Congress in regard to the appointment of an Acting Secretary in case
of the death, disability, or absence of the Secretary, which he considered
imperfectly adapted to provide for an emergency, and, on motion of
Senator Maxey, it was—

‘Resolved, That Senator Edmunds be requested to prepare an amend-
ment to the act to be submitted to Congress.”

On motion of Senator Maxey the Board then adjourned sine die.

Pa

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF
REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR
1883.

The Executive Committee of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian
Institution respectfully submit the following report in relation to the
funds of the Institution, the appropriations by Congress for the National
Museum and other purposes, the receipts and expenditures for the
Institution and the Museum for 1883, and the estimates for the year 1884.

Condition of the fund, January 1, 1884.

The bequest of James Smithson, deposited in the United

States Treasury, act of Congress, August 10, 1846.... $515,169 00
Residuary legacy of Smithson, added to the fund in the

United States Treasury, act of Congress, February 8,

MEME rar!) RPO rahe Sis etches ah Aa eae als bie y SJ lcjulsnae Sete 26, 210 63
‘Addition to the fund from savings, be. act of Congress,

RMEIIPERE Sr ROM se Oeste) Sarg sh eed a Sehra betes Beh 108, 620 37
Addition to the fund by bequest of James Hamilton, of

Sea AE Pais Sete eels ee eaighe eelale Awe 2 oie ala diss 1,000 00
Addition to the fund by bequest of Simeon Habel, of New

Oy Ore aie iS ee ae eas ep eno Rese 500 00
Gian to the fund by proceeds of sale of Virginia bonds,

ce so SORES A it ea . 51,500 00

Total permanent Smithson fund in the United States
Treasury (bearing 6 per cent. interest) January 1,
Los Lg ee ee See AS ei a $703, 000 00

Statement of the receipts and expenditures of the Smithsonian Institution
Jor the year 1883.

RECEIPTS.
Interest from the fund ........-..2.-..-.. at) Eee wiaeeid He $42,180 00
Balance cash on hand January 1, 1883.................- 29, 637 45
Morel T6Ceiptse . b.. ee ee SIRE Re 2H $71,817 45
EXPENDITURES.
Building:
Be MNTy aaT10l MN DLOVOMONES 2.2 <5 4 <jo.5 hoses» » ate a nim span niere $935 15
REM TRUIPERN ANS “RIN GULOR Ss wo Oho eeeisccw es ae ew a'w edie bekiw p apblek 556 09
General expenses :
SATEEN. PSOBAPC a opis os cme no aa't «a duces nue aedse s 985 05
Beene ane Heating. 2.22. oo oes lesa de eae bc ga 38 51
PeCeeera TOGOTADN ca. va ache saeco tess wcaceeeces - 319 06
XIV REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

Hapenditures—Continued.

RSL OTLOEY isa cee Sse orat Pe eter wim acta eaalorm, ae ee leh wow ee $850 72
General printing, blanks, (Qo. 6. -(6\-ci5~ 2 vee hte eine ese wile 266 45
Incidentals, ice, hauling, &c......... eh aRer Sta ape aa eral el Mpa 520 21
Books and periodicals..... WORNAE ES fe atee Epo ehe Deets she cio 1,747 60
Salaries snd dahon: (2505'S isis & «Pak Pals tem eieine ete te ctor 15, 773 67
Publications and researches:
Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge............... 3, 047 24
Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections................-. 9,565 78
Smithsonian Annual Report... 5. .-,se ee ses eae eae 2,255 81
BIR DLOTA GIONS (4 2)5 6 ia as isit Klos winds ersin! = eles ls erage eee leiaiee eee 2,799 47
PAPAL OEMS | a oo =! pialeiwiehalicie haf kts) oph were wipe a's w aelpue amie tso bel ieee ee 50 10
Literary and scientific exchanges... .....--.- sac. ee----- 6,192 34
Total vExpPengiGunes 12.2 oes 0. = vee eeeeeee eae $45, 903 25 |
Balance, January 1, 1884........... «ha eQtaate RN erale $25, 914 20

ESTIMATES FOR 1884.

The following are the estimates of receipts by the Institution for the
year 1884, and of the appropriations required for carrying on its opera-
tions during the same period :

Receipts.

Interest on the permanent fund, receivable July 1, 1884,

Guu anuary 1 lSSDs Ser eee meni © ac meine ete ele eee = ae $42, 180 00
Hapenditures.

Hor Pullding and PEpails so. 2.6 core see eee eee eee $1, 500 00
For general expenses, including salaries.............--. 19, 000 00
For publications and researches.........---.seecseeccee 12,000 00
Wor: exchanges. >. - =. +. 2-- -senitos eee sine eee e twee eeeeee 7,000 00
Mor contin ENCES L305 (ie oiistei vin claw mle malaise wisi eit one 2,680 00
Total ...... Dia wiais Wie alneleyeisie Se a nc eae eae hci $42, 180 00

NATIONAL MUSEUM, AND OTHER OBJECTS COMMITTED BY CONGRESS
TO THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

The following is a statement of the accounts of appropriations made
by Congress for disbursement under the direction of the Smithsonian
Institution :

PRESERVATION OF COLLECTIONS, NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Balance available January 1, 1883 .......2-...... seeees $44, 823 30
Appropriated for fiscal year ending June 30, 1884 ($96,000,
AUD BS) (ee Ma erc aiviw ly Sie aa in e/a's Stbie eye tale ate eh ered 100, 112 82

144,936 12

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. XV

Expended in 1883, as per vouchers audited by the Treasury

PORIVEMINO IGS Samp cts: «ln fol Bae ese aiil ba ce yap wares $98, 277 61
Balance January 1, 1884, (available for six months ending
with fiscal year June 30, 1884)... - 2. ee cee e wees 46,658 51
ARMORY BUILDING.
Balance available January 1, 1883..... Cal seet eA aS one ib $1,495 79
Appropriated for fiscal year ending June 30, 1884........ 2,500 00
3,995 79
Expended in 1883, as per vouchers audited by the Treasury
LIST ECOG UTTS] 1 SUE Pt Ea Oa ne ee eh Re ee 2,470 29
Balance January 1, 1884 (available for six months ending
PUMA RCEE Nia rrch ais (aia ss canola mw cares Sale SOY cralsidee able 1,525 50
FURNITURE AND FIXTURES.
Balance available January 1, 1883...........-...-...... $31,182 12
Appropriated for fiscal year chats June 30, 1884 megs Hise 60, 000 00

91,182 12
Expended in 1883, as per vouchers audited by the Treasury

WPS PALUMIOND..' 1022. seic- feet Behera On Sof ceo NDA A 55, 161 63
Balance January 1, 1884 (available for six months ending
ame AO, Oot ree Sey oa SS ke. SR Rd Soe 36, 020 49
NORTH AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.
Balance available January 1, 1883.....-.....-.......... $20, 440 44
Appropriated for fiscal year ending June 30, 1884 ....... 40, 000 00
60,440 44
Expended in 1883, as per vouchers audited by the Treasury
MPM rED ERE LENS OEM pera perens pe oy stn wma na Seika sad g iwi pected ales ee 40,495 04
Balance January 1, 1884 (available for six months ending
SBE ALE PRUE oA ale ect alia CeNershld elmo ceibiales 19,945 40
INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES.
Balance available January 1, 1883....................-.. $2, 500 00
Appropriated for fiscal year ending June 30, 1884.......- 7,500 00
10, 000 00

Expended in 1883, as per vouchers audited by the Treasury
DAMON ete rain ie ain che nie neal terse we, gai na soa alas 6, 500 00

Balance January 1, 1884 (available for six months ending
RIS MEOREE ro eveyone peels alee seve ba bie vis ass see < 3, 500 00
XVI REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE,

RECONSTRUCTION EASTERN PORTION SMITHSONIAN BUILDING.

Appropriated by act of Congress March 3, 1883 ......... $50, 000 00
Expended as per vouchers audited by the Treasury De-

RIQEROIGIED BE LOGO ora acres ain’s aisle nine lelateereo eltee eects hele 37,322 86
Balance January 1, 1884..... Bears tyre 3 Sse Re Ae a 12, 677 14

POLARIS REPORT,

Balance available of $8,000 appropriated by act of Con-

PMA ABS. cca bs chaiaintsloe sienna cn nie ciney eee ett tae eae $1,918 90
Expended in 1883, as per vouchers audited by the Treasury
OMA LEMOML 2) 2 oe cnctewee gine ne ts ssh eee ee eee 1,116 73
Balance January 1 ylestvc a. at qen.c\- be. ess acetepie se eee 802 17
CONCLUSION.

The Committee has examined 835 vouchers for payments made from
the Smithson income during the year 1883, and 2,014 vouchers for pay-
ments made from appropriations by Congress for the National Museum,
making a total of 2,849 vouchers. All these bear the approval of the
Secretary of the Institution, and a certificate that the materials and
services charged were applied to the purposes of the Institution or of
the Museum.

The balances above given correspond with the certificates of the dis-
bursing clerks of the Interior and Treasury Departments.

The quarterly accounts, the bank and check books and journals have
been examined. and found correct.

Respectfully submitted.

PETER PARKER,
W. T. SHERMAN,
Executive Committee.
WASHINGTON, January 16, 1884.

ae ee

Pa”: Has
Vadis } “ate i rs te 4 q

.
ar

ae bebea el eee het
Aad Oee th VeH Ie: *
enc tak : ty,
>» »

i aan & }
,
* Rea

| jo li

;
: : nn
a ait Haun ales i AN i) (ining bint
OS ee ag ny
BRONZE STATUE OF JOSEPH HENRY.

KRECTED ON THE SMITHSONIAN GROUNDS BY AUTHORITY OF AN ACT OF CONGRESS APPROVED JUNE 1,
1880; AND UNVEILED APRIL 19, 1883.

a aerate —

eR 8
> SS

.
=e
os
-
stews
yor
--
ore:
ace
oo
_—
a
”
~~
oe
oe
7

FRAZ PCAC OSESUFREGERELETALEDEE SUES PRESET ETE
TIRCHC RC HRT SERCO CHE ter he Lee ihe As heat et ee ae

gubedatatededrepen tate caegetined deta tetity

> “ith

veto naa ere
ener.
err Seo

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF
' REGENTS ON THE HENRY STATUE.

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution :

GENTLEMEN: An act of Congress (No. 71), approved by the Presi-
dent June 1, 1880, authorized “the Regents of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution to contract with W. W. Story, sculptor, for a statue in bronze of
JOSEPH HENRY, late Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, to be
erected upon the grounds of said Institution; and for this purpose, and
for the entire expense of the foundation and pedestal of the monument,

‘the sum of $15,000” was appropriated.

In accordance with the authority conferred in the above act, the
Regents of the Institution executed a contract with Mr. Story on the
8th of December, 1880, for the statue. At Mr. Story’s request a num-
ber of photographs of Professor Henry were sent to him to be used in
preparing the model of the statue, and also a cast of the face and bust
executed by Mr. Clark Mills, together with an academic gown similar
to the one used by the professor when a member of the faculty of
Princeton College. A contract was made with the Maine Red Granite
Company and the Quincy Granite Polishing Works for a pedestal ac-
cording to a design furnished by Mr. Story—the die of Red-Beach
granite finely polished, octagonal in shape, 4 feet in diameter, 4 feet
high, and the cap and bases of Quincy gray granite, fine-axed, the
whole pedestal being 7 feet 3 inches in height. The statue itself is nine
feet high.

Owing to certain imperfections found in the statue after it had been
cast, it became necessary to reproduce it, and it was not until Novem-
ber, 1882, that it was actually completed and shipped from Rome. The
statue was received in Washington in December, but, owing to the late-
ness of the season, it was decided to defer its erection until the follow-
ing spring, and the date selected was the 19th of April, 1883, that being
the time when the National Academy of Sciences (of which Professor
Henry had been president at the time of his death) would hold its semi-
annual meeting in Washington. For the site of the statue a triangular
plot on the Smithsonian grounds, about 150 feet to the northwest of the
building, was chosen by the Regents, and the selection met the full ap-
proval of Mr. Story, who visited Washington in the winter.

The Chancellor of the Institution was requested by the Regents to

perform the ceremony of unveiling it.
H. Mis. 69——11 xvul
XVIII REPORT ON THE HENRY STATUE.

Hon. Hiester Clymer was selected to deliver an address appropriate
to the occasion, but on account of ill health declined the appointment,
and President Noah Porter, of Yale College, one of the Regents, was
invited by the Executive Committee to perform the service.

Rev. Dr. John Maclean and Rey. A. A. Hodge, of Princeton, N. J.,
were invited to offer prayer on the occasion. By reason of ill health,
however, Dr. Maclean was prevented from attending.

The direction of the executive details of the occasion were assigned
by Professor Baird to Mr. William J. Rhees, the chief clerk.

By direction of the Board of Regents, the following letter was ad-
dressed by Professor Baird, Secretary of the Institution, to the Hon.
Speaker of the House of Representatives, January 17, 1883:

‘Sir: I have the honor to inform the House of Representatives that
in accordance with the act of Congress of June 1, 1880, providing that
the Regents of the institution be ‘authorized to contract with W. W.
Story, sculptor, for a bronze statue of Joseph Henry, late Secretary of
the Smithsonian Institution, to be erected in the grounds of said insti-
tution,’ the statue has been executed and received in Washington, and
that Thursday the 19th of April has been selected as the day for the
public unveiling of the same.

‘The Congress of the United States having ordered this statue and
made the appropriation necessary therefor, the Board of Regents re-
spectfully invite the Senate and House of Representatives to be present
on the occasion of its formal presentation to the public. ‘

‘‘T am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant.”

A joint resolution was passed by Congress, February 24, 1883, accept-
ing the invitation to attend the inauguration of the statue.

“No. 16. Joint resolution accepting the invitation of the Regents of the Smithsonian
Institution to attend the inauguration of the statue of Joseph Henry.

‘Whereas, in a communication from Spencer F. Baird, Secretary of
the Smithsonian Institution, Congress was informed that in accordance
with an act of June first, eighteen hundred and eighty, the bronze
statue of Joseph Henry, late Secretary of the Smithsonion Institution,
had been completed; and whereas, in the same communication, Con-
gress was respectfully invited to be present on the occasion of its formal
presentation to the public, upon Thursday the nineteenth of April next;
Therefore be it

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
of America in Congress assembled, That the said invitation be, and the
same is hereby, accepted by the Senate and House of Representatives ;
and that the President of the Senate select seven members of that body,
and the Speaker of the House of Representatives fifteen members of
that body, to be present and represent the Congress of the United

ee

REPORT ON THE HENRY STATUE. XIX

States upon the occasion of the presentation and inauguration of said
statue.”

Approved February 24, 1883. (Statutes, volume XxIl, page 659.)

The following gentlemen were selected as the joint committee to rep-
resent Congress:

Senators: Hon. George F. Hoar, of Massachusetts; Eli Saulsbury,
of Delaware; Samuel J. R. McMillan, of Minnesota; Joseph R. Haw-
ley, of Connecticut; William Mahone, of Virginia; Omar D. Conger,
of Michigan; James B. Groome, of Maryland.

Members of the House of Representatives: Hon. John T. Wait, of Con-
necticut; William Aldrich, of Hlinois; Thomas M. Browne, of Indiana;
John A. Kasson, of lowa; George M. Robeson, of New Jersey; John
W. Candler, of Massachusetts; R. J. Walker. of Pennsylvania; A. H.
Pettibone, of Tennessee; J. Proctor Knott, of Kentucky; J. Randolph
Tucker, of Virginia; Andrew G. Curtin, of Pennsylvania; Randall L.
Gibson, of Louisiana.

In accordance with the previous arrangements, the statue was un-
veiled on Thursday afternoon, April 19, 1883, at 4 o’clock. The day
was clear, mild, and propitious, and about ten thousand people assem-
bled to witness the ceremonies.

The invited guests met in the lecture hall of the National Museum,
and proceeded to the platform which had been erected around the statue.
General O. M. Poe acted as chief marshal, and Messrs. Daniel Leech,
John D. McChesney, and George S. Hobbs as assistant marshals.

The following order of arrangement was adopted:

The President of the United States ;* the Chief Justice of the United
States, Chancellor of the Institution; the orator of the day, President
Noah Porter, LL.D., of Yale College; the chaplain of the day, Rev.
A. A. Hodge, D. D.; the family of Professor Henry.

The establishment of the Smithsonian Institution, viz, the Vice-
President, Secretary of State, Secretary of the Treasury, Secretary of
War, Secretary of the Navy, Secretary of the Interior, Postmaster-Gen-
eral, Attorney-General, Commissioner of Patents.

The Regents and Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, and Ex-
Regents; the Joint Committee of the Senate and House of Representa-
tives, appointed to represent Congress ; the Diplomatic Corps; the As-
sociate Justices of the Supreme Court of the United States; Judges of
United States Courts; Claims Commissions; Judges of the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia; Senators and Members of the House
of Representatives; Commissioners of the District of Columbia; the
General and Officers of the Army ; the Admiral and Officers of the Navy;
Ex-Members of the Cabinet and Ex-Ministers of the United States; Na-
tional Academy of Sciences; Founders of the Henry trust fund for
Science; the Commissioner of Agriculture; the Assistant Secretaries of

*The President was absent from the city at the time.
xX * REPORT ON THE HENRY STATUE.

Departments; Solicitor-General and Assistant Attorneys-General; the
United States Marshal and Officers of courts; the Light-House Board ;
the Heads of Bureaus; the Superintendent of the Coast Survey, the
Superintendent of the Naval Observatory, the Superintendent of the
Nautical Almanac, the Director of the Geological Survey, the Li-
brarian of Congress; the Commissioner of Public Buildings, the Archi-
tect of the Capitol, the Superintendent of the Government Printing
Office, the Superintendent of the Botanical Gardens, the Visitors of
the Government Hospital for the Insane; officers of the Senate and
House of Representatives; Trustees of the Corcoran Gallery of Art; the
Washington Monument Society ; officers and employés of the Smithso-
nian Institution, Bureau of Ethnology, National Museum, and United
States Fish Commission; Alumni of the College of New Jersey; mem-
bers of scientific organizations, &c.

While this procession was moving from the hall in the Museum build-
ing to the platform at the statue, the Marine Band, furnished through
the courtesy of Hon. William E. Chandler, Secretary of the Navy, and
of Colonel McCawley, Commandant of the Marine Corps, played a grand
march, ‘Transit of Venus,” composed by J. P. Sousa, the leader of the
band.

The following was the order of exercises :

I. Musitc—Marine Band (J. P. Sousa, conductor), ‘‘The Hallelujah Chorus”
(Messiah), Handel.
II. PRayER—Rev. A. A. HopGE, D. D., of Princeton, N. J.
III. AppREss—Chief Justice WAITE, Chancellor of the Institution.

IV. UNVEILING THE STATUE.

VY. Music (Philharmonic Society and full Marine Band, R. C. Bernays, con-
ductor)—Grand chorus, ‘‘The Heavens are Telling” (Creation), Haydn.
VI. OraTioN—Rev. Dr. Noau PORTER, President of Yale College.
VII. Music (J. P. Sousa, conductor)—Grand March Triumphale, ‘ Schiller,”
Meyerbeer.

The Philharmonic Society was assisted by members of the Washing-
ton Operatic Association, the Rossini and Church Choir Choral Socie-
ties, the Washington Sangerbund and Germania Mannerchor. The
arrangements for the music were made by a Committee of the Philhar-
monic Society, of which Prof. F. Widdows was chairman. The Chief
of Police furnished a detail for the grounds; Mr. Edward Clark, Archi-
tect of the Capitol, supplied music stands and stools for the Marine
Band; the Quartermaster’s Department lent flags, and the Department
of Agriculture living plants for decorating the platform. Mr. W. R.
Smith, Superintendent of the Botanic Gardens, also furnished floral
decorations.

Tbe platform was constructed under the superintendence of Mr. C.
W. Schuerman and Mr. G. W. Field, and the mechanical arrangements
for unveiling the statue were devised by Mr. Joseph Palmer. At the

REPORT ON THE HENRY STATUE. XXI

moment of unveiling the statue the news was telegraphed from an in-
strument on the platform, which had been placed there by Mr. L. Whit-
ney, the Superintendent of the Western Union Telegraph Company.
The ushers on the platform were Messrs. W. C. Lewis, Harry C. Shus-
ter, Henry D. Finckel, William T. Wyman, Edward C. Bryan, Frank
Bryan, William B. Stimpson, and Ellis Lammond; Mr. Henry Horan,
Superintendent of the National Museum, having general charge of the
accommodations of the public.

Res»vectfully submitted.
PETER PARKER,

W. T. SHERMAN,
Executive Committee.
WASHINGTON, December 15, 1883.
XXII REPORT ON THE HENRY STATUE.

PRAYER
BY

REV. DR. HBopmaeam

Eternal and almighty God, Creator, Preserver, and Governor of the
world, we have gathered here to adore Thy holy name, to implore Thy
divine protection, and to invoke Thy blessing.

We bless Thee that, having brought the physical universe to its pres-
ent perfection and made it the vehicle of reflecting and expressing Thy
transcendent perfections, Thou hast made man in Thine own likeness
and endowed him with intelligence, capable of discerning and of inter-
preting the intellectual basis of all phenomena, the personal element in
alllaw. We bless Thee that Thou hast never left Thyself without a
witness even in the darkest period of human history; that wherever
men have sought the Lord, however feebly, if haply they might feel
after Him and find Him, He has been found always to be not far from
any one of us, seeing that He is imminent in all existence and in all
life, and that in Him we live and move and have our being.

We bless Thee that Thou hast sent through the ages a long line of
inspired prophets and teachers, crowned by the incarnation in human
flesh of Thy co-equal Son, to reveal in ever-increasing fullness the nature
of Thy moral government, the method of Thy redemption, and the glory

of Thy kingdom; so Thou hast in these later days sent into the physical.

universe many intelligent and earnest students, who, in various depart-
ments, are investigating the secrets of nature, and interpreting the
methods of Thy sublime working throughout the vast areas of time
and space. We bless Thee that Thou art gathering to Thyself so vast
and rich and constant a revenue of glory through the loving ministry of
science in all her various provinces. We thank Thee that so many of
her princes have been loyal to Thy service and have rejoiced to make
all men to realize the depth of the riches both of the wisdom and of the
knowledge of God.

Especially we thank Thee for the spotless example of Thy servant,
whose illustrious career is to be commemorated throughout all time by
the monument we are now unveiling. We bless Thee that he was as
humble and simple in his Christian faith as he was great in his intel-
lectual achievements or pre-eminent in his world-wide fame. We pray
Thee that his memory as a Christian philosopher may be preserved in
imperishable freshness and force through succeeding generations, that
his influence for good may be ever extended, and that his example may
REPORT ON THE HENRY STATUE. XXIII

be followed as his serene fame excites the emulation of multitudes of
the interpreters of nature and of the teachers and benefactors of man-
kind.

And now, in anticipation of the general judgment, when in the res-
urrection the perfected Church shall enter the new heavens and the new
earth of the perfected physical universe, we ascribe unto Thee, at once
the Lord of nature and of grace, blessing and glory, and wisdom, and
thanksgiving, and honor, and power, and might, unto our God that sit-
teth upon the throne, and unto the Lamb, for ever andever. Amen.

ADDRESS
OF

Cr bY SUS hie By NW ACE EH.

On the 1st of June, 1880, at the instance of Mr. Morrill, of Vermont, in
the Senate, and of Mr. Clymer, of Pennsylvania, in the House of Repre-
sentatives, Congress authorized the Regents of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion to contract with Mr. W. W. Story “for a statue, in bronze, of Joseph
Henry, late Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, to be erected on
the grounds of the Institution”; and the Regents, availing themselves of
the presence in Washington of the members of the National Academy
of Sciences, with which Professor Henry was so prominently and so hon-
orably connected for many years, have asked you here to-day to witness
the presentation to the public of the result of what has been done under
this authority.

On the 10th of August, 1846, Congress established the Smithsonian
Institution, to take the property which had been given to the United
States by the will of James Smithson, of England, to found an estab-
lishment of that name “for the increase and diffusion of knowledge
among men.”

The business of the Institution was to be managed by a Board of Re-
gents, and they were required to elect some suitable person as Secretary
of the Institution. On the 3d of December, 1846, the Board met to per-
form that duty, and before entering on the election adopted the follow-
ing resolution :

“ Resolved, That it is essential for the advancement of the proper in-
terests of the trust that the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution
be a man possessing weight of character and a high grade of talent;
and that it is further desirable that he possess eminent scientific and
general acquirements; that he be a man capable of advancing science
and promoting letters by original research and effort, well qualified to
XXIV REPORT ON THE HENRY STATUE.

act as a respected channel of communication between the Institution
and scientific and literary individuals and societies in this and foreign
countries; and, in a word, a man worthy to represent before the world
of science and letters the Institution over which this Board presides.”

Immediately after the adoption of this resolution the Board proceeded
to the election, and the first ballot resulted in the choice of Professor
Henry, then occupying the chair of natural philosophy in Princeton
College. Experience has shown that the world possessed no better man
for such a place. He was all the resolution required, and more; and
from the day of his election until now, the wish has never been ex-
pressed that another had been chosen in his stead.

He accepted the appointment on the 7th of December, and on the
next day, the 8th, finished and sent to the Regents an elaborate paper ~
giving his views of the will of Smithson, and presenting a plan for the
organization of the Institution. He entered on the performance of his
duties on the 21st of December, and from that day until his death. on
the 13th of May, 1878, almost one-third of a century, he was engaged
in making the Smithsonian Institution what its munificent founder de-
sired it to be—an active and efficient instrument for the increase and
diffusion of knowledge.

The statue which will now be unveiled has been erected by the
United States as a token of gratitude for the labors of his useful life,
and for his faithful administration of the important public trust so long
in his keeping.
ORATION
BY

PR SED NE IN _OLACEL, PP) @ Bt Wy x0-E..

Weare assembled to complete the long series of public honors to the
late Joseph Henry by unveiling the statue which has been erected to his
memory. These honors have been manifold, but each one of them has
been well deserved and most cordially bestowed.

His funeral obsequies were attended by the President of the United
States and other officials of the Government which he had so faithfully
served, by representatives from the many learned and scientific socie-
ties of which he had been a conspicuous member and ornament, and by
a large following of those who honored and mourned him as a friend.

Subsequently a more formal commemoration of his scientific and pub-
lic services was held at the Capitol, at which were present the Execu-
tive of the nation, the Judiciary, the Senate, and the House of Repre-
sentatives. On this occasion a discriminating and sympathizing sketch
of his personal and public life was given by one who had known him
long and was singularly qualified to do him justice in every particular.
This was followed by other warm and eloquent tributes to his genius
as a philosopher and his excellence as a man. Memorable among
these were the ringing words of the noble Rogers, whose own sudden
euthanasia was like the translation of a prophet; and the warm-
hearted eulogy of the generous and glowing Garfield, whose noble life
was slowly wasted that it might measure the intensity of the nation’s
grief.

Many, if not all, of the institutions of the country with which Pro-
fessor Henry had a more or less intimate connection have also honored
him by records and estimates of his services to science, education, and
philosophy. The tributes to his honor from other countries -have also
been cordial and numerous. .

Last of all, the two Houses of Congress, with the approval of the
President, have ordered that a statue in bronze should be erected within
the grounds of the Institution, which was the creation of his genius
and industry, as a permanent memorial of his services and his worth.
This statue is now completed, and has this moment been unveiled to
public view. Weare here to receive the first impressions of this endur-

ing monument. which we trust will stand for many generations, to declare
XXV
XXVI REPORT ON THE HENRY STATUE.

the fame and attest the manifold excellences of this eminent servant of
science and benefactor of the American people.

The proprieties of the occasion forbid that I should recite the events
of Professor Henry’s life or attempt a critical judgment of his services
or his merits as a philosopher. To do either were superfluous, in view
of the accuracy and fullness with which both have been done by others.
All that I shall aim to do is to give a Summary expression to that esti-
mate of the man and his work which I am confident other generations
will accept, and which this statue is designed to suggest and perpetuate.

It is pleasant for us to notice that Professor Henry was born on the
eve of this century,eso memorable for the development of the sciences
of nature and their splendid applications to art; that just as this new
era was opening, the wonders of the physical universe were begin-
ning to be explored by the wondering eyes of our infant philosopher.
They were wondering eyes indeed, wakeful, sensitive, and responsive
from the first. It is a mistake to suppose, because Professor Henry’s
external circumstances were unfavorable to the early discipline of
books and the school, that his mind was ever crass and inactive. His
own testimony and that of his friends is positive that from the first he
was a sensitive and dreamy boy, who found enough in the common
earth and air, and the play of common scenes to stimulate his creative
powers and to furnish material for his long day dreams, :as he lay on
the sunny hillside and looked up into. the glowing sky. Against the
animalism and sensuality which are incident to an aimless youth he
was defended by the stern moralities and the wholesome religion of his
domestic training, enforced as these were by the economies of a
straitened but not ignoble household. Indeed, the household was far
removed from either. Were we curious in these matters we should
find that he was born of gentle blood, being of Celtic stock on the
mother’s side, running back through many generations to a noble house,
and preserving its coat of arms and motto, ‘‘ I fear no one, I despise no
one,” which this noble descendant never dishonored. His mother was
beautiful and refined and full of spirit, who had a home in Albany, and
but little else, when her husband died, the son being then seven years
of age. Before this event he had been removed to the country, the
mother’s original home, the family retaining their house in Albany as
their principal reliance. In this village young Henry was the pet for
several years, handsome, frolicsome, and venturesome on the one hand,
and dreamy, wondering, and self-reliant on the other, rejoicing in
adventure rather than in books, till a romance suddenly falling in his
way kindled his imagination, and unveiled human life as pictured by
the fancy with prismatic hues—awakening thus a brief passion for
fiction and the drama. The transition to the acted drama was natural
to his inventive and energetic nature, and for a time he delighted to
attend dramatic representations when at Albany for longer or shorter
periods, and to reproduce them at home, as his changing life led him
— ee oe eR

* REPORT ON THE HENRY STATUE. XXVII

from one occupation to another. If we connect these well-known facts
with what he himself has written of the elements and order of educa-
tion, we conclude that his early musings and questionings, his boyish
sports and adventures, were fondly remembered by him as the inspira-
tion of his rational and scientific life. ‘The cultivation of the imagi-
nation,” he writes, “‘ should be considered an essential part of a liberal
education, and this may be spread over the whole course of instruction,
for, like the reasoning faculties, the imagination may continue to im-
prove until late in life.” ‘Memory, imitation, imagination, and the
faculty of forming mental habits exist in early life, while the judgment
and reasoning faculties are of slow growth.” ‘The order of nature is
that of art before science, the entire concrete first and the entire ab-
stract last.” These are wise and weighty words, but they are of special
interest when we bethink ourselves that the writer, when he penned
them, was doubtless al] the while thinking of a dreaming boy, half
buried in the grass, looking up wistfully into the sky, thinking won-
drous thoughts too deep for tears, perhaps peopling with phantoms and
fairies that world of nature which he subsequently penetrated by those
wise questionings and ingenious theories which his sagacious experi-
ments turned into solid verities. He certainly could have been think-
ing of no one else when in the same connection he so positively affirms,
“The future character of a child, and that of a man also, is in most
cases formed probably before the age of seven years.”

From these musings he was awakened in his later boyhood suddenly
and abruptly, as by a call from nature herself. During a week of indis-
position, perhaps of serious reflection over an aimless and possibly a
tempted life, he was suddenly aroused by the consciousness that the
common phenomena of nature are the products of forces acting under
laws, and that it is possible for man to interpret these mysteries. It was
a simple sentence or two from a common-place though useful book, but
the thought in that sentence kindled a fire in the mind prepared for a
flame which was never extinguished. This thought held his attention;
it took possession of his memory; it quickened the imagination already
glowing with romances of another sort; it decided his life. These words
had been read and recited by thousands of boys before, but to this boy
they were spirit and life. They became a fire in his bones, and proved
the intellectual energy which had been slumbering within, by the force
of the reaction which they aroused. So definite was the impression
which they made, and so fervent and serious the resolve which they
called into life, that he promptly summoned his companions, that he
might solemnly announce to them his purpose henceforth to dedicate
himself to a priesthood of love and service at the altar of science. To
prepare for this service was no holiday work. His novitiate involved
labor and self-denial. He must earn the means which would buy not
only books and leisure and tuition, but also food and clothing. How
these difficulties were surmounted it is needless to recite. The story is
more or less familiar to you all.
XXVIII REPORT ON THE HENRY STATUE.

It is important to notice that this work of preparation was neither
‘hasty nor superficial. He did not rush with reckless impetuosity within
the temple, nor leap with a bound to the footsteps of the altar. He
mastered the geometry, without which Plato admitted no man even to
the vestibule of science. He became familiar with the Calculus, as the
magic spell by which to interpret her inner mysteries. Experiments
with that wondrous chemistry which was then at its most brilliant stage
of promise and performance fascinated and quickened his imagination
and his intellect. Each forward step was taken in orderly succession,
though each single step was the stride of a giant.

At the age of twenty-eight we find him a professor in the Albany
Academy, of which he had been a graduate, charged with the work of
teaching several hours every day, and tasking himself with burning
zeal over every possible inquiry in chemistry and physics. As we have
said already, it was in the brilliant dawn of modern chemistry. As
this new science steadily rose above the horizon, one new discovery
after another flashed its light toward the zenith and indicated its up-
ward path of triumph. In its train appeared those new and mysterious
agencies which were then just beginning to fix the attention and to task
the analysis of the oldest and the newest discoverer. To these novel
phenomena the young Professor Henry devoted his special attention,
and soon astonished the world by achievements which first awakened
the excitement of bewildered wonder, to convert it into the homage of
amazed conviction. There was nothing to be said when, as the plunger
went down into its bath, the impotent bar of iron became possessed of
a giant’s strength, and could pick up and hold a weight of more than a
solid ton, and as the same plunger was lifted this gigantic energy van-
ished as at the word of an enchanter. The speaker well remembers the
excitement which this discovery occasioned when the first experiment
was tried at Yale college, in presence of a few spectators who casually met
at the call of Professor Silliman, who was glowing with animation and
delight. The ponderous platform was loaded with pig-iron and other
heavy weights, with a few slight additions of living freight. Among
the last was the speaker, being the lightest .of all, and therefore con-
venient to serve on the sliding scale. It is more than fifty years ago,
but the scene is as vivid as the events of yesterday. The question went
around, ‘Who is Professor Henry, and how did it happen that nature
revealed to him one of her choicest secrets?” Thoughtful men asked,
‘What is this wondrous Protean force which he was the first to follow
in its sinuous hiding places and evoke by a magician’s wand; and
what are its relations to its kindred agents, and, above all, to the mat-
ter about us, which we can measure and weigh and see and handle?”
Others asked the still more important question, ‘‘How came the dis-
coverer to surmise its mysterious capacities and to penetrate to the
laws of its action?” To some it seemed but a successful guess by a
daring adventurer, a happy hit by a rude fumbler among nature’s tools,

—$—__

REPORT ON THE HENRY STATUE. XXIX

a lucky accident, like the drawing of a prize in a lottery. It was not
so with those who retraced the successive steps of close observation, of
sagacious interpretation, of boundless invention, of ingenious construc-
tion, of patient trial, of loving sympathy, which preceded this single
achievement, and all of which combined lifted at once this youth, hith-
erto unknown, into the rank of the most eminent discoverers, brilliant
as was their company then and since. This achievement was not soli-
tary. It was quickly followed by others almost as fruitful as the parent
discovery. Conspicuous among these were the possible and certain
application of the electro-magnetic power to distant communication, by
the alternate lifting and dropping of the armature, moving as a lever,
when conjoined with the indefinite linear extension and multiplied
intensification of the subtile and enormous agency. Herein was dis-
covered the scientific secret and the assured prophecy of telegraph and)
telephone, with their wonders of written language and audible speech.

From Albany, in the year 1832, Professor Henry was transferred to
Princeton, through the wise sagacity of our honored associate, Rev.
President John Maclean, and the generous and cordial recommendations
of some of the most honored leaders of American science. The step was
a bold one, and might seem almost rash, to transfer to a college a man
who had himself lacked the breadth of early culture and the discipline
and acquisitions of scientific thought which the college curriculum is sup-
posed to give. His insight into nature’s secrets might seem to be mag-
ical; but for this very reason could he share these secrets with his pupils?
Would not the very swiftness of his own processes of thought disqual-
ify him from imparting them to others? Would not the lightning
rapidity with which, as a discoverer, he had leaped from indication to
theory, and combined probabilities into evidence, hinder him from dis-
cerning that there were any steps in the process or any articulation in
the proofs? Whatever misgivings of this sort there might have been—
and the failures of many eminent scientists have proved that they were
not without reason—were all set aside by his acknowledged skill as an
instructor at Albany and his pre-eminent success at Princeton. Not
only did he give himself to instruction with exemplary zeal and pains-
taking, but he studied the theory of teaching as he studied electro-
magnetism, by reflecting upon its conditions and laws, and using wise
experiments in concrete applications. He did more. He used his
special studies as examples of general philosophical inquiry, whatever
might be the subject-matter, and sought by means of these to introduce
his pupils to the theory of inductive research and the nature of scien-
tific evidence, however these should be applied. This was a subject
which he had ever at heart—the discipline of the mind to a true philo-
sophic method, as the best preparation and security for sound science,
clear insight, strong convictions, and practical wisdom. But he was
none the less but rather the more active and enterprising in his favor-
ite studies, a living and inspiring example of scientific ardor, of wake-
Xxx REPORT ON THE HENRY STATUE.

ful enterprise, and unceasing experimentation. It would seem as
though every thunder storm brought him a new opportunity; every
gale of wind swept into his mind some new freightage of thought;
every apartment proposed or solved some problem in acoustics; every
- morning dawn waked him for some fresh experiment, and every even-
ing shut down the day with some new acquisition. His very house
was made an enormous electric accumulator and conductor of electric
energy. In all these varied avocations it was not in that he was busy
or many-sided that his marked superiority was seen, but in that he was
original, wide-minded, and persevering. His insight seemed to pene-
trate at a glance into the secrets of nature, and his capacity for saga-
cious hypothesis almost to call into being the forces which it uncovered
and to impose the laws which it interpreted. Besides this there was a
largeness and originality in his experiments which invested him with
the authority of priest and magician in the presence of nature. In all
combined there was the strength and simplicity of scientific genius.

This active and fruitful life continued for fourteen years, when, at the
age of forty-eight, in the year 1846, he was called to Washington as the
first Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

At first it might seem that a situation like this would be attractive to
any man, but on second thought many reasons would suggest themselves
why, to a man like Professor Henry, interested as he was in teaching,
devoted to research, and with the scientific world watching eagerly his
experiments, the attractions of the place should be scanty and feeble.
It is only when we learn how he regarded the possibilities and demands
of the place, and his own capacity and purpose to meet them, that we
can explain the readiness with which he responded to this call. The
Secretary was to initiate and control the policy of a novel institution,
with a handsome but not extravagant endowment given to the United
States, for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men. Loosely
interpreted, the terms of the gift might admit any application of pop-
ular usefulness. But when read in the light of the known tastes of the
giver and the previous bequest of his estate to a society which was se- _
verely scientific in its functions, and especially when interpreted by the
eminent need and certain usefulness of a special application, it became
clear to Professor Henry that this gift should be used exclusively in the
interests of the increase and diffusion of scientific knowledge. He fore-
saw and foretold that his theory would at first encounter active dissent
and opposition. He was equally confident that it would finally become
popular and attractive. Before he entered upon his duties the Jnstitu-
tion had been partially committed to another policy. It was not till
after eight years of discussion and reports in committees and in both
houses of Congress, in which some of the ablest and most brilliant mem-
bers were conspicuous, that the policy of Professor Henry at last pre-
vailed, and has ever since justified itself to the approval of the nation.
It was not because Professor Henry despised literature that he did not
REPORT ON THE HENRY STATUE. XXXI

favor the attempt to found a splendid library, for few men were more
sensitive to its charms or appreciative of its power. Much less that he
did not understand the value of a museum to an ardent interest in which
he was pledged by his fondness for natural history and his curious zeal
in ethnology and archeology, but because he saw a need and opportu-
nity for an institution that should be limited to the increase and diffu-
sion of scientific knowledge. Finis coronat opus. The experiment has
justified the theory. Not only have the workings of the Smithsonian
Institution vindicated the wisdom of his anticipations, but it is itself a
monument to his strong convictions and unyielding tenacity, tempered
as these were by singular simplicity, patience, and unselfishness. Had
it not been for these characteristics the Smithsonian Institution as we
know it would never have existed at all. Were it not for the modesty
of the man we could hear this statue speak as it surveys the scene of
his life-work, Si monumentum queeris, cireumspice. More than this should
be said. Every one of the great interests which were at first loaded
upon the Institution, as the National Library, the Museum, and a collec-
tion of Art, has in the end been better provided for and attained a more
vigorous growth or a more hopeful promise than had Professor Henry’s
policy failed. Had he relaxed from his tenacity, or had a man of less
commanding influence represented his opinions, these separate interests
might have foundered with the central bureau, or had the Smithsonian
Institution survived, it might have been what it seems to many a casual
visitor—merely a show place to stimulate and gratify an aimless curi-
osity, or in which to pass an idle hour of gazing and wonder—instead
of being what it is, a busy working place, where research is devised, di-
rected, stimulated, and rewarded, at which its results are reported and
thence diffused through the countless nerve centers which animate and
build the complicated organism'which maintains the scientific life of the
civilized world. In this organism this Institution holds a place and
performs a function which has no exact counterpart. It is a function
which is specially needed in a young and growing country like our own,
so vast in its spaces, so comprehensive in its geology, so varied in its
climate, so ample in its physical resources, so fascinating in its archer-
ology, 80 mysterious in its ethnology, so instructive in its history—all
the parts of which are connected by political bonds with its capital,
and respond with a more or less ready sympathy to the pulses of life
which throb at the Nation’s heart. It was no slight service which Pro-
fessor Henry rendered to his country as well as to the world when he
gave character and efficiency to this new agency in the life of both.

To mature and carry into effect the conceptionof such an institution,
with no model after which to copy, wasthe work of a master mind and
was worthy of a devoted and laborious life. That Professor Henry
gave to this work the best activities of more than thirty years no man
will doubt; that he was unwearied in his labors and cares, faithful to
the minutest details and energetic in administration, isconfessed by all
XXXII REPORT ON THE HENRY STATUE.

men. His official correspondence would have been burdensome had it
been merely a correspondence of routine, but much of it involved pro-
found reflection, productive invention, and the skillful enforcement of
principles. Into all these services he entered with a spirit which was
conscientious and patient in the extreme.

It would not have been surprising if his scientific ardor had thereby
been cooled, his invention had been limited, and his many-sidedness
had been curtailed. This does not seem to have been true. From the
beginning to the end of these more than thirty years he was almost as
inventive, ingenious, alert, and wide-minded as when he achieved the
triumphs of his earliest manhood. Though many of his discoveries and
inventions were in the line of his official responsibilities, they all bore
the stamp of scientific genius. During all this period, it should be re-
membered, the sciences of nature were making a progress such as the

world had never witnessed before—progress in every form, from the.

severest mathematical analysis, through the ever ascending steps of ad-
venturous speculation, up to the most gorgeous cloud-lands of theory.
Experiment, too, had never made such daring ventures, whether in
the form of applications to art or the determination of problems purely
scientific. With every one of these onward movements, whether of
theory or experiment, Professor Henry was in active sympathy. In
many of the most important he was the leader of thought and act, as
witness his place in the very earliest anticipations of the doctrine of the
correlation of force; his prophetic experiments and suggestions in re-
spect to the use of the telegraph in meteorological observations and the

reports of astronomical discovery; his devices to render available the’

reports and essays scattered over the scientific world by a systematized
bibliography; his long-continued researches in respect to light and
sound which were incidental to his official experiments as a member of
the Light-House Board; his comprehensive experiments inrespect to the
sustaining capacity of building stone; and his never-ceasing study of
acoustics in every possible production, prolongation, and disturbance
of sound, whether in his own parlor, in solitary walks, in fog or sun-
shine, or in travel by land or sea.

It was, as I have said, a great thing for science and for the country,
that in this formative and fermenting period such a man resided at the
capital and represented the interests of science by his official connec-
tion with this one nationad institution which was sacredly devoted to
scientific research and information. He had foreseen and foretold from
the first that Washington would certainly become a great center of sci-
entific activity; that it must inevitably be the residence and resort of
an increasing number of men of scientific tastes and pursuits. He had
tais in mind from the first, and uttered it as a prophecy, before his own
policy in respect to the Smithsonian Institution had been accepted, and
long before the signs had multiplied of its speedy fulfillment.

This fulfillment was indeed conditional on the continuance of the

Re aie i ein ee

REPORT ON THE HENRY STATUE. XXXII

nation’s integrity and the perpetuation of its united life. There were
times when this seemed doubtful, when from the Capitol itself, and even
from this Institution below it, there might almost be descried the threat-
ening lines and fortifications of those who would not scruple to sacrifice
both to the impetuous necessity of what was called lawful war. During
these years of agitating strife it was but the dictate of a well-poised
self-command which kept Professor Henry quietly at his work, with no
doubtful loyalty indeed, but in such singleness of aim, that when peace
was conquered it found né personal bitterness towards himself in the
ranks of scientific men. To his philosophic wisdom and his unques-
tioned integrity it may, in part, be owing that, after the centennial
anniversary of 1876, the nation was so ready to enlarge the appliances
of science and at the same time to commemorate its own continued
life by erecting upon these grounds, under the care of the Smithsonian
Institution, the splendid National Museum, which all delight to visit
and to praise.

The fact cannot be disguised that the devotees of science have aliena-
tions and strifes of their own, sometimes arising from personal jeal-
ousies and more frequently from opposing theories. Professor Henry
was lifted above all personal partisanship by the severe singleness with
which he devoted himself to his scientific and official activities. He
never sought for place or honor, directly or indirectly. He was fasti-
diously sensitive in respect to the appropriation of bis own inventions
by the production of a patent or a claim for extra compensation. His
salary was notoriously smaller than he might have earned in other posts,
but he never either desertéd his post, or asked for increase of pay. In-
deed the last was declined more than once when suggested by his friends.
It was only when his truthfulness was questioned in respect to one of
the most important of his discoveries, that he vindicated his claims te
scientific confidence. Whoever might be jealous of his fellow scientists,
no one could question Henry’s even-handed justice or his personal up-
rightness.

In the wars of theory against theory he was recognized as an upright
mediator, who thoroughly understood the criteria by which scientifie
truth can be established and would impartially apply them. If political
or ethical or theological traditions seemed to conflict with established
scientific principles or facts, he calmly awaited the issue and insisted
that science must have its rights whatever might be the consequences
to any received ethical or theological interpretations. Though his own
faith was fixed and fervent in respect to the leading Christian verities,
he scorned with all the energy of scientific integrity to apply these con-
victions as a test to any question that was properly scientific. It would
have been strange if a man who was always learning something new
had not modified his views of objective and practical Christian trath
with the progress of his mind and his manhood, but he would never
acknowledge any base compromise of sentimentalism or mysticism or

H. Mis, 69——111
XXXIV REPORT ON THE HENRY STATUE.

one-eyed dogmatism with the processes or conclusions of his scientific
thinking. Within the domain of Science proper he was a clear-eyed,
impersonal, and uncompromising arbiter and judge. Theorists might
complain, dogmatists might rage, zealots might bemoan, but not one of
them would dare accuse the judge of an ignorant or partisan decision.

The multitude of fancied inventors, discoverers, and projectors who
vame to him for help and encouragement, the crowd of scientific dreamers
who craved a favorable decision or official help or patronage, the scores
and hundreds whom he was forced to reject And disappoint often of the
hopes and dreams of their lives, these all felt that however mistaken
he might be, he was upright and kind so far as he knew. They were
always patiently listened to and gently dismissed, though they did not
always heed his benediction to go in peace.

For all these high and varied functions, in his high position, Professor
Henry had one supreme advantage, in that he had not only studied and
mastered so many of the sciences of nature, but that he made science
itself in its principles and processes the subject of his profoundest reflec-
tion. We have abundant evidence that from the time when he made
his earliest discoveries his mind was not content to search after the
secrets of nature without, but was equally curious to discover the secret
of the processes by which man interprets the forces and laws which
nature hides with such studious reserve. From the time when he began
at Albany till the end of his life this was prominently and avowedly
the theme of his constant meditation. In making this a study he was not
singular among eminent scientists, but only in that from the beginning
to the end this seemed to haunt him as the most wonderful problem of
all. This habit forced him to contemplate all the sciences of nature as
an organic whole, having intimate relations that are broader and deeper
than those which are limited to any single class of phenomena, It
forced him to study and question most closely the process of knowledge,
the sublimest and most fundamental phenomenon in nature, that he
might know how far to trust its products and by what criteria to test its
conclusions. We find evidence of this habit of mind in the questions
which he suggests in his earlier essays and in the partial solutions
which he gives in his miscellaneous writings. Such a habit would
insensibly train him to exalt the human intellect in its higher functions,
with its principles and laws, its axioms and intuitions, its theories and
anticipations, its forecasting questionings, its creative hypotheses, its
tentative theories, and its decisive experiments, and to assure himself
that an agent or agency such as this could have no affinity with matter
and own no allegiance to physical laws. Even in the suggestion that the
thinking agency which interprets the universe by authoritative question
and answer, could once have slumbered in a fiery cloud or could have
been evolved from any material mind-stuff, by any series of physical
processes, however daintily phrased, seems never to have been enter-
tained by him for an instant as having the semblanée of scientific prob-

Ss

lc lg, el

REPORT ON THE HENRY STATUE. XXXV

ability. And yet there is abundant evidence from his writings, both
early and late, that he was in no sense behind the times or ignorant of
the fascinating plausibilities of the-newest and the most fantastic of
theories. While he was almost the earliest in the field to formulate and
defend the doctrine of the correlation of force and to concede that it may
be applied to all the processes that are properly physiological, he was
equally sharp and positive in the assertion that the mental agencies of
every kind cannot be the correlate of any physical or biological agency.
He insisted with equal positiveness that the so-called vital force cannot
be the product of any mechanical or chemical activity, single or in com-
bination, |'ut must be a directive and constructive agent of itself. Later
in life he recognized the manifold indications of the presence of a law
of progressive variation in the history of animal and vegetable life, and
so far accepted evolution as a working hypothesis. But had he been
asked at any time whether evolution as a force or evolution as a law,

one or both, apart or together, could explain the origin of life and of

living men, of intellect and will and the capacity for science and faith
in science, I think he would have regarded the question somewhat as
though he had been asked whether he believed in the vortices of Des-
cartes or in Kepler’s directing angels. Had this doctrine been defended
in a scientific association, either in the soaring gyrations of winged
speech or the dry assertions of dogmatic positiveness, I am confident
he would have remanded its champions at once to the blackboard, and
have begged them first to explain whether evolution wvre an agent, a
force, or a law, and then desired them to identify it if it were an agent,
to define it if it were a force, or to formulate it if it were a law.
Large as was the sphere which he assigned to the imagination, and
important as the role which he allowed to hypotheses, he would bring
every theory, however brilliant and plausible, to the triple test of co-
herence, sufficiency, and experiment.

Forward and hopeful as he had been all his life long to follow the

‘fruitful suggestions of analogy, he never would allow this winged steed

to cross the chasms of scientific theory with any flying leaps, without
insisting that it should first fold and pack its pinions, and then carefully
retrace its steps along that hard pathway of fact and law which alone
can carry us safely from a scientific hypothesis to a scientific truth.
The science of America owes somewhat to his example and authority in
this regard, that its brilliant promises aud solid achievements have

_ been so far kept free from the speculative audacities and the physio-

logical cosmogonies from which the science of England and Germany:
has not been wholly exempt.

This, be it observed, was his position within the domains of pure
science. For the region beyond, whether it is called the domain of
philosophy or the domain of faith, let it suffice to say that he had too
positive a respect éor his own mind to doubt for an instant that this intel-
lect was the reflex df that supreme intellect which sustains and controls
XXXVI REPORT ON THE HENRY STATUE.

the universe which the scientist interprets. The existence of a per-
sonal God was accepted by him as a well nigh self-evident truth which
is as necessary to our confidence in scientific study as to our hopes for
man’s social and moral well being. The moral and spiritual capacities
and destiny of man were regarded by him as dominant facts and chief
ends in the universe made up of matter and spirit, facts and ends so
important and so pressing as to create the need and establish the truth
of the Christian’s faith and hope. He believed moreover in no inherent
law of progress in human nature or human society as such. On the
contrary he asserted often that our supreme hope of such progress, even
in scientific culture and achievement, must rest on moral integrity and
eulture.as the supreme conditions. In his closing address to the Na-
tional Academy he urged ‘* that moral integrity is essential to conscien-
tious fidelity in scientific research,” and added, ‘Indeed, I think that
immorality and great mental power exercised in the discovery of scien-
tifie truths are incompatible with each other; and that more error is
introduced from defect in moral sense than from want of intellectual
eapacity.” Tothe Philosophical Society of Washington he had designed
to give, as probably his last forma] communication, an address upon the
relations of science and religion, and also upon the true import of prayer.
This he was not permitted to do, but those who knew him best knew most
fully that in prayer he found constant delight and strength. Almost
the last lines which he penned contain a positive and tender yet ra-
tional confession of his Christian faith. Almost the last words which
he uttered were with tearful eyes and from q uivering lips, “Upon Jesus
Christ as the one who, for God, affiliates himself with man—upon Him
T rest my faith and my hope.”
Such a man was Joseph Henry. With eminent truth may we say of
him, as Wordsworth wrote of Milton:
Thy soul was like a star, and dwelt apart;

Thou hadst a voice whose sound was like the sea,

Pure as the naked heavens, majestic, free;

So didst thou travel on life’s common way,

In cheerful godliness; and yet thy heart

The lowliest duties on itself did lay.
For more than fifty years, the most memorable and critical which the
sciences of nature have ever seen, he has been indeed a guiding star to
their devotees in all this land, ever shining with a serene yet command-
ing light. During the critical years of its young and buoyant life,
American science has found much of the guidance and inspiration which
it needed in his childlike yet kingly spirit. And now as it rejoices in
the security of its position and its ever-increasing honors, it is most fit-
ting that its assembled representatives should here gratefully acknowl-
edge their obligations to their eminent benefactor and distinguished
leader, and cordially welcome this statue, which by its gmmanding pro-
portions gives new dignity to the ground so long honored by his pres-
ence and associated with his name. Long may it stand to express to

tt er Oe te

REPORT ON THE HENRY STATUE. XXXVII

them and to other generations the sturdy self-confidence, the keen in-

sight, the benignant spirit, the soaring yet docile genius, the self-rely-

ing yet devout temper which made JOSEPH HENRY a leader and com

mander in their conquering hosts. And as here by day and by night,
in sunshine and in storm, our honored friend shall ever as in his life-
time keep watch and guard over the scene of his cares and iabors, of
his conflicts and triumphs, so may his memory be kept in fresh and
grateful recollection by the coming generations. And as this Institu

tion, so eminently the creation of his mind, shall become more and more
busy in its activities and more and more conspicuous in its usefulness
and its fame, may the spirit of its eminent originator continue to inspire
its aims and direct its counsels—to the strength and glory of this nation
and the well-being of man.

To the well-being of man. For let us never forget that science knows
no nationality, least of all in this place and in this Institution, which
was the gift from the mother to the daughter land, whose sacred trust
and solemn duty has ever been, as it ever should be, to promote “ the
increase and diffusion of knowledge among men.”
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

MEMBERS EX OFFICIO OF THE ‘‘ ESTABLISHMENT.”
(January 1, 1884.)

CHESTER A. ARTHUR, President of the United States.

GEORGE F. EDMUNDS, President pro tempore of the United States Senate.

MORRISON R. WAITE, Chief Justice of the United States.
FREDERICK T. FRELINGHUYSEN, Secretary of State.
CHARLES J. FOLGER, Secretary of the Treasury.
ROBERT T. LINCOLN, Secretary of War.

WILLIAM E. CHANDLER, Secretary of the Navy.

W. Q. GRESHAM, Postmaster-General.

HENRY M. TELLER, Secretary of the Interior.
BENJAMIN H. BREWSTER, Attorney-General:

B. BUTTERWORTH, Commissioner of Patents.

REGENTS OF THE INSTITUTION.
(January, 1884.)

MORRISON R, WAITE, Chief Justice of the United States,
President of the Board.

GEORGE F. EDMUNDS, President pro tempore of the United States Senate.

NATHANIEL P. HILL, member of the Senate of the United States.
SAMUEL B. MAXEY, member of the Senate of the United States.
J. 8. MORRILL, member of the Senate of the United States.

O. R. SINGLETON, member of the House of Representatives.

W. L. WILSON, member of the House of Representatives.

W. W. PHELPS, member of te House of Representatives.

JOHN MACLEAN, citizen of New Jersey.

PETER PARKER, citizen of Washington, D.C.

ASA GRAY, citizen of Massachusetts.

HENRY COPPEB, citizen of Pennsylvania.

WILLIAM T. SHERMAN, citizen of Washington, D.C.

NOAH PORTER, citizen of Connecticut.

Executive Committee of the Board of Regents.

PETER PARKER. JOHN MACLEAN. WILLIAM T. SHERMAN.

OFFICERS OF THE INSTITUTION.
(January 1, 1884.)

“SPENCER F. BAIRD,
Secretary, Director of the Institution.
WILLIAM J. RHEES, Chief Clerk.
DANIEL LEECH, Corresponding Clerk.
| var

Fr as

i
;
j
4
REPORT OF PROFESSOR BAIRD,

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, FOR 1883.

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

GENTLEMEN: I have the honor to present herewith the annual report
of the operations and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the
year 1883.

This, in accordance with the usual custom, will include an account of
the work performed by the Smithsonian Institution proper, and also
that by the branches of the public service placed by Congress under
its charge, namely, the National Museum and the Bureau of Ethnology.
To this will be added a sketch of the work of the United States Fish
Commission, which is also under my charge.

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

INTRODUCTORY.

The principal points of interest to be considered in more or less detail,
apart from an account of the regular routine work, are the arrival and
inauguration of the memorial statue of Professor Henry, the recon-
struction in a fire-proof manner of the eastern end of the Smithsonian
building, and the use, under the authority of the Regents, of the halls
of the National Museum by the National Academy of Sciences and the
American Pharmaceutical Association.

The general progress of the Institution and its dependencies has been
very satisfactory. The funds are in good condition, those of the year
being sufficient to meet all its liabilities. The publications of the In-
stitution and of the National Museum have been much larger than
usual, and constitute an important contribution to theoretical and prac-
tical science. The labors of the Bureau of International Exchanges
have been more extensive than ever; the additions to the library have
been of unusual magnitude; while in no year of the history of the
Institution, with perhaps the single exception of the Centennial year,
have the collections received by the National Museum been more varied
and important.

THE HENRY STATUE.

Iam gratified to announce the completion and erection of the statue
of Prof. Joseph Henry, ordered by Congress in June, 1880.
Mr. Story, the artist, visited Washington last winter, and fully ap.
H. Mis. 69———1 1
2 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

proved the site for the statue which had been selected by the Executive
Committee of the Board of Regents.

It was deemed appropriate to have the ceremonies of unveiling per-
formed at the time when the National Academy of Sciences held its
annual meeting in this city, and April 19 was accordingly chosen. The

day was propitious, the attendance of distinguished men of science —

and an audience of ten thousand persons very gratifying, and the
ceremonies in every respect were successful and satisfactory.

The following was the order of exercises:

I. Mustc—Marine Band, J. P. Sousa, conductor, ‘*The Hallelujah Chorus.” (Mes-

siah.) Hdndel.
Il. PrayEr—Rey. A. A. Hodge, D. D., of Princeton, N. J.
Ill. Apprress—Chief Justice Waite, Chancellor of the Institution.
IV. UNVEILING THE STATUE.
V. Mustc—(Philharmonie Society and full Marine Band, R. C. Bernays, conductor.)
Grand chorus, ‘‘The Heavens are Telling.” (Creation.) Haydn.
VI. Oratron—Rev. Dr. Noah Porter, President of Yale College.
VII. Music—J. P. Sousa, conductor. Grand march triumphale, “Schiller.” Meyer-
beer.

A full report by the Executive Committee in relation to the statue,
with the addresses delivered on the occasion of its unveiling, accompa-
nies the proceedings of the Board of Regents.

It is proper to remark that the execution of the statue by Mr. Story
has added to the high reputation of that eminent artist, and gives
satisfaction to the family of Professor Henry to his former friends and
associates, and to the public, and contributes a notable addition to the
works of art which adorn the capital of the nation.

SCIENTIFIC WRITINGS OF PROFESSOR HENRY.

The Board of Regents having at its last meeting instructed the Sec-
retary to collect and publish the scientific papers of Professor Henry,
several assistants have been employed in collecting the material for
this work, and a large amount of manuscript has been prepared to be
carefully examined and edited for the press.

It is proposed to reprint verbatim all the contributions made by
Professor Henry to the Transactions of the Albany Institute, the Re-
ports of the Regents of the University of New York, the Edinburgh
Journal of Science, Silliman’s American Journal of Science, the Journal
of the Royal Institution of Great Britain, the Transactions of the Amer-
ican Philosophical Society, the Journal of the Franklin Institute, the
Princeton Review, the Smithsonian Reports, the Agricultural Reports,
the Proceedings of the American Association for the Advancement of
Science, the Proceedings of the American Association for the Advance-
ment of Education, the Proceedings of the American Academy of Arts
and Sciences, Appleton’s Cyclopedia, the Bulletins of the Philosophical
Society of Washington, the Reports of the Light-House Board, Johnson’s
Cyclopedia, the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, ete.

Besides these published papers, others in manuscript and extracts

_—=

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 3

* from his extensive correspondence will be collected, the whole forming
one or more volumes of the series of “Miscellaneous Collections.”
The printing will probably be commenced during the present year,
and it is hoped that the work will be ready for distribution at the next
meeting of the Board.

THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

The annual meeting of the Board was held on the 17th of January
last,-and a special meeting on the 19th of April, for the purpose of
attending the ceremonies of dedication of the Henry statue.

The resignation of Senator Hoar, of Massachusetts, asa member of
the Board of Regents, was followed by the appointment of Senator Ed-
munds, of Vermont, in his place. That gentleman, however, declining
to serve, Senator Justin S. Morrill was appointed to fill the vacancy.

The terms of office of the members of the Board from the House of
Representatives, Messrs. Deering, Cox, and Taylor, having expired
with the termination of the Forty-seventh Congress, new appointments
have been made by Hon. J. G. Carlisle, Speaker of the House, for the
term of the Forty-eighth Congress, viz: Hon. O. R. Singleton, of Missis-
sippi; Hon. William L. Wilson, of West Virginia; Hon. William Walter
Phelps, of New Jersey.

Provision for Acting Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.—In the
original law establishing the Smithsonian Institution the only officer
recognized was the Secrétary, and no action was valid excepting as per-
formed directly by him. In the event, therefore, of his death or disa-
bility, the operations of the Institution would be greatly embarrassed,
if they did not stop altogether; and it was for this reason that, on the
death of Professor Henry, in May, 1878, his successor was appointed
almost immediately. To provide for this contingency a bill was intro-
duced by Senator Hamlin, shortly after Professor Henry’s death, and
was, on’ January 24, 1879, enacted into a law, providing that “in the
case of the death, resignation, sickness, or absence of the Secretary of
the Smithsonian Institution, the Chancellor thereof shall be, and he is
hereby, authorized to appoint some person as Acting Secretary, who
for the time being shall be clothed with all the powers and duties
which by law are devolved upon the Secretary, and he shall hold said
position until an election of Secretary shall be duly made, or until the
Secretary shall be restored to his health, or, if absent, shall return and
enter upon the duties of his office.”

No appointment has been made under this provision until the present
year. The Chancellor expecting to make a long trip in the West, re-
quiring several wonths for its completion, and involving an interrup-
tion of mail or telegraphic communication of possibly a week or more
at a time, it was thought desirable that a provisional appointment of
Acting Secretary shouid be made in readiness for any emergency that
might arise. I therefore nominated for the position Mr. William J.
Ithees, the chief clerk of the Institution, who, more than any one else,
4 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

is conversant with its working and policy, and he was accordingly so’®
designated by the Chancellor.

FINANCES.

Nothing unusual has occurred in the financial affairs of the Institu-
tion. The principal of the fund remains the same as at the last annual
report, namely, $703,000, on which the interest at 6 per cent. is paid by
the Treasurer of the United States on the Ist of each January and
July.

The appropriation by Congress for the international exchange system
was increased last year from $5,000 to $7,500, half of which was available
in 1883.

The balance of the Smithsonian income on the Ist of January, 1884,
is $25,914.20, which will be required for carrying on the operations of
the establishment until the 1st of July next.

BUILDINGS.

Smithsonian Building.—In the last report an urgent plea was pre-
sented for measures to secure the removal of the old combustible and
decayed wood-work of the interior of the eastern portion of the Smith-
sonian building and the substitution of fire-proof materials. The Re-
gents having directed the Secretary to memorialize Congress on the
subject, the facts in the case and the arguments in favor of the measure
were presented by him. The result, I am happy to state, was the
appropriation of $50,000 “for fire-proofing the eastern portion of the
Smithsonian Institution.”

The preparation of plans, the details of construction, and architect-
ural requirements were placed in charge of Messrs. Cluss and Schulze.

Advertisements of proposals for the work to be done were inserted
in the newspapers, and the bids were opened on the 26th of April, 1883.
The removal of the contents of the building was soon effected, the offices
of clerks and others were transferred to the large hall on the first floor
of the main building, and accommodation for storage provided by the
erection of a temporary wooden shed on the south of the Institution.

The following contracts were awarded :

Description. Contractors’ names. Amount.
Seg CTE ah ape Ai ae | Thomas Norm@eds):-2- 2.00225. caeeeeee | $4,699 00
IBLiGk@WOrk =.=) bi ose as eas (John Mi ilowalsersice so. oleae or eee | 10,500 00
Iron roof and floor beams .-...| C. A. Schneider’s Sons. .......--------- 8,219 00
CupistOnes ee 2s cele meee coe eee Rees Eiviansiesee eee esc dae eee | 5, 157 00
rem ceiling 32. sh..2 oe Phenix Iron Company ..-.--...--------- 892 00
Water and sewer pipes. ...---| EH. A. Ridgway -.52-- .2.--.-2ss6--=---- 828 00
Slegiinite: se enc sl ed AMR Rendlactome ease (Med | 134 20
Durretiskylioht 3 sss Gh2 Ye O. 3a. W olfateinerse 2.2260 See beee ee eee 150 00
Enis Moto, WAR RSSs5SeassoSsec Bi. As Ridig wiayiec asec sane 450 00
Cloekipipes)--.- 2 esse once Wenzel Pneumatic Clock Company -.--.- 156 00
Iron isiateseweese sjsccte tek oe George White dé Coxtec <5 h-2eemaeee 948 00
PlaStOriN Siatea as wielaeawiacieck 2 == James Hoghes hoi ce. ae ne ce eel 1,532 00
Slatemoonne, (ove ee ce C.J. Panag asec. cae pees 454 00

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 5

The work has progressed satisfactorily and without interruption, and
the building will be ready for occupancy in a few weeks.

The appropriation was found sufficient to secure the fire-proofing of
the building, but a number of other desirable objects remain to be
secured, such as a heating apparatus, a passenger elevator, a freight
lift; the introduction of speaking tubes, electric bells, telephones; a
concrete floor in the basement, an underground communication between
the Smithsonian and the new Museum buildings, &c., for which an
additional appropriation of $15,000 has been asked.

As the whole interior of the eastern end of the Smithsonian building,
including both range and wing, was to be torn out, it of course became
necessary to provide accommodations elsewhere for the officers and
employés, and as already stated the lower museum hall of the center
building was made use of for this purpose. The table cases in the
alcoves were removed elsewhere, and the spaces fitted up for the pur-
poses in question. The Regents’ room was re-oceupied by the librarian,
and my own offices were established in the northwest pavilion of the
Museum building.

The greatest difficulty was experienced in properly providing for the
archives and the books and packages in storage. This matter was,
however, ultimately arranged, and with much less inconvenience to the
current work of the Institution than might be reasonably expected. It
is hoped that by the 1st of April, 1884, a portion, at least, of the recon-
structed part of the building can be occupied.

The principal work of repair in the main building has been the
renewal of the water-closets on the lower floors of the northeastern
tower of the central edifice, the old ones having become unfit for use.
Connections were prepared for closets on the upper stories of the recon-
structed portion, should they be considered necessary.

The west basement was provided with wire screens, dividing the room
into two apartments—one for the storage of bird skins, and the other
for alcoholic specimens of fishes.

National Museum Building.—This building continues to preserve the
reputation it has acquired as representing the maximum of convenience
and adaptation to its purposes with the minimum of original cost and
expense for repairs. The principal expenditure during the year for
the latter object has been made in the tinting of the walls, mending of
broken glass, occasional slight repairs to the plumbing, &e.

Some of the down-spouts carrying off the water from the roofs were
frozen up and burst during the cold of the past winter, causing leaks in
the walls, which have all been duly repaired.

Ever since the completion of the Museum building there has been
more or less trouble in regard to the drainage, especially on the west-
ern side, where the rain or melting snow banks up against the building
and soaking down enters the basement rooms, and produces very serious
inconvenience. Several temporary arrangements were made to obviate
6 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

this evil, but as these were not satisfactory, Colonel Rockwell, the Su-
perintendent of Public Buildings and Grounds, very kindly undertook
the work as a part of the general improvement of the Smithsonian
reservation, which is in his charge. A trench was dug, and the water
carried northward instead of discharging into an already overtaxed
sewer on the south side of the building. No trouble has been ex-
perienced since the work was completed, and itis hoped that there will
be none at any time in the future.

Armory Building.—This edifice has been used during the past year
mainly for the purposes of the United States Fish Commission. The
lower story has been converted into a fish-propagating establishment,
for the hatching of shad, salmon, and other food-fishes; and as a store-
house from which to distribute carp, black bass, &c. The second floor
is devoted to a series of offices, laboratories, and rooms for the mes-
sengers connected with the fish distribution service. The third floor is
used as a depot for supplies and materials, and the fourth story as a
storage room. <A large shed has been built on the Armory grounds for
the deposit of the collections from the International Exhibition at Phila-
delphia.

The entire reservation belonging to the Armory has been inclosed by
a high and substantial fence, and the interior space concreted, with the
exception of two oval spaces, in which it is proposed to construct ponds
for holding carp and other fish while awaiting distribution to distant
points of the country.

In these grounds are also two tracks connecting with the Baltimore
and Potomac Railway system, and capable of holding four passenger
cars or six freight cars. This is a very great convenience both to the
Fish Commission and to the Smithsonian Institution, as, apart from the
facility for distributing fish, it makes it possible to load and unload
cars containing collections relating to the National Museum or to the
Smithsonian Institution. The entire shipment of articles for the Lon-
don Exhibition, filing some fifteen cars, was,put on board directly
from the Armory yard, the boxes and packages being carried over by
the wagon of the Institution and loaded directly in place, thus greatly
facilitating the work.

In a similar manner the cars containing the return exhibits were
brought into the yard and the contents transferred either to the storage
shed adjacent or brought over to the National Museum.

Natural History Workshop.—This building continues to be used as a
workshop for the modeling of plaster and papier-maché casts of speci-
mens and for the photographic service of the Geological Survey.

The work of taxidermy has been removed in part to a temporary
wooden structure on the grounds east of the Museum. ‘The necessity
for providing suitable work rooms for the taxidermists has become very
great, and in connection with this, provision for the storage of alcoholic

Si

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. . 7

collections and for the packing and unpacking of boxes of specimens is
urgently required. Ihave therefore submitted an estimate to Congress
for an appropriation of $10,000 “for the erection of a fire-proof brick
storage building east of the National Museum, for receiving, unpacking,
assorting, and storing the natural history collections of the Government,
to replace the wooden structures now used for the purpose.”

Necessity for an additional Museum Building.—No better illustration
ean be had of the increase in the collections of the National Museum
than the fact that an additional building is urgently required for their
proper accommodation, as explained in the last report (1882).

In 1875 the collections then in charge of the Smithsonian Institution
were comfortably accommodated within the limits of the Smithsonian
building, in rooms having an aggregate area of 30,000 square feet.
They consisted principally of specimens of natural history and eth-
nology; confined almost entirely to North America, with the exception
of objects of Polynesian manufacture, forming part of the Wilkes col-
lection.

In 1875 an appropriation was made by Congress to enable the Smith-
sonian Institution and the Fish Commission to prepare an exhibit of
objects illustrating the resources of the United States, as derived from
the animal and mineral kingdoms, and, with the assistance of a special
appropriation to the Indian Bureau, of a collection of North American
anthropology. <A large sum of money was expended in the preparation
of this exhibit, which was forwarded to Philadelphia in 1876, and con-
stituted a part of the Government display which attracted much atten-
tion.

At the close of the Philadelphia Exhibition very large donations
were made to the United States by foreign countries, including both the
official commissioners and individual exhibitors. Many objects of much
interest were contributed on the same occasion from American displays.
These collections, filling some fifty freight cars, were brought to Wash-
ington, and were stored for a time in the Armory building, assigned by
Congress for their reception.

After several fruitless efforts an appropriation of $250,000 was ob-
tained for the purpose of putting up an inexpensive edifice for the
storage of these articles, and their transfer was begun in the autumn
of 1881, but little more than two years ago.

Since then large numbers of collections of very great importance have
come to hand, chief among them being the gatherings of the United
States Geological Survey, and of the Ethnological Bureau, made on a
scale of unexampled magnitude, and well befitting the operations of a
nation like the United States. The many scientific explorations, made
either separately by the Smithsonian Institution, or conjointly with the
United States Signal Service or other Bureaus or bodies, the work of
the Fish Commission, and the enormous aggregate of many smaller col-
lections, have tended largely to increase the material to be provided for.
8 F REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

In addition to this, the exhibition by the United States, at London,
of illustrations of its fisheries, (the freight bulk of which amounted to
not less than 24,000 cubic feet, and consisting, in very large part, of
new objects and articles, obtained at the expense of the appropriations
of Congress for that purpose,) must also be provided for; as also the
very valuable and extensive collections in mineralogy, geology, and
metallurgy made by the American Institute of Mining Engineers, and
presented to the United States, but stored in Philadelphia, awaiting
an appropriation for its transfer.

It may be stated in brief, therefore, that, at the present time, the vast
building, finished scarcely more than two years ago, is now filled to
overflowing; while there is additional material enough on hand belong-
ing to the Government to occupy fully half of a second building of the
same size, and with a probability that the entire space will be required
before the construction can be accomplished, even supposing that it is
begun at the earliest possible time.

The Smithsonian Institution has always acted in hearty co-operation
with the affiliated scientific branches of the Government even where
no official relationship existed, this being notably the case in regard to
the United States Geological Survey. This important Bureau, in the
rapid increase of its work, has been greatly hampered by want of the
necessary accommodations ; and it was with much gratification that the
Institution proffered a share of the new building to the Director, Major
Powell, for the accommodation of his collections, and for the office and
laboratory work. It was, however, unable to do as much as was desir-
able, owing to the inadequacy of quarters for the purpose.

Should an appropriation be made for the new building, for which the
Board authorized application to Congress, it is intended to share it with
the Geological Survey so that it may have all the facilities required for
its important work.

It will be remembered that Congress in the act of 1846 set aside for
the use of the Smithsonian Institution 20 acres in the southwest corner
of the square bounded by Seventh and Twelfth streets, and north and
south B streets, the center of the Smithsonian building being exactly
in the middle of the square. It was in the southeast quarter of this
reservation that the new Museum building was erected, forming a very
unsymmetrical annex to the original Smithsonian building. It is now
proposed to take the southwest corner of the reservation for the new
edifice, which, when completed, will be essentially of the general char-
acter of the present Museum building, and will restore the proper archi-
tectural balance.

Congress has now been asked to make an appropriation for one
wing of this new building to be specially fitted for the use of the offi-
cers and laboratories of the National Museum and of the Geological
Survey; and, if the amount can be obtained at the present session,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 9

occupation of the building can be assured within eighteen months from
the commencement of operations. The vacating of the rooms now oc-
cupied by the Geological Survey will also furnish much-needed accom-
modation to the Museum; possibly enough until the remainder of the
building can be provided for. The proposed wing, however, will be
complete in itself, architecturally, and will not involve any addition
for its proper harmonious effect.

MEETINGS OF SCIENTIFIC BODIES.

On the 17th of April the annual meeting of the National Academy
of Sciences was held in the hall of the National Museum, and, in accord-
ance with the authority granted by the Executive Committee, the same
room was also used by the American Pharmaceutical Association. The
meeting of this body, which lasted several days, was attended by a
large number of delegates, who found in the building all the accommo-
dations necessary for their purpose. A large floor space was vacated
temporarily and filled by the extensive collections brought for exhibition
on the occasion, and in many instances the Institution was able to sup-
ply empty cases, constituting a great convenience to the exhibitors.

The collections of materia medica belonging to the Museum were
greatly appreciated, and it was resolved that the collections of the
National Museum should be considered as under the special patronage -
of the association, and that all new preparations devised by members
of the association should be deposited therein.

Similar action was taken by the Association of Wholesale Druggists,
which met in New York later in the year; so that the collections of the
Museum are likely to receive great benefit.

The “Saturday lectures,” under the auspices of the Anthropological
and Biological Societies of Washington, were continued during the win-
ter of 1882-83. The following is a list of the lectures delivered :

On rivers. Capt. Clarence E. Dutton, U.S. A. January 13.

The races of men. Prof. Otis T. Mason. January 20.

Mountains and mountaineers of the Caucasus. Mr. George Kennan,
January 27.

Mesmerism in animals (with experiments). Dr. D. Webster Prentiss.
February 3.

Mythical animals. Prof. Theodore Gill. February 10.

Germs and epidemics. Dr. John 8S. Billings, U.S. A. February 17.

The plant life of the globe, past and present. Prof. Lester F. Ward.
February 24.

Pearls and pearl fisheries. Mr. William H. Dall. March 3.

Indian mythology. Maj. J. W. Powell. March 10.

Adaptation and interdependence between plants and insects. Prof.
C. V. Riley. March 17.

The teachings of paleontology. Prof. C. A. White. March 24.
EO Svs _ REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Human proportion in art and anthropometry. Dr. Robert Fletcher,
U.S.A. March 31.

Dr. D. W. Prentiss, of Washington, delivered, by invitation, a course
of lectures in connection with the department of Materia Medica of the
National Museum. The lectures were illustrated by specimens and
other material from the collections selected for that purpose by Dr. Flint,
curator of the department of Materia Medica. The following was the
programme:

LECTURE I.—Jntroductory: Remarks upon the general plan of the
National Museum. Description of the Materia Medica department ; its
high value for the purpose of study. Classification and arrangement.

LECTURE II.—On the classification of medicinal forms : Illustrated by
specimens. Exhibition of microscopical sections.

LECTURE II1.—Opium: Its value as a medicine. Cultivation and
statistics of consumption. In legitimate medicine. In patent medi-
cines. In opium habit. Exhibition of specimens.

LECTURE IV.—Cinchona: Natural history and sources. Native for-
ests. Cultivation. Artificial quinine. Alkaloids. Exhibition of
specimens.

LECTURE V.— Vegetable cathartics: Rhubarb, aloes, senna, manna,
colocynth, elaterium. Exhibition of specimens.

LECTURE VI.— Vegetable cathartics : Jalap, sceammony, gamboge, cro-
ton oil, podophyllum. Exhibition of specimens. \

LaorurE VIl.— Vegetable astringents: Tannie acid, gallic acid, nut-
galls, catechu, kino, krameria, logwood. Exhibition of specimens.

LECTURE VIII.—Animal products used in medicine : Cantharis (Span-
ish fly), coccus cacti (cochineal), castoreum (castor), moschus (musk),
fel tauri (ox bile), ichthyocolla (isinglass). Exhibition of specimens.

On the completion of the lectures by Dr. Prentiss, a number of per-
sons who profited by the occasion addressed a formal letter of thanks
to the Institution.

The annual address of Major Powell, the retiring president of the
Philosophie Society of Washington, to which the members of the An-
thropological and Biological Societies were invited, was held in the lect-
ure-room of the Museum on the 8th day of December. On this oc-
casion the room was lighted by the Brush-Swan storage-battery system,
supplied by the dynamo machine lent to the Institution indefinitely by
the Brush Company, of Cleveland. Several exhibitions of this light
had previously been made in the lecture-room under the direction of
Mr. A. A. Hayes, and the plant was left in the room for any subsequent
demand that might be made upon it.

The Biological Society has held regular fortnightly meetings in the
Museum lecture-room.

On the 26th and 27th of February an exhibition was held of the col-
lections about to be sent to the Fisheries Exhibition in London, which
attracted large crowds of interested spectators.

¥

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. EE
ROUTINE WORK OF THE INSTITUTION.

Administration.—No change of importance has taken place in the
personnel of the Institution during the year, and all of the several di-
visions have discharged their functions satisfactorily. The usual in-
crease in the magnitude of the work has, however, been strongly
marked, and this, in connection with the inconvenient accommoda-
tions referred to above, has naturally taxed the abihities of all con-
cerned to the utmost.

Correspondence.—The work in this department—steadily increasing—
is not marked by any special departures from its accustomed range.
The number of visionary projects and of novel or ancient scientific
speculations presented and urged for publication has rendered neces-
sary the following circular, to accompany the letter of reply:

“This Institution being in frequent receipt of communications an-
nouncing discoveries or theories supposed by the writers to be both
new and important, it should be stated that owing to the number of
such papers the usual course is to refer them to one or more specialists
in the particular subject discussed, and to communicate briefly by let-
ter to the authors the results of such examination. This may some-
times involve a delay of several weeks before the expected answer is
returned.

‘‘ In order to correct a very common misapprehension, it is proper to
state that the Institution has not offered any standing prizes for the
solution of difficult problems or for the discovery of new scientific
principles. The proper course for those who wish to obtain pecuniary
advantage from their supposed contributions to knowledge is to make
some practical application thereof, for which they may secure a patent
from the United States Patent Office. It may also be remarked that a
rule adopted by the Board of Regents forbids the Secretary or his as-
sistants giving, for personal benefit, an official se as to the merits
or demerits of ert ie or other projects.”

EXPLORATIONS.

A very important part of the work of the Smithsonian Institution,
representing no inconsiderable portion of its expenditures, consists in the
prosecution of explorations having for their principal object the gather-

ing of material illustrating the natural history and the physics of the
regions involved.

The hearty co-operation of the Signal Office and of other branches
of the Government, and the associated work of the Ethnological Bureau,
during the year have greatly increased the amount of research in this
direction, and it may safely be claimed that in no year in the history of
the Institution has more been accomplished. The actual expenditures
on the part of the Institution have amounted to $2,733.35, no incon-
siderable portion of the entire income, the largest amount expended in
12 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

any one direction being about $600, and from that down to very small
amounts. The results, however, are, in most cases, of a magnitude far
out of proportion to the cost.

A special report will be made by Mr. Goode, Assistant Director of the
Museum, upon the collections as such; my duty here being to present
the historical part of the subject, and to give the history and places of
operation of the more important expeditions. In doing this, as hereto-
fore, I take up the subject by regions, commencing with the circumpolar
area of North America.

Labrador and Newfoundland.—_In the report for 1882 reference was
made to the establishment at Fort Chimo, in Ungava Bay, Northern
Labrador, of an observing station by the United States Signal Office,
and of the detail of Mr. Lucien M. Turner, for many years in the service
of that Bureau. As on previous occasions, Mr. Turner was furnished
by the Institution with all the materials necessary to make collections
and observations in natural history; this, of course, in addition to what
was done for him by the Signal Office in connection with the more im-
portant object of his mission, namely, the observation of Buen yet ic
and physical phenomena.

As in many eases heretofore, the Hudson’s Bay Company extended
a hearty co-operation, in the first place, by authorizing the sending of
Mr. Turner to one of its posts, and then by taking him to destination
on its vessel and caring for him on hisarrival. Embarking at Montreal
on a schooner, Mr. Turner was transferred at Rigolet to the steamer,
and reached his place of destination. in due season. Some collections
made by him on the way were received in Washington in the latter
part of that year. Since then, advices from Mr. Turner to date of Sep-
tember 8, 1883, show that he has been very successful in his work, has
made continued and uninterrupted observations in climatology, and
has also collected very largely of objects of natural history and ethnol-
ogy. These were sent home by him by the Hudson’s Bay Company’s
vessels to London, where they were transshipped in bond and for.
warded to New York, coming from London by the Monarch Line of
steamers without any charges, in accordance with the courtesy of that
company mentioned in another part of this report.

Twenty-seven boxes and casks have been received from Mr. Turner,
containing rich treasure of birds and eggs, mammals, and marine ani-
mals, and many interesting specimens of ethnology.

Mr. Turner will probably return from his post of duty in the summer
of 1884, which will give him an additional season of research.

This portion of Northern Labrador has for many years been a region
of great interest to the naturalist and ethnologist; and Mr. Tarner’s
experience as a collector and observer will undoubtedly enable us to
solve, for the most part, the principal problems in regard to it.

Mr. Turner has also made arrangements to obtain specimens from
Eastern Labrador, especially at Rigolet, Nain, Ovac, &c.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 13

In connection with the researches of Mr. Turner in Northern Labra-
dor, it may be stated that the Institution, in return for the many favors
rendered by the Hudson’s Bay Company in that connection, offered to
present to it a series of his collections, to be sent to such point as it
might designate. Professor Dawson, of McGill College, of Montreal,
asked the company to indicate the Redpath Museum, of which he was
the director, as the repository in question. This was assented to, and
the Institution has promised that the collection shall be forwarded as
soon as the expedition is completed and the materials can be suitably
overhauled. ;

Dr. C. Hart Merriam, of Locust Grove, N. Y., one of the most ac-
complished of the young school of American naturalists, has been
very much interested in questions of the specific relationships and the
natural history of the American seals, and, for the purpose of studying
this group of animals, left his home February 21, 1883, and proceeded
by rail to Halifax, whence, sailing per steamship Newfoundland, he
reached Saint John’s, Newfoundland, on the night of March 2, after
passing through nearly 500 miles of ‘‘ pan-ice.”. Through the courtesy
of J. & W. Stewart, and the kindness of their manager, John Syme,
esq., he was accorded the rare privilege of visiting the seal fishery as a
guest upon their fine steamship Proteus, Capt. Richard Pike, master.
At 6 o’clock on the morning of the 10th of March the Proteus left, and
encountered a belt of heavy drift-ice near the island of Baccalieu,
remaining beset in the proper field-ice at 11 p. m. the same day. From
that time until the return no open water was seen excepting in narrow
leads and ice-holes, her progress being exceedingly slow, and she was
often nipped, and several times jammed in the heavy ice.

Seals were first met with in numbers on the 18th, in latitude 52° 42/
N. They were the large hooded or bladder-nose seal (Cystophora cris-
tata), and no less than a thousand were killed and hauled aboard that
day. When not beset, the steamer was among the “hoods” the greater
part of the time till the 29th, when the cargo was completed, every
available space having been filled with skins and fat. Returning in a
storm, during which the vessel, thus heavily laden, narrowly escaped
being swamped, the party re-entered the harbor of Saint John’s on the
1st of April. This trip was one of the quickest and most successful on
record, the skins and fat of 42 harp seals and 14,623 hooded seals,
weighing gross 6863 tons, being deposited in the company’s factory.

The results of this expedition, from a scientific point of view, were
particularly gratifying, the specimens obtained being of extreme rarity
both in the museums of this country and in those of Europe. They
consisted of the skins and skulls of 7 harp seals (Phoca grenlandica),
and 112 hooded seals (chiefly skulls) of both sexes and all ages. In
addition to these, Dr. Merriam had the good fortune to procure a full
grown foetus of the square flipper seal (Hrignathus barbatus), which is
supposed to be unique.
14 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Whatever of value may attach to these specimens is insignificant by
comparison with the importance of the very extended notes Dr. Merriam
was enabled to make concerning the breeding habits of the hooded
seal, and upon the structure and nature of their peculiar inflatible pro-
boscis or ‘ hood,” which is wrongly figured and described in all the
published accounts.

Greenland.—Previous reports make mention of the expectation of in-
teresting collections in natural history and ethnology on the part of
Lieutenant Greely and his Signal Service expedition to Lady Frank-
lin Bay, as they took with them a very complete outfit of apparatus
and supplies for natural history work. In the failure of the relief par-
ties of 1882 and 1883 to reach them, we are, of course, unable to form
any idea of what they have accomplished. It is to be hoped, however,
that the measures about to be taken for their assistance will be suc-
cessful, and that they will be found in the enjoyment of good health
and with ample results of their explorations.

It is generally known, of course, that the steamer Proteus was char-
tered by the United States Signal Office to carry Lieutenant Garling-
ton and his party to the north for the purpose of establishing con-
nection with Lieutenant Greely and his companions, and of bringing
them back to the United States. The Navy Department, at the re-
quest of the Secretary of War, furnished the steamer Yantic, under
Commander Wilde, as convoy and aid. Two naval ensigns, Messrs.
H. G. Dresel and A. Ackerman, who had been assigned to duty at the
National Museum, volunteered their services to accompany the Yantic,
and were ordered to her by the Navy Department as natural history
assistants. They were placed somewhat under a disadvantage by the
necessities of the service, but succeeded in making some very interest-
ing and acceptable collections ; Mr. Dresel devoting himself more par-
ticularly to natural history, and Mr. Ackerman to mineralogy and geol-
ogy. A number of well-filled boxes were brought back, and their con-
tents have been duly sorted and distributed in the collections.

Both these gentlemen were ordered again to the National Museum,
where Mr. Dresel is still engaged. Mr. Ackerman, however, volun-
teered for duty with the Albatross in her proposed expedition to the
Caribbean Sea, and is now on board that vessel.

Arctic Coast.~The most important exploration that has ever been
prosecuted directly on the Arctic coast of the United States is that of
the Point Barrow party, under Lieutenant Ray, sent up in 1881 by the
Chief Signal Officer for the purpose of taking part in the international
system of certain polar meteorological stations. Lieutenant Ray was
accompanied by Messrs. J. E. Murdock and Middleton Smith, as civil-
ian assistants in meteorology and magnetism, and also as collectors and
observers in natural history.

The expedition was organized in San Francisco, the last member of

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 15

the original party of ten reporting for duty on July 5, 1881, and it
' sailed from that city on the 18th of the same month, in the schooner
Golden Fleece.

On September 8 the vessel arrived at Cape Smyth, 10 miles from
Point Barrow, to the southwest, and it was decided to establish the
station here, as the ground at Point Barrow itself was unsuitable for
this purpose. The supplies of the party were accordingly landed with
all possible speed, on account of the lateness of the season, and on Sep-
tember 16 the schooner returned.

The house was finished and occupied October 3, and the regular
work of the station commenced October 17. The station received its
official name, ‘‘ Ooglaamie,” from an Eskimo village of the same name,
about half a mile distant. The expedition succeeded in obtaining a
continuous series of hourly meteorological observations from October
17, 1881, to August 27, 1883, when the party was recalled and the sta-
tion abandoned. Hourly magnetic observations began on December 1,
1881, and continued till the station was closed. The Ist and 15th of
each month were observed as magnetic-term days, the observations
being made every five minutes on these days. Numerous observations
were also obtained of auroras, tides, temperature of the sea and earth,
&e.

The zodlogical work was carried on assiduously when the season per-
mitted, and resulted in the securing of 497 bird-skins, comprising about
50 species, and 177 sets of eggs, mostly of wading birds; a small col-
lection of skins, skulls, and skeletons of mammals; 11 or 12 species of
fishes, not yet identified; a very few insects; and some marine and
fresh-water invertebrates. The plants of the region were careftilly col-
lected.

A considerable number of Eskimo vocabularies were obtained, to-
gether with a large collection of implements, clothing, &e.

The commanding officer made two expeditions into the interior,
which resulted in the discovery and partial exploration of a large river
flowing into the Arctic Ocean.

The Arctic whaling fleet visited the station, bringing mail, in the sum-
mers of 1882 and 1883; and in 1882 a relief expedition in the schooner
Leo brought supplies and reénforcements.

The steam-whaler North Star, of New Bedford, was crushed in the
ice near the station, July 8, 1882, and her crew were. received at the
station and cared for till they could be placed on board the other
vessels.

The station was closed and abandoned August 27, 1888, and the ex-
pedition proceeded on the schooner Leo to San Francisco, where it was
disbanded October 15, 1883.

Due report will be made by Lieutenant Ray to the Chief Signal'Offi-
cer of the meteorological and physical researches of the party. The
collections in natural history and ethnology just referred to are of the
16 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

very greatest interest and value, including large numbers of birds, some
plants, but principally rich in ethnological matter.

The National Museum has heretofore been much favored by ample
ilustrations of the life of the Eskimo of Greenland, of the Mackenzie
River region, and of Northwestern River from Kotzbue Sound around
to Cook’s Inlet. The acquisition of very large collections from Northern
Labrador, made by Mr. Turner, and from Point Barrow and its vicinity,
by Lieutenant Ray and his party, nearly completes the series, and
enables the Institution to claim for the National Museum the possession
of by far the finest series in existence of illustrations of Eskimo life.

Among the choice ornithological treasures of the Point Barrow Ex-
pedition are over 50 skins of Ross’s gull, a bird of which only a few
specimens are elsewhere known.

Alaska.—Quite a number of interesting collections have been received
from the different stations in Alaska, although not in such quantity as it
has been sometimes our pleasing duty to record. From Saint Michael’s
nothing has come in 1883; the exhaustive work, however, at that point,
first of Messrs. Kennicott, Dall, and Pease, of the Western Union Over-
land Telegraph Expedition of 1865, and then of Mr. Turner and Mr.
Nelson, has left practically very little to be accomplished. It is ex-
pected, however, that something will soon come to hand from the Signal
Service observers at that station.

It is with deep regret that I here record the death, by drowning,
April 19 last, of Charles L. McKay, in charge of the United States
Signal Service station at Nushagak, Fort Alexander, Alaska, and whose
important collection has been the subject of notice in several of the
previous reports.

He started on a tour of exploration to Cape Constantine on the break-
ing up of the ice in the river, and, returning, his boat was capsized and
he was drowned. The body had not been recovered at the latest ad-
vices.

Mr. McKay had been in the service of the Signal Office about two
years, having been nominated by the Smithsonian Institution, through
the courtesy of General Hazen. He was not only an efficient meteorol-
ogist, but also an accomplished naturalist, trained under the direction
of Professor Jordan. é

All the collections made by Mr. McKay at tbe time of his death have
been received, through the courtesy of the Alaska Commerciai Com-
pany, and properly disposed of. They include some very rare forms
of animal life, as also numerous ethnological specimens of much interest,
showing that the people in the vicinity of Nushagak are essentially
Eskimo, but somewhat aberrant in their habits from those in the more
northern localities.

Mr. W. J. Fisher, stationed at Kodiak, in the service of the United
States Coast Survey, has also continued his very valuable co-operation by
sending many interesting specimens of natural history and ethnology.

:
ey
ae

if

me

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. Li

Among his more recent transmissions are included a new species of
petrel, which has been named in his honor. Mr. Fisher is contemplat-
ing an extended exploration of the interior of Alaska at some future
day, and will doubtless make his mark, owing to his thorough prepara-
tion for the work. .

A few collections of a miscellaneous character have been received
from Sitka, although none of any particular importance.

Lieut. Commander H. E. Nicholls, in command of the United States
Coast Survey steamer Hassler, in the course of his labors in Alaskan
waters, during the year 1883, has utilized his opportunities, as hereto-
fore, in the interest of the National Museum, by collecting a large num-
ber of objects of interest and transmitting them to Washington.

Among the localties in the North Pacific Ocean least known to nat-
uralists are the Commander Islands (Bering and Copper), situated
about 70 miles off the coast of Kamtschatka, and forming a connecting
link between that mainland and the Aleutian Archipelago.

The chief interest of this group of islands lies in the fact that it was
the home of the great northern sea-cow (Rhytina gigas), a marine
mammal related to the manatee, and of enormous size, reaching a length
of 30 feet and a weight of several thousand pounds.

This animal was only known by civilized man for a small number of
years before its complete extermination, and more than one hundred
years must have elapsed since the existence of the last survivor.

The Smithsonian Institution has for some time taken special interest
in the Commander Islands in connection with the northern sea-cow ;
and also in the desire to determine what are the faunal and floral re-
Jationships between them and the Asiatic continent on the one side,
and the American islands on the other.

In the Report for 1882 brief mention is made of the opportunity which
presented itself for exploring the region in question through the court-
esy of the Alaska Commercial Company in offering its most liberal aid
in carrying out the undertaking.

The Signal Office also desired to have a station on the island and
another on the adjacent mainland of Kamtschatka, so as the more read-
ily to connect the observations of the Russian Government on the con-
tinent of Asia with those on the Aleutian Archipelago and circumpolar
regions, partly under its own direction and partly under that of the

Canadian Government.

Dr. L. Stejneger, an eminent Norwegian naturalist, at the time in
Washington, accepted the invitation of the Smithsonian Institution to
take charge of the proposed exploration ; and, as stated in the last Re-
port, he left Washington towards the end of March, 1882, expecting to
sail from San Francisco on the 1st of April. He was, however, delayed
for several days by snow on the line of the Union Pacific Railroad ; the
Alaska Commercial Company, with unexampled courtesy, holding their

~ vessel until the doctor’s arrival in San Francisco,
18 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Leaving San Francisco April 5, the doctor landed on Bering Island
on the 8th of May, and after starting work on the island proceeded to
Petropaulowski, where he spent several weeks in establishing a second,
class station, to work in connection with a first-class station on Bering
Island.

Dr. Stejneger spent the summer on Bering Island; and on ‘Auwaae
21 made a boat expedition around the island, Bepeaails for the purpose
of collecting the bones of the Rhytina. This work occupied twelve
days.

The winter was spent on Bering Island, during which time several
expeditions were made in dog sledges into the interior.

In May Dr. Stejneger proceeded again to Petropaulovski to inspect
the station, and made numerous collections) and observations in the
vicinity. In the summer he visited Copper Island, for the purpose of
studying the habits of the fur-seals, of which there are large rookeries,
worked by the Alaska Commercial Company.

Returning to Bering Island, Dr. Stejneger finished his work there,
and left on the steamer St. Paul for San Francisco, where he arrived —
October 29, 1883, and shortly after reached Washington.

The most noteworthy results of Dr. Stejneger’s expedition consisted—
first, of 4 more or less complete series of vertebre and long bone and
about 18 skulls of the Rhytina; second, 1 skull of a bearded whale,
and several skulls of three different genera of toothed whales, embracing
forms of great rarity, and previously unknown in the North Pacific;
third, three specimens of the Kamtschatkan mountain sheep; fourth,
about 700 bird-skins, including 7 adults of the great Kamtschatkan
sea-eagle, together with a large collection of birds of Kamtschatka and
the Commander Islands, some of them new to science; fifth, collections
of the fishes, marine invertebrates, &e.; and, finally, sixth, collections
of Tertiary fossils.

A considerable number of the water birds and fishes of the Com-
mander Islands are supposed to be identical with, or else very closely ©
related to, those of Alaska on the one side and Kamtschatka on the
other; the precise determination of this fact, however, depending upon
a careful comparison of specimens.

No museum in the world has heretofore furnished the opportunity
which is now presented in the National Museum for making final decis-
ion ou these doubtful points.

Dr. Stejneger makes mention in his report of the most liberal and
generous aid rendered by Messrs. Hutchinson, Kohl, Philippeus & Co.,
as well as by the Alaska Commercial Company and their employés, that
was Shown him in every possible way, including free passage to and from
the islands and quarters during his stay.

He also especially mentions in the same connection Mr. N. Gr ebnitsky, _
manager on the part of the Russian Government of the Commander
Islands, for valuable assistance and liberality in adding many of the
most interesting specimens to his collection.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 19

British Columbia, Washington, and Oregon.—Much the most important
research prosecuted under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution
was that by Mr. James G. Swan in the Queen Charlotte Islands. The
aid rendered by Mr. Swan to the Institution in its various enterprises
is mentioned in many of the preceding annual reports; for more than
a quarter of a century his contributions having been most noteworthy.
To him we owe very extensive collections illustrating the life and work
of the Indians of Puget Sound, as also everything relating to the fish-
eries of that region, whether prosecuted by the savage or the white man.
The aboriginal fishery implements collected by Mr. Swan and exhibited
by the United States at Berlin and London attracted very great atten-
tion.

During the past year the Institution was enabled, by the appropria-
tion for the prosecution of ethnological researches, to send Mr. Swan
on an extended exploration of the Queen Charlotte Islands—a region
of which but little has hitherto been known. Such is the ease of com-
munication with Alaska and the adjacent regions at the present time,
and such the extent of travel in that direction, that objects of native
manufacture, whether prehistoric or modern, are becoming extremely
scarce and very costly. As these characteristics increase day by day,
there is, of course, no time to be lost in securing that complete repre-
sentation required fur the service of the National Museum in Wash-
ington.

Fortunately for this object, the Queen Charlotte Islands have been
more out of the way of travel, and much less well known; and Mr.
Swan, with the hearty co-operation of officers of the Hudson’s Bay
Company, especially of Mr. George, was able, at reasonable rates, to
secure a collection of extraordinary magnitude and interest. This, fill-
ing some thirty boxes, has reached Washington, and is now being cata-
logued and arranged. It includes a full series of everything relating
to the life and customs of the Indians, and especially to the modes and
results of their fishing, which of course constitute a very prominent
feature in their life.

One of the most important results of Mr. Swan’s work was the dis-
covery of the use of a fish of great food vaiue, known as the Beshowe,
or black cod. This is the Anoplopoma jfimbria of ichthyologists, and
is in no way related to the cod, although improperly so called. It
is an extremely abundant fish, easily caught, and when salted keeps
well, and is very palatable. Specimens sent by the United States Fish
Commission to Boston were smoked and pronounced to be superior to
the halibut similarly treated. It is not improbable that an extensive
eastern demand can be established for this fish.

Capt. Charles Bendire, whose official co-operation in the work of the
‘Smithsonian Institution has been already referred to, has, during the
year, made some interesting collections at Fort Klamath and forwarded
them to the Institution,
20 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

California.—As usual, the collections from California have been of
much importance, and furnish material not only for the reserve collec-
tions of the National Museum, but also for distribution and exchange.

The most important collection was furnished by Mr. Charles H. Town-
send, an employé of the United States Fish Commission at the salmon
hatchery on the McCloud River. Large collections of birds and their
eggs, skins of mammals, specimens of reptiles and fishes, fossil re-
mains, &c., have all been sent in large quantity, furnishing the means
for an elaborate monograph of the animal productions of Shasta County.
Mount Shasta itself was visited, and the distribution of animal life
earetully noted. Mr. Livingston Stone, who has charge of the salmon
hatchery, also made some important contributions.

From Mr. J. J. McLean, Signal Service observer at Cape Mendocino,
were received some very desirable collections ; and Mr. k. EK. C. Stearns
also furnished large numbers of antiquities, as well as of recent shells.

Lower California, Arizona, and New Mexico.—The explorations of this
region by the several correspondents of the Institution have furnished
some valuable matter, especially the gatherings of Mr. L. Belding in
the vicinity of the Gulf of California.

Nearly a quarter of a century ago Mr. John Xantus, an accomplished
naturalist and collector, prosecuted an extended exploration to Cape
Saint Lucas and the southern end of the Gulf of California, in the in-
terest of the Smithsonian Institution. The additions made by that
gentleman to our knowledge were of the utmost interest and impor-
tance.

Since then almost nothing has been done in that region until in 1881,
when, at the suggestion of the Institution, Mr. L. Belding, of Califor-
nia, undertuok to revisit the same region, with a view of ascertaining
what changes, if any, had occurred since the time of Mr. Xantus, and
whether any additional facts or species could be obtained.

Starting on his mission in 1881, Mr. Belding was occupied at La Paz
for about three months, from the middle of December to the middle of
March, making side trips to Espiritu Santo and other points in the
vicinity.

He then proceeded to Cape Saint Lucas by steamer, and from there to
San José, where he remained until May 18, with occasional excursions
to Miraflores, after which he returned to California.

During this time Mr. Belding gathered a great many extremely ac-
ceptable specimens, which were duly transmitted to the Smithsonian
Institution. He ascertained that most of the species which were found
by Mr. Xantus, and supposed to be peculiar to Cape Saint Lucas, had
quite an extended distribution northward, although he was unable to
define exactly their limitations. :

His collections included all kinds of animals, even to the marine
invertebrates, some plants, and some very interesting archwological
objects,

se!
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 21

' During a good part of the time his hands were disabled by contact
with the spines of the cactus, and he was consequently unable to use
them in preparing skins of birds to the extent he desired.

Mr. Belding revisited Lower California in 1882—83, arriving at Guay-
mas on December 7, during which time he collected extensively in the
vicinity.

From La Paz he went to San José del Cabo, and then proceeded
to Laguana for the purpose of making explorations in the Victoria
Mountain.

On February 15, having been joined by Dr. Ten Cate, a naturalist
acting in behalf of the museums of Leyden, Holland, and who had
previously been in Washington, he proceeded to a point about 50
miles north of San José, in search of aboriginal ruins as well as of objects
of natural history. They explored the region pretty thoroughly, and
ascended the mountain, 4,500 feet in height.

In the beginning of March the two gentlemen again started from La
Paz to various points on the coast, among them Ballena, Las Paritas,
San Antonio, San Jacinto, &c. In the course of the expedition they

‘found some aboriginal remains of much interest, of which series were
collected and sent to Washington.

Among the aboriginal remains were some curiously-marked rock
paintings, which attracted much interest.

On March 23 Mr. Belding returned to Guaymas, from which point he
was obliged by illness to return home to California.

Mr. Emerich, of Guaymas, has also laid the Institution under obli-
gations by transmitting a collection of stone implements of very re-
markable character, and from some regions previously unrepresented,

Mr. H. H. Rusby has completed his proposed explorations in Ari-
zona, especially in connection with its botany. <A series of his collee-
tions has been furnished the National Museum, as also a collection of
photographs representing the geological and archeological features of
the country.

From the remaining portions of the United States, collections have
been received from many points, and representing more or less valua-
ble material in archeology, natural history, mineralogy, and geology.
These will all be duly noted in the report of the assistant director,
Mr. Goode.

Parties of the Geological Survey, under Major Powell, have secured
an immense number of specimens—those of fossils and rocks by the
ton. The extensive collections in anthropology made by Mr. James
Stevenson in New Mexico have not yet been received.

A large collection of fossils, reptiles, and fishes has been furnished
by Mr. George Stolley, of Austin, Tex.

Dr. Shufeldt, of the Army, while stationed at Jackson Barracks, near
New Orleans, devoted himself to the complete exploration of the nat-
ural history of that region; his collections being especially rich in rep-
o9 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

tiles, fishes, and insects. He also secured some desirable objects from
the mounds in the vicinity.

Mr. A. A. Robinson, chief engineer of the Atchison, Topeka and
Santa Fé Railway, presented eighteen boxes of samples of the building
stones found along the line of the railway mentioned, constituting a
very important addition to the building stone department of the Na-
tional Museum.

An almost equally valuable collection of building stones from North
Carolina was presented by Professor Kerr.

Additional collections of fossils, bones, &c., were furnished by Mr.
Jrooks, of New Iberia, La.

The Atlantic seaboard.—From the Atlantic coast of the United States
the most important collections have been those of the United States
Fish Commission, ard especially from the work of the steamer Alba-
tross. These embrace a vast variety of animal species for the most
part taken in depths down to 3,000 fathoms. Over thirty new species
of deep-sea fishes, of remarkable character, were obtained during the

season. It is, of course, understood that the main researches into the

temperatures, depths, salinity of water, and other indications were car-
ried on, as well as the collection of specimens.

A most important research into the natural history of the Atlantic

coast of the United States has been carried on by the Institution with
the co-operation of Mr. S. lL. Kimball, Superintendent of the Life-Sav-
ing Service. In the early part of the year circulars from the Institu-
tion were distributed by Mr. Kimball, which asked for telegraphic
notification of the occurrence or capture of any remarkable marine ani-
mal, and its careful preservation until word could be received from the
Institution in regard to it.

The arrangement made by the Superintendent of the Life-Saving
Service, early in the year, for the telegraphic announcement to the
Smithsonian Institution, of the stranding of marine animals has already
been productive of important results. The series of specimens thus
far received is inevery way remarkable, and should the system continue
to be so productive it is impossible to say what good may not result to
zoology. ‘The first specimen received was that of a shark (Pseudotriacis
microdon) from station No. 10, at Amagansett, N. Y., Mr. Joshua B.
Edwards, keeper. This species had hitherto been captured only off
the coast of Portugal, and its discovery in our waters was a matter of
great interest to American ichthyologists. The only specimen known
to be preserved besides this one is the type of the species.

Shortly after this shark was received a still more remarkable animal
was announced from station No. 8, at Spring Lake, New Jersey, Mr.
Henry 8S. Howland, keeper. This was a pigmy sperm whale, entirely
new to the North Atlantic, and apparently new to science as well. It
has been provisionally named Kogia Goodei. —

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 23

Few specimens of this genus have ever been collected, and these from
the most remote parts of the globe, some from New Zealand, and one
from Mazatlan at the entrance of the Gulf of California. These animals
resemble the great sperm whale, to which they are closely related, but
do not seem to attain a length of more than nine or ten feet, and are
truly the pygmies of their race. The New Jersey specimen was pecu-
liarly interesting in that it was a female with young. In dissecting
the animal a foetus fully three feet long was found, which is probably
the first ever seen by the naturalist.

The enthusiasm aroused by the arrival of this specimen had scarcely
abated when the stranding of another cetacean was announced from
station No. 17, at Barnegat City, N. J.. Mr. J. H. Ridgway, keeper.
This remarkable animal floated in upon the tide and was secured
by Mr. Ridgway and his crew after considerable exertion. The cura-
tor of mammals and an assistant were dispatched from the National
Museum, and a cast of the exterior was made and the skeleton prepared
for shipment to Washington. As the huge animal lay upon the sand,
the question of its identity proved quite a puzzling one to the zodlogist
who viewed it, but when the skull was cut out, it was at once apparent
that the animal belonged to the whales known as the Ziphioids, and
probably to the species Ziphius cavirostris, an animal for which no com-
mon name exists, but which may be termed a bottle-nosed whale. It
is probably the second specimen ever taken on the coast of the United
States. Ziphioid whales have a most interesting history. In ages
past they were very abundant, perhaps as much so as the common por-
poises of to-day, but at present only stragglers are found in remote
quarters of the globe. It would seem as if they were but the surviv-
ing relics of a great race which sprung into existence, reached the
maximum of its abundance, and declined long ages before man ap-
peared on earth.

From the station No. 25, at Fire Island, New York, Mr. Daniel S.
Hubbard, keeper, and the station, No. 37, at Turtle Gut, New Jersey,
Mr. Uriah Cresse, keeper, came two specimens of a porpoise, which,
unlike the cetaceans which have been already referred to, is of common
occurrence on our Atlantic coast and is probably also represented in
European waters. The casts, however, which the National Museum was
enabled to make are probably the first of the species in any museum
in the country, and with the skeletons which were preserved form an
excellent basis for comparison with other forms. The animal is com-
monly known as the bottle-nose dolphin, and is identical with or closely
allied to the species Tursiops truncatus.

In addition to the shark previously mentioned, several peculiar and
interesting fishes have been received. Among these is a fish known as
the “star gazer” (Astroscopus anoplus) from station No. 6, at Deal’s
Island, North Carolina, Mr. Malachi Corbel, keeper. The “ star gazer”
24 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

is a southern species which occasionally strays northward as far as
Cape Cod, but it is very rarein museums. A very closely allied species
(Astroscopus y-grecum) is said to possess electrical powers in life.

From station No. 2, at Point Judith, Rhode Island, Mr. Herbert M.
Knowles, keeper, was received a specimen of the ‘‘lumpfish.” The
“lumpfish” as a rule is an inhabitant of colder waters than that in
which it was found. The “flute mouth” (Fistularia serrata), from the
same station, is a very rare species on our coast. The angel-fish (Pom-
acanthus aureus) taken at Barnegat City, N. J., has not been known
hitherto north of Florida.

In several cases, too, the keepers of the light-houses have rendered
services similar to those of the officers of the life-saving stations, nota-
bly Mr. Burnham, of the Cape Canaveral light-house, who, at therequest
of General O. E. Babcock, light-house inspector, collected the skulls and
bones of a large number of sperm whales, and transmitted them to the
Institution. The keeper of the light-house at Monomoy Point, on Cape
Cod, enabled the Institution to secure the first specimen recorded on the
coast of the United States of the small fin-backed whale, Balenoptera
rostrata.

Mexico.—Since the completion of the railway lines on the southern
border of the United States, and extending into Mexico, access has
been easy to an extremely interesting region hitherto more or less
inaccessible, and several parties have asked and obtained assistance
of the Smithsonian Institution in carrying on their researches. Among
these Mr. H. H. Rusby, of New Jersey, with quite a large party, visited

yarious parts of Mexico and Arizona, more particularly in search of
botanical novelties. He made a large coliection of photographs of the
ancient ruins, of which a series has been presented to the National Mu-
seum. The facilities extended by the Institution consisted principally
in the way of free passes, obtained especially for the occasion, and of
transportation of specimens from various points to Washington.

Another expedition of a similar character has been arranged for dur-
ing the year, under the direction of Mr. C. G. Pringle, of Charlotte, Vt.
This gentleman, who is well known as a botanist, will visit Northern
Mexico, and in return for the facilities extended him by the Institution
will supply a series of his duplicates.

Yucatan.—Mr. George F. Gaumer, formerly of Santa Fé, N. Mex.,
but more recently of Kansas City, Mo., resided for a number of years in
Yucatan, engaged for the most part in making collections of specimens
of natural history. He returned to New York with a large collection,
especially of birds, many of which proved to be of new species. Mr.
Gaumer has recently been appointed United States consular agent at
Campeche, to which point he will proceed early in the coming year, and
it is hoped to secure his services in completing the collections of the nat-
ural history of Yucatan already in possession of the National Museum.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 25

Central America.—By far the most important collections received
from this region is the series of casts from squeezes taken by Mr. Char-
nay in the course of his explorations of Mexico and Central America,
prosecuted largely at the expense of Mr. Pierre Lorillard, of New York.
It is well known that Mexico and several States of Central America
prohibit absolutely the removal from their borders of native antiquities,
and it has, therefore, become almost impossible, even as a smuggling
operation, to take away any but the smaller and more portable objects.
Mr. Charnay, however, was permitted to copy what he pleased, and in
the vicinity of the ruins of Palenque, Uxmal, and other localities he suc-
ceeded in obtaining the material with which, on his return to Paris, he
made two sets of casts. Of these, one became the property of the
French Government, and the other of Mr. Lorillard, who kindly trans-
ferred it to the National Museum, and paid the expenses of a suitable
person to accompany the specimens from Paris to Washington, and to
erect them in a room assigned for the purpose. This room has been
made the depository of all other collections of a sinniar character from
the same region. These include a large number of statues obtained
along the line of the Costa Rica Railroad, and supplied by Mr. Minor
C. Keith, engineer of the road. Statues obtained in the same region
have also been supplied by Mr. Nutting and Mr. Harrington.

A very important exploration of Central America, carried on under
the direction of the Institution, was conducted by Prof. Charles H. Gil-
bert and Mr. C. C. Nutting, both aided in every possible way, first by
the issue of free passes on the part of the Pacific Mail Steamship Com-
pany, and then by the hearty co-operation of Capt. John M. Dow, the
agent of that company at Panama. Mr. Gilbert devoted himself to the
study of the ichthyology of the two shores of the isthmus, and collected
a large number of species, including many new to science. These were
by permission taken to the State University at Bloomington, Ind.,
where, unfortunately, they were nearly all destroyed by the disastrous
fire in which the museum of the university was consumed.

Mr. Nutting’s work was prosecuted mainly in Costa Rica, and he
brought back a valuable collection of birds and other objects, as well as
some extremely interesting antiquities. Among these was a large stone
image, nearly perfect in its character. His most important acquisitions
were made on the San Juan River, at which point six new species of
birds were secured.

Mr. J. C. Zeledon, of San José, Costa Rica, also furnished a continu-
ation of the results of his extensive explorations into the natural history
of his native country.

A large collection of pottery, stone implements, and some of metal,
made in Chiriqui, by Mr. James McNeill, was received by the Institu-
tion during the year.

The services of the United States Government were invoked by
Guatemala in the selection of an astronomer to take charge of the run-
26 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

ning of a boundary line between that country and Mexico, and to rep-
resent it officially on that occasion. Prof. Miles Rock, of the Washing-
ton Observatory, was selected for the position in question, and kindly
offered his services to the Institution in any practicable way that might
be designated.

As itis believed that the region to be traversed by the commission
contains many interesting archeological remains, Professor Rock was
requested to secure photographs or drawings of as many of these as
possible, as well as to obtain any portable specimens. ‘To this he
kindly assented, and on his departure, in mid-summer, he carried with
him a photographic outfit, furnished by the Institution. Much is ex-
pected from Professor Rock’s labors, as he is an accomplished specialist,
as well as being versed in photographic manipulation.

South America.—Not much material of importance has come to hand
from South America, with the exception of a large collection of rare
and remarkable Peruvian pottery, presented by Mr. W. W. Evans.
Lieutenant Very, of the Navy, also furnished some specimens from
Patagonia.

Japan, China, and Corea.—In previous reports reference has been
made to the important work prosecuted by Mr. P. L. Jouy in China, a
region first visited by him in connection with the service of the United
States steamer Palos. After the completion of his engagement on the
Palos, Mr. Jouy remained in Japan, where, with the kind aid of Messrs.
Owston, Snow & Co., he was enabled to prosecute his explorations im
certain litth-known portions of the empire. The collections sent by
him relate to all branches of zodlogy as well as to archeology, and have
proved to be of extreme interest. Through his exertions the National
Museum now possesses very good collections of the birds of Japan, the
fishes, in large part, having previously been received through the mu-
seum at Tokio.

On the opening of intercourse with Corea, Mr. Jouy accompanied
Minister Foster, and was enabled to obtain facilities for further re-
search, the results of which have not been received. Ensign Bernadou,
one of the naval officers detailed by the Department for service in the
National Museum, volunteered for service in Corea, and was ordered
thither by the Department, to prosecute his explorations under the

auspices of the Smithsonian Institution. Well trained in chemistry,

mineralogy, and geology, Mr. Bernadou expects to make some impor-
tant researches in those branches, as well as in anthropology and gen-
eral natural history.

Other Countries.—The collections from the other parts of the globe
have not been of much importance, in view of the fact that the Institu-
tion occupies itself but little in explorations in the Old World, believing
that this is best done by agencies in Europe. Collections in materia

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 27

medica have been received from the Government authorities in Cal-
cutta and Madras, as also from the directors of the museum at Kurra-
chee, in India.

During the performance of his functions as Fishery Commissioner to
the London Fishery Exhibition, Mr. Goode, Assistant Director of the
National Museum, obtained a number of desirable collections in ex-
change, and these have added materially to our knowledge, especially
of the ichthyology of Europe. ©

PUBLICATIONS.

Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge.—During the past year a me-
moir was published belonging to the quarto series of Smithsonian pub-
lications, entitled ‘‘ On the contents of a bone-cave in the island of An-
guilla (West Indies).”. By Edw. D. Cope. It gives a description of the
fossil vertebrates, shells, and also of the indications of human occupa-
tion discovered during the exeavation of a cave in the West Indian
island of Anguilla.

The remains were first discovered in 1868, and brief notices of them
made, but the publication of a full account was delayed in the hope
that other objects might be added to the collection. The memoir was
submitted to the Institution in 1878, but the other works in progress
prevented its publication until last year.

The importance of the subject is shown by the fact that it is the first
investigation of the life of the cave age in the West Indies; that it gives
the first reliable indication of the period of submergence and hence of
separation of the West Indian islands; that it furnishes the first evi-
dence as to the antiquity of man in the West Indies, and that it de-
scribes some very peculiar forms of animal life not previously known.

The paper consists of 34 pages, and contains 5 plates, with 105 fig-
ures, the illustrations being made particularly full on account of the
archeological interest attaching to those animals which were probably
the contemporaries of the earliest men of tropical America,

Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections.—For several years past the In-
stitution has expended a considerable portion of its publishing fund in
reproducing, in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, the Bulle-
tins and Proceedings of the National Museum ; as also the Proceedings
of the Philosophical, Anthropological, and Biological Societies of Wash-
ington, this being considered strictly germane to the plan of the Institu-
tion and representing both divisions of its funections—the increase and
the diffusion of knowledge. ‘The stereotype plates are furnished free of
cost, leaving only the press-work and paper to be provided for.

By publishing these works in the series of Smithsonian Miscellaneous
Collections they are placed in all the principal libraries and establish-
ments for research throughout the world; the cost to the Institution
being simply that of press-work and paper. This is the only mode by
which ample publication can be secured.
28 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Four volumes of this series have been gathered and published during
the year, some of the constituent papers of which (itis to be understood)
had been previously issued separately.

Volume XXIV contains but one article, and comprises in all 1,081
pages. The article is entitled “Synopsis of the Fishes of North Amer-
ica.” By David 8. Jordan and Charles H. Gilbert. 1882. 8vo. 1074 pp.

Volume XXYV contains five articles, comprising in all 786 pages.
Article 1, ‘‘ Bulletin of the Philosophgal Society of Washington,” Vol.
LV, October 9, 1880, to June 11, 1881. 8vo. 1883. 189 pp. Article 2,
“ Bulletin of the Philosophical Society of Washington,” Vol. V, Octo-
ber 8, 1881, to December 16, 1882. S8vo. 1883. 189 pp. Article 3,
“Transactions of the Anthropological Society of Washington,” Vol. I,
February 10, 1879, to January 17,1882. 8vo. 1882. 142pp. Article 4,
“Abstract of Transactions of the Anthropological Society of Washing-
ton,” from March 4, 1879, to January 18, 1881. 8vo. 1883. 150 pp.
Article 5, ‘‘ Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington (with
the addresses read on the occasion of the Darwin Memorial Meeting,
May 12, 1882),” Vol. I, November 19, 1880, to May 26, 1882. 8vo. 1883.
110 pp.

Volume XX VI contains four articles, comprising in all 867 pages,
with 70 illustrations. Article 1, ‘‘The Toner Lecture, No. VII, Sug-
gestions for the Sanitary Drainage of Washington City.” By George B.
Waring, jr. 8vo. June, 1880. 26 pp. Article 2, “List of Foreign
Correspondents of the Smithsonian Institution, corrected to January,
1882.” 8vo. April, 1882. 174 pp. Article 3, “Additions and Correc-
tions to the List of Foreign Correspondents, to January, 1883.” 8vo.
1883. 56 pp. Article 4, ‘Classification of the Coleoptera of North
America.” By John L. Le Conte and George H. Horn. 8vo. 1883.
605 pp.

Volume XX VII contains four articles, comprising in all 815 pages.
Article 1, ‘The Constants of Nature, Part IV, Atomic Weight Deter-
minations; a Digest of the Investigations published since 1814.” By
George F. Becker. 8vo. 1880. 152 pp. Article 2, “The Constants of
Nature, Part V, a Recalculation of the Atomic Weights.”. By Frank
Wigglesworth Clarke. 8vo. 1882. 293 pp. Article 3, “Catalogue of
Publications of the Smithsonian Institution (1846-1882), with an Alpha-
betical Index of Articles in the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowl-
edge, Miscellaneous Collections, Annual Reports, Bulletins and Proceed-
ings of the U.S. National Museum, and Report of the Bureau of Eth-
nology.” By William J. Rhees. 8vo. 1882. 342 pp.

The separate papers under this class published during the year are
the following:

No. 479. The Revort of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution,
for the year 1881, to the Board of Regents of the Institution. This was
not actually published till 1883. It is an octavo pamphlet of 53 pp.

No. 480. “Classified List of Publications of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion.” Svo, 24 pp.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 29

No. 481. “ Miscellaneous Papers relating to Anthropology,” from the
Annual Report for 1851. 8vo. 160 pp.

No. 482, also from the Report for 1881, on “Tuckahoe, or Indian
Bread,” by Prof. J. Howard Gore, was noticed in the Report for 1882
(pp. 23, 24), but was not actually issued till the spring of 1883 8vo.
15 pp.

Nos. 483, 484, 485, 486, 487, and 488. Accounts of Progress in Astron-
omy, Meteoroiogy, Physics and Chemistry, Botany, Zodlogy, and An-
thropology, for the year 1881, were not published till 1883.

No. 490. “Additions and Corrections to the List of Foreign Corre-
spondents, to January, 1883.” 8vo. 56 pp.

No. 491. “Report of the National Museum Building Commission, and
of the Architects, January, 1882.” 8 vo. 10 pp.

No. 498. “ Bulletin of the Philosophical Society of Washington, Vol.
LY, October 9, 1880, to June 11, 1881.” 8vo. 189 pp. Illustrated with
1 map and 2 plates.

No. 499. “‘ Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington (with
the addresses read on the occasion of the Darwin Memorial Meeting,
May 12, 1882), Vol. I, November 19, 1880, to May 26, 1882.” 8vo.
110 pp. ;

No. 502. “Abstract of Transactions of the Anthropological Society
of Washington, from March 4, 1879, to January 18,1881.” 8vo. 150 pp.

No. 503. “ Bulletin of the Philosophical Society of Washington, Vol.
V, October 8, 1881, to December 16, 1882.” 8vo. 189 pp. Illustrated
with 2 maps.

No. 507. The “ Classification of Coleoptera of North America,” by Drs.
J. L. Le Conte and George H. Horn (referred to in the last report),
has been published during 1883. The first edition of this work was
published in 186162, and ended with the Cerambycide. Within the
last twenty years not only have the collections of Coleoptera largely
increased, but many new geuera have been discovered. The authors
have carefully examined all the new material, studied all the works by
foreign authors, and now present this volume as combining all the
literature of the subject. Its value is much increased by the addition
of a bibliography prepared by Mr. Samuel Henshaw, of Boston. The
introduction describes the peculiar characteristics of coleopterous in-
sects, defines their classes, and is illustrated by 67 figures of antenne,
mouth parts, thoraxes, legs, claws, &c. It forms an octavo volume of
606 pages.

No. 520. The “Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, for the year 1882, to the Board of Regents of the Institution,” is an
octavo pamphlet of 56 pp.

No. 524. “Report of the Assistant Director of the United States Na-
tional Museum, G. Brown Goode, for the year 1882.” Addressed to
Prof. 8. F. Baird. 8vo. 145 pp.

No. 525. “An Account of the Progress in Astronomy in the year 1882,”
By Prof, Edward 8. Holden, 8yo, 48 pp.
30 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

No. 526. “An Account of the Progress in Geology in the years 1881-
1882.” By Dr. T. Sterry Hunt. 8vo. 21 pp.

No. 527. “An Account of the Progress in Geography in the year 1882.”
By Commander F. M. Green, U.S. N. 8vo. 18 pp.

No. 528. An Account of fie Progress in Meteorology in the year 1882.”
By Prof. Cleveland Abbe. 8vo. 99 pp.

No. 529. “An Account of the Progress in Physics in the year 1882.”
By Prof. George F. Barker. 8vo. 50 pp.

No. 530. “An Account of the Progress in Chemistry in the year 1882.”
By Prof. H. Carrington Bolton. 8vo. 23 pp.

No. 531. ‘An Account of the Progress in Mineralogy in the year
1882.” By Prof. Edward 8. Dana. 8vo. 17 pp.

No. 532. “An Account of the Progress in Botany in the year 1882.”
By Prof. William G. Farlow. 8vo. 13 pp.

No. 533. “An Account of the Progress in Zoology in the year 1882.”
By Prof. Theodore Gill. 8vo. 68 pp.

No. 534. “An Account of the Progress in Anthropology in the year
1882.” By Prof. Otis T. Mason. 8vo. 41 pp.

No.535. ‘“ Miscellaneous Papers relating to Anthropology.” Published
in the Annual Smithsonian Report for 1882. By Don Leon Fernandez,
kh. T. Bron, George C. Van Allen, James M. Williamson, William Me-
Adams, John G. Henderson, G. W. Homsher, J. P. MacLean, James
M. Null, Benjamin W. Kent, J. Francis Le Baron, M. H. Simons, Johu
P. Smith, H. E. Chase, and J. F. Bransford. Followed by brief abstracts
from theanthropological correspondence of the Institution. Forming in
all an octavo pamphlet of 155 pp., illustrated with 48 maps and figures.

No. 537. A sketch map of the District of Columbia (12 inches square),
jndicating the localities of aboriginal remains; by L. P. Kengla.

No. 543. ‘ Bulletin of the Philosophical Society of Washington.” Vol.
VI. January 3, 1883, to December 19, 1883. 8vo. 168 pp.

No. 544. ‘Transactions of the Anthropological Society of Washing-

ton.” Vol. Il. February 1, 1882, to May 15, 1883. 8vo. 211 pp.
Illustrated with 45 figures.

No. 560. ‘‘Report on the Pharmacopezias of all Nations.” By Dr.
James M. Flint, U.S. N. (Extracted from the report of the Surgeon-
General of the U. 8S. Navy for 1882.) 8vo. 28 pp.

‘General Catalogue of Scientific Periodicals.”—The publication of this
work by Dr. H. Carrington Bolton, of Trinity College, Hartford, Conn.,
has been continued during the year, 344 pages having been printed and
stereotyped. Extra proofs of each signature are printed and distributed
to about 50 public libraries, with the request that they be returned with
the titles checked of those works possessed by each library. Complete
sets are marked with a‘‘C,” nearly complete sets with “Ine.” written
on the margin. In the appendix to the work it is proposed to give a
list of all the libraries in which any of the periodicals cited may be

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. on

found. This will add much to the value of the catalogue, and the
prompt response and ready co-operation of librarians in this enterprise
is very gratifying.

Professor Bolton’s catalogue is intended to include independent jour-
nals in every branch of science, both pure and applied. Transactions
of societies are generally excluded, as well as medical and art journals.

Physical and Meteorological Tables.—This work, published by the In-
stitution in 1852 (212 pages), and revised in 1859 (638 pages), has been

_taken up by the author, Prof. A. Guyot, of Princeton, N. J., with the
purpose of adding new and important tables and carefully revising the
old ones. This has been a labor requiring much time, and has oceupied
several years. The manuscript was, however, completed and sent to
press in 1885, and the printing has proceeded as rapidly as the nature
of the work would permit.

The volume will be published during the year 1884, and will doubt-
less be in great demand, as very few of the publications of the Insti-
tution have met with such steady call as the former editions of these
tables.

Bulletins of the National Museum.—An additional series of publications
lately included in the Miscellaneous Collections consists of the Bulletins
of the United States National Museum, primarily printed under the di-
rection of the honorable Secretary of the Interior. This series was in-
stituted for the purpose of furnishing a prompt publication of original
descriptions of the specimens received by the Museum, many of which
are new to science, as well as of presenting such other interesting in-
formation on subjects of biology as may be given by its collaborators.
From the stereotyped plates thus produced a supplementary edition is
printed off by the Institution, and distributed among its numerous cor-
respondents in the same manner as its other publications. Thefollowing
bulletins were published during the year:

Bulletin No. 16 (Smithsonian No. 492) contains a ‘“‘ Synopsis of the
Fishes of North America.” By David 8. Jordan and Charles H. Gilbert.
The table of contents of this elaborate work occupies 47 pages, and the
work itself forms an octavo volume of 1018 pages.

Bulletin No. 20 (Smithsonian No. 508), the first of a proposed series
of extended catalogues of the writings of American naturalists, com-
prises a bibliography of ‘* The Published Writings of Spencer Fullerton
Baird from 1843 to 1882.” By George Brown Goode, Assistant Director
of the National Museum. The work is prefaced by a biographical sketch
of Professor Baird of 9 pages, and includes (1) a “ Chronological Cata-
logue” of his published writings (forming the bulk of the volume); (2)
a “Systematic Catalogue,” in which the various species described or
treated of are arranged in the order of biologic classification ; (3) a
“List of Species Discussed and Hlustrated,” similarly classified. The
whole forms an octavo volume of 393 pages,
32 REPORT OF THE, SECRETARY.

Bulletin No. 24 (Smithsonian No. 493) contains a “ Check-List of
North American Reptilia and Batrachia, with catalogue of specimens
in the United States National Museum.” By Dr. H.C. Yarrow. 8vo.,
255 pp.

A brief abstract of the preceding (Smithsonian No. 517) is a “ Check-
List of North American Reptilia and Batrachia, based on specimens
contained in the United States National Museum,” by Dr. H.C. Yarrow.
8vo. 28 pp. For the convenience of collectors, this list has been
printed on the right-hand page only.

Bulletin No. 26 (Smithsonian No. 500) is an “Avifauna Columbiana:
being a list of birds ascertained to inhabit the District of Columbia,
with the times of arrival and departure of such as are non-residents,
and brief notices of habits, ete.” By Drs. Elliott Coues and D. Webster
Prentiss. This is the second edition, revised to date and much enlarged,
of the Catalogue of the Birds of the District of Columbia, prepared by
the same authors twenty years ago, and published in 1862 in the Annual
Report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1861. The present edition
has been entirely rewritten to embrace all the additions which have
been made to the list during the interval between the two editions, to-
gether with a review of the changes the Avifauna has undergone, a
sketch of the topography of the District with reference to the haunts
and habits of its birds, and much other new matter ; and is handsomely
illustrated with wood-cuts or lithographs. It appears as one of the series
of natural history monographs of the District, following the Flora re-
cently published, and to be succeeded by ar diel ecg other depart-
ments of the Fauna.

It forms an octavo of 138 pages, with a full-page ‘imatration of rail
shooting on the Anacostia marshes, District of Columbia, and folded
colored maps of the Potomac River region, of the Rock Creek region,
and of the Eastern Branch or Anacostia River region of the District of
Columbia; also a large map of Washington and vicinity.

Proceedings of the National Museum.—This is an allied series of pub-
lications, designed to furnish to naturalists early announcements and
descriptions of specimens received, more particularly when of new
species.

Volume V of the Proceedings of the United States National Museum
was completed during the year. It contains memoirs by numerous con-
tributors, and comprises 714 octavo pages.

Proceedings No. 19 (Smithsonian No. 539) contains a ‘“ Classification
of the Materia Medica collection of the U.S. National Museum and cata-
logue of specimens.” By James M. Flint. 8vo. 45 pp.

Educational series (Smithsonian No. 516), “ List of duplicate marine
invertebrates distributed by the U.S. National Museum.” Prepared
by R, 8, Tarr, under the direction of Richard Rathbun, 8vo, 5 fp.

REPORT OF QFE SECRETARY. oo

Proceedings No. 20 (Smithsonian No. 541), a circular ‘* Request for
Specimens of Drugs and Information concerning them.” S8vo. 1 p.

Smithsonian Annual Report.—The Annual Report of the Regents to
Congress for 1881 was transmitted on the Ist of March, 1882, but copies
were not received from the Public Printer until October, 1883.

Its contents were referred to in the last report.

The report for the year 1882 was sent to Congress on the 19th Janu-
ary, 1883, but copies have not yet been received for distribution.

It will inelude the Journal of Proceedings of the Board of Regents,
with the reports of the Secretary and the Executive Committee. The
«General Appendix” contains the continuation of the record of recent
scientific progress commenced in the Annual Report for 1880, and con-
sists of the following articles:

Account of recent progress in Astronomy, by Prof. EK. 8S. Holden.

Account of recent progress in Geology, by Prof. T. S. Hunt.

Account of recent progress in Geography, by Commander F. M.
Green.

Account of recent progress in Meteorology, by Prof. C. Abbe.

Account of recent progress in Physics, by Prof. G. F. Barker,

Account of recent progress in Chemistry, bv Prof. H.C. Bolton.

Account of recent progress in Mineralogy, by Prof. E. 8. Dana.

Account of recent progress in Botany, by Prof. W. G. Farlow.

Account of recent progress in Zodlogy, by Prof. Th. Gill.

Account of recent progress in Anthropology, by Prof. O. T, Mason.

Miscellaneous papers and extracts from correspondence on Anthro-
pology.

ASTRONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS BY TELEGRAPH.

During the past year an important change has been made in the di-
rectorship of the astronomical telegraphy so long undertaken by this
Institution. Itwas stated in thelast report that the ‘Science Observer”
of Boston, under the editorship of John Ritchie, jr., of the Harvard
College Observatory, had for some time past supplemented this work by
issuing ‘special circulars” furnishing successive elements and ephe-
merides of observed comets, &c., and also by frequently telegraphing the
same by cable dispatches in a peculiar phrase code adopted for this
purpose.

On being informed that this enterprising agency was willing and pre-
pared to take the entire charge of the system, the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, agreeably to its settled policy not to expend its energies on in-
terests otherwise provided for, expressed its readiness to transfer the
control of this useful service to the Harvard College Observatory, on
the formal acceptance of the same by its director, Prof. Edward C.
Pickering. The principal portion of the correspondence relative to this
matter is presented in the appendix to this report. On the receipt of

H, Mis. 69

°
0

34 REPURT. OF . TH SECRETARY.

Professor Pickering’s reply the following circular was published aid
distributed to all our astronomical correspondents :

‘SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
‘* Washington, D. C., January 10, 1883.

“Arrangements having been completed with the director of the Har-
vard College Observatory for conducting the system of telegraphic an-
nouncements of astronomical discoveries, which was established by this
Institution in 1873, you are hereby informed that from and after this
date the American center of reception and distribution of such an-
nouncements will be ‘The Harvard College Observatory, Cambridge,
Mass.,’ to which address all astronomical telegrams should in future
be sent. It is hoped and believed that this transfer of a highly impor-
tant service will prove beneficial to the interests of astronomical science.”

Thus the work of receiving and distributing transatlantic announce-
ments of astronomical discoveries, established and faithfully conducted
by this Institution for the past ten years, has been committed to other, and
we feel assured worthy, hands. It is believed that astronomical inter-
ests will be benefited by the transfer ; and while retiring from its future
charge, we shall always be ready to co-operate as far as practicable in
this important field ‘‘ for the diffusion of knowledge.”

This notice will properly close with a copy of the circular prepared
by Professor Pickering (dated February 14, 1883) on assuming the
charge :

“Oireular relative to the collection and distribution of astronomical in
telligence.—The arrangements described in this circular have been mad¢
in order to render the transmission of astronomical intelligence more
speedy and accurate.

“An association of about fifty European observatories has recent
been formed, with its headquarters at the Royal Observatory, Kiel,
Germany, directed by Professor Krueger, who has taken charge of the
business of the association. Connections by cable have been established
withgSouth America, South Africa, and Australia, and the Harvara
Collége Observatory has been requested to co-operate with it in the
United States, by receiving and distributing in this country the tele.
graphic information sent from Kiel, and by torwarding to Kiel by tele-
graph any similar information of importance collected from American
astronomers. By the courtesy of Professor Baird, Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution, the function hitherto performed by the Insti-
tution, of collecting and transmitting announcements of discovery, has
been transferred to the Harvard College Observatory.

“In accepting this transfer it is right that a public acknowledgment
should be made of the service rendered to science by the Smithsonian
Institution in undertaking the labor from which it now retires. For
Inany years its action has relieved a want generally recognized, although
not otherwise provided for; while, as soon as astronomers were prepared
to assume the task, the Smithsonian Institution courteously offered to
facilitate the change which has just been made.

“The members of the European association above mentioned have
agreed to contribute a fixed annual sum for the payment of its expenses,
in return for which they are to receive from Kiel the dispatches which
may be received at that place.

“In the absence of any similar action on the part of American astron-
4

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 35

omers, the dispatches sent from Kiel to this country will be imme-
diately communicated to the Associated Press, and to the observatories
and such other institutions and persons as may make special arrange-
ments for obtaining them.

“The importance of the work thus begun requires that a special offi-
cer of the observatory should be intrusted with it. Mr. John Ritchie,
jr., of Boston, has accordingly been appointed assistant in charge of
this service, and the details of the proposed system are explained by
him in the circular distributed with this.

“ American astronomers are requested to send to the ‘ Harvard Col-
lege Observatory, Cambridge, Mass.,’ telegraphic information of dis-
coveries of comets, asteroids, or phenomena of any kind requiring im-
mediate attention. Arrangements will be made to refund the cost of
such telegrams to the senders when their contents are of importance.
It is very desirable that the messages should conform to the principles
stated in Mr. Ritchie’s circular.

“The success hitherto attained by Messrs. Chandler and Ritchie—
both of whom are now connected with the observatory—in their pro-
ject of improving the mode of transmitting astronomical telegrams
encourages the belief that the system now adopted will prove expedi-
tious and satisfactory. Mr. Chandler will continue his computations of
cometary orbits, which will be distributed by telegraph, as heretofore,
when that course seems to be desirable.

‘*KDWARD C. PICKERING,
‘* Director of Harvard College Observatory.

“ CAMBRIDGE, MAss., February 14, 1883.”

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES.

Among the subjects occupying more than any other the attention of
the Smithsonian Institution is the system of international exchanges,
as initiated about the year 1850, and carried on with constantly expand-
ing scope to the present time. It was begun purely for the purpose of
enabling the Institution to distribute its own publications and obtain
exchanges in return, but gradually its sphere was extended first to
scientific institutions and specialists of the United States, then to in-
stitutions and individuals of the remainder of the New World, and
finally to the various Bureaus of the Government and the Congressional
Library. The number of packages from foreign countries for distribu-
tion in the United States during 1883 was 8,262, and filled 232 boxes.
Those received from institutions and individuals in America, including
the United States Government, for transmissiou abroad consisted of
18,063 packages, and required 495 boxes for their accommodation, each
box averaging contents of perhaps 8 cubic feet and weighing 78.647
pounds.

In the accompanying report of Mr. Boehmer, the officer in charge of
this branch, will be found full details of this work—so important a
factor in accomplishing the mission of the Smithsonian Institution.
~ From the Ist of July, 1883, by enactment of Congress, the disburse-
ment of a specific appropriation for international exchanges (consti-
36 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

tuting the third) has been under the State Department, amounting to
$7,500. This allowance has been a very important relief to the In-
stitution, which originally was obliged to meet all the costs of this
work, sometimes to the amount of $12,000 annually, out of its small in.
come. The appropriation by Cougress, first of $3,500, next of $5,000,
and, next of $7,500, has enabled the Institution to meet the burden
more easily and to greatly crease the efficiency and extent of the
system, although the additional cost in 1883 met from the Smithsonian
fund has been $6,192.34.

If the Institution were obliged to pay the full freight charges on its
packages carried by ocean steamers, the cost would necessarily be in-
creased by several thousands of dollars. Thanks, however, to the
liberality of the principal steamship companies, no charges whatever
_ are made for such transportation.

The principal companies making this concession are the following:

American Colonization Society, Washington, D. C.

Anchor Steamship Company (Henderson & Bro., agents), New York.

Atlas Steamship Company (Pim, Forwood & Co., agents), New York.

Bailey, H. B., & Co., New York.

Beadle, E. R., Philadelphia.

Bixby, Thomas & Co., Boston, Mass.

Bland, Thomas, New York.

Borland, B. R., New York.

Cameron, R. W., & Co., New York.

Compagnie Générale Transatlantique (L.de Bébian, agent), New York.

Cunard Royal Mail Steamship -Line (Vernon Brown & Co., agents),
New York.

Dallett, Boulton & Co., New York.

Dennison, Thomas, New York.

Hamburg American Packet Company (Kunhardt & Co., agents), —
New York.

Inman Steamship Company, New York.

Merchants’ Line of Steamers, New York.

Monarch Line (Patton, Vickers & Co., agents), New York.

Muiioz y Espriella, New York.

Murray, Ferris & Co., New York.

Netherlands American Steam Navigation Company (H. Cazaux,
agent), New York.

New York and Brazil Steamship Company, New York.

New York and Mexico Steamship Company, New York.

North German Lloyd (agents, Oelrichs & Co., New York; Schu-
macher & Co., Baltimore).

Pacific Mail Steamship Company, New York.

Panama Railroad Company, New York.

Red Star Line (Peter Wright & tons, agents), New York.

Spinney, Joseph S., New York,

Uses

Pe A a Nn,

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 37

Steamship Lines for Brazil, Texas, Florida, and Nassau, N. P. (C.
W. Mallory & Co., agents), New York.

White Cross Line of Antwerp (Funch, Edye & Co., agents), New
York. ?

Wilson & Asmus, New York.

The Monarch Line, recently added to the list, running direct from
New York to London, greatly facilitates the exchanges between the
United States and Great Britain.

The Pennsylvania Railroad Company and the Baltimore and Ohio
Company have continued their concessions of reduced fares, and the
freight steamer lines between Washington and New York have also
made liberal concessions, which have been of very great value.

Acknowledgments are also due to the foreign ministers and consuls
of the various Governments for their assistance in taking charge of the
packages intended for the countries which they respectively represent
and transmitting them with care to their destination.

The following tables will give some particulars of the statistics of
the distribution of packages thus made:

Receipts.
Purpose of and source of receipt. In 1881. | In 1882. | In 1883.

1. For foreign distribution :
From Government Departments (packages).-........-...----.--. 4, 326 6, 470 7,165
irom smi tisonian INStiOMbiON >. 25 ales laou oe csnciatenceoe se 5, 436 7, O56 6,218
Miran ACen eriG SOCICLIOS sree sem aie ce woe see in acc can sees telaceeins 3, 631 5,119 3, 900
From individuals ...--..-.--- st oo eeGo boone Soe aabUanoeEbErsodear 768 647 780
14, 161 19 292 18, 063
PM THI DIE IStLE DU UDI. 25 = Sain so cfocicis wcniieis oe wiunele> sisuls ule aisiem) (iceasisia= 7, 890 7, 187 8, 262
8. For Government exchanges .............-.-.. Socdecesacedtonobhcesees | 15, 550 31, 568 37, 569
Total receipts, packages ...-......-...2..22seeseeseeeceseeeeeeess | 37,551 | 58,047| 63, 894

Transmissions during the last eight years.

1. FOREIGN EXCHANGES.

Items. | 1876. 1877. 1878. 1879 1880. | 1881. | 1882. 1883. —
Mramber Of boxes: -..-.---2-------=. 323 397 309 311 268 407 422 495
ipAllciinienbic feet -2-- 2... 2. 2.2 2,261 | 2,779 | 2,160] 2,177 | 1,976) 2,800] 2,950 8, 228
Weight, in pounds...............-. 80, 750 | 99, 250 | 69, 220 | 69, 975 | 60, 300 1200 750 |105, 500 | 122, 265
— _ - — — : = | ~ | =
2. DOMESTIC EXCHANGES.

Total addresses to institutions... -. lex S10)| ‘(392))>. | 392 444 385 600 | 548 423
Tutal addresses to individuals -..-. 328 | 374 370 341 560 454} 399 471
[_— SS — SS SS —_

Yotal number of parcels to institu- }
DTS Sg ee a 3,705 | -3,868 | 4,059] 5,786] 4,021| 7,086) 7,192] 8,677

Total number of parcels to individ- | |
I) Rol A Ae eRe Senor 1,148 | 1,094 | 1,233 |} 1,185 | 1,566) 1,347) 1,167 2, 323
Total number of parcels.....| 4,853 | 4,962 | 5,292 | 6,971| 5,587| 8,433 | 8 359 | 11,000

3. GOVERNMENT EXCHANGES.
Lotal number of boxes.........---. 122 73 | 73 67 35| 98] 122 | 76
\ | | Was

38 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Government Document Eachange.-—The exchange of official publica-
tions of the United States Government for those of most other foreign
nations has been continued, as in previous years, under the auspices of
the Smithsonian Institution, in accordance with the law of Congress,
and a large number of valuable publications have been sent to agencies
designated by their respective countries.

Previous reports contain full details of the arrangement. The essen-
tial points consist in the receipt by the Joint Library Committee of Con-
gress of fifty extra copies of all Government publications to be used in
the distribution.

I regret to say that comparatively few of the nations, even of those
which had formerly agreed to enter upon an exchange, have carried out
their promises; and it is a somewhat serious question as to whether our
own self-respect will permit us to continue all these transmissions with-
out corresponding returns. We cannot, of course, ask for the equiva-
lent in bulk, as no nation prints so large an amount of official matter as
the United States does. It is, however, not too much to ask that what-
ever may be published, however small in quantity, shall be forwarded.

Some of the most important nations are conspicuous by their absence
from this arrangement, notably Germany, with which we have found it
impossible to make any arrangement. Great Britain, which, until 1883,
has not been on our list, has, during the year, made the most satisfac-
tory arrangements, and it is expected that a large number of works of
important character will be received and transferred to the Library of
Congress.

It is of course understood that this entire. transaction was intended
by Congress to be for the benefit of the Library of Congress, and all the
publications when received are immediately transferred to Mr. Spofford’s
care. = eae

LIBRARY.

The usual steady increase in the number of books reported by the
library as received is indicated for 1883—12,675 pieces, as against 11,779
of 1882. These are, for the most part, obtained by exchanges; to a less
extent by absolute donations, and still less by purchases. As heretofore,
these books have been transferred on arrival to the Library of Congress,
excepting where purchased expressly for the use of the National Museum,
or needed for the service of that branch of the Institution ; all serials,
however, being regularly transferred.

In many cases we have been enabled to obtain a second series of
many important journals and publications of societies, in exchange for
the volumes of the Bulletins and Proceedings of the National Museum,
which are eagerly sought after, and the acquisition of which is consid-
ered to be a matter of great importance.

In this latter establishment the same system as heretofore has been
continued—namely, that of allowing all books on special subjects to be
taken charge of by the curators of those branches, while mixed or

oe Jiaetiil

>

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 39

éeneral works are retained in the central library room. The librarian
keeps, of course, an accurate record of the disposition of each book, so
that any applicant can be referred at once to the place of deposit of
such book in possession of the Museum that he may wish.

Attention is again called to the importance of an arrangement by
which a card catalogue of all books in the libraries of the various De-
partments can be kept in charge of the Congressional Library, so that
the actual depository, and the most convenient one, of any book may be
indicated to an applicant.

The following is a statement of the books, maps, and charts received
by the Smithsonian Institution during the year 1883, and transferred
to the Library of Congress and the National Museum:

]
noes | Octavo or | Quarto or :
Description. eo Ae larger. Total.
PTET DSS. oR Sr ee re fe || 1,312 442° 1, 754
EMV OUINOS 5 592 2c sae 5s ho eees see wee 4, U60 4,170 8, 134
oO ee ee ee Se ere 2, 200 | 363 2, 568
iv L DING) CLC eae nse ee AO er cee (ae a ner Oi see oes 219
TRV EDT Se igs Sie oe es ee ae octets Rel (eee eee Se 12, 675

RELATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION TO OTHER BODIES.

The hearty co-operation of the various Departments of the Govern-
ment in the scientific work of the Smithsonian Institution, whether re-
lating more particularly to the National Museum or to the solution of
scientific problems in general, has never been more strongly marked
than during the past year; and itis with great pleasure that I take
this occasion to make proper mention of the same.

The Navy Department.—Previous reports have referred to the experi-
ment initiated by the Navy Department of detailing six ensigns for the
service of the National Museum. The object of this measure of the De-
partment was to impart to a body of young naval officers such training
as might enlarge their sphere of mental activity, and enable them to
utilize in the interests of the Department and of science the many op-
portunities of research and investigation presenting themselves in the
course of their cruises and other duties.

The first detail of this kind was made in the autumn of 1881; the
second in 1882, and the third in the autumn of 1883.

‘These gentlemen, as mentioned hereafter, have all been assigned to
duty with the curators of the Museum and assistants of the United States
Geological Survey, their own preferences being considered as far as pos-
sible.

lam very happy to say that the experiment has proved to bea de-
cided success, the officers applying themselves to their work with great
diligence, and obtaining a fair knowledge of the subjects upon which
40 REPORY OF THE SECRETARY.

they are engaged in a reasonably short time. There is every reason to
believe that from year to year, as this service is continued, the Navy
will receive back a body of officers who will reflect luster on the De-
partment and on the country.

The measure in question appears to be quite popular in the Navy,
judging from the number of officers who have made application for par-
ticipation in the benefits.

The details for the past three years have been as follows :

First year, 1881.

. H. Miner, attached to Albatross.

. EK. Honda in hospital at Portland, Me.
. Blish, attached to Jamestown.

S. Chase, National Museum.

. M. Garrett, attached to Albatross.

. C. Marsh, National Museum.

Second year, 1882.

. Dresel, National Museum.
. Bernadou, ordered to Corea.
. Ackerman, attached to Albatross.
. Niblack, National Museum.
ilkinson, National Museum.
. Safford, National Museum.

Bas Be

Third year, 1883.

H. M. Witzel, National Museum.
O. G. Dodge, National Museum.
J. H. Fillmore, National Museum.
C. 8. McClain, National Museum.
H.S. Knapp, National Museum.
G. H. Harlow, National Museum.

Lieutenant Winslow, who was detailed for duty in securing statistics
of the production, distribution, and varieties of the oyster industry of
the United States for the census of 1880, has completed his report on
that subject, and was subsequently occupied in collecting material of a
similar character for the London Fisheries Exhibition, and also in ar-
ranging and labeling the collections made for that object. He is now
devoting himself to the special investigation of a number of the useful
mollusea of the country.

Dr. J. M. Flint, of the medical department of the Navy, still continues
the efficient relationship to the National Museum referred to in the pre-
ceding report.

Among the special divisions of the National Museum a collection of
the medicines of all nations has been receiving much consideration,

33 See

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 41

With the co-operation of the leading druggists, and by means of ex-
tended exchanges, a collection has been brought together superior to
any other in the United States and scarcely excelled by any in Europe.

Dr. Flint has had supervision of this collection, and has brought 1t
into admirable condition, the specimens being all neatly put up and
properly labeled with the scientific and common names, and made
available for study. Further reference to this collection will be found
in another part of the report.

At the suggestion of the Institution, the Secretary of the Navy de.
tailed Messrs. Dresel and Ackerman, two ensigns on duty at the [nsti-
tution, to the Yantic—the naval vessel which convoyed the Proteus in
her trip for the relief of Lieutenant Greely and his party at Lady
Franklin Bay. These gentlemen made very valuable collections in zo-
ology and mineralogy, which have been turned over to the National
Museum, and have been absorbed in the general collections.

The Secretary also assigned Ensign Bernadou, at the suggestion of
the Institution, for duty with the steamer Alert, about to proceed to
Corea, with the understanding that he was to be detached from that
vessel on reaching Corea, and permitted to devote himself to scientific
research, under the direction of the Institution. He is specially inter-
ested in chemistry, mineralogy, and geology ; but he hopes to make com-
prehensive coilections in many other branches.

The Secretary of State also furnished Mr. Bernadou with aspecial pass-
port to Corea, and a letter commending him to Mr. Foote, the United
States minister to that country.

The Pinta being under orders for Alaska, Dr. Crawford, of the Navy,
offered his services as collector, and applied for the necessary appa-
ratus for making alcoholic collections. Suitable tanks filled with alcohol
and other supplies were forwarded to the vessel; but as Dr. Crawford
was detached from service on her, his successor, Dr. Willson, very kindly
renewed the offer, and will doubtless make due report of his labors.

The War Department.—The United States Signal Service.—The close re-
lationship existing between the objects of the Smithsonian Institution and
the United States Signal Office, as established by the transfer to that
Bureau of the entire meteorological organization, has continued to the
present time. The most important connection is in the prosecution of
scientific research in various parts of the country, as shown more par-
ticularly in the establishment of stations in northern or Arctic America.
Many of the persons selected by the Signal Office for carrying on re-
search in the interests of climatology, either for its own special purposes,
or in co-operation with the international arrangements, have been nom-
inated by the Smithsonian Institution, at the request, or by the permis
sion of the Chief Signal Officer. Instructions as to the special desiderata
have been issued, and the additional expenses needed in the way of out-
fit and supplies have been furnished by the Institution. The result has

been to add a great amount of important information to what we pre-
—
42 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

- viously knew of the natural history, geology, and anthropology of the
regions north of the United States; while, of course, full provision has
been made for the necessary physical research required by the Signal
Office.

The Treasury Department.—A somewhat similar arrangement to that of
the Signal Office has been made with the Life-Saving Service, under
the direction of Superintendent Kimball, who instructed the keepers of
stations to carry out the provisions of a circular issued by the Institu-
tion, requesting telegraphic announcement in regard to the stranding
of cetaceans, strange fishes, and any other unusual inhabitants of the
sea.

In another part of this report will be found a full statement of the
very important results already accomplished.

The Light-House Board of the Treasury Department has also con-
tinued its co-operation by requiring observations of ocean temperatures
at various light-ships and light-houses along the coast. The data ac-
cumulated in this way have been of the utmost importance in connection
with the general problems of ocean physics, and have been used to very
great advantage in solving many questions concerning the migrations
of fishes along the coast.

The Interior Department.—Another extremely important addition to
the exhibits of the National Museum results from the transfer of the
entire collection of Washington relics from the Interior Department,
where they had been until now in the custody of the Commissioner of
Patents. In this was included not only the old collection that had
been on view for so many years, but also a large number of objects
purchased some years ago by Congressional appropriation from Col-
onel Lewis, and never unpacked after their arrival in the city. These
articles have all been placed temporarily in large cases in the north
hall, and will as soon as possible be transferred to more suitable de-
positories, where they can be more readily observed and appreciated.
The utmost care is taken of this collection, which is justly prized as
one of the most valuable properties of the National Museum.

Some other articles of historical interest were also received on the
same occasion.

Relations to Foreign Governments.— Under the head of ‘‘ Explorations
in Labrador” will be found a reference to the researches of Mr. Lucien
M. Turner. It became necessary in the earlier part of the year to
renew the supplies of alcohol, ammunition, &c., to Mr. Turner; and as
the vessel by which communication is effected starts for Montreal and
Quebec, and not from any American port, the question of duties—on
the alcohol especially—became one of some importance.

By the assistance of the Department of State, the intervention of
Mr. Robbins, United States commercial agent at Ottawa, with the
Canadian minister of finance was secured; and it was finally arranged

that on the request of the Secretary of the Treasury to that effect small
pay

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 43

quantities of supplies for Mr. Turner or other agents of the Smith-
sonian Institution in the Provinces might be sent in by it to several
ports of entry free of duty, the collectors of customs at Montreal,
Quebec, and Victoria being notified to that effect. Use was made of
this privilege, not only in connection with Mr. Turner’s work, but also
in the sending of alcohol to Mr. James G. Swan preliminary to his re-
searches of the season in the Queen Charlotte Islands.

Transportation Facilities—The occasion of having a large quantity of
freight to forward to London, for the service of the International Fish-
ery Exhibition in that city, made it of great importance to secure as low
rates as possible, the quantity to be shipped representing an aggregate
of about 24,000 eubic feet, or 600 measurement tons.

The Pennsylvania Railroad Company promptly responded to an appeal
for aid by furnishing cars at most favorable rates, to be loaded by the
Institution, and made very satisfactory arrangements in regard to light-
erage of the packages and their transfer to the steamers.

An arrangement was also made with Messrs. Patton, Vickers & Co.,
agents of the Monarch Line of steamers, plying between New York and
London direct, by which the goods were carried at reduced rates for the
round trip.

The gentlemen just referred to also kindly agreed to carry the regu-
lar boxes of international exchanges system of the Institution free of
charge, in this respect following out the liberal example of all the other
lines between New York and the rest of the world.

Very favorable offers for freights between New York and Wash-
ington have also been made by the Inland and Seaboard Coasting Com- .
pany, and accepted by the Institution.

International and State Exhibitions.—Since the International Exhibi-
tion in Philadelphia, in 1876, exhibitions of a somewhat similar char-
acter, although more limited, have been held in many of the cities of the
United States, these usually opening in August or September and lasting
till towards the end of the year. Application is usually made to the In-
stitution by the directors of these organizations for the loan of specimens
from the National Museum. In most cases, however, it has not been
considered expedient to take any action, excepting in cases where impor-
tant contributions to the National Museum could be expected in return,
or where Congress definitely authorized a loan in the particular case. It
is not generally understood that, excepting where the Museum is to be
benefited, there is no authority for allowing any specimens to leave the
walls of the Museum buildings, and it was only by direct authority of
Congress that displays were made at Philadelphia and in the Fishery
Exhibitions at Berlin and London.

Quite a large collection, however, of duplicate specimens was fur-
nished for exhibition at the International Exposition held at Louisville
during the year 1883, this consisting, in large part, of showy objects,
such as an ethnological display from Alaska, the skeleton of a whale,
44 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

some mounted mammals, &e. The stipulation in the Congressional
enactment, that they were to be taken from and returned free of expense
to the Institution, has been carried out, and the various objects have been
returned with but a moderate amount of deterioration.

Earlier in the year similar action was taken in regard to the Chicago
Railway Exposition, in the loan of one of the earliest locomotives used
in Pennsylvania, and presented, at the Philadelphia Centennial, to the
National Museum by the Pennsylvania Railroad Company.

Some collections were lent to the Foreign Exhibition which opened
in Boston September 14 and continued to the end of the year. This

yas, however, on condition that a very valuable exhibit made by the
Rajah of Lahore, and at the disposal of the authorities of the exhibition,
be presented to the National Museum at the close.

Hlectrie Light Accommodation.—The loan by the Brush-Swan Electric
Company of a powerful dynamo machine of six 3,000-candle-power, and
of a series of arc-lights for the purpose of experiment upon the lighting
of the Museum building, as also for use in electric photography, has
already been mentioned. A suitable engine for working the dynamo
was obtained at the expense of the Museum, and the apparatus put in
efficient running order. This has since been under the direction of Mr.
A. A. Duly, the engineer of the building, and Mr. William J. Green,
the electrician.

On several occasions the halls of the building have been lighted with
this apparatus; and very constant use was made of it in the prepara-
tion of enlarged photographs of scenes connected with the fishery
industries, to be used for exhibition at London. Several hundreds of
these were enlarged from a size of 10 by 12 inches to that of 30 by 40; and,
being finished up in crayon, constituted a very interesting and striking
element of the international display at London.

In December, Mr. A. A. Hayes, representing the Brush Company,
asked the privilege of making an exhibition, in the lecture room of
the Museum, of the Brush storage battery system, which was readily
granted. <A battery was placed in the lecture room, connected with
forty of the Swan incandescent lights, and was charged by the Brush
dynamo machine referred to. The exhibition was continued several
successive evenings, and was witnessed by a number of Government
officials and prominent citizens of Washington who were present by
invitation. The exhibition was reported to be entirely satisfactory.

The light was also used on the occasion of the lecture of Professor
Powell, before the Biological and Anthropological Societies of Wash-
ington, as already mentioned.

The apparatus has been left in the lecture room for such additional
use by the Institution as it may desire.

Forestry Inquiries.—At the request of the Biological Society of Wash-
ington, which is very much interested in the question of forest trees (either
native or planted) in the District, the Institution issued a circular asking
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 45

various persons informed on the subject, including superintendents of
parks and grounds, for lists of the trees the existence of which in the
District is known to them. The information thus obtained will be col-
lated and presented in the form of a map, which will undoubtedly be
of much interest.

Among the various courtesies extended, directly or indirectly, to the
Institution, was an invitation to the Secretary to permit his name to
be used as one of a committee on a bill providing for the protection of
American forests. He was also asked to serve as a member of the jury
in the International Horticultural Exposition, to be held at St. Peters-
burg on the 17th of May, under the auspices of the Imperial Horticult-
ural Society of Russia.

NECROLOGY.

The usual melancholy task of recording some deaths during the year,
of employés and collaborators of the Institution, again falls upon me.
1 shall follow the order in time of the respective dates of decease.

EDWARD H. KNIGHT, born in London, June 1, 1824, came to this
country and settled in Cincinnati in 1845, at the age of twenty-one. He
died at Bellefontaine, Ohio, January 22, 1853, at the age of fifty-nine
years. In 1864 he was employed in the United States Patent Office as
general editor of its publications. During his connection with this great
institution, availing himself of his rare advantages, he compiled his
“American Mechanical Dictionary,” which was completed and pub-
lished in 1875 in three large octavo volumes. In 1876 he was selected
as the commissioner in charge of the Patent Office exhibit at the Cen-
tennial Exhibition at Philadelphia. As one result of his odservations
at that great international display he wrote ‘“‘A Study of the Savage
Weapons at the Centennial Exhibition,” which was published in the
Smithsonian Report for 1879, occupying 86 pages, and illustrated with
147 sketches of various weapons sketched by himself. In 1878 he was
appointed a commissioner to the International Exposition held in Paris
in that year; and in the following year supervised the pnblication of
the official report of the United States commissioners to the Exposition,
in five octavo volumes. He had undertaken for the Smithsonian Insti-
tution the preparation of an elaborate work on the ‘‘ Development of
the Mechanic Arts,” a subject he was well qualified by his studies and
tastes to discuss in a comprehensive manner, but a project he did not
live to accomplish.

PAUL SCHUMACHER was born in Hungary April 10, 1843. In 1865,
at the age of twenty-two, he came to the United States. He remained
several years in New York, where he acquired the English language by
his own efforts. He left New York on account of ill health, and weut
to San Francisco, where he remained until he was employed by the
United States Coast Survey. In this service he made his first collee-
46 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

tion of Indian relies along the southern coast of California and on the
neighboring islands. Afterward, in 1875, he was employed by the
Smithsonian Institution to extend his explorations as far north as Ore-
gon. In 1880 he went to Guaymas, Sonora, to pursue his vocation
of civil engineering and surveying, and also with the intention of con-
tinuing his archeological researches. While there, he became interested
in mines, and during a visit to the San Antonio copper mines he was
taken with fever, and died, after an illness of three days, on the 22d of
May, 1583.

HERMANN DIEBITSCH was born in Neustadt, Silesia, Germany, on the
16th of March, 1818. He died at his residence in Washington, Septem-
ber 50,1883. In 1825 he entered the academy of his native town, at the
age of seven years; and in 1831 he entered the University at Breslau,
but left it in 1835 to enter the Military Academy in Berlin, where he
was graduated as lieutenant in 1838, and soon gained high rank in the
Prussian army. In 1850 he came to this country, became connected
with the Smithsonian Institution as meteorological clerk and observer
in 1853, and remained there with some interruptions (during which he
was employed in mathematical work for the Naval Observatory) until
his death. For a number of years preceding his death he had charge
of the exchange system of the Institution, though for the last year or so
incapacitated from active work by a partial paralysis. He was a man
of scholarly attainments, and possessed a elear, critical, and analytic
quality of mind.

JOHN LAWRENCE SmitrH, M. D., was born near Charleston, S. C.,
December 16, 1818, and died at his residence in Louisville, Ky., October
12, 1883, in the sixty-fifth year of hisage. He was a graduate of the Uni-
versity of Virginia, and subsequently of the Medical College of Charles-
ton After receiving his medical diploma, he spent several years in
Kurope, pursuing his studies. In 1844 he was appointed assayer of
the State of South Carolina. In 1847 he received an invitation from
the Turkish Government to become its mining engineer and to investi-
gate aud report on the conditions of cotton-growing in that country.
While pursuing these new duties, he made a careful study of the geo-
logical and mineralogical characteristics of the emery mines of Turkey,
spending about four years in this service. His memoir on the subject
was published in the Mémoires des Savants étrangers. He also examined
chemically and published a report on the thermal waters of Asia Minor.

Dr. Smith also invented, in 1851, the “inverted microscope,” by which
liquids placed upon a horizontal stage of thin glass could be conven-
iently examined from beneath, the illuminating rays passing downward
and being then reflected upward to the eye.

In 1854 he visited Washington City, and became for a year or two
the chemist of the Smithsonian Institution, in the laboratory of which
he found a congenial place for pursuing his analytical researches,

‘ REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 47

From the study of mineralogy—in which field Dr. Smith made impor-
tant original observations—he was led toa carefulexamination of meteor-
ites, to which subject he devoted the greater portion of his later years,
and in which he became a recognized authority. He had accumulated
a very large and valuable collection of these interesting cosmical bodies,
now in the possession of Harvard College. A volume of 400 octavo
pages, comprising his principal scientific writings, was published in 1873.
Fully one-fourth of this matter is occupied with his various papers on
meteorites.

Dr. Smith filled successively several professorships; was a United
States commissioner to the Universal Exposition of Paris in 1867, and
to that of Vienna in 1872; was president of the American Association
in 1872; and was a member of the National Academy of Sciences.

GEORGE SHOEMAKER, an efficient assistant in the department of
birds, died October 12, 1883, at his parents’ residence in Georgetown,
D.C., after an illness of more thana year. He was born in 1842, and had
passed his 21st birthday only 16 days. His disease was pulmonary con-
sumption, which first developed itself about the middle of September,
1882. Soon after being taken ill he went to Philadelphia, where he
spent two months, thinking the change might be of benefit. In the
spring of 1883 he went to Florida, and, after remaining two months, re-
turned without having derived any benefit from the journey, but, on the
contrary, much reduced in weight and strength. Early in September,
on the recommendation of his physician, he went to Loudoun County,
Virginia, in order to try once more the effects of a change of atmosphere.
There he continued to lose ground so rapidly that he decided to return
at the end of two weeks. He reached home in a very much weakened
condition, but managed to keep up until within a very few days of his
death. Mr. Shoemaker was a young man of much promise; faithful and
consciencious in the discharge of his duties, and possessed of many ex-
cellent traits of character. He death was no less a loss to the depart-
ment than a sad bereavement to his friends.

Dr. LEONARD DUNNELL GALE was born at Millbury, Mass., in 1800.
He was graduated from Union College, Schenectady, N. Y., in 1825, and
devoting himself chiefly to the pursuit of chemistry became early a
professor of that science in several institutions of learning. In 1833 he
made a geological survey of Manhattan Island, and not long afterward
was appointed professor of chemistry and mineralogy in the New York
City University. In 1836 he there formed the acquaintance of Prof. S. F.
B. Morse, and by his familiarity with the discoveries of Professor Henry
was enabled to render his colleague’s project of an electro-magnetic
telegraph successfulin operation. In 1846 he came to Washington, and
for eleven years was an examiner in the Patent Office in charge of the
department of chemical inventions. In 1857, having beenremoved from
that office, he practiced in this city for some years as expert and attor:
ney in chemical applications,
.

48 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

In 1871 Dr. Gale became connected with this Institution as chemist
in the laboratory, where he continued for a year or two.

He became considerably enfeebled in his later years, and died in this
city October 23, 1883, at the age of eighty-four.

Dr. JoHN LAWRENCE LE CONTE was born in New York May 13,
1825, and died in Philadelphia November 15, 1883, in the fifty-ninth
year of his age. His father, Maj. John E. Le Conte, of the Engineer
Corps, was a writer on botany and zoology. Dr. Le Conte was gradu-
ated in 1846 from the College of Physicians of New York. He wrote
some early papers on mineralogy and paleontology, but his principal
studies were in the department of entomology, and more especially in
the class of Coleoptera, to which division he devoted the labor of many
years, and in which he made a very large and valuable collection of
specimens. In 1850 he published a ‘ Monograph of Pselaphide,” and
not long afterward an “Attempt to classify the Longicorn Coleoptera of
America north of Mexico.”

In 1858 Dr. Le Conte was requested to prepare for the use of the In-
stitution ‘Instructions for collecting Coleoptera,” which paper was pub-
lished in the Smithsonian report for that year, and was also separately
printed and widely distributed (as a circular) to collectors. In 1859 a
paper by him on ‘‘ The Coleoptera of Kansas and Eastern New Mexico”
was published in the Smithsonian Contributions, Volume X1, occupying
64 quarto pages, with two plates and one map. In 1862 the Institution
published his ‘Classification of the Coleoptera of North America,”
Part I, in 312 octavo pages, with 49 wood-cuts. (This was included
in Volume III of the “Miscellaneous Collections.”) In 1866 appeared
‘List of the Coleoptera of North America,” Part 1, in 82 octavo pages.
(** Mis. Coll.,” Volume VI.) In the same year ‘‘ New Species of North
American Coleoptera,” Part I, in 180 octavo pages. (‘Mis. Coll.,”
Volume VI.) In 1873 “New Species of North American Coleoptera,”
Part LI, in 74 octavo pages. (‘‘Mis. Coll,” Volume XI.) In the same
year Part II of his ‘‘ Classification of the Coleoptera of North America”
in 72 octavo pages. (‘‘Mis. Coll.,” Volume XI.)

These works remain incomplete, but their author, after years of prepa-
ration, decided upon an entire revision and complete presentation of his
subject. Meanwhile he prepared an important contribution to entomol-
ogy in a treatise devoted to the ‘Species of Rhyncophora,” which was
published in 1876 by the American Philosophical Society.

In 1882, assisted by his pupil and friend, ljr.George H. Horn, he had
ready (after an interval of ten years from its first issue) the new and
revised edition of his ‘“* Classification of the Coleoptera of North Amer-
ica” greatly extended. lHarly in 1883 this important and elaborate
work, comprising the latest labor of his life, was published by the In-
stitution. It occupies (including the introduction) 605 octavo pages.

Dr. Le Conte was president of the American Association in 1874. He
was a member of the National Academy of Sciences, president of the

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 49°

~ American Entomological Society, and a vice-president of the American
Philosophical Society.

MISCELLANEOUS.

The Mercer Bequest.—Reference has been made in a previous report

to the will of the Rev. Dr. Mercer, of Newport, R. I., by which the
- Smithsonian Institution was made an ultimate legatee with Harvard
and Yale Colleges and one or two individuals to administer a certain
sum of money intended for educational purposes.

It is not expected that the Institution will be called upon to take any
action for many years, possibly not in the course of a generation. The
estate, however, has proved to be much larger than was originally im-
agined, and amounts to over $1,000,000.

Friendly proceedings are now under way for the purpose of deter-
mining the precise status of the several legatees, and the action which
the executrix, Mrs. Pell, should properly take in the premises.

Naval Museum of Hygiene.—The Navy Department has been engaged
for several years past in bringing together an exhibit of sanitary appa-
ratus and appliances, whether used in the Navy or elsewhere; and as
this subject at present has no special assignment or place in the Na-
tional Museum, it was thought expedient, as a method of carrying out
proper reciprocity with the other Departments, to transfer all the ap-
paratus of that character to the charge of the Naval Museum of Hy-
giene.

The principal objects cénsisted of articles of terra-cotta and metal,
intended for sanitary uses, and obtained at the International Exhibi-
tion of 1876. The specimens furnished constitute a very acceptable
addition to the Naval Museum.

Portrait of Darwin.—The picture gallery of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion during the year has been enriched by a life-size portrait of Darwin,
painted by E. F. Andrews, of Washington, and given by the artist.
This has been duly assigned and placed in the Museum, and attracts
much interest.

Priestley Relics.—At the suggestion of Professor Leeds, of the Stevens
Institute, Hoboken, N. J., 1 made application to Mrs. Priestley, of
Northumberland, Pa., in behalf of the Institution for the collection of
apparatus used by her husband’s ancestor, Dr. Joseph Priestley, the
eminent physicist, and brought by him to this country many years ago.
As the discoverer of oxygen, and other important elements in chemical
Science, and as one of the first to carry on chemical research in the
United States, the memory of Dr. Priestley is highly revered by Amer-
ican chemists, and it was with much gratification that they learned of
Mrs. Priestley’s willingness to make the transfer.

By the assistance of Professor Leeds the collection was securely put
up ina number of crates and hogsheads, which were forwarded to Wash-

H. Mis. 69-——4
50 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

ington. Arrangements will now be made to unpack these articles and
place them where they will be most accessible to all persons interested.

Memorial Objects in the Pension Building.—One of the largest and most
imposing buildings in Washington is the one being erected under the
direction of General Meigs, in Judiciary Square, for the use of the Pen-
sion Office. A part of the architectural effect of this building consists
in aseries of columns of enormous size, and the happy thought occurred
to General Meigs of making each column the depository of the archives
and documents relating to the history of a Department of the Govern-
ment. .The offer of a column to the Smithsonian Institution was
promptly made use of by furnishing a series of documents giving some
notice of the past history and present condition of the Smithsonian In-
stitution and the National Museum.

Instructions for Cave Research.—The Smithsonian Institution has al-
ways taken much interest in the investigations of caves for the purpose
of obtaining specimens of prehistoric man, and of extinct and recent
vertebrated animals.

In addition to the large collections made by myself at various times
in this direction, and now forming part of the collections of the National
Museum, the proceeds of the Hamilton bequest have been devoted for
several years to this purpose. So far, however, the caves of the United
States have not been as productive in collections as those of Europe.
Having received very valuable collections of bones and relics from the
celebrated Kent’s Cavern in England, made under the direction of Mr.
William Pengelly, that gentleman was asked to prepare a special treat-
ise on cave research, to be published by the Smithsonian Institution
in its Miscellaneous Collections. This offer has been kindly accepted,
and it is hoped that the manuscript will soon be received and put to
press. ;

Abert Collection of Minerals—Among the most important single con-
tributions to the National Museum during the year was that of four
cases of minerals, presented by Col.. James T. Abert, of Washington
City, and constituting a large portion of the collection of his father, the
late Colonel Abert, of the Topographical Bureau. This collection, al-
though somewhat antiquated, from representing the condition of min-
eralogy more than twenty years ago, embraces a large number of very
rare and interesting minerals, the localities of which have for the most
part been exhausted, and which are now only procurable with great
difficulty.

Obsequies of John Howard Payne.—Mr. John Howard Payne, so well
known as the author of “Home, Sweet Home,” died many years ago in
Tunis, during his incumbency of the office of United States consul at
that place.

Desirous of rendering proper tribute to his memory, Mr. W. W. Cor-

coran, the eminent philanthropist of Washington, undertook to have
these remains transferred to the United States and placed under a
suitable monument in the Oak Hill Cemetery near Washington.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 51

The reinterment took place on the 9th of June; and in the appoint-
ment of pall-bearers, the Smithsonian Institution, among other literary
and scientific establishments of the city, was recognized by the selection
of its Secretary, to act in the above-mentioned capacity. The sery-
ices on that occasion were very impressive, and attracted a large gath-
ering of people.

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM.

During the year the officers of the Museum have continued the work
of rearranging the materials under their charge on the greatly extended
space afforded by the completion of the new building. It will be remem-
bered that this building was first occupied late in 1881, and that there-
fore 1883 is really only the second year of systematic effort. Some ex-
periments in installation were made in 1881, but the chief thing accom-
plished was the accumulation in some of the inner courts of the building
of the great mass of unassorted material which had been gathering for
many years in the various store-rooms of the Smithsonian building and
elsewhere, and which, on account of lack of space, had been allowed for
the most part to remain in the original packing cases.

After a struggle of twenty-four months with this mass of unassorted
material, the floors of the Museum have at length been cleared, and only
three of the seventeen exhibition halls are now occupied for storage pur-
poses.

A provisional classification of the departments of the Museum was
adopted early in 1882, and during the past two years has been prac-
tically applied. Twenty-two scientific departments were provided for
and grouped in five divisions, namely, anthropology, zoology, botany,
geology, and exploration and experiment. There are also eleven exec-
utive departments, grouped together in the division of administration.

A brief review of what has been accomplished in each department
up to the present time, and especially during the past year, will per-
haps be the most satisfactory mode of bringing before the Board the
present methods and tendencies of the work in the Museum. I shall
not, however, attempt to discuss the additions of the year to the Mu-
seum, as those will be treated of in detail in the reports of the several
executive officers, and of which a complete list, arranged alphabetically
by donors, will be found in the Appendix to the Report of the Assist-
ant Director. ;

Department of Art and Industry.—In the department of art and in-
dustry is included for the present all ethnological material except that
belonging to prehistoric archeology. Under the head of ethnological
material are included the products of the arts and industries of civil-
ized as well as of semi-civilized and barbarous races. These collections
are being arranged in accordance with a teleological rather than a geo-
graphical plan of classification, objects of a similar nature being placed
52 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

side by side—musical instruments together, weapons together, &c.—
and arranged in such a manner as to show the evolution of each idea
- from the most primitive type. In discarding the ethnographic method
of arrangement, almost universal among museums, special care has
been taken not to sacrifice the possibility of bringing together the ob-
jects belonging to any particular locality or race, if this shall at any
time be required for purposes of study.

The department of art and industry must in time necessarily be sub-
divided into a number of special departments. At present, and until
the material now on hand is properly assorted, such subdivision is not
particularly to be desired. There have grown up, however, a number
of sections in this department, the result of the accumulation of large
quantities of material requiring the care of a special officer.

Section of materia medica.—This section is already thoroughly under
control, the specimens beir g installed in exhibition cases in systematic
order, and a large number of labels being attached. This department
has been for two years under the care of Dr. James M. Flint, surgeon,
U.S. N., who has been detailed for this service by the Surgeon-General
of the Navy, and to whose skill the Museum is indebted for the develop-
ment of a collection of medicinal substances probably unequaled else-
where.

Section of methods of transportation—The collection of models of
boats and vessels now includes between two and three hundred speci-
mens. This collection has been developed in connection with the fish-
eries collection, and is especially complete in representation of Ameri-
can forms, both aboriginal and modern. The series of primitive types
is particularly full, and the collection, which will be installed in the
room adjoining the fisheries collection, will, when arranged upon the
evolutionary plan, be thoroughly unique.

Section of foods and textiles——The Museum is very rich in the textile
products and food substances of the North American aborigines and a
number of foreign countries, acquired at the close of the Philadelphia
Exhibition. Prof. W. O. Atwater, of the Wesleyan University, Mid-
dletown, Conn., has been acting as honorary curator of the section of
foods, and has carried on extensive operations in the analysis of food
products for the benefit of this collection and of the Fish Commission.
Mr. Romyn Hitchcock, of New York, an experienced microscopist and
chemist, has recently been designated acting curator of the department
of textiles and acting assistant curator of the department of foods.

Section of Aboriginal pottery.Mr. W. H. Holmes has been detailed
by the Director of the Bureau of Ethnology of the Institution to pre-
pare a report upon American aboriginal pottery, and the entire collec-
tions of the Museum have been placed in his hands for that purpose.
This collection is very rich, and after its arrangement has been com-
pleted will be one of the most impressive in the whole Museum.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 53.

:

Section of historical relics.—The relics of George Washington and other
distinguished persons, for many years displayed in the Patent Office,
and the Lewis collection of Washington relics, purchased by Congress,
and stored in the Patent Office, but kept in the original packing boxes,
have during the year been given into the charge of the National Museum
by the Commissioner of Patents. These have been placed on exhibi-
tion in temporary cases, together with many articles of similar nature
already in the possession of the Museum.

Section of costumes, architecture, &c.—The wealth of the Museum in
articles of costumes derived from the North American aborigines is very
great, as well as in objects of all the classes of implements and other
articles which usually make up the bulk of ethnological collections.
The mass of unassorted material is still very large, and is being in-
creased every week by the arrival of new collections.

The Catlin collection of Indian paintings, presented in 1881 by Mrs.
Joseph Harrison, of Philadelphia, have been unpacked and plaved on
exhibition in the lecture-room.

The collection of musical instruments is deserving of mention, since
it is, up to the present time, the only one, excepting the fisheries collec-
tion, which has been thoroughly arranged and labeled in accordance
with the accepted plan of installation.

Department of Antiquities.—The department of prehistoric antiquities,
under the charge of Dr. Charles Rau, has advanced with its usual steps
of progress during the year. The present somewhat unsettled condi-
tion of the upper main hall of the Smithsonian building, in which these
collections are stored, is due to the fact that the art and industry col-
lections, formerly exhibited here, have been only in part removed, owing
to the lack of exhibition cases in the new building.

Department of Mammals.—The accessions of the year have been nu-
merous and important. The curator of mammals has devoted a consid-
erable portion of his time during the year to the reorganization of the
collection of skeletons, which is exceedingly rich in North American
material. The cases for their reception not having been finished, the
mounted preparations still remain in the Smithsonian building. The
articulated skeletons have all been systematically arranged in the oste-
ological gallery.

Departme:t of Birds.—In the department of birds, under the care of
Mr. Robert Ridgway, the work of the year has necessarily been con-
fined to the laboratory, all the space in the ornithological galleries out-
side of the cases having been occupied by the offices of the Smithsonian
Institution during the reconstruction of the eastern end of the building.
There has been, however, very much important work accomplished in
the rearrangement of the study series, and valuable collections have
been received, especially from Dr. Stejneger and from others already
mentioned in another part of this report under the head of ‘‘ Geograph-
ical Explorations.”
54 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Department of Reptiles and Batrachians.— Under the charge of Dr. H.C.
_ Yarrow, honorary curator, the usual administrative work has been ac-
complished, and an annotated catalogue of the American specimens
belonging to the Museum has been published.

Department of Fishes.—This department is perhaps one of the most un-
wieldy in the Museum, its material being for the most part alcoholic.
From 1865, when it was thoroughly disorganized by the fire in the Smith-
sonian building, up to 1871 this department was without a curator,
though subsequently to 1881 the bulk of the collection was largely in-
creased every year by the work of the United States Fish Commission.
For two years Dr. Tarleton H. Bean, the curator, assisted by Messrs.
Parker, Dresel, Miner, and Bean, has been engaged in re-arranging the
entire collection and preparing a card catalogue, a task which has been
doubly difficult owing to the lack of sufficient room in which to work.
The collection is, however, now very well under control, and several
thousand bottles have been set aside for the exhibition series. From
June to October of this year Dr. Bean, was detailed for special service
in connection with the International Fisheries Exhibition, and devoted
a considerable portion of this period to the study of the ichthyological
collections in London, Paris, Genoa, Vienna, Berlin, and Liverpool, es-
tablishing additional relations of exchange in those cities. This de-
partment has been, as usual, enriched by the work of the United States
Fish Commisson, whereby many new species and genera have been
added to the fauna of North America.

Department of Mollusks.—This departinent continues under the charge
of Mr. William H. Dall as honorary curator, Mr. R. HK. C. Stearns acting
during a portion of the year as non-resident assistant curator. The col-
lection has been greatly enriched by tlie acquisition of Mr. Stearns’s col-
lection of American mollusks and the very rich collections of J. Gwyn
Jeffreys, esq., F. G. S., &e., of London.

Department of Insects—The Museum is still unfortunately without a
collection of entomological specimens worthy of the name, the valuable
collections accumulated by the Government service having years ago suf-
fered destruction in the hands of the Department of Agriculture, with
whom they were deposited. Prof. C. V. Riley, who is acting as honor-
ary curator of this department, has deposited his extensive collection of
American insects in the Museum, and it is hoped that in time this may
become the property of the United States.

Department of Marine Invertebrates—The collections of crustaceans,
radiates, worms, and protozoans are administered in charge of Mr. Rich-
ard Rathbun, being grouped together under the general heading of
‘‘Marine Invertebrates.” The west hall of the Smithsonian building
has been assigned to this department for exhibition purposes, but is
still occupied in large part by collections belonging to other departments,
so that the curator has had but little opportunity for peréecting the ex-
hibition series. Very extensive progress, however, has been made dur-

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 55

ing the year by the curator, assisted by Ensign W. E. Safford, Ensign
C. S. McClain, and Mr. R. 8S. Tarr, in the way of assorting the materiai
already on hand, and the distribution of duplicates. <A card catalogue of
the collection is nearly completed, and a number of important exchanges
with several European museums have been made during the year.

Department of Invertebrate Fossils. —This department is now divided
into two sections, Dr. C. A. White, honorary curator of the department,
retaining charge of all except the Paleozoic fossils which are in the hands
of Mr. C. D. Walcott, honorary curator of that department.

Department of Recent Plants.—The collection of recent plants, for many
years in the custody of Dr. John Torrey, of New York, and afterwards
deposited in the Department of Agriculture, have been kept in excellent
condition by Dr. Vasey, curator of the department.

Department of Fossil Plants.—This department is administered by Prof
Lester F. Ward, honorary curator, who, like the curators of fossil in-
vertebrates, is an officer of the Geological Survey.

Department of Lithology and Physical Geology.—The collection of build-
ing stones under the charge of Mr. George P. Merrill, assistant, acting
as curator, presents each month a more imposing appearance in the ex-
hibition gallery. The space assigned to it has been considerably in-
creased during the year. Owing to the expense of preparing the speci-
mens, little has Been done towards getting ready for exhibition the great
hoard of material which lies at present unutilized, in the southwest
court.

The curator of this department has recently undertaken the develop.
ment of the collections in physical geology, but has not yet had oppor-
tunity to seriously begin work.

Department of Minerals.—Since the death of Dr. George W. Hawes,
curator of this department, Mr. W. 8. Yates, aid in the Museum, has
had charge of the mineral collections, and has nearly completed the task
of rearranging and classifying the material. Prof. F. W. Clarke, chem-
ist of the United States Geological Survey, was appointed honorary
curator on December 3.

Department of Metallurgy and Economic Geology —Mr. Frederick P.
Dewey has been appointed fall curator in this department. Until
within a few weeks nothing had been done towards developing the ex-
hibition series, the time of the curator and his assistant having been
devoted to the overhauling and cataloguing a portion of the great mass
of unassorted metallurgical material acquired by the Museum at the
close of the Philadelphia Exhibition. There is still an immense quan-
tity of ores and metallurgical products stored away in the original pack-
ing boxes within the Museum building, and also in a temporary shed
attached to the armory building. This latter was obtained by Mr.
Thomas Donaldson at the close of the so-called “ permanent exhibition”
on the Centennial grounds in Philadelphia.
56 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

During the absence of the Assistant Director in Europe, Mr. Freder-
ick W. True, curator of mammals, rendered most efficient service.

BUREAU OF ETHNOLOGY.

The appropriation made by Congress for the prosecution of ethno-
logical researches among the North American Indians was increased
at the last session from $35,000 to $40,000. The work has remained
in charge of Maj. J. W. Powell, who has furnished the following account
of operations during the past year:

Mound Exploration.—The work of exploring the mounds and other
ancient monuments of our country, begun in 1882, was carried on during
the year 1883 under the charge of Prof. Cyrus Thomas.

The same persons, to wit, Col. P. W. Norris, Mr. James D. Middleton,
and Dr. Edward Palmer, who were engaged during the previous year,
were retained as the regular field assistants through 18853.

Colonel Norris spent the latter part of the winter and early spring
in Arkansas and Mississippi, and made, in the months of June and
July, a trip to Upper Wisconsin, Northern Minnesota, and Dakota in
order to ascertain the character of the new earthworks found in that
northwestern region. The remainder of the year he was engaged in
opening mounds in the Kanawha Valley in West Virginia.

Mr. Middleton’s field of operation for the latter half of the winter and
the spring was confined to the northern parts of Georgia and Alabama.
During the last part of the year he has been carrying on mound explo-
rations in Wisconsin and southward as far as Northern Arkansas.

Dr. Palmer has confined his operations during most of the year to
®entral and Southern Arkansas and Northern Louisiana. He was en-
gaged a short time in examining interesting cave deposits in Central
Alabama.

Besides these regular assistants, Mr. John P. Ragan, Mr. John K.
Emmert and Mr. L. H. Thing were engaged for short periods as tem-
porary assistants.

In June Mr. Ragan explored certain mounds in Caldwell County,
North Carolina, which had been reported by Dr. J. M. Spainhour, of
Lenoir, who also rendered very great aid in this work. Afterwards
Mr. Ragan was sent to the southern part of Georgia and into Florida.
Mr. Emmert was temporarily employed in opening mounds and graves
in East Tennessee, and in investigating the maufactnure of imitations
of ancint relics in Western North Carolina. Mr. Thing devoted a short
time to the exploration of the earthworks and ancient cemeteries of
Southern Illinois and Southeast Missouri.

The number of specimens collected during the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1883, as shown by the catalogue prepared for the bureau, is
4,110. It is believed that about one-half, or 2,000, of these specimens
were obtained in the first six months of 1883. The number collected

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 57

during the latter half of the year has not been accurately ascertained,
but is supposed to be 1,500, making in all for the calendar year 1883
about 3,500 specimens. They embrace almost every type of articles
hitherto found in the mounds and other ancient works of that portion
of the United States to which the operations of the year have been con-
fined, as well as quite a number of new types.

Among the more interesting finds are a remarkably fine series of pol-
ished celts, a large number of steatite pipes with handles, three winged
pipes of green chlorite slate finely worked, two very large stone image
pipes, gorgets, plummets, and boat-shaped ornaments.

A very fine collection of mound pottery has been obtained, contain-
ing many whole pieces, presenting almost every type, both as to form
and ornamentation, heretofore discovered in these earthworks, also a few
that are unique as to shape and decoration. Quite a number of shell
and bone ornaments and implements were obtained, among which are
some of the finest specimens of engraved shells so far discovered.

The collection also includesa number of copper implements and orna-
ments, some of which are very fine and unique.

Among the articles obtained indicating contact with European civil-
ization are some iron implements from a North Carolina mound and
fragments of copper plate from several localities bearing the impress
of machinery.

The most important results of these explorations to the students of
American archeology are the facts brought to light concerning the
manners and customs of the mound-builders and the purposes for which
these mounds and other ancient works of our country were erected.
They clearly demonstrate that a large portion of those in the Southern
section were built for domiciliary purposes or as foundations for houses,
and that these houses were plastered with clay, the plastering often be-
ing stamped with an implement made of split reeds, and frequently
painted, and that the houses were usually thatched with grass or straw.

A new class of mounds, so far as the internal structure is concerned,
has been discovered, bringing to light a different mode of sepulture from
any previously observed.

The number of mounds opened during the year was large, reaching
several hundreds, but cannot be definitely stated.

These explorations have been specially successful in the light they
have thrown upon the question often asked, “Who were the mound-
builders ?”

Explorations in the Southwest.—In continuing the investigations of the
preceding year, excursions were made by Mr. James Stevenson in the
Sumner and fall of 1883 through sections of the Southwest not hereto-
fore carefully examined, for the purpose of obtaining their archzeologic
value and to determine to what extent future explorations would be re-
quired. These observations resulted in the discovery of several more
ruined cave and cliff cities differing in some respects from any before
58 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

examined. The most remarkable was a village of sixty-two underground
dwellings, situated near the summit of one of the volcanic foot-hills of
the San Francisco Mountains in Arizona. The surface stratum of the
hill had by exposure become hardened, and formed the common roof for
the entire community. The dwellings were excavated after a common
pattern, and a description of one will convey an idea of the whole.
They had no communication beueath the surface, and were only accessi-
ble by means of square holes leading from the surface by a vertical
shaft to the main room of the dwelling. Foot-rests—holes at convenient
distances along the sides of the shaft—served the purposes of a stair-
way. At the bottom of the shaft was found an oval-shaped arched-roofed
room, about twenty feet in its smallest diameter. At the ends and on
the sides opposite the entrance low doorways connected the main room
with smaller rooms, the whole suite of rooms or dwelling consisting of
four apartments. One of the smaller rooms had its floor excavated to
a depth of two or three feet below the floors of the other rooms, and is
supposed to have served the purpose of a store-room or cellar for the
ancient occupant. The other small rooms may have been sleeping rooms.
A groove 18 inches deep by 15 in width, extending from the floor of the
main room up one side of the shaft to the surface of the hill, its bottom
filled with ashes and its sides blackened by smoke, formed the fire-place
and chimney of the establishment. Around the mouth of the shaft a
stone wall was found, forming by its inclosure a kind of door-yard to the
dwelling below. Considerable débris was found in these dwellings, an
examination of which led to the discovery of many curious objects,
jllustrating some of the social and domestic customs of the inhabitants.

Stone mauls and axes, the implements used in excavating the dwell-
ings; pottery bearing a great variety of ornamentation; bone awls,
and needles of delicate workmanship; the metate or family grinding-
stone for grain, its well-worn surface indicating long use; shell and
obsidian ornaments and implements of wood, the uses of which were
undiscoverable, were among the trophies of the exploration. Search
was made for a water-course or spring, but no appearance of the exist-
ence of water in the neighborhood was discovered.

There were signs of intercommunication between this village and a
cliff-city some 15 miles distant, which indicated the contemporaneous
inhabitancy of the two.

This city, or rather cluster of villages, also a new discovery, occupied
the sides of a cation which has recently been christened Walnut Canon.
The sides have been gullied by storms and torrents, leaving shallow,
cave-like places of great length at different heights, along the bottoms
of which, wherever the ledge furnishes a sufficient area, dwellings in
groups or singly were built. The season was well advanced when the
place was reached, and only little time was spent in its exploration.

All the ancient methods of approach have been long worn away, and
access to the nearest of the groups of houses was a work of difficulty.
Ses ae

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 59

The group or village which was most narrowly examined was about
half a mile in length, and consisted of a single row of houses, the com-
mon rear wall being the lining-rock, while the sides and front were
made of large squared stones laid in clay. A narrow street or pathway
extended along the entire front. Other and similar villages could be
seen along the canon for some distance.

Among the relics found here was‘a wooden spindle whorl similar to
those in use by the Pueblos of the present time, but unlike them in the
apparent manner of its manufacture. Nothing indicating the use of
metallic tools of any description was discovered. The surface of the
wood of which the whorl was formed had apparently been charred and
then ground down to the required size and shape by rubbing it upon
sandstone. A shaft of reed resembling bamboo still remained in the
whorl. It had been broken by the maker and neatly mended by wind-
ing about it a piece of fine twine. The ends of this twine being exam-
ined under the microscope disclosed the fact that its fiber was made of
very fine human hair.

Articles of wood, corn-cobs, and even the’perfect grains of corn; wal-
nuts, bones of elk, antelope, and wolf; portions of wearing material of
a fabric resembling the mummy cloth of Egypt, but made from mate-
ria] unfamiliar to the explorers, and other perishable articles, were found
in abundance buried in the piles of débris which partially fill these
deserted homes, and would, at first thought, seem to indicate somewhat
recent inhabitancy. On the other hand, however, the preservative
qualities of the atmosphere of this region are remarkable, and it is the
belief that centuries have elapsed since the last of the departed race or
races occupied these old cities and villages as homes.

Explorations in Arizona and New Mexico.—Mr. Victor Mindeleff, aided
by Messrs. Cushing and Atkins, proceeded, in the early part of the
year, to the Moki towns for the purpose of making ethnologic collec-
tions.

O-rai-be, the most distant of the villages, was the first visited, but
much opposition was encountered, in that a large majority of the na-
tives were found to be inimical to Americans.

In consequence of this the O-rai-be collection was small, numbering
only about one hundred and fifty pieces, which had been secretly of-
fered in trade, despite the strict injunctions to the contrary of those in
authority. <A catalogue of this material was prepared by Mr. Cushing

@ from notes made in the field.

After leaving O-rai-be, camp was established at a point convenient
to the remaining villages, near Ma-shong-i-ni-vi, of the “middle mesa.”
Here a large collection was secured, principally from the villages of
the middle mesa, of modern pottery, basket ware, dance paraphernalia,
and stone implements, as well as a valuable collection of well-preserved
ancient pottery, embracing a variety of forms and decorations.
60 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

During the intervals of collecting at Moki, several visits were made
to Mr. Thomas V. Keam’s place, near by, where drawings, notes, and
photographs were made of his extensive collection of ancient pottery.

On August 15, Mr. Mindeleff again took the field for exploration
among the cliff ruins of Cafion de Chelley, but on reaching the fitting-
out point an anticipated outbreak among the Navajos and the unset-
tled condition of the Indians compelled a temporary postponement of
work in that region, during which time a visit was made to the exten-
sive ancient pueblo ruin known among the Navajos as ‘“ Kin-tiel.”
This ruin is situated near the eastern Loess of Arizona, about 25 miles
south of Pueblo, Colorado.

Small subordinate ruins occur on various prominent points, border-
ing the long narrow valley that extends north from the main ruins
which from their position, overlooking arable land, may have served as
farming habitations occupied only during the summer season, as
Nutica and Pescado, near Zuni, are at the present day. This large and
compactly built pueblo is on two sloping hillsides which come together
in an “arroyo,” or wash. A large part of the northern half, where the
walls follow a broad curve, is still standing to a height of from 10 to
15 feet. The masonry shows a high degree of skill and is in a good
state of preservation. The external curyed wall is nearly 3 feet thick
in many places on the lower floor, and usually 6 inches less above. A
noticeable feature is the occurrence of small square loop-holes pierced
obliquely through the external wall. The walls of the lowest story
were usually several inckes thicker than those above, thus forming a
projecting ledge upon which the floor beams rested. Several beams
were found in place. Architectural plans of the ruin were made, to-
gether with a contour map of the ground to illustrate its relation to the
topography. Sketches and photographs were also made.

In excavating on the bank of the “arroyo” a short distance from the
ruin, a nearly complete skeleton was found lying on its right side.
From the grave were taken two bowls of ancient ware, but no trace of |
textile fabric was discovered. At a point within the ruins the bank of
the “arroyo,” having been partly washed away, had caved in, exposing
to view a complete vertical section of two rooms. On clearing away
the débris, broken pieces of pottery and fragments of a pierced round
stone disk were found.

Digging at a number of places resulted in the exposure, at the east-
ern end of the ruin, of a large room in which many objects of interest
were found, among them an unbroken circular stone slab, with a hole
large enough to admit the body of aman, solidly built into a partition
wall and serving as a doorway.

The same room contained a well-preserved fireplace, large, smooth,
baking stones, metates, mortars, broken pottery, and bone implements.

The manner in which these objects were seattered about the room in-
dicated a sudden abandonment. While here, Indians brought in re-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 61

ports of remains farther south, extending into the neighborhood of Zuii.
These reports were confirmed by statements of Mormons from that
vicinity. These men also gave accounts of numerous pueblo remains in
the region southwest of Zuni, near the headwaters of the Little Colo-
rado, in and about Round Valley.

November 1, Mr. Mindeleff reached Canon de Chelley. <A closely
detailed meander survey was made of the cafion, with its network of
branches, as also of a small neighboring canon containing ruins, not
heretofore visited. This plot was made on a large scale to admit of
showing the relation of the position of the ruins to the arable land and
other topographic features.

The lateness of the season and short supplies (for one month’s stay)
made it necessary to devote nearly all of the time to exploring, mapping
and securing plans and sketches of the ruins. Some excavations, how-
ever, were made, and interesting textile remains, such as rugs, sandals,
and cordage of yucca fiber and cedar bark, were found.

The number of ruins found was far beyond what was expected, about
one hundred and thirty-five ruin-sites having been noted.

in exploring branch catons many ruins of large extent were observed,
some of them containing several large circular chambers with very thick
massive walls beautifully finished inside with smooth coats of cement,
and sometimes with a decorative band near the floor. In one case the
drawing was very skillfully executed in red paint on a white ground,
very similar in character to designs found on ancient pottery. These
larger ruins are not nearly so well preserved as the small ones. They
have evidently been the principal dwellings of the ancient people of
this region, and seem to have been visited with a destruction which the
more insignificant cliff outlooks have escaped.

On finishing the work in Caton de Chelley, a trip was made to the
pueblo of Acoma. A representative collection of modern ware was se-
cured, composed principally of large jars, small vessels being compar-
atively rare at this pueblo. Very few specimens of ancient pottery
were found here.

During intervals of collecting, a survey and a plan of Acoma were
made for the preparation of a model similar to those of Zui and the
Moki villages.

Explorations at Zuii.—In August, 1882, Mr. F. H. Cushing proceeded
to the Seneca Iroquois Reserve, in Western New York, with the Zuni
Indians who had accompanied him on his Eastern trip. Here he visited
the Senecas of Tonawanda, learning important and obscure facts rela-
tive to their social and more especially their “‘ Medicine” organizations.
In the latter he found evidence of a society of “‘medicine priests” func-
tionally identical with a similar organization among the Zuiis, the latter
being that of the Kd/-kd-thla na Kvwe or “ Grand-Medicine-Dance Society.”

Proceeding thence, he arrived at Zuni, N. M., on the 23d of Sep-
tember. Here, during the month of October, he resumed note-taking,
62 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

sketching of Zuni dances and ceremonials as they happened to occur,
adding to his vocabularies and memoranda on the sociologic system of
the tribe, their ceramic-art decorations, and mythology. On the 5th of
November he went to the Moki towns to assist, in concert with J. Stanly
Brown, esq., in the collecting of ethnologic specimens therefrom. On
nearing Keam’s Cafion, the point of rendezvous, it was determined ad-
visable that he should make a visit of reconnaissance to Oraibe. Near-
ing Walpi, he was driven in by a severe snow-storm, but he had the
good fortune to meet there a visiting chief from Oraibe. With him he
consulted and negotiated, making him the messenger of his arrange-
ments for trading with the tribe in question. He then returned to
Keam’s Cafion.

Pending the arrival of goods at Moki, Mr. Cushing returned across
the country to Zuii, for the purpose of observing more minutely than
on former occasions the annual sun ceremonials. Hn route he dis-
covered two ruins, apparently before unvisited.

One of these was the outlying structure of K‘n/-i-K’él, called by. the
Navajos Zinni-jin’ne, and by the Zufis He’-sho’ta pathl-tdie, both, ac-
cording to Zuni tradition, belonging to the Thlé-e-ta-kwe, the name given
to the traditional northwestern migration of the Bear, Crane, Frog,
Deer, Yellow-wood, and other gentes of the ancestral pueblos.

It is a two-story structure, of selected red sandstone slabs, around the
base and over the summit of a huge outcropping bowlder, and is nearly
intact, most of the floor of the second story, roof, lintels, etce., still being
in good state of preservation. It is situated in the mouth of one of the
arms of K’in-i-kéel, or “Dead Run” Cation, 25 miles northwest of the
station of Navajo Springs, on the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad. In
the ground-room of this structure, leaning against a trap opening in
the floor of the second story, were found the poles of a primitive ladder,
notched with stone instruments at regular intervals on the correspond-
ing sides. To the lower portion of the poles was bound with yucca
fiber a much-decayed round, still complete, but too feebly attached to
allow of disturbance. The structure details of the rooms of the second
story were noteworthy features, indicating the relationship of the build-
ing with the ruin of K’in-i-kéel, and thus, in a measure, confirming the
Zuni tradition.

As soon as the ceremonials of the sun had been completed, Mr. Cush-
ing again set out, with Nanahe (a Zuni of Moki nativity) as interpreter,
for Moki, via Holbrook, Ariz., and proceeded with Victor Mindeleff,
eSq., and his expedition to Oraibe on the 19th of December. On ac-
count of the unfavorable attitude of the natives, it was determined that
further efforts would prove comparatively fruitless of results; hence the
expedition proceeded from Oraibe to an encampment near the mesa of
the two Moki towns, Mi-shong-i-ni-vi and Shipau-i-li-vi. Here Mr.
Cushing superintended the collecting of more than twelve hundred
specimens, at the same time noting several examples of Moki folk-lore
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 63

and tradition, and studying the considerable collections of antique pot-
tery gathered, some of the results of which latter studies will appear in
forthcoming reports.

On the 19th of January, 1883, Mr. Cushing returned to Zuni and
continued his investigations relative to the sociologic system of the
Zunis. He added during the months of March and April more than
five hundred pages to his notes on Zuni folk-lore. Healso made a brief
trip to the ruin sections of Zuni tradition, lying toward the southwest,
accompanied by an artist, W. L. Metcalf, as a volunteer assistant, and
two Indians. His discoveries near the Escudilla and farther north, in
Eastern Arizona, were more important, archeologically, than he had
before made.

Linguistic Field Work.—Mrs. Erminnie Smith, whose former work had
been devoted to the Iroquoian tribes of New York and Upper Canada,
was this year engaged among those of Lower Canada, principally Mo-
hawks. The isolation of these Indians for nearly two hundred years
from the other Iroquois has afforded interesting comparisons regarding
dialect and customs. A large amount of literature, consisting of ser-
mons, catechisms, vocabularies and dictionaries, the most important of
which was in manuscript, the work of French Catholic missionaries, was
obtained. By this means the Mohawk synonyms for many words before
collected by Mrs. Smith in the Tuscarora, Onondaga, and Seneca dialects,
were ascertained.

Mr. Jeremiah Curtin visited the Indians on the Seneca Reservation,
New York, and collected a large body of linguistic and mythologic ma-
terial, and afterwards proceeded to Indian Territory with the same
object.

Mr. H. W. Henshaw, in the latter part of the year, was occupied in
Nevada and California. He procured a very complete vocabulary of
the Washo language from the members of that tribe, about 300, in the
neighborhood of Carson, establishing the former supposition that the
Washo language is the sole known representative of a linguistic stock.
A similar vocabulary of the Panamint language, hitherto unknown,
was obtained, showing it to belong to the Shoshone stock. The Pana-
mint tribe was found not to be so near extinction as had been popularly
supposed, there remaining about 150 individuals.

Dr. W. J. Hoffman visited the Ottawa, Ojibwa, and Pottawatomie In-
dians of Northern Michigan, and the Sisseton and Mdewakantannawn
bands of Dakota, in Minnesota and Dakota, with special reference to the
study of pictographs and gesture language.

Rev. J. Owen Dorsey, during January and February, was on the Kan-
sas and Osage Reservations, in the Indian Territory, where he gained
considerable linguistic and ethnologic material from the Indians, who
speak dialects related to that of the Ponkas and Omahas. Among this
material may be specified two dictionaries, of fully three thousand words
64 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

each, grammatical notes in each dialect, native texts, including myths,

historical papers, and epistles and sociologic notes.

Office Work.—Col. Garrick Mallery, United States Army, has been en-
gaged in further researches and extensive correspondence for the com-
pletion of a monograph on sign language, and in the preparation of an
introduction to the study of pictographs, with the requisite illustrations.
In this work he has been assisted by Dr. W. J. Hoffman.

Dr. H. C. Yarrow has continued the preparation of his monographs
on mortuary customs, and also has been occupied in obtaining data
for a work upon the medicine practices of the North American Indians.

Mr. H. W. Henshaw was engaged in preparing a report upon Indian
industries, both from historical data and from the returns of the Indian
census.

Prof. O. T. Mason has prepared a report upon Indian education,
based upon material obtained from the office of the Commissioner of
Indian Affairs, from correspondence with every school and college in
the United States, from the reports of the Indians, and from the general
census. This has been arranged with reference to the name, location,
and linguistic stock of every tribe, detailing the school facilities, attend-
ance, and literacy.

During the year Mr. W. H. Holmes had general charge of the col-
lections of the Bureau outside of those from the mound district, and has
made the necessary classification and catalogue thereof. He has also
been acting as honorary curator of pottery in the National Museum, and
has spent much time in classifying and arranging the very large collec-
tions in that department. In connection with this work he has made
some interesting investigations relating to ancient American ceramics.
The most important of these were studies of the use of textile fabrics in
the manufacture of pottery by the ancient tribes of the Atlantic slope,
and of the art of “coiling” for the same purposes by all the American
people. Exhaustive papers have been prepared upon these subjects.

Mr. Holmes has also had charge of the department of illustration of
the Bureau conjointly with that of the Geological Survey.

Mrs. Erminnie Smith was engaged in translating into English the
manuscript French-Mohawk dictionary of Rev. Father Marcoux, pro-
cured by her, in which the spelling of the Indian words was changed to
that adopted by the Bureau of Ethnology. She also prepared a chres-
tomathy of the Mohawk dialect, and a table containing a large number
of words in use among the isolated Mohawks, with their synonyms as
used by the Mohawks on the * Six Nation Reserve.”

During the year the Bibliography of North American Linguistics, by
Mr. J. C. Pilling, was slowly put in type, only 350 pages having been
added. To this work Mr. Pilling has only been able to give such time as
could be spared from other more pressing official duties. In the spring
he made a trip to the west coast of the United States for the purpose of
inspecting the books in certain libraries in California, and in the fall a

‘  - .
= ———
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 65

visit of a few weeks tosome of the principal libraries of the East, nota-
bly the Lenox Library and the Astor Library of New York, and the val-
uable private libraries of Dr. J. Hammond Trumbull, of Hartford, and
Dr. D. G. Brinton, of Media, Pa. There are now 900 pages of the Bib-
liography in type.

Mr. Jeremiah Curtin prepared, in part from material in the office,
vocabularies of the Muskoki, Caddo, and Seneca languages, and of the
Chinook jargon, also a collection of Seneca folk-lore.

Mr. C. C. Royce resumed the preparation of a historical atlas of In-
dian affairs.

This work will indicate upon a series of charts the boundaries of all
cessions of land made to the United States by the several Indian tribes,
the location of present and former Indian villages, and all points or
places of historical interest, reciting briefly the location, character, and
condition of each tribe in its earliest relations with the whites; its mi-
gration, wars, and diplomacy to the formation of the Federal Govern-
ment, and a particular account of the various treaties with the United
States, together with the causes and results thereof. The progress of
the year covers the cessions in all the States and Territories between
the Mississippi River and the Pacific slope; also the greater part of
Wisconsin, Michigan, and much in Tennessee, North Carolina, and
Georgia, as well as the collection of a large amount of historical data
relating to the different tribes.

Mr. Albert 8S. Gatschet was engaged in revising the items compos-
ing his English-Klamath Dictionary and putting them in shape so as to
be ready for the press.

Many of the longer items had to be rewritten entirely from the ma-
terials on hand.

In the middle of May type-setting began on the work, and it was com-
pleted and stereotyped by the latter part of August. Including the
preface, this second part of the dictionary now contains 205 quarto
pages, with about 4,400 items.

Mr. Gatschet also undertook the revision of the manuscript of his
grammar, part of which had to be rewritten.

The Dakota-English portion of the Dakota Dictionary of Rev. 8. R.
Riggs, D. D., being 655 pages of proof, was finally corrected in April,
18835. The death of this distinguished missionary and scholar in Au-
gust, 1883, required the transfer of the preparation of the English-
Dakota part of the dictionary to Rey. John P. Williamson, who has
since been engaged upon it. :

From March to December, inclusive, Rev. J. Gwen Dorsey was ocecu-
pied in the preparation of a Kwapa vocabulary of several hundred
words, and the Kansas and Osage dictionaries, from the material col-
lected by him in Indian Territory, as well as in the transliteration of part
of the Ponka dictionary, to make it conform to the last alphabet of the

H. Mis. 69 5

66 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Bureau. This last work will form Part II of ‘‘ Contributions to North
American Ethnology, Volume VI, The (egiha Language.”

Prof. Cyrus Thomas, who had charge of the explorations of mounds,
has taken the precaution to have all the specimens carefully and prop-
erly labeled and numbered, from the time they were discovered in the
field until they received the Museum catalogue number. He has also
prepared a corresponding catalogue, in which are carefully noted the
locality where each specimen was found, the name of the collector, and
whether found in a mound, grave, or on the surface, so that archzolo-
gists can ascertain the history of any specimen by reference to the spe-
cimen itself.

In addition to this, a catalogue of the collection of the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1883, with numerous illustrations, has been prepared
for the Bureau and is now awaiting publication. Each assistant has
made a full report of his work up to June 30, 1883, which will be brought
together in the general report now in course of preparation by Professor
Thomas. <A large number of plates and illustrations of mound groups,
ancient works, and mound sections accompany these reports, which
will be used to illustrate the general report.

Mr. Victor Mindeleff was engaged during part of the year in making
a series of large models in papier-maché of the Moki villages from the
plans and measurements taken by him on the ground.

The Third Annual Report has been prepared and delivered to the
Government Printer, its contents being as follows:

Manuscript Troano, by Prof. Cyrus Thomas.

Masks of the Northwest, by William H. Dall.

Omaha Sociology, by Rev. J. O. Dorsey.

Navajo Weavers, by Dr. Washington Matthews.

Catalogue of a portion of the ethnological and archeological collec-
tions made by the Bureau, etc., by William H. Holmes.

Textile Fabrics of the Mound Builders, derived from impressions on
pottery, by William H. Holmes.

Illustrated catalogue of the collections from New Mexico in 1882, by
James Stevenson.

During the year many linguistic manuscripts of value were received
from collectors to whom the ‘“ Introduction to the Study of Indian Lan-
guages” had been furnished.

UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY.

It has been customary for the Secretary of the Institution to present
each year a condensed account of the work performed by the Govern-
ment Survey; and accordingly the following summary of its operations
is given, kindly furnished by Major J. W. Powell, Director of the Sur-
vey:

In the act making appropriations for the fiscal year 1882~83 Con-
gress required the Geological Survey to make a geologic map of the

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 67F

United States, thereby giving the Survey authority to extend its opera-
tions over the entire country in so far as necessary to effect that pur-
pose. Inasmuch as the preparation of a geologic map requires a cor-
rect topographic map as its basis, it became necessary to adopt a seale
for a general map of the United States, and also a method of graphie
representation. The experience of the various geologic surveys carried
on by the General Government and by the several States has shown
that the smallest scale that can ordinarily be used on a map for general
geologic purposes is 4 miles to the inch, and that vertical relief is best
indicated by contours with intervals of 25 feet or 200 feet, according as
the country represented is plain or rugged in its topographic features.
Certain districts in which the geology is complex may require elaborate
maps on larger scales, but for the general map the scale of 4 miles to
the inch has been adopted as best suited for the purpose of geologie
representation.

It is proposed to publish this general map in atlas sheets, each to
include one degree of longitude by one of latitude.

To accomplish this topographic work in the shortest possible time
and with the greatest economy, it was decided to take advantage of all
work previously done, whether by the General Government, by the
several States, by counties, townships, or by industrial corporations
and individuals. In order to compile and adjust the material obtained
from these various sources, a topographic division was organized, uncer
the charge of Mr. Henry Gannett, who, in addition to the work of com-
pilation and adjustment above referred to, began field operations, car-
ried on to a limited extent in 1882, but extended and systematized in
1883.

Topographic Work.

The plans for the topographic field work for the season of 1883 con-
templated a large increase of work in the Southern Appalachian region,
the commencement of work in Massachusetts, the further prosecutiom
of work in New Mexico and Arizona, in Northern California, and the
commencement of a detailed map of the Yellowstone National Park. I
was further proposed to extend the map of the Elk Mountains in Colo-
rado, which was made by the survey under Dr. F. V. Hayden in 1874,
besides numerous detailed maps in different sections of the country.
Field work in the Arizona and New Mexico district, known as the “ Win-
gate division,” was commenced in the latter part of May, under the direc-
tion of Prof. A. H. Thompson. The division was organized first with
one party for carrying on triangulation and two for topographic work,
which organization was continued until the 1st of July, when another
topographic party was added. The character of the country, which
consists essentially of rolling plateaus commanded by buttes of no
great height, was such as to permit of very rapid topographic work.
The weather also was favorable during the entire season, and the result
was that this division covered a very large area, estimated at 22,009
68 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

square miles, comprising the region lying between the parallels of 85°
and 37°, and the meridians of 109° and 111°, and with an additional
rectangle on the southeast, comprised between the parallels of 35° and
36° and the meridians of 107° and 109°. A small portion of the latter
had been surveyed during the previous year. While this region was,
as stated before, in the highest degree favorable to the rapid prosecu-
tion of topographic work, it was decidedly unfavorable for triangulation,

requiring almost everywhere the use of artificial signalseand much cut-.

ting away of timber. The area covered includes much that has been
hitherto a terra incognita, partly on account of its aridity and barren
condition, and partly on account of the difficulty of traversing it. So
little has been known of it that within the area surveyed by Mr. H. M.
Wilson (in charge of one of the topographic parties) a small mountain
range has been indicated as occupying two places on the same map.
Mr. Wilson is also the first white man to ascend Navajo Mountain, a
dome-shaped mass that rises 4,000 feet above the general level of the
country, between the San Juan and the Colorado Rivers, near the mouth
of the former. At the close of the field season, Professor Thompson
determined by astronomic methods the geographic position of Fort
Wingate.

The field work of the California division was, as during the previous
year, intrusted to the charge of Mr. Gilbert Thompson. The division
was organized and took the field early in July. It consisted of two
parties, one under the immediate supervision of Mr. Thompson and the
other under Mr. Mark B. Kerr. The season proved to be exceptionally
anfavorable. Not only was the work seriously interfered with by storms,
but during nearly the whole season smoke and haze obstructed the view.
In spite of these difficulties the topographers surveyed an area estimated
at between 4,000 and 5,000 square miles, lying in the northern part of
the State, about Mount Shasta, and extending westward therefrom into
the Coast Range.

The work of preparing a detailed map of Yellowstone Park upon a
scale of 1 mile to an inch was intrusted to Mr. J. H. Renshawe. Out-
fitting his party at Bozeman, Mont., he reached the Park and com-
menced work on the 7th of August, prosecuting work as late as the
season would admit. Early in October, however, severe snow-storms
caused a cessation of field operations, and he was obliged to withdraw
tc lower altitudes. The area covered by his party during the season
was about 1,500 square miles, lying in the northwestern corner of the
Park, and embracing the southern end of the Gallatin Range, and a
considerable area of plateau country, extending hence southward down
to the Geyser basins. Upon the return of the party to Bozeman, in
October, a remeasurement with compensated bars was made of the base
line at that place laid out and surveyed by the ‘‘ Geographical Surveys
West of the One Hundredth Meridian” in 1877.-

During the year 1874 the Geological Survey of the Territories, under
Dr. F. V. Hayden, made a somewhat detailed topographic map of

4
4
H
:
|

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 69

the Elk Mountain region, in Western Colorado. This region, compris-
ing one of the finest bodies of mountains in the country, has recently
acquired prominence as a mining district both of the precious metals
and coal. The extension of this work on the southwest, in order to
include within its limits all of the mining district as now constituted,
was intrusted to Mr. Anton Karl. It was commenced during the month
of July, and carried on nearly to completion when Mr. Karl was ealled
away for the purpose of verifying the survey of the Maxwell grant, in
Northern New Mexico. Mr. Karl performed this latter duty to the sat-
isfaction of the Department, and, upon its completion, the season being:
far advanced, field operations in the Elk Mountain Region were post-
poned until the following year.

The revision for the survey of the Southern Appalachians was organ-
ized upon a considerably enlarged scale, five topographic and two tri-
angulation parties being put into the field. Three of the former, under
Messrs. Yeates, Bien, and Pearson, took the field during the month of
June, and at the same time one of the triangulation parties, under Prof.
W. C. Kerr, commenced work. The area assigned to Mr. Yeates com-
prised the southwestern part of the mountain region of North Carolina;
that to Mr. Bien, the northeastern part of this area, the southwestern
corner of Virginia, and McDowell County, in West Virginia; that to
Mr. Pearson, the valley of East Tennessee, with instructions to work
from the boundary line of Virginia down the valley as far as the season
would permit. The triangulation party was instructed to cover the area
assigned to these three parties with a scheme of triangulation of suf-
ficient accuracy to control their work. Early in July, topographic party
No. 4, under Mr. W. A. Shumway, was put into the field, with instrue-
tions to survey the area lying between the Kanawha and Big Sandy
Rivers, in West Virginia. ‘Triangulation party No. 2, under Prof. J.
Howard Gore, also took the field about this time, with instructions to
connect the Coast Survey transcontinental belt, which follows generally
the Kanawha River, with the work of the other party under Protessor
Kerr. At the same time, topographic party No. 5, under Mr. 8S. H.
Bodfish, was put into the field, with instructions to survey the western
part of Maryland and the adjacent portions of Northern West Virginia.
Shortly after Mr. Bodfish took the field his health failed and it beeame
necessary for him to relinquish charge of the party. Mr. W.T.Griswold
was intrusted with the further prosecution of the work.

The weather throughout this region was unfavorable. The journals
of the parties show that fully one-half of the days were so stormy as to
preclude field work; furthermore, the character of the country, espe-
cially the density of its forests, makes field work at all times slow and
difficult. Nevertheless, an area of fully 2,200 square miles was sur-
veyed, a result attained only by great energy and ingenuity in over-
coming and circumventing obstacles.

The survey of Massachusetts was intrusted to Prof. H. F. Walling,
<0 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

so long well known as the compiler of maps of the Northeastern States,
and latterly by his topographic work upon the United States Coast and
Geodetic Survey. Work was commenced among the Berkshire Hills in
Massachusetts in July, and carried on until the close of the year, an
area of 1,500 square miles having been surveyed, upon a scale of 2
miles to an inch. In carrying on this work very material assistance
has been derived from surveys, either by the United States or State
authority, or by private corporations or individuals.

in the Mono Basin, Mr. Willard D. Johnson spent the summer in
topographic work, under the immediate supervision of the geologist in
charge of the division of the Great Basin. He was occupied the greater
part of the season upon a map of the hydrographic basin of Mono Lake,
including an area of about 2,000 square miles, and executed on a scale
of 13 miles to the square inch. About half the area is mountainous
and difficult, including the western slope of a portion of the Sierra
Nevada. Local maps were made of the Mount Lyell glaciers, and of a
group of ancient moraines at the mouth of Parker Canon.

The total area covered by the topographic work of the season
amounts to about 53,000 square miles.

Geologic Work.

Distwicé of the South Atlantic.—Prof. H. R. Geiger was detailed to
investigate the geology of certain portions of Virginia. He spent the
early part of July in the eastern part of the State. During that month
and August he studied all the formations from the Greenbrier River
to the east of Alleghany Station, West Virginia.

In September he packed and shipped to Washington specimens from
the Devonian formations, in Greenbrier County, and transferred his
work to Alleghany County, Virginia. He there made a study of the
formations, which are well exposed in that section, and procured some
excellent geologic specimens. In October he extended his work from
Alleghany County to Rockingham County, Virginia, where he studied
the limestone fossils and made a special study of the foldings between
the Blue Ridge and North Mountain. He made a careful comparative
examination of the limestones of Alleghany and Rockbridge Counties,
and at the end of the month came to Washington. The thanks of
the Survey are due to Professor Campbell, of Washington and Lee
University, who rendered great service to Professor Geiger.

Prof. Ira Sayles spent the early part of July in the examination
ef caves near Clinch River, Virginia, and the general features of the
Surrounding region. He then studied the coal beds of Big Yellow
Creek, in Bell County, Kentucky, and the dyestone iron deposits a few
miles down Poor Valley. In August he continued his work near the
Clinch River, especially with the object of ascertaining the extent and
direction of the faulting which was displayed there, and also ex-
amined the upper Coal Measures of the region, and made a running

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. re

field chart of the county. Later in the season he discovered, in Haw-
kins County, Tennessee, some very interesting cave deposits, which he

_earefully studied and from which large collections were sent to the
ofiice in Washington. From this point, in October, he went southeast-
wardly through Hawkins County, studying the formations on the way,
and by the last of the month was at Knoxville, where he examined the
rocks of the Potsdam deposits, to supplement Mr. C. D. Walcott’s
work. The work in the vicinity of Knoxville and Centerville was con-
tinued through the latter part of the year, although bad weather in-
terfered considerably with his work.

District of the Rocky Mountains.—Work in this district, under the
charge of Mr. 8S. F. Emmons, was begun early in July. Mr. Whitman
Cross was assigned to work in the Silver Cliff region. The report on
this region will be of value from the fact that it is a camp of abortive
processes, a true history of which will serve as warning by pointing
out the errors which caused the failures there. Work was continued in
this region through Jaly, August, and part of September. Mr. 8. 8.
Sackett was detailed to gather statistics as to reduction works in
the district. A short trip was made to the Sangre de Cristo Range, on
the opposite side of the valley from Silver Cliff, to determine the geo-
logic relations of the rocks of this range to the Silver Cliff deposits.
Work in the Denver coal basin was begun, but had to be stopped be-
fore the end of the season. Some attention was paid to the subject of
artesian wells, and the material obtained will be embodied in the re-
port on the Denver basin. In the office the notes on the ten-mile dis-
trict were worked up, a geologic map and sections were prepared, and
lithological determinations were made preliminary to final elaboration
and publication. Messrs. Cross and Chapman have been engaged in
the preparation of geologic maps, and some field work was done by Mr.
Cross in the vicinity of Golden and Morrison, on the Mesozoic rocks
which are exposed in this region.

ellowstone National Park.—Mr. Hague began field-work in the Yel-
lowstone Park inthe latter part of July. His investigations were mainly
confined to a preliminary examination to ascertain what the geologic
problems really are. The Upper and Lower Geyser Basins were visited
in August, and a geologic reconnaissance was made from the Upper Basin
to Shoshone Lake of the Heart Lake Basin, for the purpose of comparing
them with the Upper Basins of the Firehole, and to ascertain what thermal
and other changes have occurred since 1878. _Mr. Hague thinks that
Mount Sheridan is a volcanic crater, so modified by glacial action as to
practically obscure its true origin. A collection of 200 specimens of gey-
serites was carefully made for the educational rock series. In September
permanent camp was established near the Great Valley ofthe Yellowstone,
and short trips were made into the adjacent region. The Mount Wash-
burne group was examined, and the headwaters of the Gardiner and
Gibbon Rivers and the region of the Grand Cafion were visited. The
e2 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

bottom of the Grand Cafion was reached at four different points. A
reconnaissance was made to Steamboat Point on Yellowstone Lake, and
Mount Chittenden, one of the highest peaks in the vicinity, was ascended.
During this time a study of the geysers in the Upper Geyser Basin was

continued by Mr. Hague’s assistant until September 25, when the camp °

there was broken up and a new camp was established at Mammoth Hot
Springs. From this a trip was made to the western limits of the Park
over the summit of the Great Plateau and back via Madison Caiion,
where a fine section of rhyolitic rocks is exposed. The region north of
Mount Holmes, on the west side of the Park, was also examined, but
the results were meager on account of the severity of the storms. A
geologic reconnaissance was also made via the East Fork of the Yel-
lowstone to the headwaters of Soda Butte Creek and the Clarlk’s Fork
mines. Although the country was covered with snow, the work accom-
plished was of great value for general geologic purposes, and especially
as suggesting plans of operation for next season. About the middle of
October the weather became so inclement that the parties were obliged
to leave the field. Mr. Iddings was sent to Eureka, Nev., to make col-
lections of rocks for the educational series. He secured sufficient ma-
terial for 200 cabinet specimens of five characteristic rocks. Three
of these illustrate igneous rocks from the Great Basin, and two belong
to the supplementary series. ‘All will be described in the Geology of
the Eureka district.”

District of the Pacific—Survey of the Quicksilver District.—Mr. G. F.
Becker, who is in charge of the division of the Pacific, has been engaged
in the examination of the quicksilver deposits of California. During
the early part of the season he carried on an investigation in the vicin-
ity of the Sulphur Bank, California. A trip was made to the North Fork
of Cache Creek and Tulare Lake, the only localities in this section where
fossiliferous strata occur. The early part of September was spent on
the North Fork of Cache Creek, and the map of the Clear Lake region
was completed. Returning to Sulphur Bank, soundings of the lake
were taken, and careful examinations made of the mines. The party
then proceeded to San Francisco to prepare for the winter’s work, which
consists of the revision of Mr. Curtis’s memoir of the Eureka mines, the
arranging of the Clear Lake and Sulphur Bank collections, and analy-
ses of the minerals, rocks, and waters collected, and the general routine
of office duties.

Work was undertaken during the season by Mr. Turner, in the re-
gion of Knoxville, but was interfered with by his sickness, which obliged
him to enter the hospital at San Francisco.

Volcanic rocks. —Capt. C. E. Dutton, who has charge of the investiga-
tion of the volcanic rocks of the division of the Pacific, has been busy
most of the year with the completion and preparation for publication
of his memoir on the Hawaiian volcanoes, which were visited by him
for the purpose of studying the features and processes of voleanoes in

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. ta

action. that the practical knowledge thus obtained might be used in the
study of the extinct volcanoes of our western coast. His assistant, Mr.
Diller, took the field at Red Bluff, Cal., early in July, and immediately
began the study of Lassen’s Butte. The plain around Red Bluff is vol-
canic conglomerate of andesitic fragments, which formation extends for
25 miles eastward. During the latter part of the month he was en-
gaged in the examination of the region surrounding Mount Shasta.
Later, he made a geologic reconnaissance of the Cascade range. Inter-
esting studies were made of the faults on the eastward side of the range,
near Klamath Lake. In September he visited Union Peak, Mount
Thieison, Crescent and Summit Lakes, and Diamond Peak. Mount
Thielson proved to be a very interesting ruined crater of large propor-
tions. From Diamond Peak he proceeded to the group of volcanic
cones known as the ‘ Three Sisters.” Here both Mr. Diller and his
assistant, Mr. Hayden, met with an accidént which obliged them to
suspend work. Later in the season the reconnaissance was resumed
and the west side of the range examined from Portland, Oregon, to Red
Bluff, California.

District of the Great Basin.—The work in this division has consisted
for several years in the investigation of the system of lakes which in
Quaternary time occupied so many of the valleys. This work is now
so far advanced that it is believed the most important generalizatious
have been reached; and the Director decided to close it as a means of
enabling him to increase the working force on the Atlantic coast. The
corps was therefore reduced early in the year, and those who remained
were instructed to devote the season to supplementing the material
already gathered so as to put it in the best shape for publication. The
office at Salt Lake City, which had been the base of operations for the
division, was closed in June.

Mr. G. K. Gilbert, geologist in charge, took thé field soon after, visit-
ing in Northern Utah, Northerri Nevada, and the Mono Basin of Cali-
fornia, localities necessary to complement his earlier notes.

He was accompanied in Utah and Nevada by Mr. R. Ellsworth Call,
who is temporarily attached to the survey for the purpose of studying
the molluscan faunas of the Quaternary lakes. The Quaternary shells
are all of existing fresh-water species, but are depauperate as compared
with their modern representatives in the same region; and the problem
andertaken by Mr. Call is to determine the climatic conditions indicated
by this depauperization.

Mr. Israel C. Russell has had immediate charge of the investigation
of Lake Lahontan, the Quaternary ancestor of Pyramid, Carson, and
Walker Lakes, and also of the investigation of the Quaternary history
of the Mono Lake Basin. He devoted the summer to the completion
of his field examinations. The six Quaternary glaciers which debouched
into Mono Valley were. studied in detail and traced to their common
V4 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

source in the great névé of the Sierra Nevada. Within the area of that
névé are a number of small modern glaciers which were included in the
investigation.

Messrs. Gilbert and Russell have devoted the time not consumed by
field-work to the preparation of reports, preliminary and final, on the
Quaternary lakes. The final reports will include monographs on Lake
Bonneville, Lake Lahontan, and the Mono Basin.

Study of Metamorphic rocks.—Prof. R. D. Irving had five parties in the
field continuing the investigation of the copper-bearing rocks. The
examination of the Huronian rocks, in the vicinity of Sault Ste. Marie,
Mich., was completed, and the field of investigation was extended north
of Lake Superior to the National boundary, and along the latter west-
ward to Rove Lake, Michigan. Special investigations were made in the
vicinity of Sault Ste. Marie and at various other points in the neighbor-
hood of Lake Superior. A study was made of the crystalline rocks of
Morrison and Todd Counties, Minnesota, and a study of the Huronian
quartzites of the Minnesota Valley. Professor Todd’s report on the
“«Copper-bearing Rocks ” is in type and awaiting the completion of the
illustrations before publication. Earlyin September the Animikie group
was examined along a route which gave two complete sections of the
series from the junction with the Keweenawan, on the islands near
Pigeon Point, along the boundary line’to the underlying granite of
Sanaga Lake, and along the west side of Thunder Bay to Port Arthur.
The examination of the Minnesota Valley, begun in the latter part of
August, was continued until the middle of September, when field work
was stopped for the season. _ Considerable microscopic work has been
done by Professor Todd and his assistants. Since the beginning of their
study of the metamorphic rocks in 1882 thin sections of 500 rocks have
been made, of which number written descriptions of 300 have been pre-
pared. They include rocks from the original Huronian, the Huronian
of the Marquette and Menominee regions, the Animikie group of the
National boundary, the folded schists of the same region, and the crys-
talline rocks of the Minnesota and Mississippi Valleys. Professor Irving,
in October, made a personal examination of the quartzites of Nicollet
and Cottonwood Counties, Minnesota. A comparative study of the
greenstones, ete., of Huronian age will be carried on. Office work has
developed some interesting results in relation to the structure of the
quartzites of the Huronian of Lake Huron and of the Marquette and
concerning their relations to each other.

Yellowstone and Missouri Rivers.—The region between the Missouri
River at Bismarck, Dak., and the Yellowstone Valley at Glendive,
Mont., and along the Yellowstone River from Glendive to Livingston,
Mont., with a portion of Montana in the vicinity of Bozeman, was the
field of a geological reconnaissance by Dr. F. V. Hayden, who was
assisted by Dr. A. C. Peale. Sections were made at various points along
the line of the Northern Pacific Railroad with especial relation to the

ee re 3

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 15

line of division between the Laramie group and the beds that lie beneath
it. Collections were made at various points, mainly of fossils from
strata of the Laramie group, and the numerous coal outcrops in the
vicinity of the railroad were examined, as were also the borings for
artesian wells at Bismarck in Dakota, and at Billings in Montana.

Quaternary geology.—An investigation of the glacial and associated
formations of the interior basin has been in progress under charge of
Prof. fT. C. Chamberlin. In the early part of June he made a brief re-
examination of the stony clays bordering Lake Michigan, with a view
to discriminations between true glacial deposits and those produced by
floating ice. Later in the month he made a cursory examination of
some points on the southern border of the newer drift in Central Iowa,
and on the loess and drift of Northeastern Nebraska, carrying a recon-
naissance as far west as Fort Niobrara. In July he studied the outer
border of the drift in Dakota, adjacent to and west of the Missouri
River. In August a reconnaissance of the drift margin in the Ohio
Basin in Southern Illinois, Indiana, and Southwestern Ohio was under.
taken. September and the remainder of the available field season,
reaching into the early part of December, were devoted to a supple-
mentary examination of the barder of the later drift and of its moraines
in the plaine region, stretching from the Scioto to the Illinois Valley, in
which the ridging of the drift is least conspicuous.

Prof. J. EK. Todd, as assistant, devoted the main portion of the field
season to an investigation of the moraines and associated drift deposits
of the Territory lying between the James and Missouri Valleys and
south of the Northern Pacific Railway in Dakota. Subordinately he
made brief supplementary studies of the glacial phenomena of the south-
eastern corner of Dakota and the northeastern border of Nebraska.

The chief subject assigned Prof. R. D. Salisbury, assistant, was the
character, quantity, and topographical associations of the residuary
clays and other disintegration products of the driftless region of Wis-
consin, Minnesota, lowa, and Illinois. In connection with this study
he traced out the limits of some portions of the driftless area that had
not been determined with accuracy, and examined the character of the
drift border with a view to comparison with the observations on the
outer drift margin above indicated. He also gave attention to the loess-
like loams of the western and southern portions of the district and to
the valley drift. Im November he was temporarily diverted from these
studies to assist in glacial examinations in the Wabash Valley. In the
latter part of November he transferred his field to Kastern Missouri, and
began an investigation of the residuary clays, loess, and drift border
analogous to that previously undertaken in the driftless region, and
with the object, among others, of intercomparison. This work was con-
tinued until interrupted by snow-fall, about the middle of December.

The surface geology of the District of Columbia.—The superficial de-
posits of Washington, D.C., and vicinity have been made the subject
76 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

of casual study during the past summer by Mr. W J McGee, whose re-
ports may be summarized as follows:

The uppermost deposit consists of a unipartite but heterogeneous layer
of gravel and loam, reposing unconformably upon the several older
rocks of the region up to an altitude of 200 feet or more above tide. In
general, the layer thickens toward waterways and is attenuated toward

highlands, and the coarser materials predominate toward its base.

The gravels are in part quartzitic, small, and well rounded, and in part
of various sublocal rocks of all sizes up to fully four feet in diameter,
and little worn ; while the loam is sometimes of such fineness and local

homogeneity as to simulate the coarser varieties of loess. The whole-

deposit is unfossiliferous, but is probably quaternary.

Below these superficial gravels and above the crystalline schists and
gneisses of the easternmost Appalachian belt occur laminated sands
and plastic clays, unfossiliferous within the District so far as known,
but presumably of Cretaceous or Jurassic age. The series includes one
or more pebble-beds, consisting mainly of small and well-rounded quartz-
itic pebbles, which dip seaward with the arenaceous and argillaceous
strata, and soon disappear beneath the surface. Most of the eminences
of the region are outliers of these obdurate beds, isolated by erosion ;
and from each such eminence is a talus, Verived from and more or less
closely resembling the undisturbed deposit, which descends the slopes,
and ranges, perhaps by imperceptible degrees, into the gravels of sup-
posed Quaternary age. This intermingling of similar deposits of widely
different ages is most puzzling, and greatly increases the difficulty of
the investigation.

Kast of the District richly fossiliferous eocene rocks overlie the Cre-
taceous, but thus far they have been only partially examined.

Beneath the superficial gravels sometimes occurs a ferriferous and
lignitiferous subaerial deposit, in some cases of age manifestly ap-
proaching that of the Cretaceous or Jurassic rocks upon which it re-
poses, and in other cases of so recent aspect as to be generally mistaken
for post-Quaternary accumulations. Local exposures of this discontin-
uous stratum may represent any portion, and the totality of exposure
apparently represents the whole of the period intervening between the
Jurassic and the Quaternary. Its iron ores are sometimes of economic
importance.

Connected with the deposits is a complex system of terraces, both
fluviatile and littoral. Preparatory to the exhaustive study of these
terraces in their relations to the deposits with which they are associated,
and to the orographic movements which they attest, a topographic map
delineating the terraces in contours has been begun by Mr. S. H. Bod-
fish.

Geologic map of the United States.—Pending the accumulation of ade-
quate material for the construction of the large-scale geologic map, a
small-scale map of the United States, embodying our present knowledge
hoe Se

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. vik:

of the distribution of American rocks, is now being colored geologically.

The base is that employed in the atlas accompanying the final reports
of the Tenth Census, which corresponds in size to the double atlas-
sheets of the survey. Since the minor divisions of the geologic column
cannot be indicated upon so small a scale, and since, moveover, our
information respecting the rocks of various regions is insufficient for
nice discriminations, only the general divisions will be represented on
this map. These divisions are indicated by symbols and colors. The
following is the scheme adopted :

Group. | System. | Symbol. | Color.
- |
Brsot Mane. 25.574 Ces ee ee Quaternary re saves «cee Q |
Pliocene M |
— F | Miocene 7 aia CR ee
Cenozoic -...---. .--- -----+---- : eral E |
HOCENGw I Whas scare CCR |
NM @rataceaus.c2... lb. 2% K |
Nida) Cope See eae Jurassic ; T
(DETASRT Cw Ves {tin ae we EO ETETE |
“Permian | Pp
Carboniferous § 79995999555"
IP TILA 2 ae eis Bee peo eters ASV ONAN = so oet ea cerresae | D |
| Silurian Pe es Soh kept Sees Saares)
(Gambrian tase see | Cc |
JUNO Spe SEE Soe Ie eee le Aue ise amy Asean ce eee | A |

To an extent, the map is an experimental one; and the method of
geologic cartography and the system of geologic classification to be
ultimately adopted by the Survey are being developed as the map pro-
gresses. At the same time, since the sources of information drawn upon
jn its preparation embrace not only the latest publications (both official
and unofficial), but also much unpublished material in the hands of
different attachés of this Survey, of several State geologists, and of
various amateur geologists, the map may properly be regarded, when
completed, as the most satisfactory representation of American rocks
extant. It is essentially complete in manuscript, and will probably be
published within a few months. It is the present intention, indeed, to
lay it before the Congrés Géologique Internationale at the approaching
Berlin meeting, as an illustration of the system of cartography and
classification finally adopted by the Survey.

The work is in the hands of Mr. W J McGee, who has had for a
time the collaboration of Prof. C. H. Hitchcock.

Paleontologic Work.

Work of Prof. O. C. Marsh.—The search for extinct vertebrate re-
mains and their study has been assigned to Prof.O.C. Marsh. During
the season of 1883 he has had field parties at work in Colorado, Wyo-
ming, and Oregon. Professor Marsh himself spent the month of August
718 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

in Colorado clearing up some doubtful points on the Sauropoda, on
which he is preparing a volume. Interesting collections were made of
mammals from the Jurassic of Wyoming, and some important speci-
mens were secured from the Tertiary of Oregon. Field work was
brought to a close in Oregon in October, but in Wyoming and Colorado
it was continued until late in the year.

Work of Mr. C. D. Walcott.—Mr. Walcott’s studies have been devoted
mainly to the invertebrate fossils of the Paleozoic age. During the
summer, he made an examination of the Potsdam and Calciferous forma-
tions in New York, for the purpose of comparison. He also examined
the Phillipsburg section of the Canadian Geological Survey, situated 2
miles north of the Vermont State line. The Cambrian strata of Frank-
lin County, New York, were also investigated, and the outcrop of lime-
stone at Greenfield, N. Y., was visited. Large collections were made
and full notes taken in regard to the complicated geological structure
of the regions examined. His office work has been mainly the study
of the Paleozoic fossils from near Eureka, Nev., and the preparation of
a map and section illustrative of the geology of the Grand Canon of the
Colorado east of the Kaibab Plateauin Arizona. He has also prepared
the paleontologic portion of the Report on the Eureka district, which
will be published as Part II of Mr. Hague’s report. It will include the
data obtained from the White Pine district.

Work of Dr. C. A. White-—Dr. C. A. White is in charge of the study
of the invertebrate fossils from the Mesozoic and Tertiary formations.
He began field work, with Mr. J. B. Marcou as assistant, early in July,
making Fort Benton, in Montana, his outfitting point. Thence he pro-
ceeded eastward down the Missouri River to the mouth of Judith River,
where a special examination was made of the Judith River group. At-
tention was given also to the structure of the mountains in the vicinity

‘and to drift phenomena. The central and principal mass of the mount-
ains was found to be a trap rock different in structure from that found
in the Rocky Mountains in Colorado. Moccasin Mountain and Square
Butte were found to be trachytic with stratified rocks flexed against
them. Bear Paw Mountain was found to be essentially the same. The
northern drift was found near the latter. Returning to Fort Benton,
Dr. White was joined by Prof. L. fF. Ward, and after an examination of
several localities in that neighborhood, including the Great Falls of the
Missouri, they together descended the Missouri River in a boat from
Fort Benton, Mont., to Bismarck, Dakota. Only the Laramie group was
noted in this distance, and large collections were made. Later in the
season the Cretaceous strata near Sioux City were examined.

Office work has been confined mainly to the study of the collections
and the revision of the text and illustration of a memoir on the “ Os-
treidz of North America.” Progress was made also in the preparation
of paleontologic bibliography. Mr. Marcou has devoted considerable
time to the arrangement and cataloguing of the Jurassic fossils for study
and revision, and has also prepared for publication a catalogue of maps.

|

So eee ee Mc
4
:
;
;

7

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 79

Work of Prof. Lester F. Ward.—Prof. Lester F. Ward, paleobotanist
of the Survey, spent the months of July and August making large
and valuable collections of fossil plants in the vicinity of Glendive,
Montana. In September he proceeded to Fort Benton, Mont., where he
joined Dr. White and accompanied him down the Missouri River,
adding largely to his collections of fossil plants. Since his return to
Washington the latter have been carefully arranged for study. This
study is facilitated by the acquisition of the fossil plants described by
Professor ,Lesquereux in his quarto report made to the Survey of the
Territories. Professor Ward has prepared a catalogue of fossil plants,
with their geologic horizons indicated.

Work of Prof. H. S. Williams.—Prof. H. 8. Williams, assigned to the
study of the Devonian section of Western New York, has reached some
interesting conclusions as the result of this study during the season.
He worked southward across Allegany County, New York, into Penn-
sylvania, and thence across McKean County, in the latter State. Two
months’ work furnished data for the construction of a continuous section
(geographic and geologic) in a nearly direct line from Batavia, Genesee
County, New York, to Alton, McKean County, Pennsylvania, passing
from the base of the Devonian to the Coal Measures of the Carboniferous.
He also prepared a meridional section, starting in Oneida County, New
York, crossing Madison County, and terminating in Delaware County.
This section passes geologically from the Carboniferous limestone to
the red rocks referred to the Catskill formation. A preliminary re-
port on the faunas of the Upper Devonian along the meridian from
Cayuga Lake southward through Tompkins, Tioga, and Chemung
Counties, in New York, and Bradford, in Pennsylvania, has been pre-
pared for publication and will be issued as a bulletin of the Survey.

Work of Mr. L. C. Johnson.—In the district of the South Atlantic¢
Mr. L. C. Johnson has been carrying on paleontologic work, preparatory
to a more careful survey of the structural geology to be undertaken
hereafter. He has made extensive collections from the Tertiary and
Mesozoic formation in the Gulf States, especially in Alabama. The
greater part of July was spent in Tuscaloosa, from which point 19 boxes
of specimens were sent to Washington. During the early part of August
he was investigating the boundary line between the Cretaceous and the
Carboniferous, and between the rotten limestone of Greene County, Ala-
bama, and the Eutaw group of the Cretaceous. Later he made a re-
connaissance of the Tombigbee and Alabama Rivers. The section con-
structed by Mr. Johnson will go far towards defining the line between the
Cretaceous and Tertiary. October and November were mainly devoted
to the study of the Tertiary near Bridgeport, Ala., and the Cretaceous

in Autauga County, Alabama. December was devoted to the investiga-

tion of the Tertiary. Large collections were made and many interesting
facts developed. One of the results of the work will be to extend the
boundary line of the Tertiary from 6 to 10 miles farther north than is
usually shown on the geologic maps of this region.
80 REPORT OF 'THE SECRETARY.

Work of Prof. W. M. Fontaine.-—Prof. W. M. Fontaine during the
summer examined the Tertiary strata of Eastern Virginia, especially
near Richmond, making collections of fossil plants. He has prepared
drawings of many of the specimens collected. He is also engaged in
the preparation of a memoir on the older Mesozoic plants of Virginia.

Chemie Work.

Prior to the fall of 1883 the chemical work of the Survey was done
at various laboratories scattered through the country, and at the field
laboratories in Denver, Salt Lake, and San Francisco. With the re-
moval of the headquarters of the division of the Great Basin to Wash-
ington the field laboratory at Salt Lake City was abandoned, but work
is still carried on at the others. With the appointment of Prof. F. W.
Clarke as chief chemist of the Survey a laboratory was organized at
Washington, in rooms furnished by the United States National Museum,
where work has been begun on analyses of waters and various speci-
mens brought in by the various field parties.

Professor Clarke, during the summer, made several mineralogical
field trips and secured abundant material for future investigation.

In the laboratory at Denver Mr. Hillebrand has been making analyses
of a number of minerals new to Colorado, and has been examining the
various igneous rocks collected during the summer in the district of
the Rocky Mountains. Dr. Melville, at San Francisco, has been doing
similar work for the division of the Pacific.

A laboratory for physical research will probably be established in
connection with the chemical division at Washington. This work has
been carried on at the physical laboratory at New Haven by Dr. Carl
Barus and Dr. William Hallock, who have been conducting experiments
as to the exact measurement of exceedingly high temperatures.

Heonomic Work.

Statistics of Mineral Resources.—In accordance with an act passed by
the Forty-seventh Congress, the Geological Survey was charged with
the duty of reporting upon the present condition of the mining indus-
tries other than those of gold and silver. This work is in the charge
of Mr. Albert Williams, jr., chief of the division of mining statistics
amd technology, whose first report, entitled the ‘“‘ Mineral Resources of
the United States,” an octavo of some 800 pages, was issued in October.
This report contains the statistics of the metallic and mineral produc-
tion of the country for 1882 and the first six months of 1883, besides
the figures for preceding years, descriptions of localities, metallurgical
papers, and such information as seems important from a practical and
industrial point of view. The statistical work of the Survey thus supple-
ments its purely scientific investigations, and, while it is the first attempt
of the kind, has met with a gratifying public interest. Mr. Williams

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 81

has been so fortunate as to secure the co-operation of a strong array of
contributors among the engineers, metallurgists, and authorities on trade
statistics, and has thus been enabled to conduct operations on a much
more comprehensive plan than would be possible with a force limited
to regular employés.

Forestry cf West Virginia.—Mr. George W. Shutt, during the field
season of 1853, examined the State of West Virginia, especially the
southern and eastern portions, with especial reference to the distri-
bution of timber, its economic value, and the facilities of transportation
to market via the streams of the State. He traveled more than a thou-
sand miles by wagon, and two hundred on horseback, and expresses the
opinion that nearly one-half of the State is covered with a virgin forest,
the value of which, if rendered marketable, would amount to billions
of dollars.

Publications.

During the year the following publications were issued, viz:

Bulletin No. 1. On Hypersthene-Andesite and on Triclinic Pyroxene
in Augitic Rocks, by Whitman Cross; with a geological sketch of
Buffalo Peaks, Colorado, by S. F. Emmons. 1883. 8vo. 40 pp.

Bulletin No. 2. Gold and Silver. Conversion tables, giving the coining
value of Troy ounces of fine metal, &c., by Albert Williams, jr. 1583.
Svo. Spp.

Mineral Resources of the United States, by Albert Williams, jr. 1883.
Svo. 813 pp.

The reprint of the Second Annual Report for the use of the survey,
was also issued during the year; and 50 copies of the Third Annual
Report were issued without the complete set of illustrations. Dr.C. A.
White’s paper on “The Non-Marine Fossil Mollusca of North America,”
from the Third Annual Report, was also issued as aseparate publication
early in the year.

Although the monographs of Captain Dutton and Mr. George F.
Becker (‘The Tertiary History of the Grand Cation” and the “‘ Geology
of the Comstock lode and Washoe district,” both accompanied by at-
Jases) bear the imprint of 1882, they were not furnished to the survey
for distribution until 1883.

The papers prepared for publication are numerous, and a number are
in type and will soon be issued; among them are the Third and Fourth
Annual Reports, two bulletins, and several monographs.

Collections.

About 200 boxes of fossils, rocks, and minerals were sent on to the
main office of the Survey during the season by the various field parties.

~ UNITED STATES FISH COMMISSION.

As exercising the double function of Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution and of United States Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries, I
H. Mis. 69-——6
82 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

have been in the habit of giving in the Smithsonian Annual Report some
account of the work accomplished in the last-mentioned capacity; and
I take great pleasure in saying that the workings of the Commission
have continued to show the usual ratio of increase in extent and ap-
parent practical value.

The difference in extent between the work of 1871 and that of 1883
is very great, each year showing some extension of the scheme, and
more and more important measures instituted for investigation into the
conditions of the fisheries, and for increasing the fisheries supply.

The full details of operations of the Commission will be found in its
very voluminous reports year by year; these embracing not only the
general history of the Commission, but also a report of what is done in
the same direction by other establishments throughout the world.

The most important fact in this connection is the completion of the
steamer Albatross, of which mention was made in the last report, and
the result of her investigations in regard to the physics and natural
history of the various parts of the ocean. Many regions were surveyed
and important facts ascertained respecting the existence and extent of
new fishing banks, while the amount of material gathered, new to
science, has been enormous. Many undescribed species of deep-sea
fishes were secured, some of these from a depth of more than three
miles.

As in previous years, the summer station of the Commission was at
Wood’s Holl, Mass., where the arrangements for making a permanent
establishment, principally for the purpose of hatching sea-fish in very
large numbers, were actively prosecuted. The construction of build-
ings was commenced and well advanced before the close of the year.
The Government pier, for which appropriation was made in the River
and Harbor bill, was already begun, but will not be sufficiently com-
pleted to promise much service before 1885.

The work of propagation of food-fishes generally, was conducted on a
larger scale than before, especially in connection with the whitefish of
the lakes, of which about one hundred millions of eggs were secured
and placed in the hatching houses at Northville and Alpena, Mich., for
development.

The number of eggs of the shad obtained was not as large as the
year before, owing to the meteorological conditions, which interfered
with the free influx of the fish from the ocean.

About the average of work was accomplished in connection with the
Penobscot and the land-locked salmon.

Au inerease was effected in regard to the California trout.

Beyond a few millions of eggs taken of the California salmon, not
much was accomplished, in consequence of the interruption to the up-
ward migration of the fish in the Sacramento River, caused by the
blasting of rocks along the shores for the purpose of railroad construe- _
tion.

Perhaps the greatest success of the Commission has been with the

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 83

earp, for which the demand continues to a degree that it is impossible
tomeet. Every Congressional district in the United States, and in fact
nearly every county, has made application to receive a supply of fish,
and large numbers of persons were left unsupplied at the close of the
season from exhaustion of the stock. It is proposed te extend consid-
erably the area of these ponds in Washington, so as to meet the still
increasing demand.

Numerous researches have been prosecuted in regard to the oyster
and other fishes, for the purpose of securing a proper basis of practical
work. These investigations have been carried on principally by Mr.
John A. Ryder, the biologist of the Commission, and have added
greatly to his deserved reputation.

Bulletin of the Fish Commission.—Reference has been made in pre-
ceding reports to the authorization by Congress of the printing of a
bulletin to contain current news of interesting facts in regard to fish
culture and the fisheries. Most of such matter has been furnished
from the correspondence of the Commission, although some articles
have been introduced from other sources.

The work is printed signature by signature as the matter is ready,
and distributed in this form to fish commissioners and specialists who
desire it, this requiring about 200 copies. The remainder of the edition
is bound and supplied in that form.

Of this work the House of Representatives receives 2,500 copies and
the Senate 1,000, all of which are eagerly sought for.

International Fisheries Exhibition, 1883.—In the spring of 1882 Con-
gress authorized the United States Fish Commission to participate in
the International Fisheries Exhibition to be held in London in 1883,
and work was soon after begun and pushed forward with great activity.
A preliminary exhibition of such of the material as could conveniently
be displayed was held in the National Museum February 26, and the
work of packing the collections for transmission to London was begun
the following day. Mr. Thomas Donaldson made a satisfactory arrange-
ment with the Pennsylvania Railroad Company for shipping the col-
lections to New York, and Messrs. Patton, Vickers & Co., agents for
the Monarch line of steamships, billed the goods to London at greatly
reduced rates.

Being myself unable to go to London, I designated Mr. G. Brown
Goode to the President as special commissioner. He was assisted by
Dr. T. H. Bean and Messrs. R. E. Earll, J. W. Collins, A. H. Clark,
W. VY. Cox, H. ©. Chester, and Reuben Wood. In addition to these
gentlemen, Lieut. C. H. McLellan, U. 8. R. M., was detailed by the
Life-Saving Service, Mr. Max Hansman by the Light-House Board,
and Sergeant James Mitchell, U.S. A., by the Signal Office. Mr. Rh.
I. Geare accompanied the party as secretary.

The collections arrived in London in excellent condition, but it was
found that the space asked for by the United States was entirely inad-
84 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

equate. Arrangements were, however, subsequently made for addi-
tional space in various parts of the reservation.

The exhibition, which was held in the grounds of the Royal Horti-

cultural Society, was the largest special one ever held, and was par-
ticipated in by 31 nations and colonies. The area occupied was 21
acres. .
The formal opening of the exposition was made by the Prince of
Wales on the 12th of May, in the presence of the Court, and by June
1, everything was in perfect order. The American section was gen-
erally admitted to be the most important division of the entire exhibi-
tion, both on account of its contents and the manner in which they
were arranged and displayed.

A series of catalogues—numbering seven—illustrative of Te United.
States exhibits, was prepared and published, and will form Bulletin of
the National Museum No. 27. The series is as follows:

A.—“ Preliminary Catalogue and Synopsis of the Collections exhibited
by the United States Fish Commission, and by special exhibitors.
(With a concordance to the official classification of the Exhibition.)”
Prepared by G. Brown Goode. 8vo. 107 pp.

B.— ‘Collection of Economic Crustaceans, Worms, Echinodernss, and
Sponges.” By Richard Rathbun. 8vo. 31 pp.

C.—‘ Catalogue of the Aquatic and Fish-eating Birds, exhibited by
the United States National Museum.” By Robert Ridgway. 8vo. 46 pp.

D.—‘ Catalogue of the Economic Mollusca, and the Apparatus and
Appliances used for their capture and preparation for market, exhibited
by the United States National Museum.” By Francis Winslow. 8vo.
86 pp.

H.—‘*The Whale Fishery, and its Appliances.” By James Temple
Brown. 8vo. 116 pp.

F.— “Catalogue of the Collections of Fishes exhibited by the United
States National Museum.” By Tarleton H. Bean. 8vo. 124 pp.

G.— Descriptive Catalogue of the Collection illustrating the scien-
tific investigation of the Sea and Fresh Waters.” By Richard Rathbun.
Svo. 109 pp.

Mr. Goode expresses himself as much gratified by the courtesy and
aid which the members of his party received from the managers of the
exhibition, particularly from Mr. Edward Birkbeck, Professor Huxley,
Sir Philip Cantitte Owen, Mr. A.J. BR. Trendell, literary superintendent,
Surgeon-General Francis Day, Mr. Fell-Woods, Mr. W. Oldham Chamn-
bers, and Sir James G. Maitland. From the opening of the exhibition
to its close the buildings and grounds were thronged with visitors, not
only in the daytime, but at night, when they were illuminated by elec- |
tric lights. The total number of visitors was 2,690,000, an average of —
18,545 a day.

After the exhibition had got fairly under way the fishery conferences
began, the opening address being made by Professor Huxley. These
meetings coutinued three months, and the reading of papers was usu- |

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 85

ally followed by a general discussion. About fifty papers were read and
discussed, all being of great importance, and many dealing with sub-
jects never before discussed. One of the most important papers was
read by Mr. Goode, and treated of “The Fishery Industries of the
United States, and the work of the United States Commission.” Pro-
fessor Huxley, in responding, held up the action of the United States as
a worthy example for other nations to follow. He said that, with all
respect to the efforts of Sweden, Germany, Holland, &c., he did not
think any nation had “ comprehended the question cf dealing with the
fisheries in so thorough, excellent, and scientific a spirit as the United
States.” The conference papers, with the discussions, have all been
printed, and, together with aseries of illustrated popular haud- books, the
reports of the juries, and the prize essays, will form a very important
contribution to the literature of fish and fisheries, making about twelve
volumes octavo. The catalogue of the exhibition is in itself a cyclo-
pxdia of the fisheries, the account of the exhibit of each country being
prefaced by a description of its fisheries by some expert. The estab-
tablishment of a literary bureau, in charge of Mr. Trendell, was an im-
portant advance in exhibition administration.

The efiiciency of the American exhibit was rendered more perfect by
the fact that the employés were experts in their several departments,
and were constantly in attendance and ready to explain the collections.
The assistance of these gentlemen will also be of great importance in
preparing the official report. This report will embrace, in addition
to the narrative and descriptive part by -r. Goode, special reports upon
the European fisheries and fish-culture, the herring and sardine fisher-
ies, the mackerel fisheries, the English fish-trade, life-saving appliances,
&e,

In compliance with my request, Mr. Goode devoted a great deal of
time to studying the methods of managing museums in the great estab-
lishments of England. He made a short visit to Paris also, to study
museum methods there, having previously, in 1880, visited the estab-
lishments in Germany and Italy.

The exhibition was formally closed October 30, and by the end of
the year the entire collection—of a buik of over 500 tons—had been
returned to Washington, where a force was at once put to work in set-
ting it up for permanent exhibition in the National Museum.

Many important accessions to our collections were received during
the exhibition. Most of these came by exchange. Prominent among
them were exhibits from Greece, Spain, India, Sweden, and China. The
Marquis of Hamilton presented an Irish coracle; Mr. W. B. Segetmeier
furnished illustrations of the net-maker’s art; Mr. Arthur Feddersen,
of Viborg, presented a model of a Danish vessel, &e. A considerable
collection of fish-cultural appliances was given to the new National

_ Fisheries Museum at South Kensington, in exchange for objects from
_ India and China.
A
‘
86 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

As far as prizes are concerned the United States has been eminently
successful. The number of awards made to this country is far greater
than was expected. Eighteen gold and four silver medals were given
to the Fish Commission and one gold medal to the National Museum.
The total number of awards that came to this country was one hun-
dred and fifty-one.

Fishery branch of Census of 1880.—The reports for several years past
have contained detailed reference to the work prosecuted under the
direction of the United States Fish Commission, and with the assistance
of fands from the census of 1880 in connection with the preparation of
an exhaustive series of reports upon the present condition and past
history of the fisheries of the United States.

Most of the special reports of the fishery experts have been eompletem
and the force, with the exception of that permanently connected with
the Institution and the Fish Commission, has been disbanded. Although
there is still much work to be done, in the absence of an appropriation
for the purpose, this must be accomplished by the Fish Commission at
its leisure. A number of reports have been published, and large quan-
tities of the manuscript are now in the hands of the Superintendent of
the Censns. A summary of the statistical results of the inquiry was
printed in the Compendium of the Tenth Census, pp. 1402, 1403.

In view of the vast material to be printed directly by the Census
Office, application was made to Congress for authority to print the
more purely natural history and biological articles in a separate series
under the auspices of the Fish Commission, and the first volume of this
series, relating to the natural history of the useful animals of the sea,
especially of fishes, cetaceans, and invertebrates, has all been put in
type during the year, and it is hoped that it will be published early in
1884. .

This volume forms Part I of the proposed work, and contains 900
pages of text and 270 plates. It will be followed by other pais ap-
proximately in the order below:

Part II. Fishing Grounds and the Geographical Distribution of Food
Fishes.

Part UI. A Geographical Review of the Fisheries.

Part [V. The Apparatus of the Fisheries.

Part V. Fishery Vessels and Boats.

Part VI. The Methods and History of the Fishery Industry.

Part VII. The Preparation of Fishery Products.

Part VIII. Commerce in Fishery Products.

Part IX. Fish Culture and Fishery Legislation.

Part X. A Dictionary of American Fish and Fisheries.

Respectfully submitted.
SPENCER F. BAIRD,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

APPENDIX TO THE SECRETARY’S REPORT.

CORRESPONDENCE RELATIVE TO THE TRANSFER OF AS.
TRONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS BY TELEGRAPH.

Letier from Harvard College Observatory, May 2, 1882, to Smithsonian
Institution.

Drar Sim: The suggestion has been made to me that discoveries
of comets should occasionally be telegraphed from this observatory to
Europe by means of the “Science Observer” cipher system.

T am desirous to avoid any possibility of interference with the work
of the Smithsonian Institution, and for this reason I have hitherto
avoided making any such announcements of discoveries. The dis-
patches have been confined to statements of elements, ephemerides,
and the first accurate positions obtained of comets, which would of
course be subsequent to the original discovery. If, however, you see no
objection to a similar announcement of discoveries in cases where it
may be requested, there will be no. difficulty in making it. I should be
very glad to have your opinion on the subject.

Yours respectfully,
EDWARD C. PICKERING.

Letier from Smithsonian Institution, May 4, 1882, to Prof. E. C. Picker-
ing, Harvard College Observatory.

DEAR Sim: The Smithsonian Institution does not possess any mo-
nopoly of trausmitting astronomical information abroad, and it will not
interfere in any way with its plans to have you make any communica-
tions you may desire in the cipher of the ‘*‘ Science Observer.”

I have not felt at liberty to change the general system of communi-
cating astronomical data, as arranged by Professor Peters, to whom
the suggestion of this transmission is primarily due.

Whenever the astronomers of this country agree upon a change of
system, it will give me great pleasure to carry it out.

Very truly yours,
SPENCER I’. BAIRD.

Letter from the Science Observer, Boston, December 15, 1882, to the Smith-
sonian Institution.

DEAR Sir: In the matter of comet telegrams, I have the following
report to make, I think ought to be made to you. You remember, with-
out doubt, that when at Wood’s Holl this fall you told me to go ahead

87
88 CORRESPONDENCE ON ASTRONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS.

with my system, and I have done it. You are doubtless aware that an
organization of observatories has been effected in Europe, including
Greenwich, Kiel, Vienna, Berlin, Paris, and over thirty others, and the
organization proposes to use the Science Observer Code with transmis-
sion of astronomical information. Regarding their arrangements with
each other, or their relations to the former system, with Viennu as a
center, 1am not informed. Dr. A. Krueger, of Kiel, has written to me
in this matter, desiring the necessary publications, &e., and in one of
his letters states: “I wish that you and Mr. Chandler or Harvard Col-
lege Observatory would be the center for the United States.” This let-
ter seems to have been followed by a circular of which ae py has not
been received here, but concerning which very definite information has
been received fiom other sources, to the effect that Harvard College
Observatory was established as a center for (presumably) the collection
and diffusion of discovery announcements in astronomy.

The letter from which the quotation is made, was dated in Kiel No-
vember 11, and the circular November 14, hence it is evident that no
answer could have been received at Kiel from here. What | did reply
under date of December 2 was to the efiect that under the existing ar-
rangements the Smithsonian was deputed to secure and forward to Eu-
rope the earliest announcements of discoveries, &c., and that so long as
these arrangements remained in force it would not be courteous to at-
tempt the collection of precisely the same data. I wrote that whatever
information was received here would be gladly forwarded to Kiel, and
that second positions would in all cases be sent (as per our present agree-
ments with Lord Crawford and Berlin), also elements and ephemerides,
if desired. I further stated to him that messages received here would
be distributed bere as have been all previous ones, viz, by special circu-
lar, by telegram, and by Associated Press. And thus the matter rests.
I have always felt, as I expressed to you, a desire not to trench upon the
grounds of another, but at the same time I have * gone aliead,” and
trust the same will meet your approval.

I am sincerely yours,
J. RITCHIE, JR.

Letter fromthe Smithsonian Institution, December 22,1882, to Mr. J. Ritchie,
jr.5 of the Science Observer.

DEAR Sre: In reply to your favor of December 15 I may say that I
am gratified to learn that your system of astronomical telegraphy
has been so suecessful, and that so many foreign observatories are pre-
pared to adopt the *“ Science Observer Code.”

It has never been the pol:cy of this Institution to occupy a position
of rivalry in any scientific enterprise, but the moment it appears that
any work ean be as well or better performed by other agencies, we cheer-
fully extend our encouragement to such, and are always ready either to
co-operate therewith, or to transfer thereto, the special field of activity.
I do not doubt that you are well prepared to conduct this important

“
ui
|

mS Ag a nt ED IE Spi es te

CORRESPONDENCE ON ASTRONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS. 89

branch of international exchange of discovery and research, and prob-
ably with better facilities than this Institution. If therefore you desire
to take the entire charge of this field, so far from feeling any dissatis-
faction, I shall very gladly resign the matter to your hands; and on re-
ceiving direct announcement of your wish and ability to conduct the
service, I shall cordially lend assistance to your purpose by preparing
a circular addressed to our correspondents, giving them a formal noti-
fication of the transfer.

Yours, very respectfully,

SPENCER I’. BARD.

Letter from the Science Observer, December 28, 1882, to the Smithsonian
Institution.

DEAR SiR: Your favor of 22d instant, with reference to the matter
of notification of astronomical discovery, &c., is at hand, for which, many
thanks. I have delayed answer a few hours that the subject might be
discussed with Professor Pickering, of Harvard Observatory, and his
cpinion incorporated with mine. As to ability to conduct the “service,”
I think nothing further need be necessary in evidence than what is shown
by the work of the past two years, during which we have sent such data
to Europe, as did not lie within the province of the Smithsonian, and
which was somewhat more complicated, including as it did the collee-
tion of observations in this country, the performance of the necessary
computations, and the forwarding of the results.

Since the whole matter of collection and reduction of data will be
best accomplished at the Observatory, where, as well night or day,
there are always present persons prepared for action without delay,
and no loss of time will ensue should Mr. Chandler, Professor Picker-
ing, or myself be absent, it seems advisable to have all telegrams sent
to the Observatory (as are all messages from Europe under the exist-
ing arrangements). Further than this, an impersonal address can best
be remembered, and is not liable to change through death of any par-
ticular individual, it seems best to have the address simply :

** Harvard College Observatory, Cambridge, Mass.”

All necessary arrangements are now in force, and whenever it seems
to you advisable to make the transfer it may be done. It will, how-
ever, be unecessary to receive from the Smithsonian Institution a list of
those to whom messages of announcement are now being sent. Fur-
ther than this there seems to be nothing necessary, save the circular
to which you refer.

With many thanks for your interest in the matter,

I am, sincerely, yours,
J. RITCHIE“, JR.

Letter from the Smithsonian Institution, January 3, 1883, to Prof. BE. C.
Pickering, of Harvard College Observatory.

DEAR Sir: From correspondence with Mr. J. Ritchie, jr., of the ‘ Sci-

ence Observer,” relative to the transfer of telegraphic announcements
90 CORRESPONDENCE ON ASTRONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS.

of astronomical discoveries (heretofore conducted by this Institution),
I learn that you are prepared to co-operate with him in the reception
and distribution of such telegraphic message between this and foreign
countries. As it will be necessary to send circulars to each of our cor-
respondents, notifying them of the change, it seems proper that before
requesting them to send dispatches to the “ Harvard College Observa-
tory” (as indicated by Mr. Ritchie), we should have your formal request
or authorization to that effect. Will you kindly inform me of your
wishes in the matter, at your earliest convenience ?

Yours, very respectfully,

S. I. BAirp.

Letter from the Harvard College Observatory, January 6, 1883, to the
Smithsonian Institution.

DEAR Sir: Your letter of January 3 is at hand. The Harvard Col-
lege Observatory is now prepared to undertake the reception and dis-
tribution of telegraphic announcements of astronomical discovery in
this country, and to transmit by telegraph to Europe similar informa-
tion of discoveries made in this country.

The Observatory is also prepared to transmit by telegraph the re-
sults of early observations of newly discovered objects, when these re-
sults appear to be of sufficient importance to require early distribution
among astronomers.

You will greatly oblige me by sending this intelligence to any of
your correspondents who would be interested in knowing it.

Yours, respectfully,
EDWARD C. PICKERING.

Letter from the Smithsonian Institution, January 24, 1883, to Prof. BE. C.
Pickering, of Harvard College Observatory.

DEAR Sir: I send you herewith a few copies of the circular of this
Institution about to be distributed to all our astronomical correspond-
‘ents, giving formal notice of the transfer to the Harvard College Ob-
servatory of the system of telegraphic announcements.

Yours, very respectfully,
S. F. Barren.

Letter from the Harvard College Ooservatory, January 27, 1883, to the
Smithsonian Institution.

My Drar Sir: The copies of your circular announcing the transfer
ef the American center for transmitting astronomical information from
the Smithsonian Instituticn to the Harvard College Observatory are
duly received. I take this occasion tothank you for allowing 10 other
considerations to interfere with those of a purely scientific character.
Hoping that the new system may lead to a highly eflicient distribution
of astronomical information, I remain.

Very respectfully, yours,
EDWARD C. PICKERING.

REPORT ON SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES FOR 1883.

By GEORGE H. BOEHMER.

The delays resulting from the removal of the exchange office into
temporary quarters pending the restoration and fire-proofing of the
eastern portion of. the Smithsonian building and in obtaining the Con-
gressional appropriation made for the Bureau, considerably retarded
operations during the past year.

The work of reorganization of the service, begun in 1880, has been
continued during the past year, and the service now represents four dis-
tinct divisions, viz, the Record, Foreign Exchange, Domestic Exchange,
and Government Document Exelange divisions, each of which is in
charge of a competent assistant, whose duties are confined to his special
department.

The Record Division—Mention was made in the reports for 1881 and
an illustration given in that for 1882 of a system of card catalogues, on
the debit and credit system, with the corresponding societies in Aus-
tria, France, Germany, and Great Britain and Ireland. This system
has been extended to comprise all establishments enumerated in the
list of foreign correspondents, and now numbers about 1,000 cards.
Over 15,000 entries were made on these cards during the year, and from
them the invoices prepared which accompany every sending. In addi-
tion to this work, the assistant in charge of this division is required to
credit the correspondents with the acknowledgments made by them of
the parcels received, and to keep a daily record of the incoming letters.
All the files are kept in this division.

Fereign Exchange Division.—The duties of the assistant in charge of
this branch also included the domestic exchanges until the 1st of March,
when these were placed in charge of a new assistant. This had become
necessary on account of the constantly increasing work in both depart-
ments.

A full description of the work of receiving and preparing for trans-
mission the packages of foreign exchanges was given in the report
for 1882, and a repetition of it is superfluous; it may only be stated
that the receipts for this branch were 18,063 packages, which were sent
abroad in 419 boxes. A detailed statement is appended in the general
statistics.

The work connected with the Government document exchanges is
still performed by the foreign exchange department, but, both branches
increasing so very rapidly, the suggestion made in the report for 1852,
of placing this work in the hands of one assistant, is now renewed.

Domestic Exchange Division.—This separate branch was established on
91
92 REPORT ON EXCHANGES.

the 1st of March, and of the work performed, Mr. N. P. Scudder, the
assistant in charge reports as follows:

‘¢ Kleven thousand parcels have been distributed in the United States
and Canada. Of these I have classed as individuals 2,323, because they
were addressed to individuals, though a very large portion were proba-
bly intended for societies, public libraries, &c., and have doubtless been
turned over to their proper destination by the persons to whom they
were addressed. The remaining 8,677 parcels have been sent to the in-
stitutions, &c., for which they were intended, 8,450 being distributed in
the United States and 227 in Canada.

‘ During the year several improvements have been introduced in the
method of keeping the records of the domestic exchanges. One of these
is a card catalogue of addresses. The address of the society or individual
is taken from returned receipts and the date of the signing of the receipt
is noted. If any address is doubtful or incomplete, the following blank
is sent to the party for full information :

(Slip to be returned.)

Please write your full address on the other side of this
slip, as it will facilitate the prompt delivery of parcels sent
to you by the Smithsonian Ins.itution.

(over.)

Name

Street and No.
P. O. box
City or town
County
State

(over.)

‘By this method the address of the party is obtained directly and
tiie date is noted.

‘¢ Another improvement has been introduced at your suggestion, 7. e.,
a card ledger of all the parcels sent out. A sample card is inclosed (it
is unnecessary to reproduce this sample card, being in general the same
form as adopted for the foreign exchange and illustrated in the report
for 1882). By means of this ledger a glance will show what has been
sent to any institution or individual. The ledger has been carried back
to the beginning of the year 1883.”

Government Exchange Division.—This portion of the service is still de-
pendent for the performance of the necessary work on the force of the
foreign exchange branch, though its constant increase would justify the
employment of one assistant, and, though not quite to the exclusion of
any other duties, he might be utilized in general office work when not
employed in receiving, distributing, recording, cataloguing, or transmit-
ting these exchanges and assuming all the necessary correspondence
connected with this branch. Thus far the work in this department has

Sn ee a!

‘|
i
y

ep ere Dy ore
REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 93

generally been most pressing just at times when the force of the foreign
department could be least spared for this purpose.

The receipts in this division were 37,569 packages, weighing 27,395
pounds, which were transmitted to foreign Governments as specified in
the appended statistics.

I. RECEIPTS.
1. For foreign distribution.

1883.
‘ Whence received. .
Packages. | Weight.
(a) From Government Departments: Number. Pounds.
Adjutant-General/s Otice, We S. Ac esc acre awit = 1
/Arepeenrd lj eID Ye) poh wists We Been Geo sso bocODso see 400 LS)
WURcAULO nem Canon sescet sensi as Semin e sic aceenas 2 Y
Bureau of Kngraving and Printing....-..-...--...-- 1 1
ream Otel thmOlopygets se tls sos el iaie nae istinte inateyeiciaws 8 70
ULEANCOM MIN GAL YE MUSbICCr ssp emna esa iacmincrclotiaisaye = 1 1
BULEAUVOl Ler NMh aes seem ose Socmcele seers Snret= 20 34
PS UM Gao tes ba GUS GCS howe crejare' als sao ciete wise ica ie Sel cin ss ero 6 43
Coast andiGeodeme SULMeyrs eee - 2s eo eee oo 3 42
Comptnolleriot Curren eyes. a= sto at-f av emcioosia == 1, 000 1, 062
DepantimentOts i UsticOwc.coq\eaa-ccecioeimeaie ee eee 3 3
PIONS BUEN sos, osha epee ei Saiicieisie oe oiticmie create 382 2, 803
HiShy COMMIS One seu. oo ace ceita lec tyes eevee ss seoney 170 BAT
GenernlWandeO mee peer aanersoat ccicee sels sean sciatic 1 1
GeolomicallSunvevecsc ce ose se aes sete eve seerec ces 676 sea lay
LIV ALOSTaUy WCE OLi CO meee seem eeee nee lel celal ielnyerete mls 18 8°
IitterionDeparimentice.s. .cseutccses ceee et ec ee ces e 3 56
Internalinevenwerlnce consent acemct cis cc cceisae once 2 2
ation aleMuseiiniys) sees e ser soo ew ase eee cee 67 3, 193
NantticalvAlmanae yiccjor = sis ejects eine ate vice sel ecesee 3 45
Ney. tl OUSELVebOLV sees a ictes Saou aerate scam cin onees OS a 3,105
Ordnance Bureaus Ss Aye osesseendececclecisonsie oe 3 63
Rension) OMCe 5-2 sors) ae 2S at sae cee ceaeles Gases ait 1 1
Rost-Onice Departments 2 sence pan feos cca aeln =a 1 1
pecond Comptroller a eee ce yl acute hi aioe ae c= 2 1
SLOT MeO MCC solace et ao Sere acteaa cn orem ces ee se 3, 244 18, 502
purceon-Genera ls. Ofmceseoes sas ee aeeinse eco 15 250
iireasiny Departmen ty jc ice iar donoaies aes eatointe coal 9) 63
NViarbDepartment\= so-so Sertraline el seisciine eet 8 59
Ova VSS sins eroe sick acy Satis bassieninisecele ores nisteaiess 7, 165 44, 637
(b) From Smithsonian Institution............-.-.-.-.-.---- 6, 218 22, 566
(c) From scientific societies: ——— —— =
Americar Association for the Advancement of Science. 13 410
American Geographical Society -..--...--..-.--= ..- 2 39
American Journal of Arts and Sciences.-........-.--- 203 85
American Medical Association ......2/---..--2.. 2. 53 132
American Philosophical ‘Society sc.ss.sct-c.~.s o-- 672 843
American Statistical Association.......---..---...--- 18 72
Boston Academy of Arts and Sciences... .----..----- 298 500
Boston Society of Natural History .-.-....---..-.--- 295 1, 007
Cambridge Entomological Club |... 22.) 222-6 tse ses 2 2 4
Canadianvlnstituwe ste. asi. acs terecele ees os cione 1 2
Canadian Journals acca oe rciorcrste eyere salislarsteesisjet 114 20
Cincinnati Society of Natura! History ...-..-....-.. 1 5
HSS XANSHGULS p SALOMes coco s sale cas seal ads Sew epiese 172 275
Johns tHopkins Wmiversitiva- jee <1 ceva. sass teins 4 49
New Jersey Geological Survey ....-...---.----..---- 6 5
New York Academy of Sciencesis...4)4.2 0c o000-05-- 273 90

Nee Noni Suatbse alWeticet. cc ane Uckcosios «once sees 93 56

ee
94 ' REPORT ON EXCHANGES.

I. RECEIPTS—Continued. 4
1. For foreign distribution—Continued.
pore i ges i eaNk 4
1883.
Whence received. if
Packages. | Weight.
(c) From scientific societies—Continued. Number. Pounds.
New York State) library. 25-3 ose s.ces on aseeseee 129 3, 025
Numismatic and Antiquarian Society -.-.--.-.--.--- 8 6
Ohio Mechanics’ Institute.----. -- einer cen eee oe 246) 83
@ Peabody Institute, Baltimore ---......---.---------- 35 Baris
Pennsylvania Historical SOC bY 4552 Sones ee wees Oost 58 41
Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences ...--..--- 70 629
Schooliot Mines/Newexvonle)zoc- seco a4 Sesce oe e 19 94
Second Geological Survey of Pennsylvania. .....----- 33 620
Necretary Onstave,pUlliMOtsy. sseeo seo =e ese erate Bae, 1 5
Washburn Observ ‘atory Paap sates) Sio fatera Senta eda err m Ge i
Washington Anthropological Society. SSC ee esr aes 66 53
Washington Philosophieal Society -..-2. .-222--2222: 99 L22*
Western Bank Note and Engraving Company...----. Sok 31
Wisconsin’ Academysot Sciences a2 .ee === === see 114 150
IWisconsintGeologicaliSurve ye cease ese ett 288 1,710
Miscellaneous societies. esa) eee mee sas meee tees eee 136 76
MO talW ee nec Sa nee a yan See ee nano see aciomey saa 3, 900 11, 003
(Gh) Woiroren main AGNI 52565 Geoticomsodas souSes cab eSuSocbSr 7-0 441 4
Granditota lee essere ee cnc eee aa aera eas 18, 063 78 648

2, For domestic distribution.

1883.
From—
Boxes. |Parcels.| Weight.
No. No. Pounds.

Arcentine Confederation ress) sec e= <j eee eee 3 134 506
JBSGMENN S525. oe boos a booss acess Gaoese ae eSada0 oS oacd 11 574 3, 057
Centra AMMO T Caves ore eee eee eee ies eee ae ce tote 10 10 950
(COMM) TED SERA OSG ESE ee a SO A hed A ease egscosddoood 7 35 4, 035
(Ost oa ie eee aie Se UA oe eee A EA ee nee on eee 1 5 107
1 DDT COT el cepa ee gpa mi ere aN Meet SER Ie od Ss 4 1¥4 137
Dy cyt ut AA a eee a ea ea SN ed eG MINN PN ys eee 713 1, 629 14, 209
II WUNG Ss eee are Stern es eae MMi i Te Se SS et ae eis 5 oie = 29 | 1,429 9, 050
(Cleremmenm ayia str atelier rae a teers oat eels Hoa peeae 10, 212
TE ICOHIULLES We Uhperans cee Ot YY gene yo ee cont eee LES x 5 117 708
UA aV0 I Sea ae a eee pein en ie eines Luan eS ane epi oes SS 2 2 1U0
1 Se SeGO OR eI SE BES Mole Mtar Maa SEL Ghat WA MISRE G5 a sec 2 521 2 361
TCT OP REIS Seti, tek a Hae ey Las Demin ar tema abe tare apeueeats 1 ] 10
MERICOMG Asis oe Salo ae See beeen oad secee ee See Cees ener 4 420 630
Nevaroutht Wales wo oc ecaks ete aoe Soloek lees eee 3 34 il
INOEWIDY, <2 's\os)s<ee mse cece lepeae eee cee eee eee 5 219 1, 025
Borba malts eek ise cas ates See dees accents te eee 1 56 | 676
MUS BU Ne hee ators oia farm, aici afc <tosep ate cet nats aS or ae i. 463 1, 401
SOmineAustraliae. +e c\yst sea eines Mere cee eee 1 23 90
SIV CCLOTI Ee eevee tae ak Dea hee eed Sele ed are te 1 1 9
SWZ OGM Gee a fe oes ohm ies ie wie oie terials eee ee ae il 112 100
ASTIN ADIN ieee a seinen wie(siaac es eis atria eee ne ee eee 1 7 5
BER TTT C) Cupar peed es ae ok es et) 3 oe ene ee ede i 9 5
WANE ROT is oe ic See Hee eee anes Senne re ese cavecn 1 3 9

Motalwrea see eek ses ee Seale Se eer eee as 232 | 8&8, 262 49, 608

REFORT ON EXCHANGES.

95

To these §,262 packages received from abroad for domestic transmis-
sion 3,200 should be added, received from home institutions for this
purpose; but being partly included in the general invoices, the labor of
separating them from the sum total received would have been an unrea-

sonably complicated one.

It was therefore coneluded to leave this

additional number in the sum total of parcels for foreign transmission.
About 450 parcels remain on hand at the end of the year.

‘ 5. For Government exchanges.
1883
For what and whence received.
Boxes. | Packages. | Weight.
(a) For Library of Congress from— No. No. Pounds.
PEGULL EY Sacefe te Sacre ead a Scee s sactioc se < 1 751 770
PE aA eos ona ale apein/areietia hoa /c/aictarsiininisiere’s ace 18 18 3, 470
FTN CO aaa ote io teen aaa\e< Soe ah os cine wi hace 2 522 1, 820
SIMIC CONE e a rsc. Netinas seat sesce(acecce cee s Zz 27 90
WA CHORAM tees eens ee sces ce asaecn sees 1 1 180
(b) For foreign Governments from—
EMDMCEP TINGS = Sohsoe he at pos Ce ee ainiecocecesasizoce 36, 25 21, 065
AOA mie ete clas wis)o = fe wal asiotasie 24 37, 569 27,395
RECAPITULATION.
1882. 1833
For what and whence received.
| Packages. | Weight. Packages. | Weight.
1. For foreign distribution from— No. Pounds. No. Pounds.
(a) Government Departments. 6, 470 60, 118 7, 165 44, 637
_ (b) Smithsonian Institution-. 7, 056 13, 447 6,218 22, 566
(ce) Scientific societies.....--. 5,119 8,101 3, 900 11, 003
eo) ndivvduals <5 Sass sa5 5. 647 2, 054 780 | 441
19, 292 83, 720 18, 063 78, 647
2. For domestic distribution - .-.. 7, 187 30, 904 8, 263 49, 608
3. For Government exchanges ..- 31, 568 28, 750 37, 569 27, 395
} TATE SS COCs AS Sree 58, 047 143, 374 63, 894 155, 650
II. TRANSMISSIONS.
% 1. Foreign transmissions.

The total number of boxes sent during the year is 495, an excess of

5
;
.

73 boxes over last year; but, notwithstanding this marked increase,
enough material remains on hand to fill at least 50 additional boxes.
It was much desired to dispose of all books and parcels on hand, a pol-
96 REPORT ON EXCHANGES.

icy adopted and executed during the past few years, never to allow any
accumulations which might be worked off, but the difficulties above :
mentioned made it impossible to obtain this desired end.

The transmissions for the year compare with those of former years as a
follows: ne

Items. 1876. |- 1877. | 1878. | 1879. | 1880. 1881. 1882. 1°83. Y

IBYODES) Sais sekooo sacs 323 397 309 311 268 407 422 495 By
Bulk in cubic feet ..| 1,503 | 2,779 | 2,160 | 2,177 | 1,976 | 2,800 | 2,950 3, 28 ii
Weight in pounds -:|80, 750 |99, 250 |69, 220 [69,975 |60, 300 ae 750 |105, 500 | 122,265 +
(

These figures include in all cases the boxes sent under the system of )
Government document exchange to the various Governments specified
in the appended report. The distribution was made as follows :

Country. abbrccae rr aaa Total.
AFRICA.
ATS Ori a one oo eecis na aloe coleman sesso emtenineee na eam omer 7 z
Hey ih, KObCe cee acti - 62 ae ea de bleimmate ewinie cele nin||ma nim = oe eine 3 3
FROG bese Sete Rie A eee ae ee eal een ec Donets 10 10
AMERICA.
BRIS PAIMeTL Cae von oie ee heer sem clones 4 10 14
MiegxIC Oe eee eee lnee Beene Soe eens 2 12 14
Central America:
GOST AREUIC eee Seg ot Saree he sree | era ene ete feteneter 1 iI
G@ustemalamvecsnes calecee eae aos eee ease cee pacer 1 if
INI Rer aU) SAAB Re PEE SSSR SE ea Gesu eoedaasnleseeao oosoce il L
West Indies:
ID a aANNalS pace sa oes MR SS eS ee Ca NOES eS iacarea eats 1 1
IBATDAU OSS ses See ee ee ore ele eee aio lall acto Sema ee letete i i
CG aN) A Hoes oe ane a a UN PUR SG. Pa LE Sh er 2 2
Guadeloupetee == eeciesie ae lace sek te ier emirates | 1 iL
lanytisame 6D) OM Ce eee eee eater 2 2 ‘4
BY Sa TTD EVE EU eee Pe hele ea cee ee aera alec ret tl latatio barter sete ote 1 1
POLO RU COM ees ene te eS ie ere eral tens earlier 1 11
Sonhomaspoarveers vaciae Sate VaR A cS LANs Fon Spal alas cree eae 1 1
BESET CL EU Cl ahs vols ra ORNS en AS Re tee a te epee ell crate Samael tanetons 1 1
A tbie cesva (ite pote are st Ce SR te Te oe oral lsoog Soacbe oc 1 1
South America:
Argentine Confederation ..----...-------- 4 5 4)
BOiVT aos Se on ce eee css ee Ses ar ere renee (elaoe 1 1
1By ee Al NGA Pae Re ee NES ay eee rere ee ee Se Y 9 1l
ByritishiGuilanae. ss ess so eee eee eee ae he eae leateeeerceiesas J 1
Gini See Se Bie eee a ee nee 2 3 5
Duteh: Guiana coccoe eee cee: oO eee ail aeeeessteores ee 2 2
IBC RNIOPE Seeee at aoe door ase eeSenocsod sod lobciacsHecpae | 1 1
Grete cro aisles Be bosts amie eee a eee Rime Des bh ail 1 a
OSPURHh Sota nm usraca oda sbo caeree Scou aac a|lcostaanact ar 1 1
WnittediStatesior Colombiaxvaas-- -a--eeesee 2 2 4
VWenezuelaisscew. Loases owes ets wae eee 2 1 3
MOpalige ses o sic as betes Se ae ee eee 20 64 e4
|

REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 97
(Government Sinitheonina
Country. Tees al Sitiawes, Total
ASIA
ensigns Peter es) C84. 2 aS Soins ne dete ccnes lence sade 4 4
ELIE. Sc Sle Sea Ee a a ET 2 9 11
<2 TRI Gn teeta ren gpa a i pe ee ear 2 1 3
TOON ADIL Roo 2a 9 ae ee ee ere 4 14 18
AUSTRALASIA.
PEOUTHBW BIOS ones ee cae oo cece aca aisise oes S|. eater eee 2
Mmemedionities! tices oo oe sae oot es tees se te a eae Yee a 2
YB SLELU TE Ro ge he pe BN ae raei eae Sy 2
PUPA TIRET ALS Ge ton en tee ere et Dees eee 2
EDC SS eM pale SF Siete pea oe Pee ee rE Referee, we SY 2
UTVCLR DY EE) eae eae ge Serre yy) tear aE A y
enteal ees: > ae F522 ee ee tee eee 2 otet 12 Le 12
EUROPE.
PRAHA, (mis iss) cicsios Se ss = sae 2 15 17
TID 23 2 as ee ae eee as a ae 2 1 3
WS CIETU 3335 BAA 265 SRS R BD Snes Renee ee tee 2 3 5
LV PLEV TURD ELS pas a eee a ee ee See 2 4 6
OTIC Ae 2 103 105
Soo lpia! oe fee ee ee ee ee eee eer ee |e ee a 1 1
OUDDGE . te 55 eee ee ee ee 2 54 56
“3 DIU ie ee A ee Se 2 12 74
TEED Sb Ae ore ee ie Se ae oe pd ee aera 2
RITE re ate tree ics eera ce ye ioe Nwac Se oe ale oi 2 9 ily!
PET 2 Se a Se 2 17 19
MEW AVE rr once teen ons See cees 2 3 5
RUM Ble Satire 6 ye Salonen ceca ots 32 == 2 d 6
TDI eek 2s ee eee eee eee al Sec cea oes 2
UOLESTD 2 AS Se eee a ee a oe ee 2 21 23
°) LUT 55 ci hic eine le ite pes ent ae 2 1 3
“EADIE & Scie ee 2 4 6
DESERT 2 8 10
PRACTICA SE ee 2 8 10
“DETLEGY, cect Se ae at eee ee re eee er | 2 3 5
TEP RELLL Gy a Sr Aaa aa pe ss. 2
TELUS 8 See Be a ete a 40 331 371
* The Smithsonian exchanges are included in the 72 cases for Germany.
RECAPITULATION.
| =
é Government Smithsonian’
Countries. Boxcs. boxes. Total.
| Id bi Cte ol age cel es SE sab at | 10 10
REI esa eS ee eas tee San sae 20 | 64 | 84
ol) Ta a eS ee a ee es 4 14 18
TTL ee en oe et cn ne ohn che eS 1 Ja ee eee 12
Ne ade peng eeee i ns ee ei 40 | 331 371
oF alee ep tegen all ein Ala Sea eae Sea 76 | 419 495
{

H. Mis. 69 —7

~~
98 ' REPORT ON EXCHANGES.

Transportation Companies.—The liberality of transportation companies
and parties interested in shipping hitherto extended to the Smithsonian
Institution in aid to the scientific exchanges, and thus far granted by
thirty-three companies and foreign consuls in the United States, has,
during the past year, again been demonstrated by the addition of nine-
teen new firms, all desirous to further the object in question. These
new additions now open channels for free transmissions to the following-
named countries: Bahamas, Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, Costa Rica, Den-
mark, Dutch Guiana, England (and all its colonies through their respect-
ive agents in London), Liberia, Nicaragua, Paraguay, Peru, Polynesia,
San Domingo, Siam, Syria, Turk’s Island, Uruguay, and West Indies.

These companies, granting free freight on all cases and parcels of ex-
changes bearing the Smithsonian stamp, are:

American Colonization Society, Washington, D. C.

Anchor Steamship Company (Henderson & Bro., agents), New York.

Atlas Steamship Company (Pim, Forwood & Co., agents), New York.

Bailey, H. B., & Co., New York.

Biddle, E. R., Philadelphia.

Bixby, Thomas, & Co., Boston, Mass.

Bland, Thomas, New York.

Borland, B. R., New York.

Cameron, R. W., & Co., New York.

Compagnie Générale Transatlantique (lL. de Bébian, agent), New York.

Cunard Royal Mail Steamship Line (Vernon, Brown & Co., agents),
New. York.

Dallet, Boulton & Co., New York.

Dennison, Thomas, New York.

Hamburg American Packet Company (Kunhardt & Co., agents), New
York.

Inman Steamship Company, New York.

Merchants’ Line of Steamers, New York.

Monarch Line (Patton, Vickers & Co. , agents), New York.

Muioz y Espriella, New York.

Murray, Ferris & Co., New York.

Netherlands-American Steam Navigation Company (H. Cazaux,
agent), New York.

New York and Brazil Steamship Company, New York.

New York and Mexico Steamship Company, New York.

North German Lloyd (Oelrichs & Co., New York, Schumacher & Co.,
Baltimore, agents).

Pacifie Mail Steamship Company, New York.

Panama Railroad Company, New York.

Red Star Line (Peter Wright & Sons, agents), New York.

Spinney, Joseph 8., New York.

Steainship Line for cSeen, Texas, Florida, and Nassau, N. P. (C. Ww.
Mallory & Co., agents), New York.

REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 99

White Cross Line (Funch, Edye & Co., agents), New York.

Wilson & Asmus, New York.

In addition, the following-named foreign consuls have consented to
receive and transmit Smithsonian exchanges for their respective coun-
tries, as follows:

Carlos Carranza, New York, to Argentine Republic.

Charles Mackall, Baltimore, to Brazil.

D. de Castro, New York, to Chili.

Hipolito de Uriarte, New York, to Cuba and Spain.

Melchor Obarrio, New York, to Bolivia.

Lino de Pombo, New York, to United States of Colombia.

Henrik Braem, New York, to Denmark.

Thomas Schmidt, New York, to Denmark.

Francis Spies, New York, to Ecuador.

D. W. Botassi, New York, to Greece.

M. Rafto, New York, to Italy.

Samro Takaki, New York, to Japan.

Juan N. Navarro, New York, to Mexico.

Alex. I. Cotbeal, New York, to Nicaragua.

Christian Bors, New York, to Norway and Sweden.

M. Severance, San Francisco, to Polynesia.

Gustay Amsink, New York, to Portugal.

John Stewart, Washington, D. C., to Paraguay.

Isaac T. Smith, New York, to Siam.

Enrique Estrazulas, New York, to Uruguay.

Shipping List.—The following is the shipping list at present used in
the transmission of the Smithsonian exchanges:

Country. Shipping agent.
IAS Pee es See ee Compagnie Générale Transatlantique, New York. Trans-
fer made by the French Commission of Exchanges, in
Paris.

Consul-General Carlos Carranza, New York. Shipments
to the United States are made through either Lewis &
Co., Portland, Me., or George F. Brown, New York, rep-
resenting Samuel B. Hale & Co., of Buenos Ayres.

Thomas Dennison, New York.

North German Lloyd, Baltimore.
Felix Fliigel, Leipsic.

Argentine Confederation. .

Antigua
Austria-Hungary

Transfer made by Dr.

Bana DIS. << a2 ose oes. Murray, Ferris & Co., New York.
Bel anys oe i os ae Red Star Line, New York.
| White Cross Line, New York.
LEGO ee eae ek ee ' Consul-General Melchor Obarrio, New York.
15550 A See ea eee ae eae Consul Charles Mackall, Baltimore.

R. B. Borland, New York.

Baltimore and Ohio Express Company.

Adams Express Company.

Monarch Line, New York. Transfer made by W. Wesley,
London, England.

Monarch Line, New York. Transfer made by agent-gen-
eral for Cape colonies in London, England.

Consul D. de Castro, New York.

REPORT ON EXCHANGES.

a ae ig,

Shipping agent.

Colombia, United States of-
WOShMeRIGR a ele te eee.

Dintch Guiana, =.>2<5-ee
HeuadORe- ase ness
PAV Miss oSesieeesssoean cose
PMlaM deseo nn Sacer ee ee

Hrancey..- ==.
Germanys poe sseeoela ace

Great Britain] =o--eece.eee

(OT OOCOF ais = ease eae asec
Guatemala: 2c 2s. ses cents
aiviiistec castes. jsceise ees
Reelan dics 28a. Oe Sree

Weal see ree pe ccrnemee sc
Manns: pecs soe eee
Mozambique -..---..---
Nex COM Sa er ke eee ieens
Netherlandsh.o-<6 2--e ee
Netherlands India... -----
New Calédonias-. 3: - =.=

New South Wales. .-.-.--.-.-
New Zealand s2seseres=e-
INTCATA CUA =. 271 = ees Sasi ae
INGIWaVaoececuscec ee eee
Paraoualy se teats oom csc
RET encee obs eccece Secete
Philippine Islands .-.....-
J EXO ATES (6 hha ear ae
Portugal
@mneenslandes. 2c. oss. == oe

ISSIR acre ein cose sec cleo

SENIU ADORE GAB S eee eee

NpPaMee ws eee yekawlon te

Straits Settlements ..--..--

SWedeMestetcse oseicniees

Salter & Livermore, New York, direct to Shanghai.

Monarch Line, New York. Transfermade through Crown
agents for the colonies, London, England.

Consul-General Lino de Pombo, New York.

Munoz y Esprilla, New York.

Pacific Mail Steamship Company, New York.

Consul-General Hipolito de Uriarte, New York.

Consul-General Henrik Braem, New York.

Consul Thomas Schmidt, New York.

Thomas Bixby & Co., Bostov, Mass.

Consul Francis Spies.

S. L. Merchant & Co., New York.

North German Lloyd, Baltimore. Transfer made by T. A.
Brockhaus, Leipsic, Germany.

Compagnie Générale Transatlantique, New York.

North German Lloyd, New York or Baltimore.

Hambure-American Packet Company, New York.

Monarch Line of Steamers, New York.

North German Lloyd, New York or Baltimore.

Cunard Royal Mail Steamship Company.

Inman Steamship Company.

Consul D. W. Botassi, New York.

Consul Jacob Baez, New York.

Atlas Steamship Company, New York.

Consul Henrik Braem, New York. ‘Transfer made by K.
Danske Videnskabernes Selskab, Copenhagen.

Monarch Line, New York. Transfer made by Secretary
of State for India, India Office, London, England.

Consul-General M. Raffo, New York.

Consul Samro Takaki, New York.

American Colonization Association, Washington, D. C.

Monarch Line to Smithsonian agent, London.

Consul Juan N. Navarro, New York.
Consul R. C. Burlage, New York.

Monarch Line, New York. Transfer made by Gordon &
Gotch, London, England.

R. W. Cameron & Co., New York.

R. W. Cameron & Co., New York.

Consul-General Alex. I. Cotheal, New York.

Consul Christian Bérs, New York.

Consul John Stewart, Washington, D. C.

Joseph 8. Spinney, New York.

Spanish consul, San Francisco.

Consul Severance, San Francisco.

Consul Gustay Amsink, New York.

Monarch Line, New York. Transfer made by Queensland
department, London, England.

Hamburg-American Packet Company, New York. Trans-
fer made by Russian consul-general, Hamburg, Ger-
many.

Monarch Line, New York. Transfer made by William
Wesley, London, England.

Consul Isaac T. Smith, New York.

R. W. Cameron & Co., New York.

Consul-General Hipolita de Uriarte, New York.

Monarch Line, New York. Transfer made by William
Wesley, London, England.

Consul Christian Bérs, New York.

North German Lloyd, Baltimore. Transfer made by Con-
sul yon Heyman, Bremen.

| Presbyterian Rooms, New York.

——

«

ae ee

REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 101

-Country.

Tasmania

Turkey
Shami SANG = <a Se 3 - <= < = <1
Uruguay
Venezuela
Victoria
West Indies

Shipping agent.

Monarch Line, New York. Transfermade by Crownagents
for the colonies, London, or by G. W. Wheatley & Co.,
156 Leadenhall street, London, England.

Ottoman legation, Washington, D. C.

Wilson & Asmus, New York.

Chargéd’ Affaires Enrique Estrazulas, Brooklyn, New York.

Dallet, Boulton & Co., New York.

R. W. Cameron & Co., New York.

H. B. Bailey & Co., New York.

CENTERS OF DISTRIBUTION.

Countries.

Agencies.

JNVGGiT El. 23S eueeoamonese

Argentine Confederation
TO Sea eo ese eee
AUSiria Huneary =... 525.-
Bahamas
Belgium
Bolivia
Brazil

British America
British Guiana

@ape colonies. +2... ..-=.-
(Choi tS Se
China

Colombia, United States of.

Costa Rica .
Denmark
Dutch Guiana
Ecuador
Egypt
Finland
France

Germany
Great Britain
Greece
IGiiabeiialae te scee awe
Iceland
India

eee ee ee - ee ene ee ee ee

Italy
Japan
Liberia
Madeira
Malta
Mauritius
Mozambique
Mexico
Netherlands
Netherlands India
New Caledonia
New South Wales -.
New Zealand
Nicaragua
Norway

ee

_M.Carette, chef d’état major du génie, service météoro-
logique, Algiers.

| Museo Puiiblico, Buenos Ayres.

Dr. Felix Fliigel, Leipsic, Germany.

Commission Belge d’Echange Internationaux, Brussels.

_ Agent General for Cape Colony, London, England.
.----| Universidad, Santiago.
| Crown agents for the colonies, London, England.

United States consul-general, Shanghai.

Central Commission of Exchanges, National Library, Bo-
gota.

Universidad, San José.

K. D. Videnskabernes Selskab, Copenhagen.

Surinaamsche Koloniaale Bibliotheek, Paramaribo.

| Observatorio del Colegio Nacional, Quito.

Institut Egyptien, Cairo.
Kejserliga Alexanders Universitet, Helsingfors.

| Commission Francaise des Echanges Internationaux,

Paris.
Dr. Felix Fliigel, Leipsie.
William Wesley, London.
National Library, Athens.
Sociedad Economica de Amigos del Pais, Guatemala.
Islands Stiptisbokasafn, Reykjavik.
Secretary to Governm: nt of India, Home Department,
Caleutta.
Biblioteca Nazionale Vittorio Emanuele, Rome.
Minister for foreign affairs, Tokio.
Liberia College, Monrovia.
William Wesley, London, England.
William Wesley, London, England.
Agent-general for Cape Colony, London, England.
Agent-general for Cape Colony, London, England,
Sefior Ministro de Justicia y Istruccion Publica, Mexico,

Bureau Scientifique Central Neérlandais, Harlem.

Gordon & Gotch, London.

Royal Society of New South Wales, Sydney.
Parliamentary Library, Wellington, New Zealand.
Government of Nicaragua, Managua.

K. N, Frederiks Universitet, Christiania,
EXCHANGES.

102 REPORT ON
Countries. Agencies.
An VOUAY eae oe sea cie stale Government of Paraguay.
Renee eee ees oetetas Biblioteca Nacional, Lima.
Philippine Islands.... -.-- Royal Economie Society, Manila.
Rolynesia nec oe </eee = Royal Hawaiian Agricultural Society, Honolulu.
IROTGU Cal sae ose rcita oats Escola Polytechnica, Lisbon.
Queensland. 22) s-----~ Government Meteorological Observatory, Brisbane.
RUSS Aer acer ese Commission Russe des. Kchanges Internationaux (Bib-
liothéque Inpériale Publique), St. Petersbourg.
Strmelena voce soca ee Crown agents for the colonies, London, England.
STAM bo erase) wise ol te Secs
South Australia .........- Astronomical Observatory, Adelaide.
SDAIN seb sere etsta stare cere] atels Rk. Academia de Ciencias, Madrid.
Straits Settlements .-... - -- Crown agents for the colonies, London, England.
SN eure, SE SSE eco see. | ASS BS Vetenskaps Akademien, Stockholm.
Switzerland). sss. seoe, cus | EKidgenossensche Bundes Kanzlei, Berne.
Syilakies hss sec ste oe
MaASmMaAN ayes steer eee eee Royal Society of Tasmania, Hobarton.
ir dq: ae eee eres
Mark's Island 3. .+ 2.2.15. Publie Library, Grand Turk.
Wri oway sco) eee se Bureau de Statistique, Montevideo.
Venezuela 62-5 525.c2 525. University, Caracas.
WiCtOla, S200 ~ Gbscist cas Public Library, Melbourne.
Westilndiesiee sca see
Cubase sooe ecm= =n eee R. Universidad, Havana.
ay Ul ooo. c2eele sce bss Sécrétaire @Etat des Relations Extérieures, Port-au-
Prince.
Mrinidadysaae es eee Scientific Association, Port of Spain.

2. Domestic transmissions.

Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution from abroad, and
distributed to the following-named institutions and individuals in the

United States and British America:

Number of
packages.

(a) Societies :
Allah amar ss. Sot e ee s eee eee Wes IER ra retaral ai aunts Skee Ry a
INT KAN SAS s.2.< eters 2a oo at mle ease stolcare emne oie eine Salen mie eeisea ee cence
Calitorniateecer® Sone Sr eek e Be oe ee Blebskseieeee cerns eee acne
Re VOTO ssp a oe ee eee on ee oe cele tee eee
Connecticut sc 3 22 acc Se Se ate oe ee coe teicatte sete sctee canine
District: of' Columbia sass sos eae es oer pasate eee eae aie
Comyerhy 336 Bowe Soke anne S555 Sons SSS os0 sencceus seco seoo adn se
Illinois.
PNA AN Ais =o s scissors tte aso cere is Sree SSIS See cis eaceeie ee Gleeete
LOWathe cee ees eee
Kansas 352 its abeateeee tiwcieie sea ce elope eres slsior cote aun aaah
Kentucky
Louisiana. ... ae
MaIN Ossi seine as 2k esis ois ee So ae Se Se Sot oae aerate ate beieneiare
Maryland
Massachusetts: 222.8 toececier orate eo eoeee is SS aeeeeee eres
Michigan
MET TUTVSS OG ai sso: Sle esc Sis SS gee eee eee st dae eee
MSSOUTIS ceiciite.c8S siccloere core si ms Ie ieee eee Se a eects Sia eee
New Hampshire
INOW Jersey. tS oie cock sie Sata sotto Ss eerteemotnee esis moisio ses sree emote
New. XY Olah a i saccte b Siecle es oid ano ee eae ee Seie= secs ectastopanions
REPORT ON EXCHANGES, 103

| Number of

_ packages.
|
(a) Societies—Continued. |
10% =. 425 Petal wot aster sols n Pate eim miele ol ate mpl Meares =ptete Satel ais <inlere| Pie aia 407
EYETV WIN Bae cone Bee terns emis ae nai Sek eee aces Sela saws ace ee 662
RCATRNCLEMELG Fa lye paces ci te ee apa oc ee Se ee pen ge ye eee 31
UUM GC ALO MMA. sss oe wate ee aaete mee Soares My ae se taicinmeeere ends 14
UGTENTO SSE) RS SEAS AAI RN oases eae UEP OR ca et OR IO ae ont mre Sea | 1
ESR) Ce Sie SE Ie ee aerate, Ree ne Og Manet Se aa eed Vere my mee pea
Spar ester shscretree s ek Cece one ear oe eueerciae Sie ete oe ee Sa 26
pee ei eee ee es eee ae a dens ene es Soe | 16
ERE OUSIN sms ieee techn oe cate ae ame SG cou Le ose octane yee 133
Motalin, UniledsStatesS.4:(o-sa.0 fase ee isecehe seca sew idesos 8, 450
SONGS AN OT CA) atta fe= Ses kot ne nalS heer ala ncise ce See ate beast ose 227
GU AELOLISOCIOULGS fe ttanjenior soee coins Boas) oe ede. see aspente 3,677.
(b) Individuals ....-. 2a SSH ee Se See et ee ee eae ee 2, 323
Grand atonalet= ae oa a 21) riod Ge 0) Eee aes es tee 11, 060

In analyzing the operations of the exchange office in regard to do-
mestic transmissions, it will be observed that on an average 400 parcels
have been added anuually for the past ten years. During the past year
(1883) this average was largely exceeded, the increase amounting to 32
per cent. of the entire number of packages sent out in 1882, and this
was the result of the year entirely, all accumulations having been worked
off before the close of 1882. Furthermore, nearly 450 packages remain
on hand yet, thus swelling the increase considerably above 32 per cent.

The total number of packages transmitted compares with the pre-
ceding seven years, as follows:

| | |
Items. | 1876. | 1877. | 1878. | 1879. | 1880. | 1881. | 1882. | 1883.
| |
| | | | Me as ee
Total addresses of insti- | | | |
EU OTIS eres ee ne seo], -OLO 392 292 | 444 385 | - 600 543 | 423
Total addresses of indi- | |
ROUCNITALS 55 er os oe Se 328 374 370 341 560 | 454 399 471
Total number of parcels | = G | v ia
to institutions .....-. 3.705 | 3,868 | 4,059 | 5,786 ; 4,021 | 7,086 | 7,192 | 8, 677
Totalnumber of parcels | |
to individuals ....... 1,148 | 1,094 | 1,233 | 1,185 | 1,566 | 1,347 | 1,167 | 2,323
Total number of | Lae
parcels ........ 4,853 | 4,962 | 5,292 | 6,971 | 5,587 | 8,438 | 8,359 | 11,000

104 REPORT ON EXCHANGES

The history and condition of domestic exchanges, from their com-
mencement to the present time, are exhibited in the following table:

|
| | For institutions and

Received for the Smithsonian library. eB Bin 5 ae
British America.
Year. feeleaeu
| | Parts Maps
Volumes. and pam-} and en- Total. |Addresses.) Packages.
| phlets. | gravings.
1&46—1860.......... 470 | 624 4 POOR UE! Sis hee |e eee
1k 57 ite a tees ee | 549 | GISEe See see G7 eee Nao LEs 20:
TES STS Be eae eee 1, 481 2,106 1,749 5, 336 95 | 637
INE arene erie eae 1, 440 | 991 125 21500M 160 1, 052
Thee Cee Se ane e | 926 1, 468 434 2, 828 | 149 9387
lSaOp- ee cce eee cree | 1, 037 | 1, 707 26 2,770 | 219 1, 445
eB eeeee ees 156 1, 834 140 3, 330 _ 189 1, 245
WED Ie re wrcists <cise cian 555 | 1, 067 138 1,70 193 1,273
Netto See eee Sa 723) || 1, 695 122 2,540 243 1,539
BOM. crete eA oe 1, 022 2,549 40 3, 602 293 1, 933
SOO Se Rae: as eee. Weak || 4,180 220 5, 671 335 | 1, 908
Wel eee a eerie seer 821 , 1,945 120 2, 886 274 | 1, 406
MEG 2e a soo a2 eee 1,611 3, 369 5d 5, 035 273 roe it
11) ele Repl eee amas 910 3,479 200 4,589 “73 1, 522
ell We oe Sa Srey mene aes 823 De 109 | 3, 686 299 | 2, 482
EGS ste nee aot ors 767 | 3, 256 | iss 4, 206 315 | 2, 368
PBGGovee Les he 1, 243 | 4,509 | 121 | 5, 873 329 2,703
PSRs dome ec da eas sist, 3,946 | 328 5, Bl 317 Y71
SOS Reso tsetse 1,770 3, 605 | 134 5, £09 426 2, 394
TNGKON) | pj a ae es | 1, 234 | 4,089 | 232 5, 555 FOL 4, 130
SO eee ieee Pee Se if, ols} 3, 890 | 179 5, 182 567 3, 705
iC yA lee ere ee eee 936 See, 82 4, 597 573 3, 952
NS eee ein aoe eee | 1, 262 | 4,502 | 198 5, 962 5k7 4, 685
LS Gdmesea aie ee etalon 889 | 4, 354 454 5, 697 69 4,782
UC). Dae Ces i ae ae 863 4,521 162 5, 546 750 4, 326
EOE eerie ies | 1, 120 5, 813 114 7, 047 610 4, 661
err Cheaper Ses Sear eae | 1 aly 6, 193 375 7, BOS 644 4, 853
Ri is SOR ee 1, #89 6,511 | 326 8, 726 766 4, 962
Ike ths ieee Ce eee | 1, 263 7, 392 74 8, 729 662 5, 292
Togs eam actos eee 1,949 8, 071 | 143 | 10, 203 705 6, 971
Lisle eae Sm ee 1, 143 7,275 152 8, 570 | 945 5, 084
fete) WRetaae hk nena Ser 1, 867 9, 904 188 11, 959 | 1,054 8, 433
hele PAs eee soca eae 1,296 | 10,341 152 11,789 | 947 8, 359
USSS 2s eevee cisin.- see 1,754 10, 702 219 12, 675 394 11, 000
39,927 | 142,830 7,338 | 190,095 15, 127 114, 124

T'rom the foregoing table it will be observed that the addition to the
Smithsonian library, during the year 1883 amounted to 12,675 parcels.
Of this number 2,432 were received through the regular channels of
transmission, while the remaining parcels arrived through the mails.
All the additions to the Smithsonian library being the direct results
of the system of exchanges, this excess should properly be added to the
number of packages received. Heretofore mail parcels for the Smith-
sonian library have been entirely ignored by the exchange office, not
passing through this channel, but being delivered directly into the
library, This method, however, works great injustice to the exchange
REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 105

office, since all the returns to the Smithsonian library are direct results
of the efforts and labors of this office, and it is, therefore, recommended
that in future all packages addressed to the Smithsonian library, as ex-
changes, should pass through the exchange office, that an exact and
complete record may be obtained of the actual results of the working
of this office.

3. Government transmissions.

Although Congress, by act of July 20, 1840, authorized the printing
and binding of 50 copies of all volumes published by the two houses,
which volumes were to be reserved for the purpose of exchange with
foreign powers, yet from the omission to provide for the extra print-
ing, or from other cause, this liberal arrangement failed to go into
operation.

An act of March 4, 1846, directed the Librarian of Congress to pro-
cure a complete series of the United States courts and of the laws of
the United States, and to transmit them to the Minister of Justice of
France, in exchange for works of the French law presented to the
United States Supreme Court.

June 26, 1848, the Joint Committee on the Library was authorized to
appoint agents for the exchange of books and public documents;
all books transmitted through these agents of exchange, for the use of
the United States, for any single Stute, or for the Academy at West
Point, or the National Institute, to be admitted free.

A resolution of June 30, 1848, ordered that the Joint Committee on
the Library be furnished with twenty-five copies of the Revolutionary
Archives, twenty-five copies of Little & Brown’s edition of the Laws of
the United States, seven copies of the Exploring Expedition then pub-
lished, and an equal number of subsequent publications on the same
subject, for the purpose of international exchange.

A joint resolution of March 2, 1849, directed that two copies of certain
volumes of the Exploring Expedition be sent to the Government of
Russia, in lieu of those which were lost at sea on their passage to that
countiy. The Secretary of State was also directed to present a copy of
tne Exploring Expedition, as soon as completed, to the Government of
Ecuador.

By the act of August 31, 1852, the act of 1818, regulating exchanges,
was repealed.

In 1852 the Smithsonian Institution urged that Congress should make
some systematic and permanent arrangement for distributing complete
reries of its works to European libraries, to at least thirty of which they
might be judiciously supplied. It was also suggested that particular
works of scientific interest, as reports of patents, coast survey operations,
Government explorations in geography and geology, and others of a
similar character might be assigned in larger numbers, of from one
106 REPORT ON EXCHANGES.

hundred to three hundred, as had already been done in some instances
by the Senate. These might be distributed by the Smithsonian Insti-
tution at moderate cost to the Government, and direct returns of ex-
changes obtained for the Library of Congress, if desired.

August 18, 1856, the Secretary of State was authorized to purchase
one hundred copies each of Audubon’s Birds of America and Quadru-
peds of North America, for exchange with foreign Governments for val-
uable works.

The next steps for inaugurating a system of government documents
exchange was taken in 1867, when Congress, in its thirty-ninth session
passed the following resolution to provide for the exchange of certain
public documents:

‘« Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
in Congress assembled, That fifty copies of all documents hereafter printed
by order pf either house of Congress, and fifty copies additional of all
documents printed in excess of the usual number, together with fifty
copies of cach publication issued by any Department or Bureau of the
Government, be placed at the disposal of the Joint Committee on the
Library, who shall exchange the same, through the agency of the Smith-
sonian Institution, for such works published in foreign countries, and
especially by foreign Governments, as may be deemed by said commit-
tee an equivalent; said works to be deposited in the Library of Con-
gress.

‘Approved March 2, 1867.”

The last and decisive Congressional action was taken on July 25,
1868, when it passed.

“ (No, 72) A resolution to carry into effect the resolution approved March
2, 1867, providing for the exchange of certain public documents.

‘« Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States in Congress assembled, That the Congressional Printer, whenever
he shall be so directed by the Joint Committee on the Library, be, and he -
hereby is, directed to print fifty copies, in addition to the regular num-
ber, of all documents hereafter printed by order of either house of Con-
gress, or by order of any Department or Bureau of the Government, and
whenever he shall be so directed by the Joint Committee on the Library
one hundred copies additional of all documents ordered to be printed,
in excess of the usual number ; said fifty or one hundred copies to ve de-
livered to the Librarian of Congress, to be exchanged, under direction of
the Joint Committee on the Library, as provided by joint resolution
approved March 2, 1867.

“Src. 2. And be it further resolved, That fifty copies of each publica-
tion printed under direction of any Department or Bureau of the Govern-
ment, whether at the Congressional Printing Office or elsewhere, shall
be placed at the disposal of the Joint Committee on the Library, to carry
out the provisions of said resolution. .

“Approyed July 25, 1868,”
REPORT ON EXCHANGES.

107

The first transmission under this system of exchange was made in
_ 1873, and this and the subsequent shipments are exhibited in the follow-

ing table:

1882,

| 40 | 40 | 40 | 40 | 40

=

|

| | | | | |
a 1873. 1874. 1875. |1876. 1e77 1878, 1879. |1880. |1881. 1883. | Total.
| | |
; | i | | | |
BeIKCSo 2s). 5... PL eLOr Od |at22 | Tanase | 67 | 35] 98) 122 | 76) | 750
| |
(a) DISTRIBUTION OF GOVERNMENT EXCHANGES.
| Ww as
Governments. Box ).)| Box 2:4) Box 3: | Box 4. | Box 5. | Box 6. | Box 7.
Argentine Confederation) 1875 1875 1875 1875 1875 1875 1877
SERMAIA So 5s ao i878 | 1878 1878 1878 1878 1878 1878
een se. Se 1875 1875 1875 1875 1875 1875 1876
OT 1875 1875 1875 1875 1875 1875 1876
Buenos Ayres ......---- 1576 1876 1876 1876 1876 1876 1876
Canada (Ottawa) ..--.. 1874 1874 1874 1874 1874 1875 1876
Canada (Ontario) ..--.. 1874 1874 1874 1874 1875 1875 1876
AICS Sea 1875 1875 1875 1875 1875 1875 1876
Colombia, United States
OY? 2262S ns 1882 1882 1k82 1882 1882 1882 1882
Lote ae 1879 | 1879 1879 1879 1879 1879 1879
MRPINCO Ye fost. 22. 1875 1875 1875 1875 1875 1875 1877
France (second set). .-. 1879 1879 1879 1879 1879 1879 1879
Germany (Empire). ---- 1874 1874 1874 1874 1876 1876 1576
Great Britain .....--... 1876 1876 1876 1876 1876 1876 1876
BMBeCe eS. ole soe 1877 | 1877 1877 1877 1877 1877 1877
i a i 1876 12:76 1876 1876 1576 1876 1877
Hungary............... 1ge2 | 1882] 1882] 1882] 1882] 1se2 1x82
Merete <= = 5 Sos i R82 1852 1882 1882 1882 1882 1882
OLS 24 See ae ae oe 1881 1881 1881 1881 1881 18-1 1881
OTA So eee 1874 | 1874; 1874 1874 1874 1875 1876
PONS. Sek 2k 1875 1875 | 1875 1875 1875 1875 1876
Meuherlands...::-.-.--- 1875 1875 1875 1875 1875 1875 1876
New South Wales ..-.... 1876 | 1876| 187b 1876 1876 1876 1876
mrmaericaland....-..--.- 1876 1376 1876 1876 1876 1876 1876
oe Ct ae 1873 1873 1876 1876 1876 1876 1876
Metal). 252... 305... 1875 1875 1875 1875 1875 1875 1876
LS ee oe 1876 1876 | 1876 1876 1876 1876 1876
Bacensland 2. 25.5% 1876 1876 | 1876 1876 1876 1876 1876
OULSTH 2 i a ee 1881 1881 | 1881 1281 1881 1881 1881
eS ne 1876 1876 | 1876 1876 1876 1876 1876
BEEMAUO oe 22s). 2 SSS. bo S876, 1876 | 1876 1876 1876 1576 1876
South Australia........ | 1876 1876 1876 1876 1876 1876 1876
eT Sk Se 1876 1876 1n75 1876 1876 1876 1876
PEN p22) te 1875 1875 1875 1875 1375 1875 1876
mepwitzerland..... .....- 1876 1876 1876 1876 1876 1576 1276
MMPOTANIR 2. 302 =. 1876 1876 1876 1576 1876 1876 1876
1 i 1875 1875 | = 1375 1875 1875 1875 1876
menezuela ...-........- 1876 1876 | 1876 1276 1876 1876 1877
| ae 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1876 1876
Myurtemberg ........... 1879 1879 ; 1879 1879 1879 1879 1879
40

108 REPORT ON

EXCHANGES.

(a) DISTRIBUTION OF EXCHANGES —continued.

Governments. | Box 8. | Box 9. | Box 10. Box 11. |Box 12. |Box 13.| Box 14
Argentine Confederation, 1877 1877 1878 1878 1479 1880 1881
IBAWAL a a2 cere a See ois 1378 1878 1878 1578 1879 1880 1881
Bel SIM) sects oh: SP stars 1877 1377 1878 1878 1879 1280 1881
IOC WAN Steere: MG tae 1877 13877 1278 1878 1879 1880 1881
ISTENOS FACVIGS)=2 See eee 1877 1877 1878 1873 1879 1880 1881
Canada (Ottawa) .-----| 1877 1877 1878 1878 1879 1880 1881
Canada (Ontario) .-.--. eee rare 1377 1878 1878 1879 1880 1831
sae eee ita e rels77 13877 1878 1878 1879 1880 1281
Colombia, United States |
Ole Ses ee ne eee ae | 1882 1882 1882 1882 1882 1882 1882
Denmark 25 ee | 1879 1879 1879 1879 1879 1880 1831
PAN CO ese oete ec oe cee | alekerze 1877 1878 1878 1879 1830 1881
France (second set) .... 1879 1879 1879 1379 1879 1880 1881
Germany (Empire) - ---. | 1877 1877 1878 1878 1879 1880 1881
Great Britain]: =s25---- loo akseze 1877 1878 1878 1830 1880 1881
GIEGCEt festa eee yee? | 0877 1878 1878 1879 1880 1881
Hayter. ibsyi7piil © allele 1878 1878 1879 1880 1881
Mun garyace +: co eteso ss 18-2 1882 1882 1852 1882 1882 1882
India eae ease 1882 1882 1882 1882 1872 1882 1882
Gaal liye a 30 eae sane haan Sten 1881 | 1881 1881 1881 1881 1881 1881
aan eee ae lise No walleye 1878 1878 1879 1880 1881
Mexicote st: te aue sn 25 1877 1877 1878 1878 1879 1880 1881
Netherlands:s 2222353: Po tksiireal @ calicy/ey 1878 1878 1879 1880 1881
New South Wales ....-. itsvigg Wy «lls viz 1878 1878 | 1879 1880 1881
New: Zealand ... 222... i a8e7 1877 | 1378 |- 1878} 1879] 1880 1881
INORW ay; Hoes. cessor tse Iai lsvirg 1877 1878 1878 | 1879 1820 1881
Portucalesssss. sete 1877 1877 1878 1878 | 1879 1880 1881
RUSSlat eee soos cers 1877 1877 1878 1878 1879 1880 18381
Queensland’. -=2-4-2--: i ey al eae 1878 1873 1879 1830 1881
GUSST aio ese ae eta 1881 1881 1581 1881 1881 1881 1881
Saronic rss ue 13877 1877 1878 1878 | 1879 1880 1881
Scotlandssesees. Aa | 1877 1877 1878 1878) |e 1879s. ce soeeleeeeeee
South Australia ..-...--. ey), © tele) 1878 1878 1879 18-0 1881
SENN seo emiereiee: eae 1877 1877 1878 1878 1879 1880 1881
Siwied en: seciec os eee 1877 1877 1878 1878 1879 1880 1881
Swiltzerlan Gy. ses eee eee 1877 1877 1878 1878 1879 1880 1881
Masmian aes a eee 1877 1877 1878 1878 1879 1880 1881
Minleey.s eee ee eee: 1877 solide. 1878 1878 1879 1880 1881
Monezuelajes sc. aect ee L377 1877 1878 1878 | . 1879 | 1880 1881
MICTOL Ay Stee te eee 1877 | 1877 1878 1878 | 1879); 1880 1881
Witirtemberg. .....-.--.| 1879 | 1879 1879 1379 1879 1880 1881
40 40 40 | 40 40 39 | 39
Governments. Box 15.| Box 16.| Box 17.| Box 18.} Box 19. Tele
Argentire Confederation... ...--. 1881 1882 1882 1883 1883 19
aware Ae ik eM EE h ok aes 1881 18-2 1882 1383 1883 19
ye esi cee scree ey ere 1881 1882 1x82 1883 1883 19
Sa Ze hese oe Leal ote ae earareret 1831 1882 1882 1883 1883 19
IUEHOSUAWUT OR ae see eee ere 1881 1282 1882 1883 1883 19
Ganadan(Ottawa)s- 5222 9see ane 1881 1882 18%2 1883 1883 19
Canada (Ontiarig): 2252-25222 se" 1881 1882 182 1883 1883 ly
rn ae ee ns 2 5 ee ee oe 1881 1882 1882 1883 1833 1y
Colombia, United States of-....- 1882 1882 1882 1883 1883 19
Denmark nee ae. so eee 1881 1882 1882 1883 1883 1y
1 BSE) 012) BAe consi race PR ae 1881 1882 1882 1883 1883 :
Hrance’(second set) -2-. 22. --2-- 1881 tele PERE deb allecasiasacl lacecec Sa
Germany | (Empire)s2 se. -- 4-5 =a 1881 1882 1882 1883 1883 19
Great Britains =0-5 sos. eae 1881 1882 1882 | 1883 | 1863 19
(WPOOCO: Saf eee tops eres shies eeeee 1881 1882 | 1882 1883 | 1833 19
REPORT ON EXCHANGES.

(a) DISTRIBUTION OF EXCHANGES—continued.

Governments. Box 15. | Box 16.| Box 17. | Box 18. | Box 19. bate a
eer ee 1881 1882 1882 1883 1883 19
Hungary : tale 1882 1882 1882 1883 1883 19
7) UE ad en eee ee ees 1882 1882 1882 1883 1883 19
a ee 1881 1882 1882 1883 1883 19
«0 oh eee 1881 1882 1882 1683 1883 19
Se) See 1881 1882 1882 1883 1883 19
PeeneMands.< 22. 22252-s2s-5552 1881 1882 1882 1883 1883 19
New South Wales. ...........--- 1881 1882 1882 1883 1883 19
Mewrevcaland... sso... cs. carne 1881 1882 1882 1883 1883 19
| TST Cae eee 1881 1882 1882 1883 1883 19
0 a eae 1881 1882 1882 1883 1883 19
Prussia... -- 1881 | 1282 1882 1883 1883 19
BIRR ances -- sears 1881 1882 1882 1883 1883 19
US SS eee eee 1881 1882 1882 1883 1883 19
PERRO Yer fat 3) = oaeni-5aeo tee eee 1881 1882 1882 1883 1883 19
Seotland=--=-- <=... eateesoad wes eee oeeencs [See eer sl eee ees [eaters 12
BeMnHCATIStraAlla 5.25232: eos ee: 1881 1882 1882 1883 1883 19
I eee. onleae~ o <= 1881 1882 1882 1883 1883 19
(GT Sela, 4e00 ee 1881 1882 1882 1883 1883 19
PEtABTIANG 22 sack oo ss: -22 =<’ 1881 1882 1882 1883 1883 19
LOPS DES (ee a eee 1881 1882 1882 1883 1883 19
RES ta es oe cee ee sass 1881 1882 1882 1883 1883 19
RIPE HOA] so sc es ose cee S ees 1881 1882 1882 1883 1883 19
> TTLICCTHED) 5 AAS ae Be Dee cee 1881 1882 1882 1883 1883 19
SMIRUOINDOLY s. ooo 2260 <n <== = 1881 1882 1882 1883 1883 19

39 39 38 38 38 750
(b) GOVERNMENTS IN EXCHANGE WITH THE UNITED STATES.
ee ameaite Establishments designated for the reception of Govern-

ment exchanges.

Argentine Confederation ..
Bavaria
. Belgium
Brazil

eee eww wee we ee ee ee

Canada

Chili

Denmark
Franee

Minister of Foreign Affairs, Buenos Ayres.
K6énigliche Bibliothek, Munich.
Bibliothéque Royal, Brussels.
Commission of International Exchanges, Rio Janeiro.
Government, Buenos Ayres.
Parliamentary Library, Ottawa.
Legislative Library, Toronto.
Bibliotheca Nacional, Santiago.
.| National Library, Bogota.
Kongelige Bibliotheket, Copenhagen.
Commission des Echanges Internationaux, Paris.

Germany
erent Britain. .-.. 2:2...
MrT Orth 92) 892) SLED ek
Ha eae ee

Metherlands ........2.--<-
New South Wales. ......--
New Zealand
PSE lee ee
OE
oT re

Bibliothek des Deutschen Reichstags, Berlin.

British Museum, London.
Bibliothéque Nationale, Athens.

Sécrétaire @Etat des Relations Extérieures, Port-au-

Prince.

Presidium des Kéniglich Ungarischen Ministeriums,

Budapest.

Secretary to Government of India, Calcutta.
Biblioteca Nazionale Vittorio Emanuele, Rome.

.| Minister of Foreign Affairs, Tokio.
| National Library, Mexico.

Library of the States General, The Hague.

Parliamentary Library, Sydney.

Parliamentary Library, Wellington.

Foreign Office, Christiania.
Government, Lisbon.
Konigliche Bibliothek, Berlin,
110

(b) GOVERNMENTS IN

REPORT ON EXCHANGES.

EXCHANGE WITH THE UNITED STATES—continued.

Gevernmnentn: Establishments designated for the reception of Govern-
ment exchanges.
@neensland's-).-55-5------ Government, Brisbane.
RUUSSIS cea eters = Commission Russe des Echanges Internationaux (Biblio-
théque Impériale Publique), St. Petersburg.
SRXODY~ cose secretes oc Konigliche Bibliothek, Dresden.
South Australia -......--- Government, Adelaide.
IS) OF; HW seer eee ears Pane ae Government, Madrid.
Swed enon seen cae Government, Stockholm.
NiWwiAtzerlandicce ecto sceiee Hidgenossensche Bundes Kanzlei, Berne.
IPASMANIA).” Ge tslentn es, 5 = Parliamentary Library, Hobarton.
MUTKe ye sees. oe be seaicl- Government, Constantinople.
Wenezuela' 2.024 eens University Library, Caracas.
Victoria ...... A teeters Public Library, Melbourne.
Wrintemberg yee scence se K6nigliche Bibliothek, Stuttgart.

(c) SHIPPING AGENTS OF GOVERNMENT EXCHANGES.

Country.

Argentine Confederation. -

Canada
Chili
Colombia, United States of
Wemmankteseaw sce c cease
France
Germany

wet ee ee mews eee ee

Greece
Hayti

India

Se

Norway
Portugal
russta se ees eee. dane

Saxony
SoutheAustralia sees) see
Spain
Sweden
Siwdlezenlandss= see seen Wy

1 MESS 0G OU ape eee ei

Turkey |
Venezuela soem. foe see |
Wile COTTA ares easter eer
Whircemiben oan aasee eco

|

Agent.

Carlos Carranza, consul-general, New York.

North German Lloyd (Schumacher & Co.), Baltimore.

Red Star Line, New York, White Cross Line, New York.

Charles Mackall, vice-consul, Baltimore.

Carlos Carranza, consul-general, New York.

Baltimore and Ohio Express Company.

D. de Castro, consul-general, New York.

Lino de Pombo, consul-general, New York.

Henrik Braem, consul-general, New York.

Compagnie Générale Transatlantique, New York.

North German Lloyd, Baltimore.

Monarch Line, New York.

D. W. Botassi, consul-general, New York.

Atlas Steamship Company, New, York.

Hensel, Bruckmann & Lorbacher, New York.

Monarch Line, New York; transfer made by Secretary of
State to India, London, England.

M. Raffo, consul-general, New York.

Samro Takaki, consul-general, New York.

Juan N. Navarro, consul-general, New York.

R.C. Burlage, consul-general, New York.

R. W. Cameron & Co., New York.

Do.

Christian Bors, consul-general, New York.

Gustav Amsink, consul-general, New York.

North German Lloyd, Baltimore.

Monarch Line, New York. Transfer nade by Queensland
department, London, England.

Hamburg-American Packet Company, New York. 'Trans-
fer made by Russian consul-general, Hamburg,

North German Lloyd, Baltimore.

R. W. Cameron & Co., New York.

Hipolito de Uriarte, consul-general, New York.

Christian Bors, consul-general, New York.

North German Lloyd, Baltimore. Transfer made by Con-
sul von Heyman, Bremen, Germany.

Monareh Line, New York. ‘Transfer made by Crown agent
for the Colonies, London, England.

Turkish legation, Washington, D. C.

Dallet, Boulton & Bliss, New York.

R. W. Cameron & Co., New York.

North German Lloyd, Baltimore,

REPORT ON EXCHANGES. ja |
CORRESPONDENCE RELATING TO GOVERNMENT EXCHANGE.

Letter from the Department of State, April 16, 1883, to the Secretary of
the Smithsonian Institution.

Str: I inclose herewith for your information and consideration a copy
of a dispatch from Mr. Lowell, the American minister at London, in re.
lation to certain publications which he received from the British Gov-
ernment to be forwarded to the Smithsonian Institution in exchange
for the similar publications of this Government, adding that it will af-
ford me pleasure to instruct the legation at London to take any further
action in reference to the matter which may be necessary to place the
exchanges of documents between the two Governments upon a proper
‘footing.

I am, sir, your obedient servant,
FRED’K T. FRELINGHUYSEN.

(Inclosure.)\—From Mr. Lowell, London, March 21, 1883, to Mr. Freling-
huysen.

Sir: I have the honor to inclose herewith the copy of a note which I
have just received from Lord Granville, informing me that the lords of
the treasury have given directions to forward certain books to the sec-
retary of the Smithsonian Institution in pursuance of a proposition which
his lordship states had been made by that association for the interchange
of the official publications of the two nations.

In my reply I have expressed the thanks of my Government for this
gift, and requested that the volumes should be sent to the agent of the
Institution here for transmission to Washington.

There seems to be some confusion in respect to this matter which per-
haps can be more conveniently explained at Washington than here.

In my note of the 8th of October, 1880, to which Lord Granville refers,
I asked a gift of the record publications on behalf of the library of the
Department of State. These were given to us and have already been
forwarded. I have since, at the instance of the Secretary of War, which
was communicated to me through the Department of State, asked for
certain publications of the British ordnance survey and the India Office
in exchange for those of our War Department. Ido not find that I
have ever furmally proposed on the part of the Smithsonian Institution
that there should be a general interchange of public documents.  Per-
haps this has been done through the British legation at Washington.

Iventure to suggest as to the record publications, if the Smithsonian
Institution do not possess the previous volumes, it would seem proper
that those now to be sent should be given to the library of the Depart-
ment of State in continuation of the series it has already received.

I have the honor to be, with great respect, your obedient servant,
J. R. LOWELL.
112 REPORT ON EXCHANGES.

(Inclosure.)\—From Lord Granville, March 20, 1883, to Mr. Lowell.

Srr: With reference to your letter of the 8th October, 1880, and
subsequent correspondence relating to the interchange of official pub-
lications proposed by the Smithsonian Institution at Washington, I
have now the pleasure to inform you that the lords of Her Majesty’s
treasury have given directions to forward to the Secretary of that insti-
tution a complete set of English publications for the year 1882, viz:

1. Papers of all kinds printed for or presented to either house of Par-
liament.

2. Historical, scientific, or antiquarian works published by the Gov-
ernment, such as record publications.

3. Maps or charts published by Government.

4, Departmental publications which are placed on sale; and to con-
tinue to forward to the same address complete sets of English official
publications for 1883 and subsequent years, and I have the honor to
request that you will inform me as to the manner you would wish these
publications to be forwarded. With respect to these publications which
are proposed to be sent to Her Majesty’s Government by the Smithso-
nian Institution in return, directions have been given to Mr. West, Her
Majesty’s minister at Washington, to make the necessary arrangements
for their transmission direct to the British Museum.

I have, &c.,
GRANVILLE.

From the Smithsonian Institution, April 19, 1883, to the Hon. F. T. Fre- «

linghuysen, Secretary of State.

Sir: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the
16th April, with one from Minister Lowell, in reference to the exchange
of publications through the Smithsonian Institution between the Brit-
ish Government and that of the United States, and suggesting that in
the absence of any such negotiation through him that possibly the
proposition may refer to proposals made by him in behalf of the Depart-
ment of State.

In reply I beg to say that this question of a full and exhaustive ex-
change of the official publications of the two Governments has been
proposed for many years by the Smithsonian Institution, sometimes
through the Department of State to the American minister in England,
sometimes through the British minister in this country, and sometimes
by direct correspondence of the Smithsonian Institution with the foreign
office in London. It has also formed the subject of special conference
between the officers of the Smithsonian Institution and the British min-
isters here, all of whom seemed to be surprised at the want of action on
the part of their Government. There will, l presume, be no difficulty in
obtaining special works for the Department of State. The exchange
now proposed by Lord Granville, and respecting which I have direet
word from the foreign office, is intended specially for the benefit of the
Library of Congress.
REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 113

In further reference to this interchange, it has been arranged that
Mr. William Wesley, agent of the Smithsonian Institution in London,
is to apply, at stated intervals, for the publications of the British Gov-
ernment, and to forward them in cases, which he sends semi-monthly or
more frequently to Washington.

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
SPENCER I*. BAIRD.

From the Department of State, April 23, 1883, to the Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution.

Str: Acknowledging the receipt of your letter of the 19th instant,
I have to inform you in reply that I have communicated a copy of it to
Mr. Lowell, our minister at London, with instructions to inform the
foreign office of the desire of the Government to have the Smithsonian
Institution officially recognized as the channel through which exchanges
of documents between the two countries are in future to be effected.
I am, sir, your obedient servant,
FRED’K. T. FRELINGHUYSEN.

From the Department of State, May 9, 1883, to the Secretary of the Smith-
sonian Institution.

Sir: I have the honor to inclose herewith, for your information and
consideration, a copy of a note to this Department from the British
minister at this capital, communicating, to this Government a copy of
the rules which the lords of Her Majesty’s treasury have adopted for
regulating the interchange with foreign countries of Parliamentary
papers and other official documents published by the British Govern-
ment.

It is supposed by this Department that we have already presented to
Great Britain most of the official publications of our Government, and
received, in return, nearly all tiose scheduled in the rules of the lords
of the treasury, for the Library of Congress. If it shall appear, how-
ever, that there are any British publications which are needed to com-
plete the collection of those documents possessed by that Library, it
will afford this Department pleasure to make application for the same
through the British legation in replying to the above-mentioned note.

Requesting that lists of any British publications desired by the Libra-
rian of Congress to complete his collection be furnished as soon as
practicable,

I am, sir, your obedient servant,
JOHN DAVIS,
Acting Secretary.

(Inclosure.)—From the British Minister, Mr. West, Washington, April 29,
1883, to Mr. Frelinghuysen.
Hon. FREDERICK T. FRELINGHUYSEN:
Sir: In the note which Sir Edward Thornton addressed to your pred-

ecessor under date of the 14th of April, 1881, he acquainted the Depart-
H. Mis. 69 8

114 REPORT ON EXCHANGES.

ment of State that a committee had been appointed by Her Majesty’s
treasury to inquire into and report upon the question of the interchange
with foreign Governments of Parliamentary papers and .other official
documents, and I have now the honor to inform you that the committee
therein alluded to has now made its report, and that the lords of Her
Majesty’s treasury have been pleased to lay down the following rules
upon the subject, which will be found in the accompanying paper, and
which Karl Granville has instructed me to make known to the Govern-
ment of the United States. Iam at the same time requested to state
that in all cases in which an exchange may be agreed upon, and in
which presentatiols may be made, the books and papers will be packed
at the stationery office, and forwarded to such address as may be given
by the foreign minister in London of the Government making the ap-
plication, the cost of transmission in each case being defrayed by the
Government to whom the books are presented.

I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,

L. S. SACKVILLE WEST.

(INCLOSURE. )—RULES FOR THE INTERCHANGE WITH FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS OF PAR-
LIAMENTARY PAPERS AND OTHER OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.

Whenever any application is made by the Government of an inde-
pendent state for a “complete” exchange of its public documents with
Great Britain, the lords of the treasury will be prepared to entertain
such a proposal on the following understanding :

1. That a complete set of the English publications to be exchanged
would be understood to consist of the following documents :

(a.) Papers of all kinds printed or presented to either House of Parlia-_
ment ;

(b.) Historical, scientific, or antiquarian works published by the Gov-
ernment, such as the Record publications; with liberty, however, of
reserving very costly works, of which only a small number of copies
may be printed, as subjects of separate negotiation ;

(c.) Maps and charts published by the Government; and,

(d.) Departmental publications which are placed on sale, but not to
include works published by booksellers with the aid of grants or sub-
scriptions from Government.

2. That the Government making the application would in return under-
take to send a “ complete” set of its own publications for the Library
of the British Museum, the ‘ completeness” being of course left to the
good faith of that Government.

But besides this general or what may be termed a national exchange,
the lords of the treasury will be prepared to entertain within reasonable
limits applications which may be made to it through the foreign office
for gifts of special classes of British Official publications, such as mili-
tary, Parliamentary, and statistical works, for tbe use of national or
parliamentary libraries, or of state-supported institutions, or of other
libraries of historic interest, provided the Government making the ap-
plication be ready to give its own works of the sane class ; but such ap-
plications will, as heretofore, be considered on their own merits. Appli-
cations for the presentation of official publications to libraries of muni-
cipal authorities or voluntary associations of individuals, such as scien-
titic societies or others connected with the state, cannot be entertained.
er

REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 115

From the Smithsonian Institution, May 14, 1883, to the Hon. John Davis,
Acting Secretary of State.

Str: I beg to thank you for a copy of the note of the minister resi-
dent of Great Britain communicating the rules adopted by the lords of
Her Majesty’s treasury for the regulation of the interchange with for-
eign countries of Parliamentary papers and other official documents pub-
lished by the British Government.

I will hereafter acquaint you with the titles of the publications of the
United States Government presented to Great Britain. Meanwhile I
shall endeavor to secure from the Librarian of Congress his desiderata
of British publications, to enable him to complete the series in his
charge so far as the rules of the lords of Her Majesty wiil permit.

Thanking you for your kind offer to make application for any publica-
tions still desired to complete the series presented to the United States
by Great Britain through this Institution,

I have the honor to be, very truly, yours,
SPENCER F. BAIRD.

From the Smithsonian Institution, May 25, 1883, to the Hon. F. T. Fre-
linghuysen, Secretary of State.

Sir: Referring to your letter of the 9th instant, to which I replied
und-r date of the 14th, I beg to state that the library of the British
Museum is now supplied with the official documents of the United States
mentioned in the three small pamphlets herewith, and a complete set of
those previously published since 1868 as far as the same can be furnished.
We should, of course, be only too happy to supply any deficiencies if
in our power.

The documents supplied prior to those mentioned in box 15 are given
in the appendix to the History of the Exchanges, herewith, and to
which your attention is invited.

I also have the pleasure of presenting herewith a list of the publica-
tions of Her Majesty’s Government desired by the Congressional Library,
and which you were kind enough to inform us you would make an effort
to secure.

I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
SPENCER F.. BAIRD.

From the Legation of the United States, Brussels, June 21,1883, to the
Department of State.

Sir: Referring to my Nos. 114 and 126, I have now the honor to in-
close herewith six copies of a note from the British envoy to the Bel-
gian minister for foreign affairs of April 15 (sic) last, which was read
at the session of the conference of 13th April last.

There is evidently a mistake as to the date of the note from the Brit-
ish legation.
116 REPORT ON EXCHANGES.

I also send you 12 copies of the report of the Proceedings of the Con-
ference, with the British legation’s note.

I strongly recommend to your notice the position of the British Govern-
ment concerning exchanges of publications. By defining clearly and con-
cisely what publications she is willing to exchange and by confining the
offer to certain Governments, she assumes no great burden without
being sure of an equivalent return. It is a position which appears to
me to recommend itself to the large and powerful countries, and to pro-
tect them from the inequal exchanges involved by a convention with
the smaller and less literate countries.

In the proof copy of the proceedings (inclosure 5 to my No. 114) no
mention of the British note was made, and it is consequently not men-
tioned in the translation thereof (inclosure 6 to No. 114). Should the lat-
ter be published, I respectfully suggest that it be revised so as to make
it a translation of the completed edition of the Proceedings of the Con-
ference, herewith transmitted.

I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
NICHOLAS FISH.

Letter from the Department of State, October 15, 1883, to Prof. Spencer F.
Baird.

Sir: With reference to previous correspondence in regard to the es-
tablishment of a complete exchange of public documents between this
country and Great Britain, I have the honor to inclose herewith copies
of correspondence between this Department and the British legation
in regard to certain publications which Her Britannic Majesty’s Gov-
ernment has presented to the National Library of the United States in
response to the request made through this Department for certain works
needed to complete to the present date the collection of British docu-
ments in that library.

I am, sir, your obedient servant,
FRED’K T. FRELINGHUYSEN.

(Inclosure.)—From the British Minister, Washington, October 8, 1883, to
the Department of State.

Str: Referring to your note of 1st June last respecting the inter-
change of Parliamentary papers, I have the honor to inform you for
the information of Professor Baird of the Smithsonian Institute, through
whose agency the exchange of the future publications of the two Gov-
ernments is to be regulated, that the controller of Her Majesty’s sta-
tionery office has been authorized to supply the agent of the Smith-
-sonian Institution in London with the works which are mentioned in
the inclosed list for the National Library of the United States.

The trustees of the British Museum, expressing their thanks to the
United States Government for the ofter to supply that institution with
any Government publications that might be wanting, have stated that
they are not aware of any deficiencies which need to be supplied, but
REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 117

have expressed their wish to be supplied with all the United States
Government publications commencing with the year 1883.
I have the honor to be, with the highest consideration, sir, your obe-

dient servant,
L. S. SACKVILLE WEST.

From the Department of State, July 9, 1883, to the Smithsonian Institution.

Sir: I inclose a copy of a dispatch from our minister at Brussels, and
a copy of the completed edition of the Proceedings of the Brussels Con-
ference on International Exchanges, to which it refers; also a copy of
the “Note from the British Envoy” therein mentioned.
I am, sir, your obedient saevnai
JOHN DAVIS,
Acting Secretary.

(Inclosure.)—From the United States Legation at Brussels, June 21, 1883,
to the Secretary of State.

Sir: Referring to my Nos. 114 and 126, I have now the honor to in-
close herewith six copies of a note from the British envoy to the Belgian
minister for foreign affairs of April 15 (sic) last, which was read at
the session of the conference of 13th April last.

There is evidently a mistake as to the date of the note from the
British legation.

I also send you twelve copies of the Report of the Proceedings of the
Conference with the British legation note.

I strongly recommend to your notice the position of the British
Government concerning exchanges of publications. By defining clearly
and concisely what publications she is willing to exchange, and by con-
fining the offer to certain Governments, she assumes no great burden
without being sure of an equivalent return. It is a position which ap-
pears to me to recommend itself to the large and powerful countries,
and to protect them from the inequal exchanges involved by a conven-
tion with the smaller and less literate countries.

In the proof copy of the proceedings (inclosure 5 to my No. 114) no
mention of the British note was made and it is consequently not men-
tioned in the translation thereof (inclosure 6 to No. 114). Should the
latter be published I respectfully suggest that it be revised so as to
make it a translation of the completed edition of the Proceedings of the
Conference, herewith transmitted.

I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
NICHOLAS FISH.

From the Department of State, September 11, 1883, to the Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution. .

Sir: I have the honor to inclose herewith for your information and

consideration a copy of a dispatch from Mr. Lowell, the American min-

ister at London, inclosing a copy of a communication from the colonial
118 REPORT ON EXCHANGES.

secretary of Cape Colony asking that steps may be taken to establish

an exchange of publications between this Government and that colony.

In this connection I would suggest that it might be well to take into

consideration the practicability of extending the Smithsonian system

to all the British colonies, particularly those in Australia, some of which

have manifested a desire to establish exchanges by sending their pub-
lications to our Government through this Department.

Adding that the publications referred to in Mr. Lowell’s dispatch have

been forwarded to the Library of Congress,
I am, sir, your obedient servant, *
JOHN DAVIS,
Acting Secretary.

(Inclosure.)—From the Legation of the United States, London, August 22,
1883, to the Secretary of State.

Sir: I have the honor to inform you that the agent general of the
Cape Colony, Africa, called at this legation yesterday, bringing with
him three large packages of public documents, which the authorities of
that colony desire to present to our Government, and which I shall re-
quest the dispatch agent here to transmit without delay to the Depart-
ment of State.

The agent general at the same time placed in the hands of the lega-
tion a letter to him from the under colonial secretary at Cape Town,
a copy of which I inclose herewith. This letter expresses the desire of
the authorities of Cape Colony to establish with our Government a reg-
ular and mutual system of interchange of statistical and other publica-
tions emanating from or circulating under authority of Government De-
partments. It mentions that copies of the results of the census of 1880
and of the forms, books, and instructions made use of in that under-
taking, would be particularly interesting.

It sems to me eminently desirable that the wishes of the authorities
of Cape Colony in this matter should be complied with.

I have the honor to be, with great respect, your obedient servant,
J. R. LOWELL.

(Inclosure.)—From the Colonial Secretary's Office, Cape Town, May 22,
1883, to the Agent-General for the Cape Colony, London.

Sir: The colonial secretary is very anxious to establish with the
Government of the United States of America a regular and mutual
system of interchange of statistical and other publications emanating
from or circulating under authority of Government Departments.

2. With this object in view I had the honor last year, by Mr. Scanlan’s
direction, to forward to your address under cover of letter No. 220 of the
23d September last, for transmission to the honorable the Secretary of
State, Washington, three copies of the Colonial Blue Book, 1881.

3. Up to the present date the colonial secretary has not had the sat-
isfaction of receiving any reports or papers in return,
a

REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 119

4. May I request of you therefore the favor of your good offices in
endeavoring to so arrange matters with the American minister at the
Court of St. James that the desired result can be obtained.

5. Copies of the results of the 1880 census of the United States, and
of the various forms, book instructions, &c., made use of in connection
with that undertaking would be particularly interesting ; and Mr. Sean-
lan will feel obliged if you will procure and forward all such reports.

Il am, sir, your obedient servant,
HAMPDEN WILLIS.

From the Smithsonian Institution, September 15, 1833, to the Hon. John
Davis, Acting Secretary of State.

Srr: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of
the 11th September, inclosing a copy of a dispatch from the American
minister in London, covering a communication from the colonial sec-
retary of Cape Colony, in reference to establishing an exchange of pub-
lications between the United States and that colony.

In reply I beg to say that at present there is no arrangement by
which such small colonies of Great Britain as Cape Colony could be

placed on the list of exchanges for general publications; but I think

there will be no difficulty in making the necessary arrangements with
the Joint Library Committee of Congress, by which a larger edition of
the more important publications of the United States Government can
be placed at the command of the Smithsonian Institution.

By areference to my letter of a few weeks past you will notice that I
alluded to the committee as now having authority to increase the edition
of public documents for foreign exchanges. Perhaps 50 more sets of a
portion of the series will answer every purpose.

I shall take great pleasure in conferring with the Department of
State, after my return to Washington, in regard to this subject.

-In reference to your suggestion of extending the system of govern-
ment exchanges, I may remark that at present Canada, New South
Wales, New Zealand, Queensland, South Australia, Tasmania, and Vie-
toria, are all in the first class of exchanges; receiving a full set of
everything we have to furnish, and supplying a corresponding series in
return, for the benefit of the Library of Congress.

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
SPENCER F. BAIRD,

From the Public Inbrary, ete., of Victoria, Melbourne, November 10, 1882,
to the Smithsonian Institution.

Sir: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of
the ist July, 1882, and in reply to inform you that I have this day for-
warded to you through our London agent, the agent-general for Victoria,
a copy of the Victorian Parliamentary Papers for the sessions 1877, 1878,
1881,
120 REPORT ON EXCHANGES.

These papers will, in future, be regularly sent you at the end of
each session of Parliament. :

With regard to your desire for additional copies of documents relat-
ing to the civil and natural history of the colony, I have to state that
every effort will be made by the trustees to comply with your request.
At present a scheme for placing the disposal of Government publications
in the hands of the trustees is under the consideration of the Govern-
ment, and as soon as the subject has been dealt with by the ministry I
shall be in a position to announce to you more definitely the intentions
of the trustees.

I may add that I am also forwarding copies of our Parliamentary
Papers, (1) to the Boston Public Library, (2) to the New York State
Library, (3) to the Mercantile Library Association San Francisco, and
that I shall be glad to know whether it is your wish that works intended
for these or other American institutions should be forwarded to you for
registration, or whether any notification of their presentation should be
made to the Smithsonian Institution.

I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,

TT. F. BRIDE,
Tibrarian.’

Report on the International Conference on Exchanges, held at Brussels, Bel-
gium, on the 10th of April, 1883.

During the months of August and September, 1875, an International
Congress of Geographical Sciences was held at Paris, consisting of sev-
eral hundred delegates from all parts of the globe. A prominent result
of this conference was a unanimous resolution to enlist the co-operation
of the respective Governments there represented in securing the free
interchange of official and other publications, in accordance with a
proposed plan for the international exchange of scientific publications
to be submitted to the contracting powers.

A number of Governments having expressed their adherence to the
project, bureaus were established for the purpose indicated.

In 1877 and again in August, 1880, conferences took place in Brussels,
and after an experience of some six years a new conference was invited
to assemble in Brussels on the 10th of April, 1883, and the proceedings.
of this conference and the correspondence attending it are here pre-
sented:

Irom the Department of State, January 10, 1883, to the Smithsonian In-
stitution.

Sir: I beg to inclose to you herewith, for your information and con-
sideration, a copy of a note received from Mr. Bounder de Melsbroeck,
the Belgian minister, dated the 14th ultimo, on the subject of interna-
tional exchanges, and a draft of a convention calculated to accomplish
that end,

I am, sir, your obedient servant,
FRED’K T, FRELINGHUYSEN,
REPORT ON EXCHANGES. je |

(Inclosure.)—From the Belgian Minister, Washington, December 14, 1882,
to the Department of State.

Mr. SECRETARY OF STATE: The delegates of various European states
met at Brussels in the month of August, 1880, for the purpose of (dis-
cussing questions relative to the system of international exchanges of
scientific and literary documents and publications.

Belgium, Austria, Denmark, Spain, France, Italy, Portugal, Russia,
and Sweden were represented at that conference.

The provisional arrangement then made has since been converted
into a draft of a convention, one of the articles of which reserves the
privilege of adhesion to all countries.

Brazil, Spain, Italy, and Portugal have agreed to this draft of a con-
vention. France has proposed some amendments to it, which appear
to be calculated to facilitate its adoption. Austria-Hungary has ex
pressed no opinion, either one way or the other.

Belgium intends to propose the addition of an article, to which refer-
ence will be made hereafter. Under these circumstances, and in view
of the small number of adherents to the draft in question, my Govern-
ment thinks it desirable to submit all the arrangements, with regard
to which an agreement might be reached, to a re-examination in com-
mon.

Other countries, perhaps, are unable to execute the clauses drafted
in 1880, and it may be that other states desire the adoption of modifi-
cations which are essential to the establishment of their exchange
service. It is, consequently, inclined to think that, without radically
changing the projected arrangements, it might be well to seek to render
it more easy of adoption by relaxing certain stipulations, which might
be thought vigorous.

It is not probable that any government desirous of the attainment of
a beneficial result would refuse to send delegates to Brussels to take
part in discussions of the text of the convention to be definitively con-
cluded by those countries which feel interested in the establishment
of a system of international exchanges. These discussions would enable
the delegates to form a correct idea of the object had in view by the
contracting states.

They would call forth explanations relative to the arrangements to
be made, and would probably pave the way to additional accessions.

Reports on the proceedings of these delegates would be submitted by
them to their respective Governments, and a day would then be fixed

for the meeting of the conference which would be charged with the con-
clusion of the final arrangement.

My Government has, therefore, instructed me to invite the Govern-
meut of the United States of America, if the foregoing consideratious
meet its approval, to take part in another conference at Brussels of

persons who are familiar with questions connected with international
exchanges,
122 REPORT ON EXCHANGES.

It is proposed that this conference shall meet on the 10th of April, —
1883, since that date seems best to suit the convenience of the states
interested.

To the end that your excellency may be pleased to take immediate
cognizance of the modifications, and to give beforehand the necessary
instructions to the delegates whom you may be pleased to designate, I
have the honor herewith to transmit to you the original text of the
draft of a convention (Inclosure A), the same draft with the amendments
proposed by France (Inclosure B), an‘ finally the arrangements, together
with the one whose adoption is asked for by Belgium |article L9 of the
draft marked C]. It reads as follows:

“The Governments concerned agree, moreover, to transmit to the
legislative chambers of each contracting state, without the intervention
of the exchange bureaus, one copy [two copies] of their official newspaper
and of their annals and parliamentary documents.”

The Belgian Government does not anticipate the least opposition to
this proposal. All countries are interested in the prompt transmission
of official documents and the reports of parliamentary debates.

I think it proper for me to add that my Belgian colleagues at Berlin,
Berne, Bucharest, The Hague, Lisbon, London, Madrid, Paris, Rio de
Janeiro, Rome, St. Petersburg, Stockholm, and Vienna, have likewise
received instruction to address invitations to the conference of April
10 to the Government to which they are respectively accredited.

I trust that your excellency will favorably receive the invitation
which I hereby have the honor to address you, and I will thank you to
favor me with a reply.

I gladly avail myself of this occasion to renew to your excellency the
assurances of my highest consideration.

DE BOUNDER DE MELSBROECK.

[ Inclosure.—A. ]

His Majesty the King of the Belgians, His Majesty the Emperor of
Austria, King of Bohemia and Apostolic King of Hungary, His Maj-
esty the King of Denmark, His Majesty the King of Spain, the Presi-
dent of the French Republic, His Majesty the King of Italy, His Maj-_
esty the King of Portugal and the Algarves, His Majesty the Emperor
of all the Russias, His Majesty the King of Sweden and Norway, desir-
ing to establish on the basis adopted by the Brussels conference, a sys-
tem of international exchanges for the official documents, and for the
scientific and literary publications of their respective states, have ap-
pointed as the plenipotentiaries, to wit: ——-—* who, having exhibited
to each other their full powers, which were found to be in good and

REPORT ON

A. Text adopted.

ARTICLE 1. A bureau having
charge of the exchange service
shall be established in each of the
contracting states.

Arr. 2. The contracting states
agreeeto exchange the following
publications:

1. Parliamentary and executive
‘documents published by them.

2. Works issued by order and at
the expense of or with the aid of a
subsidy from the Governments.

3. Publications issued by acade-
mies or learned societies, universi-
ties, and schools, so far as it may
be in the power of the Govern-
ments to procure them.

ART. 3. Each bureau shall cause
to be printed a list, as complete
as possible, of the publications
that it may be able to furnish to
the contracting states.

ArT. 4. During the first quarter
of each year each bureau shall
publish a report of the progress of
the service and of the results ac-
complished in the course of the
preceding year. This report shall
contain all necessary corrections
and additions to the list mentioned
in Art. 3.

AR’. 5. Exchange bureaus shall
arrange with each other as to the
number of copies which, in certain
cases, may be asked for and fur-
nished.

ART. 6. The exchange bureaus
shall arrange among themselves

with regard to the method of trans- |

mnitting the various publications.

AR. 7. The documents shall be
transmitted directly from bureau
to bureau. Uniform models and
forms shall be adopted for lists of
the contents of boxes, and for all
executive communications,  re-
qnests, acknowledgment of receipt,
we,

ART. 8. When documents are
to be sent abroad, each state agrees
to pay the expenses of packing and

EXCHANGES, © 1235

B. Modifications proposed.

ART. 2. The contracting states
agree to exchange the following
publications :

2. Works issued by order and at
the expense of the Governments.

ART. 3. Each bureau shall cause
to be printed a list, as complete as
possible, of the publications that it
may be able to furnish to the con-
tracting states.

This list shall be corrected and
completed each year and addressed
to all the exchange bureaus.

ARTICLES 3 and 4 are combined
in one, and Article 5 thus becomes
Article 4.

ART. 6 becomes Article 5.

ART. 7 becomes Article 6.

ART, 8 becomes Article 7,
124 REPORT ON

transportation to the place of des-
tination, and, when the documents
are to be sent to countries lying be-
yond the sea, to pay such expenses
to the port where they are to be
discharged.

ART. 9. The exchange bureaus |

may, unofticially, serve as medi-
ums between the learned societies
of the contracting states tor the
reception and transmission of the
publications of the said societies.

ART. 10. These provisions are
applicable to none but documents
and works published at or subse-
quent to the date of this conven-
‘tion. It is, nevertheless, desirable
that the coutracting states should
endeavor to procure the preceding
series of volumes, so that a com-
plete copy of each collection may be
in at least one library in each State.

ART. 11. States that have not
taken part in this convention shall
have the privilege of adhering
thereto whenever they may express
a desire to do so.

Notice shali be given of such
adhesion, through diplomatic chan-
nels, to the Belgian Government
and by that Government to all the
signatory states.

ART. 12. This convention shall
be ratified, and the ratification
shall be exchanged at Brussels, as
soon as possible. It is concluded
for ten years, reckoned from the
day of the exchange of the ratifi-
cation, and shall continue to exist
after that time until one of the
Governments shall have declared,
six months beforehand, that it de-
sires the cessation of its effects.

EXCHANGES.

ABT..§, 54 The exchange bu-
reaus may, unofficially, serve as
mediums between the parliaments,
the Government departments, and
the learned societies of the con-
tracting states for the reception
and transmission of their publica-
tions.

§ 2. It shall, however, be under-
stood that, on these occasions, the
functions of the exchange bu-
reaus shall be confined to the free
transmission of the works ex-
changed, and that these bureaus
shall in no wise take the initiative
in bringing about the establishment
of such relations between foreign
parliaments, governmental depart-

' ments, and learned societies.

ART. 10 becomes Article 9.

ART. 11 becomes Article 10.

ART. 12 becomes Article 11.

—
REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 125

|The draft referred to in Mr. de Bounder de Melsbroeck’s letter as in-
closure C, differs from the adopted text in the following respect:

After Article 3 the following words are inserted: ‘‘ This list shall be
corrected and completed each year and regularly addressed to all the
exchange bureaus.”

Article 4 of the adopted text is omitted.

Article 5 of the adopted text becomes Article 4 of this draft, and a
similar change is made in each article (7. e., its numbers diminished by
one) up to Article 10, which is a new article added in this dratt.

Article 9 of the adopted text becomes Article 8 of this draft.

It is here divided into two sections, and is identical with Article 8 of
the modified text given in parallel columns with that adopted.

Article 10 of the adopted text becomes Article 9 of this draft.

Article 10 of this draft is, as above stated, an entirely new one, and
reads as follows : .

Article 10. The Governments concerned agree, moreover, to transmit
to the legislative chambers of each contracting state, without the in-
tervention of the exchange bureaus one copy [two copies] of their official
newspaper and of their annals and parliamentary documents.

Articles 11 and 12 of this draft are identical with Articles 11 and 12
of the adopted text. |

From the Smithsonian Institution, February 27, 1883, to the Secretary of
State.

Sir: Your letter of January 10, inclosing a communication from the
Belgian minister in Washington, was duly received, but I have delayed
an answer in order to give a careful consideration to the various ques-
tions involved.

- The proposition to have a conference of official delegates at Brussels
on the 10th of April next is, of course, a practical one; but, on its ac-
ceptance by the United States, it will be necessary to determine whether
the American minister in Belgium or some other official of the State De-
partment in Europe can be charged with the duty, or whether it will be
expedient to send some one from Washington who has had a thorough
practical acquaintance with the system now in operation by the Smith-
 sonian Institution and who can point out any technical difficulties or in-
conveniences. Perhaps, in any event, such agent should be on hand to
make the necessary explanations and suggestions.

Mr. George H. Boehmer, the author of the report of the Institution
to the Department on this very subject, could be spared for this pur-
pose; but the cost of his mission could not conveniently be defrayed
from the funds of the- Institution, or from the appropriations of Con-
gress for the purpose of international exchanges. Whether the State
Department has the means at its command to send him, or whether it
will be expedient to ask for a moderate appropriation of say $500 is for
you to decide.
126 REPORT ON EXCHANGES.

There is nothing among the details agreed upon at the conventions
of 1877 and of 1880 differing materially from the practice of the Smith-
sonian system so far as the purely governmental exchange is concerned ;
but in the interchange of publications between the learned bodies of
the two countries, respectively, there is a decided difference. The Smith-
sonian Institution aims at establishing direct relationships—parcels for
foreign societies and institutions being sent to us addressed by the do-
nors and the Institution simply charging itself with securing their safe
delivery abroad—while the foreign exchange agencies, on the other hand,
assume also the responsibility of delivering unaddressed packages to
such societies as they deem suitable. While the Smithsonian Institu-
tion has at times performed this latter service, on special request, it
nevertheless endeavors to establish direct relations between donor and
recipjent, confining itself, as far as possible, to the work of a carrier.
This method is, I think, very much the better of the two.

Permit me to inquire whether the wording of Article 8 has been cor-
rectly rendered in the translation, so far as the use of the word ‘ post”
near the end is concerned? If this be port it will be in strict accord-
ance with the practice and preference of the Smithsonian Institution.
In the entire inability to follow a package across the water to its ulti-
mate destination, we deliver the same either at New York or at the cor-
responding port in Europe, and expect to be responsible for charges only
from the opposite port, or from New York, as may be agreed upon.

I may say, in conclusion, that the system of governmental exchange
does not work as satisfactorily as where we have our own ageuts in the
respective countries, and it is extremely difficult to induce Government
officials to take the necessary pains to see that packages addressed to
minor institutions or to individuals reach their destination. Book-
sellers, who have usually served as our agents, attend to this matter
much more carefully.

I inclose an article prepared by Mr. Boehmer, showing the parallel-
ism in the letter of the Belgian minister and the practice of the Smith-
sonian Institution, together with a general brief of the Smithsonian plan.
lor full details I would refer to the report of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion on this subject made to the Department of State some months ago.

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
SPENCER I, BAIRD.

Comparison of proposed and Smithsonian systems.

ARTICLES AGREED UPON BY BRUSSELS | WORK DONE BY THE SMITHSONIAN EX-
CONFERENCE. | CHANGE,

ARTICLE 1. A bureau having The establishment of the Smith-
charge of the exchange service sonian exchange service is fully ex-
shall be established in each of the | plained in the ‘+ History of the
contracting states. Smithsonian Exchan ges.”
REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 12%

ART. 2. The contracting states |
agree to exchange the following
publications :

1. Parliamentary and executive
documents published by them.

2. Works issued by order and
the expense of or with the aid of a
subsidy from the Governments.

3. Publications issued by acade-
mies or learned societies, universi-
ties, and schools, so far as may be
in the power of the Governments
to procure them.

ART. 3. Each bureau shall cause
to be printed a list, as complete as
possible, of the publications that it
may be able to furnish to the con- |
tracting states.

ART. 4. During the first quarter
of eacb year each bureau shall pub-
lish a report of the progress of the
service and of the results accom-
plished in the course of the preced- |
ing year. This report shall contain
all necessary corrections and addi-
tions to the list mentioned in Arti-
cle 3.

This list shall be corrected and

completed each year and addressed
to all the exchange bureaus.

ART. 5. The exchange bureaus |
shall arrange with each other as to
the number of copies which in cer-
tain cases may be asked for and
furnished.

Art. 6. The exchange bureaus
shall arrange among themselves |
with regard tothe methods of trans- |
mitting the various publications.

ART. 7. The documents shall be
transmitted directly from bureau |
to bureau. Uniform models and
forms shall be adopted for lists of
the contents of boxes and for all
executive communications, — re-

quests, acknowledgment of receipts,
Xe.

ART. 8. Whenever documents are
to be sent abroad, each State agrees
to pay the expense of packing and
transportation to the place of des-
tination, and, when the documents
are to be sent to countries lying be-
yond the sea, to pay such expenses |

The Smithsonian Institution dis-
tributes (see act of Congress March
2, 1867).

The official documents printed
by either house of Congress and
delivered by the Public Printer in
fifty copies.

3. Publications of societies, &c.,
are obtained by the Smithsonian
Institution at the request of foreign

| correspondents.

Such a list forms a part of the
annual report of the clerk in charge
of exchanges submitted to the See-
retary of the Smithsonian Institu-

_ tion at the close of each year.

This is also given in the statis-
tics of the exchanges appended to
the Secretary’s annual report.

Of the 50 copies supplied by Con-
gress to the Smithsonian Institu-
tion only 8 are unassigned.

The method adopted by the Smith-
sonian Institution is to transmit
whenever a sufficient number of

books have accumulated to fill one

regulation * size” case for each Gov-
ernment.

This method has been adopted
by the Smithsonian Institution
since the first establishment of ex-
change bureaus (in Paris, France,
in 1876) resulting from the Geo-
graphical Congress in August and
September, 1875.

The Smithsonian Institution pays
the expenses of packing, Wc., and
delivers the boxes free of charge to
the representative (generally the
consuls) of the respective Govern-
ment at any seaport in the country,
while the returns are to be deliv-
128

to the port where they are to be
discharged.

REPORT ON

ART. 9. The exchange bureaus
may, unofficially, serve as mediums
between the learned societies of the
contracting states for the recep-
tion and transmission of the pub-
lications of the said societies.

It shall be understood that on
these occasions the functions of the
exchange bureaus shall be confined
tothe free transmission of the works
exchanged, and that the bureaus
shall in no wise take the initiative
in bringing about the establishment
of such relations between foreign
Parliaments, governmental depart-
ments, and learned societies.

ART. 10. These provisions are ap-
plicable to none but documents and
works published at or subsequently
to the date of this convention. It

i

is nevertheless desirable that the |

contracting states should endeavor

to procure the preceding series or |

volumes, so that a complete copy |
of each collection may be in at least |

one library in each state.

ART. 11. States that have not |

taken part in this convention shall
have the privilege of adhering

thereto whenever they may express |

a desire to do so. Notice shall be
given of such adhesions through
diplomatic channels to the Belgian
Government, and by that Govern-
ment to all the signatory states.
ART. 12. The convention shall be
ratified and the ratifications shall
be exchanged at Brussels as soon
as possible. It is concluded for ten
years, reckoned from the day of the
ratification, and it shall continue
to exist after that time until one of
the Governments shall have de-
clared,six mouths beforehand, that
it desires the cessation of its effects.

EXCHANGES.

ered to the regularly appointed
agents of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion located in the several countries.
This constituted the most impor-
tant branch of the Smithsonian op-
erations. Scientific productions
are distributed throughout the
world so as to secure for them a
greater circulation than could be
obtained in any other way.

The complete collection of official
publications, which the Smithson.
ian Institution distributes under
the system of international ex-
changes comprises 17 boxes of about

_ 260 pounds each, to the set, and in-

cludes all the Government docu-
ments issued between the year 1867
and the present time.

Details of Smithsonian Hachange Operations.

[1. A list of the addresses and a statement of the contents of each
sending is to be mailed to the Smithsonian Institution at or before the

time of transmission.
REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 129

2. The packages must be enveloped in stout paperand securely pasted
or tied with strong twine; they must be legibly addressed and indorsed
with the name of the sender; they must not exceed one-half of one
cubic foot each in bulk; they must have no inclosures of letters; they
must contain a blank acknowledgment to be signed and returned by the
party addressed, and must be delivered to the Smithsonian Institution
free of expense.

3. On arrival of exchanges for transmission, the parcels are compared
with the list of addresses, and, if found correct, acknowledgment is
mailed to the sender and each entire sending entered as a single trans-
action in the book of incoming exchanges.

4, The addresses in the invoices and on the parcels are then provided
with the numbers corresponding to those in the * List of Foreign Cor-
respondents ” and the consignees charged with the parcels on their ac-
count, which are kept in this office in the form of a card catalogue.

5. The packages are then laid away in bins, each representing a cer-
tain city or cities or a part of them in any given country.

6. When a sufficient number of parcels have accumulated to justify a
sending to any country, invoices are made up from the card catalogue
of all parcels for any one society ; this is inclosed in an envelope and
sent by mail to the consignee. This invoice is the notification of the
sending and enables the consignee to correspond with the agent of the
Smithsonian Institution in his country regarding the final disposition
of his package.

7. While the invoices are being made out, the accumulations are taken
from the bins and all the parcels for any one society, after being com-
pared with the invoice, are wrapped in one or more bundles.

8. All the bundles for one country are then packed in boxes of uni-
form, or nearly uniform, size, the lids fastened with ten screws and the
boxes addressed to the agent of the Smithsonian Institution in that
country.

9. The shipment is made through local express and railroad freight
to the shipping agent at any given seaport, receipts being taken from
the respective carriers.

10. The shipping agent forwarding the cases mails one bill of lading
directly to the agent and duplicate copies to the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, which retains one copy and mails the other to the agent.

11. The agent distributes the parcels in accordance with the instruc-
tions received from the respective consignees, taking for them receipts,
which he forwards to the Institution. |

From the Department of State, May 15, 1883, to the Smithsonian Institu-
tion.
Sir: Linclose a copy of a dispatch from our minister at Brussels,
giving the results of the Brussels conference on international exchanges,
H. Mis. 69-———9
130 REPORT ON EXCHANGES.

also, its original inclosures, and have to ask for an expression of your
views in the premises, and especially as to the Belgian proposals. [In-
closure 9.|
I am, sir, your obedient servant,
JOHN DAVIS,
Acting Secretary.

(Inclosure.)\—From the Legation of the United States, Brussels, April 24,
1883, to the Secretary of State.

Sir: Referring to your Instruction No. 26, and to my dispatches 106
and 107, I have the honor to inclose herewith a copy and translation of
a note from the Belgian Government of the 4th instant, respecting the
conference to draft a convention to regulate the international exchanges
of official documents, and scientific and literary publications.

Immediately upon the receipt of the pamphlet, “* History of the Smith-
‘sonian Exchanges,” I commenced a careful examination of the question
to be discussed at the conference. ;

The letter from the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution to you of
February 27 last, and its accompaniment, with the pamphlet above men-
tioned, constituted my instructions.

On studying the comparison made by Mr. Boehmer between the arti-
cles agreed upon in 1880 at Brussels, and the work done by the Smith-
sonian Institution in regard to the exchanges, I found the principal di-
vergence to be in reference to article 8. The provisions of that article
are thus stated by him: ‘* When documents are to be sent abroad each
State agrees to pay the expenses of packing and transportation to the
place of destination, and, when the documents are to be sent. to coun-
tries lying beyond the sea, to pay such expenses to the port where they
are to be discharged.” There is no disagreement as to the cost of pack-
ing, but merely as to the transportation by and beyond the sea. The
Smithsonian’s rule being “ to pay the expenses of packing, &e., and to
deliver the boxes free of charge to the representative (generally the
consul) of the respective Governments at any seaport in the United
States, while the returns are to be delivered to the regularly ap-
pointed agents of the Smithsonian Institution located in the several
countries.”

Under the existing generous action of the various steamship lines
the question of ocean transportation is not a material one, but I con-
sidered that I should endeavor to avoid signing a draft which, if rati-
fied, would bind us to the payment of the ocean freight, even if we re-
ceived the return exchanges free of cost in our own ports.

The new text of this article, which becomes article 6 in the present
draft, leaves the question of the transportation by sea a matter to be
fixed by special arrangements. This will permit the continuation of
the method pursued by the Smithsonian Institution.

In the conference the countries represented were the United States,
REPORT ON

EXCHANGES.

131

Austria-Hungary, Belgium, Brazil, France, Italy, Portugal, Spain, Rou-

mania, Servia, and Switzerland.

It may not be altogether uninteresting to compare them as to extent
of territory and population. I gather the following from the Almanach

de Gotha:

is To the
Countries. (Square Kilo: Population. square kilo-
meters. |
| meter.

oer |
TTD OURS MANGO os css Sate Sorin one oy eiwimatle ae ae 9, 331, 360 | 50, 442, 066 5.4
SUSUR ARMING ALY srs sce suse Goce ose ot eeisee es 625,168 | 37, 869, 954 61.0
TEE LSS 09), Se se a | 29,445 | 5,519, 844 187.0
LATA: . ee Ee cee eee eee Nokes 7/3221 be min C0 fs 15008 a ee a a
MIUANCEMINTOPER eee cccs aco sees Hoek acts sone ck | 528, 572 | 37, 672, 048 a0
rancer (COLONIES) so S22. hoes ee ek 1 OO AIS O laa yea’ laa ere
LID (GDh) eR Be SS GARR SS oeSheadse so soos | 296, 323 | 28, 459, 451 96. 0
ieiivaCCOLOMIES)) esos see eet Joo Se Seco | 632 | NAS 3 as es a
BOG a DONO) Se ae nase 5 cfeSaras ne aces ore 89,625 | 4,160,315 46.0
OtuM male (COLONIES) 26.0 <o. 5, scin'sae)s wisisa cams dB topes BUSTERS SRS Wy (I 0) eer eae fe ee
TESORO BUD, SE Se eee ee eS Re ae Pee ee 129,947 | 5,376,000 41.0
SAO ATICON (00) 0G) 0 ie SE ee eee pee 500, 443 | 16,342, 996 33.0
SP RIMNCOLOMIOS)) een ate oases Sncine mee neincraiwia& ASO, 747) | 8) 800. Olon|s aaa eeeeee
SHIRE Sse ae ee 48,590 | 1,700,211 | 35. 0
STE ELROD Ba a ee i a 41,390 | 2,846, 102 69. 0
(LESS ee eed ee 24; 214,835 (242,844,420 |.2 2-25.22 ..

The development of the sciences and literaturein the respective coun-
tries and the amount of the illiterate classes would doubtless furnish a
better gauge of the desirability and advantages of entering into a con-
vention of this nature, but in the absence of such statistics the forego-
ing will not be altogether useless. ;

In addition to the countries represented in the conference, Greece,
Russia, Sweden and Norway, and Uruguay have evinced a desire to
adhere to the convention.

The same statistics concerning them are—

Tothe
‘ ae | Square : 3
Countries. eeieters. Population. | square kilo-
meter.
|
CHONG: Se sn35 SSS Se Ce Cee SAB enon CE eee 54,688 | 1,979, 423 | 3l
LST STAD pee este AB i ee i ee ae 5, 016, 024 | 81,598, 569 | 16
eradent antl Nonwryees tse 52 US oo ae 775,997 | 6,772, 568 |
ere tea Varese Site ete pene Otc ola x aa checicis == 186, 290 438, 245 | 2
itiale he Rieie ee es ee SA 6, 042,999 | 90,788, 805 |

The conference met under the presidency of Mr. Rolin-Jacquemyns,
the Belgian minister of the interior, on the 10th instant, at 11 A. M.
The president, after a short address, declared the general question open
for debate, whereupon the Swiss delegate, Mr. Abt, read a statement
defining the position of Switzerland, and opposing the extension of the
132 REPORT ON EXCHANGES.

obligation to exchange other than official parliamentary and adminis-
trative documents, and works executed by order of, and at the expense
of, the contracting states. I invite particular attention to this docu-
ment, which is given in full in the protocols of the conference.

The Austrian delegate, Mr. de Dechy, maintained that the convention
of 1880 would not affect the exchange between the literary and scien-
tific societies.

Mr. Charmes, the French delegate, maintained that while the ex-
change of official publications should be rendered obligatory, the bu-
reaus should also be allowed to act as the friendly agents for effecting
exchanges between the learned scientific and literary societies of the
different countries.

The president agreed with Mr. Charmes, and this appeared to be the
sense of the conference. Mr. Alvin, one of the Belgian delegation, the
venerable head of the Royal Library of Brussels, explained his expe-
rience of the working of the exchanges. As the Royal Library is the
regularly appointed agent of the Smithsonian Institution, his remarks
have a special interest. He mentioned a newly created reading-room
for periodical literature, attached to the library, where 1,100 or 1,200
publications are accessible to the public. (I regret to say that those
of the United States are conspicuous by their almost total absence.)

Mr. Alvin expressed the hope that similar reading-rooms might be
established in all the great centers of population and that the exehanges
would greatly benefit them.

The discussion of Article 1 was then begun. Mr. Charmes (France)
said that Article 1 prescribed the establishment of bureaus of exchange
in each contracting state, but until now it has not been carried into
effect.

The president called attention to the fact that until now there was
no obligation, and suggested that we should cursorily examine the con-
dition of affairs in the respective countries. Mr. Alvin said that bureaus
had been established in France, in Russia, in Italy, and in Spain.

Mr. de Villeneuve (Brazil) said that in Brazil there was a bureau.

Mr. Alvin said that in the United States there was the Smithsonian
Institution, but that as it was not an official bureau it did not fully
answer the ends that the conference sought.

Mr. Vacaresco (Roumania) said that in Roumania there was no
bureau, and he could not guarantee the establishment of one until the
ratification of the convention.

L said that in the United States the Smithsonian Institution had un-
dertaken the exchanges of Government publications; that as to the
other publications it was sometimes difficult to obtain them from the
societies, but that the Institution willingly undertook to send them at
the request of the learned societies.

That Congress had placed 50 copies of the official publications at the
:

REPORT ON EXCHANGES, 133

disposition of the exchanges, and that hut eight of these remained un-
distributed.

Mr. Alvin added that the Smithsonian also distributes European
packages in North and South America, but not officially. Article 1 was
then adopted without alteration.

Upon the discussion of Article 2 as it was in the draft of 1880, there
was a conjunction of obligatory stipulations with a contingent stipula-
tion. In the present draft this is avoided by the unanimous omission
of the last paragraph.

The words, ‘‘ with the aid of a subsidy,” in the next to last paragraph,
were also suppressed.

Article 3 was adopted so as to read: ‘“‘ Each bureau shall cause to be
printed the list of the publications that it is able to place at the disposal
of the contracting states.

“That list shall be corrected and completed each year and regularly
addressed to each of the bureaus of exchanges.”

In the morning session of 11th of April Article 4 was adopted with

the omission of the words “in certain cases.”

Article 5 was omitted.

Article 6 having become Article 5, was adopted.

Article 7 (having become Article 6) was then taken up for discussion
and Mr. Ruelens (Belgium) explained that the reason of making a dis-
tinction in regard to payment of the sea transportation, was because it
is generally impossible for the shipper to know the railway tariffs be-
yond the port of debarkation, and that when they are known there is
great difficulty in obtaining the railway receipt for the freight.

I stated the custom of the Smithsonian of sending its boxes to the
consuls at our own ports free of charge.

Mr. Alvin and Mr. Ruelens seemed surprised to learn that we did not
pay the charges to the port of debarkation, and were of opinion that
we did so in regard to the shipments to Belgium.

I read the rule of the Smithsonian quoted above, taken from Mr. Boeh-
mer’s memorandum, and explained to the conference that these gentle-
men were doubtless misled by the fact that the steamship companies
had consented to carry the parcels of the Institution free, but that I
could not guarantee that our Government would bind itself to deliver
them free of cost beyond its own ports.

Neither Mr. Alvin’s, Mr. Ruelens’, nor my own remarks in regard to
steamship companies are fully given in the printed accounts of the pro-
ceedings of the conference, but the text of the article as finally adepted
rendered an amendment on this subject in the accounts of the proceed-
ings unnecessary.

The president calling attention to the fact that shipments by sea
were sometimes made to countries that were not beyond the sea, sug-
gested substituting therefor shipments by sea.

The discussion of the article was then postponed. It was resumed
134 REPORT ON EXCHANGES.

in the session of the 14th instant, upon my demand that in the final
protocol mention should be made that I had reserved the rights of
the United States in regard to this article.

The president then suggested the adoption of the article in the fol-
lowing form:

‘Pour Vexpédition a Vextérieur chaque état se ‘charge des frais
WVemballage et de port jusqu’a destination. Toutefois, quand Vexpédi-
tion se fera par mer, des arrangements particuliers régleront la part de
chaque état dans les frais de transport.”

(Translation: For shipment to foreign countries, each state assumes
the cost of packing and of transportation to destination. When, how-
ever, the shipment is to be made by sea, special arrangements shall de-
termine the proportion of each state in the cost of transportation.)

Which was adopted.

Article 8 (become Article 7) was then taken up, and gave rise to a
long discussion.

The suppression of the last paragraph of Article 2 had left the con-
vention relating solely to the obligatory exchanges of official documents,
parliamentary and administrative. )

- I felt that the omission of a provision creating a voluntary channel
for the exchange of literary and scientific societies would be a most
regrettable result, and that it would seriously interfere with one of the
most useful and extended means of spreading information and knowl-
edge.

The enactment of the provision, although merely optional in its char-
acter, would materially aid the Smithsonian in carrying out this, in Mr.
Boehmer’s opinion, *“‘ the most important branch of its operations.”

It would be of equal benefit in case the bureau of exchanges were to
be transferred to the Department of State or any other branch of the
Government. I therefore assumed that I was carrying out your wishes
in endeavoring to secure its retention, if not in its letter, at least in its
spirit.

The text as it now stands was adopted to avoid a pleonasm in the
former French text, and to define more clearly the societies whose publi-
cations may be exchanged.

There is no greater obligation created than in the former convention,
and the result may be considered as merely an improvement in the
phraseology of the text.

_The discussion of this article is worthy of a perusal, and for its full
comprehension that of Article 2 should be also consulted. I hope my
remarks in favor of its retention will merit your approval.

Article 9 (now become Article 8) was adopted with the omission of
the second paragraph, the latter wish being expressed in the final pro-
tocol.

Article 10 (the new proposal of the Belgian Government) is as follows:

‘““The respective Governments further agree to cause to be sent to the
REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 135

legislative chambers of each contracting state, as soon as they are pub-
lished, and without passing through the intermediary bureaus of ex-
changes, a copy of the official journal and of the parliamentary docn-
ments and annals.”

In your instruction to me there was no mention of this proposition.
It is not referred to by Professor Baird or by Mr. Boehmer in his mem-
orandum.

Upon verbal inquiry at the foreign office, I ascertained that it was
sent in November last to the Belgian legation at Washington, with in-
structions to bring it to your notice.

I had therefore to deal with the proposition entirely as a measure of
possible utility to Congress. I saw that the transmission of fifteen or
twenty copies of the Congressional Record, of all the bills, motions, peti-
tions, reports, &c., by post would involve a large outlay in postage, in
addition to the cost of paper and printing, and that it would entail the
employment of additional clerks to attend to it. On the other hand,
the daily receipt of similar matter from fifteen or twenty Governments
would require a considerable staff to sort and care for the publications,
and soon involve the construction of additional room for their preser-
vation.

I have no doubt that such an exchange established with certain Gov-
ernments would prove of great usefulness to Congress, but I very
much question whether it would be wise to bind ourselves to such an ex-
change with all the countries represented in the convention. If you
should differ with me, the way is still open for our Government to enter
into such an arrangement, as the article proposed by the Belgian Gov-
ernment was omitted from the convention signed by all the delegates
to the conference, and was made the subject of a special convention
between those which supported it.

The delegates of Austria-Hungary, Belgium, Brazil, Italy, Portugal,
Roumania, Spain, and Servia signed the two conventions.

The delegates of the. United States, France, and Switzerland, being
opposed to the Belgian proposal, signed only the draft of the general
convention, which was signed by all the delegates.

Fora more thorough comprehension of the discussion of the con-
ference I inclose herewith (inclosure 3) a copy and (inclosure 4) a
translation of the proposals originally submitted to our discussion at
the opening of the conference, and a proof copy of the proceedings
of the conference (inclosure 5), of which I have made a free transla-
tion (inclosure 6).

Linclose herewith copies and translations of the final protocol which
was signed by the delegates of all the powers represented at the con-
ference (inclosure 7), and of the draft of the convention signed by them
(inclosure 8).

I also inclose a copy and translation of the convention embodying
the Belgian proposal for the immediate exchange of parliamentary doc-
136 REPORT ON EXCHANGES.

uments (inclosure 9), which was signed by the delegates of eight of
the eleven powers represented at the conference.

_The original text of these documents being in French, my transla-
tions of them will require careful revision.

I likewise inclose lithographic copies of the two conventions and of
the final protocol (inclosures 10, 11, and 12), The latter was only re-
ceived to-day. The convention adjourned late in the afternoon of the
14th instant.

On the 12th the King received us at Lacken, and although suffering
from a severe cold, exhibited his wonderful knowledge of the current
events of all countries, which with his courteous manners render him
always a most entertaining host and a most enlightened sovereign.

The Belgian minister of the interior, Mr. Rolin Jacquemyus, enter-
tained the delegates at dinner the same evening.

I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
NICHOLAS FISH.
INCLOSURES.

. Mr. Frére-Orlean to Mr. Fish, 4th of April, 1883.

. Translation of No. 1.

. Proposals originally submitted for the discussion of the contents.

. Translation of inclosure No. 3.

Proof copy of proceedings of conference.

. Translation of inclosure No. 5.

. Final protocol of conference signed by delegates of all the states represented, with
the translation.

. Draft of convention for the international exchanges of official documents and of
scientific and literary publications, signed by the delegates of all the states, with
translation.

9 Dratt of convention for the immediate exchange of parliamentary documents,

signed by the delegates of eight of the eleven states represented at the confer-

ence, with translation.

NAT OWE

oc

(Inclosure 1, 2, Translation.)—From the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Brus-
sels, 4th April, 1883, to Mr. Fish.

Mr. MintstER: The Belgian minister at Washington has informed
me that the Government of the United States of America, acceding to
the request which was made to it in my name, has decided to take part
in the conference which is to be held at Brussels on the 10th of April
instant, and that it has confided to you the duty of representing it at
that assembly.

No doubt you are aware that at present a preparatory reunion is con-
templated, to discuss and determine all the questions relating to the
system of international exchanges of official document and scientific
and literary publications.

It is to be hoped, however, that it will be possible to agree upon the
text of a project of convention, which shall be afterwards submitted to
the approbation of the respective Governments interested therein.

Belgium, Austria, Denmark, Spain, France, Italy, Portugal, Russia,
REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 137

and Sweden were represented at the first conference, which was held
at Brussels in 1880. The provisional arrangement which resulted from
that preliminary conference has since been converted into a project of
convention, the text of which is herewith annexed (A).

Certain modifications to this preliminary project of conventions have
been proposed. They are set forth in the document which you will also
find inclosed herewith (B).

The Government of the King has demanded on its part the adoption
of an amendment which seems of incontestable utility. It would be the
tenth article of the new arrangement, of which I have the honor, Mr.
Minister, te communicate to you the text, and concerning which the de-
liberations of the reunion of the 10th April will be held. As I stated
to you above, Mr. Minister, the labor of the delegates will be submitted
by them to their respective Governments, and thereafter the time of
meeting of the conference which will be held for the purpose of signing
the final arrangement will be fixed.

The following is, Mr. Minister, the text of the amendment which |
have proposed:

“The respective Governments moreover engage themselves to cause
to be forwarded to the legislative chambers of each contracting state,
as soon as they are published, and without passing through the inter-
mediary of the bureaus of exchange, one [two] copies of the official jour-
nal, parliamentary annals, and documents.”

I do not presume that this proposition can incur any opposition. A
common interest is attached to it for all countries to secure the prompt
communication of official acts and documents relating to parliament-
ary debates. In the last Belgian legislative session a member of the
Chamber of Representatives called my attention to this important point,
and it seemed to me that the projected convention furnished an oppor-
tunity of attaining, by a channel more efficacious than any other—that
is, of an international agreement—the object which we have in view.
Each Government will no doubt deem it expedient to admit a clause
which cannot fail to be fertile in good results and which cannot raise
any difficulty.

1 will add, Mr. Minister, that the following powers have been invited
to participate in the deliberations to which I allude: Germany, Eng-
land, Austria-Hungary, Brazil, Denmark, Spain, United States of
America, France, Greece, Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal, Roumania,
Russia, Servia, Sweden and Norway, and Switzerland.

The meetings will be held in the session room of the Royal Academy
of Belgium, in the Palace of the Academies (Rue Ducale 1). The first
meeting will be held Tuesday next, April 10, at 11 0’clock. The instal-
lation of the conference will be under the care of the minister of the
interior.

Pray accept, Mr. Minister, the assurances of my most distinguished

consideration.
FRERE-ORLEAN.
138

REPORT ON EXCHANGES.

(Inclosure 3, 4.)—TRANSLATION OF PROPOSALS ORIGINALLY SUBMITTED FOR THE
DISCUSSION OF THE CONFERENCE,

New draft of a convention for the
international exchanges of official

documents and of scientific and |

literary publications.

ARTICLE 1. There shall be estab-
lished in each of the contracting
states a bureau charged with the
duty of the exchanges.

ART. 2. Publications which the
contracting states agree to ex-
change are the following: (1) The
official documents, parliamentary,
administrative, which are published
in the country of their origin; (2)
the works executed by order and
at the expense of the Governments;
(3) the publications of academies
and learned societies, of wniversi-
ties and schools, as far as the Gov-
ernments shall be able to obtain
them.

ART. 3. Each bureau shall cause
to be printed a list, as complete as
possible, of the publications that
itis able to place at the disposal
of the contracting states.

That list shall be corrected and
completed each year, and regularly
addressed to all the bureaus of ex-
change.

ART. 4. The bureaus of exchange
will arrange between themselves
the number of copies which in cer-
tain cases they may demand and
furnish.

ART. 5. The bureaus of ex-
changes will determine among
themselves the models of packages
of different publications.

ART. 6. Shipments shall be made
directly from bureau to bureau.
Uniform models and formulas for
the invoices of the contents of the
cases, as well as for all administra-
tive correspondents’ requests and
acknowledgments of reception,
&e., shall be adopted.

Akt. 7. For shipments to foreign
countries, each state assumes the
cost of packing and of transporta-
tion to destination and for coun-
tries beyond the sea to the port of
debarkation.

Amendments made to the drafts
agreed upon by the conference of
1880.

Without alteration.

The words ‘with subsidies” have
been omitted from the second para-
graph.

The second paragraph of this
article replaces the fourth article
of the draft of 1880.

Article 5 of the draft of 1880.

ART. 6 of the draft of 1880.

ART. 7 of the convention of 1880.

ART. 8 of the draft of 1880.
REPORT ON

ART. 8, § 1. Bureaus of ex-
changes may in an official capac-
ity serve as the intermediary bhe-
tween the Parliaments, the admin-
istrations, and the learned societies
of the contracting states for the re-
ception and forwarding of their
publications.

§ 2. It remains, however, well
understood that in such cases the
duty of the bureaus of exchanges
will be confined to the transmis-
sion free of cost of the works ex-
changed, and that those bureaus
will not in any manner take the in-
itiative to bring about the estab-
lishment of such relations between
the parliaments, administrations,
and learned societies of foreign
countries.

ART. 9. These provisions apply
only to documents and works pub-
lished after the date of the present
convention. Itis nevertheless de-
sirable that the contracting states
should endeavor to obtain the pre-
ceding series or volumes, so that
a complete set of each collection at
least should be found in one of the
libraries in each state.

ART. 10 [New]. The respective
Governments agree further to cause

to be sent to the legislative cham- |
bers of each contracting state, as |

soon as they are published, and
without passing through the inter
mediary of the bureaus of ex:
changes, a copy of the official jour-
nal and of the parliamentary docu-
ments and annals.

ART. 11. The states which have
not taken part in the present con-
vention are admitted to adhere to
it upon making the request.

This adhesion is to be notified to
the Belgian Government through
the diplomatic channel and by the
latter Government to all the other
states signing it.

ART. 12. The present conven-
tion shall be ratified and the rati-
fications exchanged at Brussels as
soon as itis practicable. It is con-

139

§ 1 is areproduction of Article 9
of the former draft, to which have
been added the words Parliament
et administration.

EXCHANGES.

§ 2 is new.

The amendments to the forego-
ing articles were requested by the
French Government.

ART. 10 of the draft of 1880.

Proposed by the Belgian Gov-
‘ernment.

These last two articles did not
form part of the text agreed on in
1880; they have been adopted by
the department of foreign affairs
of Belgium at the same time as the
introductory formula of such dip-
lomatic documents.

It is not deemed necessary to
here reproduce that preamble in
which all the contracting states
_should be enumerated.
140 REPORT ON EXCHANGES.

cluded for ten years from the day

of the exchange of ratifications, and

it shall remain in force beyond that

time so long as one of the Govern- |

ments shall not have declared six *
montbs in advance that it de-

nounces the same.

(Inclosure 5, 6, omitted.)

[ZJnclosure 7.—Translation. |—FINAL PROTOCOL OF A CONFERENCE SIGNED BY ALL THE
DELEGATES.

The undersigned delegates of Austria-Hungary, of Belgium, of Spain,
of Brazil, of the United States of America, of France, of Italy, of Por-
tugal, of Ronmania, of Servia, and of Switzerland, met at Brussels on
the 10th of April, 1883, with a view of preparing an international con-
vention, having for its object the exchanges of official documents and
literary and scientific publications.

As a result of the deliberations recorded in the minutes of their
meetings, they have signed a draft of the convention annexed to the
present final protocol, marked A. They agreed to submit it to the ap-
probation of their respective Governments.

The undersigned deem it proper to remark that in preparing this draft
of a convention the delegates of the Governments represented at the
conference sought to attain two quite distinct ends.

1. To centralize as much as possible in a single library in each of
their countries all those official documents, parliamentary and admin-
istrative, that the contracting Governments publish, and such of the
publications of the learned bodies, and of the literary, scientific, artistic,
&c., societies, as they may be able to procure.

2. To facilitate for these learned societies in all countries the means
of exchanging their publications among themselves.

The role of the contracting countries will therefore be twofold; on
the one hand initiative, corresponding to the formal obligation to furnish
the documents emanating from them; on the other hand, a role of vol-
untary intermediary in the assistance which they will accord at their
pleasure to learned societies and bodies of all sorts for the establishment
of relations with similar institutions in foreign countries.

In the opinion of the delegates such assistance should always remain
purely friendly and officious. The obligation to exchange extends in
no respect to the independent associations ; but the Governments may
demand in return for the services they render to those societies, as in-
intermediaries and for the free transportation which they accord them,
a certain number of documents which will increase the number of those
which the bureaus of exchange have for the purpose of sending abroad.

The undersigned delegates of Austria- Hungary, of Belgium, of Brazil, -
of Spain, of Italy, of Portugal, of Roumania, and of Servia, considering
the utility of direct and prompt exchanges of parliamentary documents
between the legislative assemblies of the ‘different states , have, moreover,
signed the draft of a convention annexed to this final protocol, marked
B. They agree to submit it at the same time as the draft of the general
convention, marked A, to the approbation of their respective Govern-
ments.

The undersigned delegates of France, while recognizing the incon-
testable advantage of rapid exchanges among the various Parliaments,
and the exceptional interest which the international conference may
REPORT ON. EXCHANGES. 141

assign to them, deem that those exchanges do not require to be direct,
that they may be very rapidly made by the bureaus of exchanges, and
that they should remain entirely free for the Parliaments. The ‘dele-
gates of France think that it would have sufficed to express the wish
of the chambers, and to render them regular.

The undersigned delegates of the United States of America and of
Switzerland share this opinion.

Finally, before separating the conference expresses the wish that the
contracting” states shall endeavor to obtaim the series or volumes pub-
lished prior to the date of the general convention, se that a complete
set of each collection will be found in at least one library in each state.

In testimony whereof the undersigned delegates have drawn up the
present final protocol and have set their signatures thereto.

Done at Brussels the April, 1883.

The signatures of the delegates of Austria-Hungary, Belgium, Brazil,
Spain, United States of America, France, Italy, Portugal, Roumania,
Servia, and Switzerland follow.

[Jnclosure 8.—Translation. ]—(A.)—DRAFT OF CONVENTION SIGNED BY ALL THE DELE-
GATES TO THE CONFERENCE AT BRUSSELS, APRIL, 1883.

ARTICLE 1. There shall be established in each of the contracting
states a pase charged with the duty of the exchanges.

ART. 2. The publications which the contracting states agree to ex-
change are the following: (1) The official documents, parliamentary
and administrative, which are published in the country of their origin ;
(2) Theworks executed by order and at the expense of the Governments.

ART, 3. Each bureau shall cause to be printed the list of the publica-
tions that it is able to place at the disposal of the contracting states.

That list shall be corrected and completed each year and regularly
addressed to all the bureaus of exchanges.

Art. 4. The bureaus of exchanges will arrange between themselves
the number of copies which they may demand and furnish.

ART. 5. The shipments shall be made directly from bureau to bureau.
Uniform models and formulas for the invoices of the contents of the
cases, as well as for all administrative correspondence, requests, and
acknowledgments of reception, &c., shall be adopted.

ART. 6. For shipments to foreign countries, each state assumes the
cost of packing and of transportation to destination. When, however,
the shipment is made by sea, special acknowledgments shall ‘determine
the proportion of each state in the cost of transportation.

ART. 7. (§ 1.) The bureaus of exchanges will serve as the official in-
termediaries between the learned bodies and the literary, scientific, &e.,
societies of the contracting states for the reception and forwarding of
their publications.

(§ 2.) It remains, however, well understood that, in such cases, the duty
of the bureaus of exchanges will be confined to the transmission free of
cost of the works exchanged, and that those bureaus will not in any
manner take the initiative to bring about the establishment of those
relations.

ART. 8. These provisions apply only to the documents and works pub-
lished after the date of the present convention.

ART. 9. The states which have not taken part in the present con-
vention are admitted to adhere to it upon making the request.

This adhesion is to be notified to the Belgian Government through

~
142 REPORT ON EXCHANGES.

tae diplomatic channel and by the latter Government to all the other
states signing it.

ART. 10. The present convention shall be ratified and the ratificatious
exchanged at Brussels as soon as practicable. It is concluded for ten
years from the day of the exchange of the ratifications, and it shall re-
main in force beyond that time, as long as one of the Governments shall
not have declared six months in advance that it denounces the same.

(The signatures of the delegates of Austria-Hungary, Belgium, Brazil,
Spain, United States of America, France, Italy, Portugal, Roumania,
Servia, Switzerland, follow.)

[Jnclosure 9.—Translation. ]—(B.)—DRaArT OF CONVENTION FOR THE IMMEDIATE EX-
CHANGE OF PARLIAMENTARY DOCUMENTS.

Brussels, April, 1883.

ARTICLE 1. Apart from the obligations arising from article 2 of the
eeneral convention of April, 1882, concerning the exchange of official
documents and of scientific and ‘literary publications, the respective
Governments agree to cause to be forwarded to the legislative cham-
bers of each of the contracting states, as soon as they are published, a
copy of the official journal and of the parlhamentary annals and docu-
ments nae are made public.

ART. 2. The states which have not taken part in the present conven-
tion are panne ed to adhere thereto upon requesting it.

This adhesion is to be notified by the diplomatic channel to the Bel-
gian Government and by the latter Government to all the other states
signing it.

ART. 3. The present convention shall be ratified and the ratifications
exchanged at Brussels, as soon as practicable. It is concluded for ten
years from the day of the exchange of the ratifications, and it shall re-
main in force bey -ond that time, SO long as one of the Governments shall
not haye declared six months in advance that it denounces the same.

(The signatures of the delegates of Austria-Hungary, of Belgium, of
Brazil, of. Spain, of Italy, of Portugal, of Roumania, and of Servi ia fol-
low.)

Remarks by Mr. Boehmer, on the proceedings of the Brussels Conference.

|The principal desire of the delegates to the conference at Brussels
(at least of those of European powers) appears to have been to central-
ize—by the establishment of bureaus of exchange—in a single library
in each of their countries all the official documents, parliamentary and
administrative, which the contracting Governments publish, and those
publications of the learned bodies and of literary, scientific, and artistic
societies, &e., which they may be able to procure.

Although M. Charmes (delegate from France) said, “ To confide to an
institution the exchange of all that may interest science is a chimera, or, at
least, a very complicated affair,” the Smithsonian Institution has shown
that such a thing is possible, and had the Institution the necessary
means it would not be a very difficult task, with its experience of thirty-
four years and constant improvements on the system, to demonstrate the
feasibility of a universal exchange, comprising all scientific societies in

REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 143

the world. Theincrease to its library, from this source, during the year
has been 11,789 books, and its total number of books received from the
exchange of its publications with scientific establishments abroad since
its organization now represent 177,420 books. ‘The number of packages
received from abroad for scientific establishments and individuals in the
United States and British America during the year 1882 is 8,359 pack-
ages, and a total of 103,124 packages since the introduction of the
exchange system. The packages sent abroad through this channel in
1882 were 58,047, representing a bulk of 2,950 cubic feet, and the entire
transmissions abroad from the United States since introduction of
theexchange system represents a bulk of 35,525 cubic feet, weighing
1,160,413 pounds.

The system now in operation in its methodical and business-like char-
acter of bookkeeping could readily be extended so as to meet all re-
quirements and include every known society in the worid desiring ex-
changes with the United States.

The French Government, however, does not appear to be particularly
anxious to promote a general scientific and literary exchange to any
great extent. At her request Mr. Charmes introduced the following
modification :

“It remains, however, well understood that in such cases (the exchange
between societies) the duty of the bureaus will be confined to the transmis-
sion, free of cost, of the works exchanged, and that those bureaus will not,

in any manner, take the initiative to bri ing about the estublishment of such
relations.”

The Governments of Austria and Switzerland express themselves
through their delegates to the effect that the bureaus of exchange shall
confine themselves to the exchange of Government documents and leave
the exchange between societies to themselves.

Mr. Alvin, of the Belgian commission, states:

“There is a bureau of exchanges in the United States, the Smithsonian
Institution, but which, not being official, does not fully answer the object
we aim at.”

The general impression of the delegates at the conference seems
to have been that the Smithsonian Institution, as a private establish-
ment, has gradually possessed itself of the exchanges, both of scientific
and of Government documents, without, authority, and cannot be con-
sidered as fully responsible, or equal to the bureaus established in con-
sequence of the convention. |

Comments on the Articles of Convention.

[ART. 2. This article in its original form was to include as (3) The pub-
lications of academies and learned societies, of universities and schools, as
far as the Government shall be able to obtain them.

This paragraph was discussed at great length and objected to by the
delegate from Switzerland on the same grounds as would prevent the
144 REPORT ON EXCHANGES.

adhesion of the United States, both of which have nota centralized
Government in respect of public instruction, each State or county hav-
ing a Separate system.

In monarchical countries the Government controls the majority of
educational establishments and also subsidizes a large number of socie-
ties. Their publications, therefore, would, in a measure, be available
to the Government for exchange purposes. But the case does not apply
to a republic.

All the delegates who favored the passage of this paragraph gave it
only a secondary importance ; hence its defeat was easily obtained.

ArT. 4. It was suggested to furnish as many as 15 or 20 copies to each
bureau to enable them to supply the principal libraries. This, however,
was opposed by the delegate from Austria-Hungary, who thinks one
copy of each work sufficient for each country.

The Smithsonian Institution, on behalf of Congress, under the existing
laws could not give more than one copy to each country, and even at
this rate only 8 copies are left for distribution.

Art. 5. The question of forms, receipts, &c., appears to be satisfac-
torily settled by the Smithsonian blanks, which are the result of an
experience of many men and extending over many years.

Art. 6. This paragraph has been opposed by the Smithsonian Insti-
tution since its first introduction for several good reasons, which were ex-
plained by the United States delegate at the convention. The Smith-
sonian Institution, on behalf of the Government, should protest against
its passage, which would work great injustice to the United States.

ART. 7 (Sec. 2). The delegates of Austria-Hungary and of Switzerland
explain that the duty of the bureaus of exchanges should be confined
to Government publications, and state that in their respective countries
the scientific societies have established a system of exchanges between
themselves.

The delegate from France proposes that only the exchange of Gov-
ernment documents shall be obligatory, while the bureaus may serve as
intermediary for the exchange of the others, so as to form for that ex-
change a sort of well-organized postal service.

To the Smithsonian Institution, the greater part of whose library has
been the direct result of exchange, and in ‘taking the initiative to bring
about the establishment of those relations” (repudiated by the 2d sec-
tion of the 7th Article), the importance to itself, no less than to the great
body of learned societies, of the liberal interchange of scientific transac-
tions and journals is too well recognized to be lightly surrendered.

Another supplementary point discussed by the convention and ac-
cepted by all the delegates, except those of the United States, France,
and Switzerland, provides:

ART. 1. Apart from the obligations arising from Article 2 of the general
convention concerning the exchange of official documents and of scientific
REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 145

and literary publications, the respective Governments agree to cause to be
forwarded to the legislative chambers of each of the contracting states, as
soon as they are published, a copy of the official journal and of the par-°
liamentary annals and documents which are made public.

This article of agreement cannot, under existing circumstances, be
accepted by the Smithsonian Institution on behalf of the Government,
owing to the limited number of copies at the disposal of the Institution.
The sendings of the United States Government publications are made
in the comparatively short intervals of about six months, and contain
all the documents that are desired in two copies under this act. This
would constitute three copies to each bureau. The additional number of
copies could only be obtained by special act of Congress, and it would
be an unnecessary expense, both in cost of printing and transportation,
without giving an equivalent advantage. |

From the Department of State July 9, 1883, to the Smithsonian Institution.

Str: I inclose a copy of a dispatch from our minister at Brussels,
and a copy of the completed edition of the proceedings of the Brussels
Conference on International Exchanges, to which it refers; also, a copy
of the “note from the British Envoy,” therein mentioned.

I am, sir, your obedient servant,
JOHN DAVIS,
Acting Secretary.

From the Smithsonian Institution, July 10, 1883, to the Hon. John Davis,
Assistant Secretary of State.

Sir: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of the copy of the
dispatch from the United States minister at Brussels, giving the results
of the Brussels Conference on International Exchanges, inclosed with
your letter of May 15, and respectfully return the same herewith in ac-
cordance with your request.

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
SPENCER F. BAIRD.

From the Smithsonian Institution, July 24, 1883, to the Hon. John Davis,
Acting Secretary of State.

Sim: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your communica-
tion of July 9, and to thank you for the copy it inclosed of the proceed-
ings of the Brussels Conference on International Exchanges.

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,

SPENCER F. BAIRD,
H. Mis. 69-10
146 REPORT ON EXCHANGES.

From the Smithsonian Institution, August 20, 1883, to the Hon. John Davis,
Acting Secretary of State.

Sir: In forwarding here a special communication in reference to the
proposition for the immediate exchange of parliamentary documents,
I beg to offer some general remarks upon the proceedings of the Bel-
gian convention.

I was much gratified to find that the position of the Smithsonian
Institution in regard to the expenses of the transportation of packages
was, in great measure, acceded to. As suggested by Mr. Ruelens, it is
usually perfectly practicable to arrange for the prepayment of charges
for land transportation through from the point of transmission. The
case is very different where shipments by steamer interpose; and it is
for this reason that the Smithsonian Institution urges that delivery,
free of expense, should terminate at the port of embarkation, rather
even than at the port of debarkation, although the latter could perhaps
be arranged for, if the former were not equally convenient. Inno event
ean it agree to arrange for delivery free of charge at the ultimate des-
tination of the sending.

The Smithsonian Institution does not insist on delivery to consuls of
foreign Governments at the shipping ports, although this is a conven-
ience. It is quite willing to deliver directly on board the steamships,
although it has found no hesitation whatever on the part of any foreign
consuls in taking charge of the packages. In some cases these parcels
are forwarded by Government vessels that happen to be in port; in
others, by regular foreign steamship lines carrying free under subsidies.
In all cases a bill of lading for each shipment is transmitted direct by
the Institution to the agent of the international exchange in the coun-
tries addressed.

The second point which seems to have involved more or less debate
was whether the system of exchange should include the publications
of the Governments only, or those of societies and individuals generally.

The Smithsonian Institution agrees with those who take the more
liberal and comprehensive view, as the increase and diffusion of knowl-
edge depend much more upon the interchange of information in regard
to scientific, industrial, and technical researches than upon the trans-
mission of the publications alone of the several Governments.

It was solely and exclusively for the distribution and exchange of its
own publications, and those of affiliated bodies, that the Smithsonian
institution undertook, nearly one-third of a century ago, its responsibie
duty, and unless permitted to include both divisions in its functions, it
would prefer to confine itself to the more comprehensive and original
one.

As, however, the machinery of administration is sufficiently elastic to
embrace the whole subject, and the additional expense attendant com-
paratively trifling, there appears to be no good reason for a duplication
of agencies. It is fully believed by the Institution that a cessation of
REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 147

its general system of exchanges would be considered, the world over, a
very disastrous blow to the cause of science and education.

The Institution however does not undertake any responsibility in
the matter beyond transmitting what is offered to it, or in distributing
what comes through its agencies; although it is frequently called upon
to make out lists of addresses, both in America and elsewhere, to which
special or continued publications may be adventageously supplied.

I may say in this connection that our experience of the administra-
tion of the system of miscellaneous exchanges by Government bureaus
has not been satisfactory. In nearly all cases where we have changed
our agency from that of a bookseller, or other private party, to that of
an international bureau, there have been energetic and earnest expres-
sions of dissatisfaction in regard to the latter. This, however, will
doubtless be remedied with time and experience.

Referring to the expression of Minister Fish’s regrets as to the absence
of American publications among the 1,100 or 1,200 periodicals in the
reading room of the Royal Library of Brussels, there would appear to be
no particular obligation on the part of the publishers of such journals
in the United States to forward them to any one library other than in
exchange, or in return for a proper compensation.

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
SPENCER F. BAIRD.

From the Smithsonian Institution, August 20, 1883, to the Hon. John
Davis, Acting Secretary of State.

Sir: I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of your communication
of July 24, inclosing a second copy of a dispatch from Minister Fish,
of the 24th April, in reference to the proceedings of the Convention on
International Exchanges, held in Brussels during the present year.

The proposition for this supplemental exchange of parliamentary doc-
uments involves the transmission from Washington, to all nations giv-
ing their adhesion to the same, of copies of the Congressional Record,
of all bills and joint resolutions, and of official reports made by Con-
gress, day by day as they come from the press; but does not include
the publications of the Departments, which are embraced in the general
system of distribution by the Smithsonian Institution.

This will involve the procuring of a second set of the publications in
question for the legislature of each Government, in addition to that
which is now furnished to a designated depositary.

It will be impossible to promise such a second set of legislative pub
lications to a considerable number of addresses without ascertaining
the views of the Joint Library Committee of Congress in regard to it.
This body, however, already has the power to enter into the arrange-
ment, as existing law directs the Public Printer, in addition to the reg-
ular number of fifty sets, to furnish fifty additional copies of any work-
that may be indicated by the aforesaid committee as needed for purpo-
ses of international exchange.
148 REPORT ON EXCHANGES.

At present all the Governments of the several countries engaged in
this system of international exchanges have indicated some public li-
brary as the recipient of what may be sent from the United States,
and in most cases the actual agent of collection and distribution. The
transmissions themselves, however, are made by an international bureau.

To make daily sendings of the publications in question would involve
much additional trouble and very great expense for postage; and I
would suggest that the State Department take the necessary measures
to bring to the notice of the International Postal Union the propriety
of considering all matter of this kind as privileged, and to be forwarded
free. As all the great nations of the world are members of the Union,
and each Government collects its postages in advance, it will simply
amount to the relinquishing by each of the postal charges on its own
official matter. It would seem quite proper, in addition, that the frank
should extend to all official correspondence of the United States Gov-
ernment with parties outside of its limits, although American members
of the Postal Convention appear to have been largely instrumental in
preventing this simplification of the official intercourse.

In view of all these circumstances, it would, I think, be quite proper
to notify Minister Fish that, while the United States accepts the general
principle of this supplementary exchange, formal action and participa-
tion must be deferred until the pleasure of the Joint Committee of the
Library of Congress can be ascertained.

In this connection I would inquire whether it might not simplify mat-
ters to deliver to the agents in Washington of the respective Govern-
ments the publications to be forwarded under this regulation. In the
contrary event, each country should be requested to designate a specific
address to which the publications in question should be transmitted.

I may mention that at present a definite exchange of the publications
in question has already been indicated through the Smithsonian Insti-
tution between the United States House of Representatives and the
Legislative Chambers of France, in virtue of a proposition to that effect
from France, and formally accepted by resolution of the House of Rep-
resentatives. These, however, are sent in bulk, or by sessions, and not
day by day as proposed.

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
SPENCER IF. BAIRD.

From the Department of State, September 26, 1883, to the Smithsonian
Institution.

Smr: Acknowledging the receipt of various letters from you bearing
date the 20th August last, touching different features of the question
of the international exchange of documents, which formed the subject
of consideration at a recent conference in Brussels, I beg to inclose here-
with a printed report of the proceedings of the conference, and to ob-
serve that the Belgian Government informs the Department through its
f
;
:
J
:
ft

REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 149

minister here that it adheres to the two drafts of a convention marked
respectively A and B, and to the final report of the deliberations of the
conference [pp. 36 et seq. of the inclosed pamphlet], and expresses a
desire to learn the attitude of the United States with respect to these
conclusions at the earliest convenient date, inorder that the conference
which is to adopt the final arrangement may be convoked with little
delay.

Although the view already stated by you in your various communi-
cations of August 24 are apparently ample, it seems proper that the
questions thus formally submitted by the Belgian minister, should be
referred for such supplementary consideration of the Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution as he deems it pertinent to give.

A more special response to one or more of your letters of August 24
will doubtless soon be prepared.

I am, sir, your obedient servant,
JOHN DAVIS,
Acting Secretary.

From the Smithsonian Institution, October 4, 1883, to the Hon. John
Davis, Acting Secretary of State.

Str: I have just received at this place your letter of the 26th of Sep-
tember asking a formal consideration of paragraphs A and B and the
general conclusions of the report of the conference in regard to inter-
national exchanges held at Brussels.

In compliance therewith the Smithsonian Institution recommends
the acceptance of section A in its actual form, and begs to express its
willingness to carry out the provisions thereof as far as the means at
its command will allow. More than one series of Government publica-
tions cannot at present be promised to any one foreign Government.

The latitude permitted by Article 6 in reference to shipments by sea
removes the objection made to the previous agreement.

So far as the class of beneficiaries referred to in Article 7 is concerned,
the Institution reserves the right, as a branch of its own original system,
to use such additional agencies of distribution §s it may deem proper,
since experience has shown that in some cases: at least these are the
more expeditious channels of transmission. The same reservation is
made in reference to the service between scientific men in America and
those elsewhere; between individuals and public libraries, as also in
connection with the interchange of specimens of natural history, for
none of which is provision made as recommended by the Institution
subject to the approval and co-operation of. Congress.

The general conclusions of the conference, as indicated on page 36 of
the pamphlet (herewith returned), are satisfactory to the Institution;
but modifications may be found necessary in carrying the system into
full operation.

I have the honor, &c., &c., SPENCER F. BAIRD.
150 REPORT ON EXCHANGES.

LIST OF OFFICIAL PUBLICATIONS RECEIVED FROM THE PUBLIC PRINTER
DURING THE YEAR 1883.

AGRICULTURAL DEPARTMENT.

Artesian wells upon the great piains. 37 p. and map. 8vo. Paper.

Preliminary report on the forest trees of the Mississippi Valley, and tree planting on
the plains. 45 p. 8vo. Paper.

Results of field experiments with various fertilizers. By Prof. W. O. Atwater, Ph. D.
183 p. 8vo. Paper.

Annual report 1881-’82. 704 p. 8vo. Cloth.

Culture of the date. By W.G. Klee. 25 p. 8vo. Paper.

Encouragement to the sorghum and beet sugar industry. A record of practical ex-
periments conducted under the direction of the Commissioner of Agriculture.
64 p. 8vo. Paper.

Investigation of sorghum as asugar producing plant. Season 1882. Peter Collier. 68
p. 8vo. Paper.

Contagious diseases of domesticated animals. Investigations by the Department of
Agriculture. 271 p. 8vo. Paper.

‘ Special Reports.
Agriculture. 271 p. 8vo. Paper.

‘ Special Reports.
Agriculture. 271 p. 8vo. Paper.

‘ Special Reports.
Agriculture. 271 p. 8vo. Paper.

‘ Special Reports.
Agriculture. 271 p. 8vo. Paper.

‘ Special Reports.
Agriculture. 271 p. 8vo. Paper.

‘ Special Reports.
Agriculture. 271 p. 8vo. Paper.

‘ Special Reports.
Agriculture. 271 p. 8vo. Paper.

‘ Special Reports.
Agriculture. 271 p. 8vo. Paper.

‘ Special Reports.
Agriculture. 271 p. 8vo. Paper.

‘ Special Reports.
Agriculture. 271 p. 8vo. Paper.

‘ Special Reports.
Agriculture. 271 p. 8vo. Paper.

‘ Special Reports.
Agriculture. 271 p. 8vo. Paper.
