Pay
yi a % q 7 ey ny ; .

a met at +

7 bee

1

y
iy oe ce i.

beg
J dt
ne earn 7

Lf
1d

i
‘

eo :
i i , od
4s ai) -

mi rae a

Annual Report of the

Board of Regents of

THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION

Showing the
Operations, Expenditures, and Condition of
the Institution for the Year Ended

June 30, 1948

(Publication 3954)

For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U. S. Government Printing Office
Washington 25,D.C. - Price $2.50 (cloth)
LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, December 10, 1948.

T'o the Congress of the United States:

In accordance with section 5593 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, I have the honor, in behalf of the Board of Regents,
to submit to Congress the annual report of the operations, expendi-
tures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year ended
June 30, 1948. I have the honor to be,

Respectfully,
A. Wermore, Secretary.
CONTENTS

Nhistioioticials ee ee sansa = eee et penny eee ees eae eke
(Generals tart 1x0 e rt ses esas ee ee me ee ee a ee es ee ee
Interdepartmental Committee on Scientific Research and Development__-_
pithevestabblishmren te mea ny: mer aya epee Sh ames ER a et ee i en re
sires oancdvolehleremntS ons sehen 2 oe a eres Dele were eae ee
JEU UEMNCLEYS a eh oes a eel ge s,s ve ne ee ee
ANSOVORRGYON UH epKO OVS 2 ao ech a A a a ee
WASICOTS meyer eres eke Lene eS Pe SERS 22S Se Eee ase
ifteentheArthurilectures sakes S2- 2 eek eae ee ee Sa ee ate
Summary of the year’s activities of the branches of the Institution_____-_
PUD LT CAtIO Sees tens Mae nye eee Renee Sees ee Sees eT Me eee ne
PST Tu Teyseg ey ee at a ee ee Ab eet Sis es ere teem ie hy Poet
Appendix 1. Report on the United States National Museum__-__--------
2: Report on the NationaliGallery, of Art... jc 2 = 5. 2

3. Report on the National Collection of Fine Arts____-__-_-_--

Ax Report onthe Freer Gallery of Artesi232 222522. eue2se228

5. Report on the Bureau of American Ethnology_____-_------

6. Report on the Internationa] Exchange Service___-_--------

(@ Reportion the National: Zoolopsical Park-2t2m 22220 ot. aaa

8. Report on the Astrophysical Observatory__.-_-_----------

Sy Reportion the National Air, Museums 22222 2. Se et eA

10. Report on the Canal Zone Biological Area_______-_--------

Aes Reportion theslibrary saeco Sia ee 0 ee A hg mee

2 SReporg One publications= = -- os -= ea eee te eee

Report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents__--_--------

GENERAL APPENDIX
The Astrophysical Observatory of the Smithsonian Institution, by C. G.

Atomic energy in industry, by H..A. Winnel2-----_-.2-.-.--_--__-_-..
High-altitude research with V—2 rockets, by Ernest H. Krause________--
Roentgen rays against cancer, by John G. Trump___________-_-___-_--
The optical glass industry, past and present, by Francis W. Glaze__-__--
Athevarerot the earthyby Arthur Holmes#_= 222 == 32 ee eee eee ee
Petroleum resources of North America, by A. I. Levorsen____._________-
American meteorites and the National collection, by E. P. Henderson___-
Glacial varved clay concretions of New England, by Ray S. Bassler_-_-_-__
Algal pillars miscalled geyser cones, by Roland W. Brown____----------
Concepts in conservation of land, water, and wildlife, by Ira N. Gabrielson_
The evolution and function of genes, by A. H. Sturtevant
The sense organs of birds, by R. J. Pumphrey

acl
©
3a
rc

UMAMHNOPwWwWe <

167
177
189
209
217
227
241
257
269
277
283
293
305
IV CONTENTS

Page

Insect control investigations of the Orlando, Fla., laboratory during
World “War Tl: ‘by JE: Kmipling.3.. 22 22 2 ee ee 331
The golden nematode invades New York, by W. L. Popham-___-_---___- 349
The cork oak in the United States, by Victor A. Ryan and Giles B. Cooke. 355
Remember the chestnut! by Amanda Wim 24-25 -_ =e ee eee 377
The numbers and distribution of mankind, by C. B. Fawcett______._---- 383
Mexican calendars and the solar year, by Herbert J. Spinden__________- 393

Surviving Indian groups of the eastern United States, by William Harlen
Gilbert; Ji 22 a. oo een ese ee ete 407

Recently published Greek papyri of the New Testament, by Bruce M.
Metzeerso a 22sec eet at eet aa see Secs oe ee ee eee eee 439
Japanese art—a reappraisal, by Robert T. Paine, Jr___-_-_------------ 453

LIST OF PLATES
Secretary’s report:

Plates-1.,:2001 [Vice Bio 0 Se Ae SE ee Cee 2 ee 46
Plates:3; 4.0 ee eee eee 96
Astrophysical Observatory (Abbot): Plates 1-6___-----_---------- follows 174
High-altitude research with V—2 rockets (Krause): Plates 1—-6_-_-_-_- follows 190
Roentgen rays against cancer (Trump): Plates 1-6_____-_-.____-_- follows 214
Optical glassiindustry (Glaze): Plates’ 1—4.-2 .2 22) ee ee follows 222
Age.of the-earth (Holmes) ::Plates 24.0222 7 So Se ee follows 239
American meteorites (Henderson): Plates 1-6___.____________-_-_- follows 262
Glacial varved clay concretions (Bassler): Plates 1-12____________- follows 270
Algal pillars. (Brown) c¢Platesal 8.2 2. a eee eee follows 282
Concepts in conservation (Gabrielson): Plates 1-3__.__-___-_---_- follows 291
Sense organs of birds (Pumphrey): Plates 1-4_________.___-_-_-_- follows 330
Insect control investigations (Knipling): Plates 1-6___________-_-_- follows 348
Golden nematode (Popham): Plates 1; -2.-= =. = 24-22 sae eee follows 353
Cork oak (Ryan andy Cooke):-Plates| 1-8. == S42 Ea eee follows 376
Remember the chestnut (Ulm): Plates 1-4____________________- - follows 382
Mexican calendars (Spinden): Plates 1-7_____________________-- . follows 405
Greek papyri (Metzger)> Plates 1=8s. 22 3 a eee follows 451

Japanese art (Paine) 3:Plates 1-423 tt 6 EP ae eee follows 456
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

June 30, 1948

Presiding Officer ex oficio— Harry S. TruMAN, President of the United States.
Chancellor.—FrEp M. Vinson, Chief Justice of the United States.
Members of the Institution:
Harry S. TRUMAN, President of the United States.
Vice President of the United States.
Frep M. Vinson, Chief Justice of the United States.
GrorGE C, MARSHALL, Secretary of State.
JoHN W. Snyner, Secretary of the Treasury.
JAMES ForRESTAL, Secretary of Defense.
Tom C. Criark, Attorney General.
JESSE M. DoNAupson, Postmaster General.
Jutius A. Krua, Secretary of the Interior.
CHARLES F. BRANNON, Secretary of Agriculture.
CHARLES SAWYER, Secretary of Commerce.
Secretary of Labor.
Regents of the Institution:
Frep M. VINSON, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor.
Vice President of the United States.
ALBEN W. BaRKLEy, Member of the Senate.
WALLACE H. Wuirter, Jr., Member of the Senate.
WALTER EF’, GrorGr, Member of the Senate.
CLARENCE CANNON, Member of the House of Representatives.
SAMUEL K. McConngELL, Jr., Member of the House of Representatives.
JOHN M. Vorys, Member of the House of Representatives.
Harvey N. Davis, citizen of New Jersey.
ARTHUR H. CompPron, citizen of Missouri.
VANNEVAR BusH, citizen of Washington, D. C.
Rosert V. FLEMING, citizen of Washington, D. C.
Executive Committee —RoBERT V. FLEMING, VANNEVAR BUSH, CLARENCE CANNON.
Secretary.—ALEXANDER WETMORE.
Assistant Secretary.— JOHN EH. GRaF.
Assistant Secretary.—J. L. Kreppy.
Treasurer.—J. D. HowAprp.
Chief, editorial division —WEBSTER P. TRUE.
Librarian.—Letma FV’. CLark.
Administrative accountant.—THomas F.. CLARK.
Personnel officer.—B. T, CARWITHEN.
Chief, publications division.—L. IX. COMMERFORD.
Purchasing officer —ANTHONY W. WILDING.

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

Director.—A. REMINGTON KELLOGG,

Vv
vi ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948
SCIENTIFIC STAFF

DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY :
Frank M. Setzler, head curator; A. J. Andrews, chief preparator.
Collaborator in anthropology: W. W. Taylor, Jr.

Division of Archeology: Neil M. Judd, curator; Waldo R. Wedel, associate
curator; M. ©. Blaker, scientific aid; J. Townsend Russell, honorary
assistant curator of Old World archeology.

Division of Ethnology: H. W. Krieger, curator; J. C. Ewers, associate cura-
tor; R. A. Elder, Jr., assistant curator.

Division of Physical Anthropology: T. Dale Stewart, curator; M. T. New-
man, associate curator.

DEPARTMENT OF ZOOLOGY:
Waldo L. Schmitt, head curator; W. L. Brown, chief taxidermist; Aime
M. Awl, illustrator.

Associates in Zoology: T. S. Palmer, W. B. Marshall, A. G. Béving, C. R.
Shoemaker.

Collaborator in Zoology: R.S. Clark.

Collaborator in Biology: D. C. Graham.

Division of Mammals: D. H. Johnson, associate curator; A. Brazier Howell,
collaborator; Gerrit S. Miller, Jr., associate.

Division of Birds: Herbert Friedmann, curator; H. G. Deignan, associate
curator; Alexander Wetmore, custodian of alcoholic and skeleton collec-
tions; Arthur C. Bent, collaborator.

Division of Reptiles and Amphibians: Doris M. Cochran, zoologist.

Division of Fishes: Leonard P. Schultz, curator; R. R. Miller, associate
curator; L. P. Woods, associate curator; D. S. Erdman, scientific aid; W.
T. Leapley, scientific aid.

Division of Insects: L. O. Howard, honorary curator; Edward A. Chapin,
curator; R. E. Blackwelder, associate curator; W. D. Field, associate
curator; Grace E. Glance, associate curator; W. L. Jellison, collaborator.

Section of Hymenoptera: S. A. Rohwer, custodian; W. M. Mann, assist-
ant custodian; Robert A. Cushman, assistant custodian.

Section of Myriapoda: O. F. Cook, custodian.

Section of Diptera: Charles T. Greene, assistant custodian.

Section of Coleoptera: L. L. Buchanan, specialist for Casey collection,

Section of Lepidoptera: J. T. Barnes, collaborator.

Section of Forest Tree Beetles: A. D. Hopkins, custodian.

Division of Marine Invertebrates: F. A. Chace, Jr., curator; P. L. Illg, asso-
ciate curator; Frederick M. Bayer, assistant curator; Mrs. Harriet Rich-
ardson Searle, collaborator; Max M. Ellis, collaborator; J. Percy Moore,
collaborator; Joseph A. Cushman, collaborator in Foraminifera; Mrs.
M. 8. Wilson, collaborator in copepod Crustacea.

Division of Mollusks: Harald A. Rehder, curator; Joseph P. E. Morrison,
associate curator; R. Tucker Abbott, assistant curator; W. J. Byas, museum
aid; P. Bartsch, associate.

Section of Helminthological Collections: Benjamin Schwartz, collabo-
rator.

Division of Echinoderms: Austin H. Clark, curator.

DEPARTMENT OF Borany (NATIONAL HERBARIUM) :
E. P. Killip, head curator; Henri Pittier, associate in botany.

Division of Phanerogams: A. C. Smith, curator; E. C. Leonard, associate
curator; C. V. Morton, associate curator; E. H. Walker, associate curator ;
Lyman B. Smith, associate curator.
SECRETARY’S REPORT VII

Division of Grasses: Jason R. Swallen, curator; Agnes Chase, research as-
sociate; F. A. McClure, research associate.

Division of Cryptogams: BH. P. Killip, acting curator; Paul 8. Conger, as-
sociate curator; G. A. Llano. associate curator; O. F. Cook, assistant
curator; John A. Stevenson, custodian of C. G. Lloyd mycological collec-
tions; W. T. Swingle, custodian of Higher Algae; David Fairchild,
custodian of Lower Fungi.

DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY :
R. S. Bassler, head curator; J. H. Benn, exhibits preparator; Jessie G.
Beach, aid.

Division of Mineralogy and Petrology: W. ¥. Foshag, curator; E. P. Hender-
son, associate curator; G. S. Switzer, associate curator; B. O. Reberholt,
exhibits preparator; Frank L. Hess, custodian of rare metals and rare
earths.

Division of Invertebrate Paleontology and Paleobotany: Gustav A. Cooper,
curator; A. R. Loeblich, Jr., associate curator; A. L. Bowsher, associate
curator; J. Brookes Knight, research associate in Paleontology.

Section of Invertebrate Paleontology: T. W. Stanton, custodian of
Mesozoic collection; J. B. Reeside, Jr.. custodian of Mesozoic collection.

Division of Vertebrate Paleontology: C. L. Gazin, curator; D. H. Dunkle, as-
sociate curator; Norman H. Boss, chief exhibits preparator; A. C. Murray,
FI. L. Pearce, preparators.

Associates in Mineralogy: W. T. Schaller, S. H. Perry, J. P. Marble.

Associate in Paleontology: T. W. Vaughan.

Associate in Petrology: Whitman Cross.

DEPARTMENT OF ENGINEERING AND INDUSTRIES:
Frank A. Taylor, head curator.

Division of Engineering: Frank A. Taylor, acting curator.

Section of Civil and Mechanical Engineering: Frank A. Taylor, in
charge.

Section of Marine Transportation: Frank A. Taylor, in charge.

Section of Electricity: K. M. Perry, associate curator.

Section of Physical Sciences and Measurement: Frank A. Taylor, in
charge.

Section of Land Transportation: 8S. H. Oliver, associate curator.

Division of Crafts and Industries: W. N. Watkins, curator; F. C. Reed,
associate curator; E. A. Avery, museum aid; F. L. Lewton, research
associate.

Section of Textiles: G. L. Rogers, assistant curator.
Section of Wood Technology: William N. Watkins, in charge.
Section of Manufactures: F. C. Reed, in charge.
Section of Agricultural Industries: F. C. Reed, in charge.
Division of Medicine and Public Health: G. 8. Thomas, associate curator.
Division of Graphic Arts: J. Kainen, curator; EH. J. Fite, museum aid.
Section of Photography: A. J. Wedderburn, Jr., associate curator.
Division or History: T. T. Belote, curator; Charles Carey, associate curator ;
M. L. Peterson. associate curator; M. W. Brown, assistant curator; J. Russell
Sirlouis, scientific aid.

Section of Civil History: T. T. Belote, in charge.

Section of Military History: C. Carey, in charge.

Section of Naval History: C. Carey, in charge.

Section of Numismatics: T. T. Belote, in charge.

Section of Philately: C. L. Manning, assistant curator.
VUI ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF

Chief, office of correspondence and records.—H. S. BrYAnv.
Superintendent of buildings and labor.—L. L. OLIver.

Assistant superintendent of buildings and labor.—CHArtes C. SINCLAIR.
Editor.—Paut H. OEHSER.

Accountant and auditor.—T. F. CLARK.

Photographer.—F.. B. KEstNER.

Purchasing officer—A. W. WILDING.

Assistant librarian.—ELISABETH H. GAZIN.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART
Trustees:
Frep M. Vinson, Chief Justice of the United States, Chairman.
GEORGE C. MARSHALL, Secretary of State.
JoHN W. Snyper, Secretary of the Treasury.
ALEXANDER WETMORE, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
SAMUEL H. Kress.
FERDINAND LAMMOT BELIN.
DUNCAN PHILLIPS.
CHESTER DALE.
Pavut MELLON.
President. SAMUEL H. Kress.
Vice President.—FERDINAND LAMMOT BELIN.
Secretary-Freasurer.— HUNTINGTON CAIRNS.
Director.—Davip E. FINiey.
Administrator.—Harry A. MCBRIDE.
General Counsel. HUNTINGTON CAIRNS.
Chief Curator—JoHN WALKER.
Assistant Director.—MAacaiILL JAMES.

NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS

Director.—THomas M. Braas; G. J. MARTIN, exhibits preparator.

FREER GALLERY OF ART

Director.—A. G. WENLEY.

Assistant Director—J. A. Pope.

Research associate.—GRACE DUNHAM GUEST.

Associate in Near Eastern art.—RicHArD ETTINGHAUSEN.
Associate in Far Hastern art.—W. R. B. AcKEn.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

Director —MAtTTHEW W. STIRLING.

Associate Director —FRaNk H. H. RoseErts, Jr.

Senior ethnologists——H. B. Coxttns, Jr., Joan P. Harrineton, W. N. Fenton.
Senior anthropologists.—G. R. Wiuttry, P. DrucKER.

Collaborators.—FRANCES DENSMORE, JOHN R. SwANnTon, A. J. WARING, Jr.
Editor.—M. HELEN PALMER.

Librarian.—MIRiam B. KETCHUM.

Illustrator.—Epwin G. CASSEDY.

INSTITUTE OF SocraL ANTHROPOLOGY.—G, M. Foster, Jr., Director.

RIvER BASIN SURVEYS.—FRANK H. H. Roserts, Jr., Director,
SECRETARY’S REPORT

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE
Acting Chief.—D. G. WILLIAMS.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Director.—WILLIAM M. MANN.
Assistant Director.—ERNEST P. WALKER,
Head Keeper.—Franx O. LOwE.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Director.—LoyaL B. ALDRICH.

DIVISION OF ASTROPHYSICAL RESEARCH :
Chief.—WILLIAM H. HOovER.
Instrument makers.—D. G. TALBERT, J. H. HARRISON,
Research associate.-—CHARLES G. ABBOT.

DIVISION OF RADIATION AND ORGANISMS:
Acting chief, in chargé.—LoYAL B. ALDRICH.
Biologist (biophysicist).—LEONARD PRICE.
Chemist.—O. J. WILLIAMS.
Biological aid (botany).—yV. B. ELstTap.

NATIONAL AIR MUSEUM

Advisory Board:

ALEXANDER WETMORE, Chairman.

Mags. Gen. E. M. Powers, U. 8. Army Air Forces.

REaR ApM. A. M. PRIDE, U.S. Navy.

GROVER LOENING.

WILLIAM B, STOUT.
Assistant to the Secretary for the National Air Musewm.—CarL W, MITMAN.
Curator.—P, H. GARBER.
Associate curator.—s, L. BEERS.
Exhibits preparator.—s. L. PoTTerR.

CANAL ZONE BIOLOGICAL AREA

Resident Manager.—JAMES ZETEK.

IX
ve 4 ei,
tou
=~ vir:
: ui = -

: ui
ran ig 7 Tas ay . "
- _—_ 7 on 7 1. - a

at awe _ esoiiat J eae .

iv ne
op 7 anit 7 ae a a!
| a - a
a - |, TOR ale ee sda
Ta : - _ ea
non a sci dh : j e
7 ,
: : — a 7 ‘

oo ~  egseu me i
7 ee r si tpae ran — ae Bart

- bi a y a ~ = 5 ‘ = 7 mas
| ro a Tail ed . sister quit
: x — iy oo 6 ie toe TT 7 he alt we a Y
5 te ie Dv y I : ™ + on i ;
- . 7 i ¥ ye i y
7 7 ma a ;
ny dl | ey al? - : as) -
—_ : ae Terie 7 wheat “Ai ace mer 1 on -
7 ine }
Jet pune: Pi ; ae, ta
- <= =, moe a Bs 7 ne a KTS. af se e

aaa ~

: ioe ie ao i oe a iy) |
- ; iy peg te ee iH i t 7 _ 7 we

Parad sfe Ps ve nila

rare
sek dh, in

”

sis

. ? Ua avi a -
as pt 7 ay ae
ae ar .o a a = = ee saa
- - i a o no i
ees Atti, ae slyaean’ ita Uh |
a OS =a dant vis
f “ ie ATU - 7 _ ™ — ae Ce
ae a Pe D
7 ies e

i; is a sha :
WO yd Cnsibae oe
*
pens on td SMOITUTINeM!
I SON

ALEXA} 7. oo OTFARD! UC
FOR THE YHA \ |
T ‘0 the Board of Regents of

REPORT OF TH)

~ Gextimaw : T hove the ba
a 7 * é 7
‘ ry the active { {h7 ‘ “3 i) vf
bureaus duriny ill

| JAbigrHaodre a
woravaae09 { { eeeiaas

, as Ghose
sclentifif
nherwea

"

it |

THAMTPAGS
OMIASIVIO

' Padi
and throup oi 23/AT2UGU! @

Ric ; 7 © BS i
een n added » as ile f
1 arti galles —— | many | :
a  PBARORE | Pow OF powaw@nad | |) ow de fad worerwa] po aopeivia
cua J YTIOAY Ponisi POP Moz ggANeA er Pe ee
rs fac. Vokig nasty ARS 3 8 | LvRarTete ait | Pamapnrois

+ owihliw
of public

itumion

In:

ae of ne 3 Le: _ FL ae car
an iaiyeuan
|
= or Seen r=
men sehohets ms ho we i BIETvIG [esr rs Oralvia
rage - ios nam! 49 apres | ome eee

Phew!
? +

£ A mi ly '
3 , ghee 04 } i f Sveti 0 WO! hotels Tr i2ivio (30 woleivia
deel mS eee Dae ty po Pa Sa

“ :Pee

National Galk .
_ oy j , or
, reer Gi aller VC eter siete

ne tional Exchan; ge Sera
ey i Servs ror ry

EE

: coe Be yard of Regents.
_As the Tostitation. roves if

sit handicapped by certain
or buildings.

Pd ae? a

“ba i pee
Jiumo2a3s | he
woreivia PU oa

poeccoer—=—

ee eee

| NATIONAL GALLERY !
OF ART 4

UNDER SEPARATE 1
BOARD OF TRUSTEES) y
eee eo

NATIONAL
ZOOLOGICAL PARK

FUNDS CARRIED IN .
D.C. APPROPRIATION ACT,

GALLERY OF ART JR MUSEUM

OIVISION OF
PHYSICAL
ANTHROPOLOGY

DIVISION OF
ETHNOLOGY
DIVISION OF
ARCHEOLOGY

CANAL ZONE
BIOLOGICAL
AREA

INTERNATIONAL
EXCHANGE
SERVICE

DIVISION OF
MAINTENANCE RVICE
AND OPERATIONISIONS

OPERATING
SECTION

PHOTOGRAPHIC
LABORATORY

LICATIONS
VISION

GUARD EDITORIAL \ R
SECTION LIBRARY

817369—49 (Faces p. 1)

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

ALEXANDER WETMORE
FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1948

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

GrentLEeMEN: I have the honor to submit herewith my report show-
ing the activities and condition of the Smithsonian Institution and its
bureaus during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1948.

GENERAL STATEMENT

The Institution carries out its purpose, “the increase and diffusion
of knowledge among men,” by numerous methods, but the basic means
remain the same as those proposed by the first Secretary, Joseph
Henry—namely, scientific research, exploration, and publication.
These features interweave to form the pattern of activities of the
Institution and of the scientific bureaus that have grown up around
it and through which it now largely operates. Other features have
been added as the Institution has grown and expanded—for example,
museum and art gallery exhibits, which diffuse knowledge to several
million visitors each year, and the International Exchange Service
for the interchange of publications with the rest of the world.

In the first part of this report I present general features of the
work of the Institution, together with brief summaries of the achieve-
ments of the bureaus, the whole giving a composite picture of the
Smithsonian Institution in the year 1948. For those interested in
further details, fuller reports on each bureau are presented as ap-
pendixes. These include the United States National Museum, the
National Gallery of Art, the National Collection of Fine Arts, the
Freer Gallery of Art, the Bureau of American Ethnology, the Inter-
national Exchange Service, the National Zoological Park, the Astro-
physical Observatory, the National Air Museum, and the Canal Zone
Biological Area. Appendixes 11 and 12 consist of reports on the
Smithsonian library and on the publications of the Institution. The
report concludes with the financial statement of the executive commit-
tee of the Board of Regents.

As the Institution moves into its second century of operation, it is
still handicapped by certain shortages in personnel and especially by
lack of adequate buildings. An institution for the increase and dif-

al
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
ORGANIZATION CHART

OFFICE

OF THE
SECRETARY

e--co--

ie ileal

MATIONAL GALLERY |

OF ART '
Lostisesraiee)J

BUREAU OF
AMERICAN
ETHNOLOGY

NATIONAL COLLECTION
or
FINE ARTS

ASTROPHYSICAL

NATIONAL

MUSEUM OBSERVATORY

DEPARTMENT OF

MENT OF PARTMENT OF DEPARIMENT OF toe DEPARTMENT O}

ZOOLOGY TANY GEOLOGY AND INDUSTRIES HISTORY P
oe 05 Prat nouants
prvi TBION OF
DIVISION OF br gd HOM OF

OL ONY ansuams SES
DevegiOMm OF ONION DIVISION OF
MOLLUSKS (Oenoeu CRYPTOGAMS

ANTHROPOLOGY

DOVISION OF
v
1

VISION O1
MAINTENANCE
any OFT RATNOm

GUARD OPERATING
THON SECTION

178649 (Faces p. |)

APPROVED SEPTEMO@ER |, 1%

@ Uther —

SiCeE TARY

PLESOn ace ~O SuPPLY Pusuicanions | | eHcnceaamor EorTomaL
pw ON DIVISION DIVISION AgonaTory olvisiom
2 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

fusion of knowledge cannot remain static. Its scientific studies in
various fields and its great and growing collections in all fields of
natural history and of human endeavor demand the constant attention
of an adequate staff. Laboratories and large research collections
without suflicient personnel for their scientific study cannot increase
knowledge. It is only as collections are correctly classified, new forms
discovered and described, and groupings and relationships analyzed
and reassesssed that new knowledge emerges for the benefit of man-
kind. For example, with an insufficient number of trained workers
in various divisions of the National Museum, the actual care of the
collections requires such a large proportion of the time of those now
available that research is restricted. In some museum divisions, and
in our other laboratories our efforts have brought about some increase
of personnel, but in others the situation is still acute. Such efforts
will be continued until an adequate staff for all divisions is assured.

The matter of space shortage is even more serious. The latest
permanent building in the Smithsonian group—the Natural History
Building of the National Museum—was opened to the public in 1911.
In that year the number of visitors to the Smithsonian buildings to-
taled 525,207, and the total number of specimens in the National
Museum was estimated at 6,328,660. For the fiscal year 1948 the
number of visitors was 2,393,499—an increase of more than fourfold
over 1911—and the total number of specimens reached 25,470,827—
also a fourfold increase. In other words, the Smithsonian Institution
has today the same amount of space that it had in 1911 in which to
accommodate four times as many visitors and four times as many
specimens. The inevitable result is a greatly overcrowded condition
in the exhibition halls and in the study collections and laboratories,
making expansion of public exhibits impossible and hampering
scientific research.

The Smithsonian group of buildings is near the top of the list of
Washington points of interest for visitors to the Nation’s Capital
from all parts of the country, and the public exhibits should be housed
in modern buildings without crowding and with room for expansion
as new material comes in. In the fiscal year 1946, a Public Buildings
Act was introduced in Congress in which was included provision for
several new Smithsonian buildings, among them a historical museum
and a building for the engineering and industrial collections. The
bill, however, failed of passage. In the year 1947, Congress passed
a bill establishing the National Air Museum as a bureau of the Insti-
tution; this will require an adequate building. ‘These matters are of
vital concern to the proper functioning of the Institution, and the
attempt to obtain adequate and up-to-date buildings will continue to
be a primary concern of your Secretary.

A number of organizational changes were made during the year in
SECRETARY’S REPORT 3

the interests of better administration, notable among them being the
creation of a new department in the National Museum—that of botany,
which had formerly been a division under the department of biology.
The latter was thereafter known as the department of zoology. Other
changes will be noted in the appended reports on the bureaus of the
Institution, but I should mention here the retirement of Harry W.
Dorsey, Administrative Assistant to the Secretary. Mr. Dorsey had
served the Institution faithfully and well for 59 years, and his long
experience in handling important matters connected with the Secre-
tary’s office and his unique knowledge of the history of the Institution
will be greatly missed.

INTERDEPARTMENTAL COMMITTEE ON SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH AND
DEVELOPMENT

On December 24, 1947, President Harry S. Truman established by
Executive Order the Interdepartmental Committee on Scientific Re-
search and Development, to be composed of a representative from each
of the following agencies: the Departments of Agriculture, Interior,
Commerce, Army, Navy, and Air Force, the National Military Estab-
lishment, the Federal Security Agency, the Atomic Energy Commis-
sion, the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics, the Veterans
Administration, and the Smithsonian Institution. In brief, the duties
of the Committee are to recommend improvements in the research and
development programs of the Federal Government, to recommend
changes in administrative policies and procedures designed to increase
the efficiency of such programs, and to study and report on current
policies and practices relating to Federal support for research.

Your Secretary was appointed Chairman of the Committee by the
President. An organizational meeting was held at the White House
on April 16, 1948, and shortly thereafter the work of the Committee
got under way. As much of this work is obviously of a confidential
nature, no report on it is made at this time.

THE ESTABLISHMENT

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in 1846,
according to the terms of the will of James Smithson, of England, who
in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United States of America “to
found at Washington, under the name of the Smithsonian Institution,
an establishment for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among
men.” In receiving the property and accepting the trust, Congress
determined that the Federal Government was without authority to ad-
minister the trust directly, and, therefore, constituted an “establish-
ment” whose statutory members are “the President, the Vice President,
the Chief Justice, and the heads of the executive departments.”
4. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948
THE BOARD OF REGENTS

During the year the following changes occurred in the personnel
of the Board of Regents:

On January 27, 1947, Representative Clarence Cannon was reap-
pointed a regent for another term. On July 26, 1947, Robert V.
Fleming was appointed a regent by Joint Resolution, for the statutory
term of 6 years, to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of
Frederic A. Delano. On November 12 Mr. Fleming was given
interim appointment by the Chancellor as a member and Chairman
of the Executive Committee to serve until the next meeting, when
election by the Board would take place. ‘This appointment was con-
firmed at the meeting of January 16, 1948.

Proceedings—The Board of Regents held its annual meeting on
January 16, 1948. Present: Representative Clarence Cannon, Dr.
Vannevar Bush, Dr. Harvey N. Davis, Representative John M. Vorys,
Representative Samuel K. McConnell, Jr., Robert V. Fleming, Sec-
retary Alexander Wetmore, and Assistant Secretary John E. Graf.

The Secretary presented his annual report covering the activities
of the Institution and its bureaus, including the financial report of
the Executive Committee, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1947,
which was accepted by the Board. The usual resolution authorizing
the expenditure by the Secretary of the income of the Institution for
the fiscal year ending June 30, 1949, was adopted by the Board.

The Secretary announced a further generous gift to the Institution
by John A. Roebling in support of the work of the Astrophysical
Observatory.

The National Air Museum began independent operations. ‘The
aeronautical collections of the United States National Museum,
numbering approximately 3,500 specimens, were transferred to the
Air Museum, together with pertinent records and files. The staff of
the former division of aeronautics of the National Museum, consisting
of a curator and clerk-stenographer, was also transferred. Under
this new set-up the Nation-wide survey for aeronautical materials
continued. Arrangements were under way to take over the temporary
storage at Park Ridge, Ill., where the air force had been assembling
historical collections for this Museum.

The Canal Zone Biological Area on Barro Colorado Island has
utilized available funds for renovation and repair. John E. Graf,
Assistant Secretary, visited the laboratory in June, in connection with
its administration. T. F. Clark, fiscal officer for the Institution, also
visited the island in October 1947 to check over methods of accounting
and inventory to insure that these meet the most recent requirements
of the General Accounting Office.

The annual report of the Smithsonian Art Commission was pre-
SECRETARY’S REPORT 5

sented by the Secretary and accepted by the Board. A resolution
was adopted to reelect the following members for 4-year terms:
William T. Aldrich, James Fraser, George H. Edgell, Lloyd Goodrich.
The following officers were reelected for the ensuing year: Chairman,
Paul Manship; vice chairman, Robert Woods Bliss; secretary,
Alexander Wetmore.

Regarding the Gellatly Collection, as reported at the last annual
meeting the Court of Claims in an opinion dated May 5, 1947, stated
that “there is no basis in law or equity to set aside the gift or transfer
and no basis in law or equity to allow a recovery in behalf of the
Gellatly estate.” Following this opinion, under date of May 20, 1947,
the Secretary, as the custodian of the property in question, received
a demand, signed by Mrs. Gellatly’s attorney, to surrender possession
of the collection. On June 18, 1947, a summons was served on the Sec-
retary which was turned over to the Department of Justice. That
Department assigned Marvin C. Taylor, Special Attorney, to the case,
and various legal procedures have followed.

As stated in last year’s report, following a decision by the Civil
Service Commission, the Smithsonian trust-funds employees were in-
cluded under the Federal Retirement System as of May 18,1947. The
Secretary submitted to the Executive Committee of the Board of
Regents a detailed plan for carrying out the transfer, which was ap-
proved by the Committee.

FINANCES

A statement on finances, dealing particularly with Smithsonian
private funds, will be found in the report of the Executive Committce
of the Board of Regents, page 157.

APPROPRIATIONS

Funds appropriated to the Institution for the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1948, totaled $1,800,312, allotted as follows:

Generalvadministrationasess- = awe) ee ee ee ee $51, 044
National: Museumtsi ce to abe ae eee Penies) Le 560, 548
BureauloL, American Wehnology= 2. ee ee 63, 352
ASTLOPHYSICAal) ODSCLVatOlya = ee Ee es ee 69, 951
NationaléCollectioniore Mine: Atta ss = ee ee ee: 82, 586
International) Wxchange: Service eee 60, 815
Maintenancerandsopera tion se ee ae a 649, 352
SELVICOM OL VISI ON Sater tere to Sr are ere ye i ne on 267, 448
Nationale Adar Vi Se Uris to EL Ne a ie era Ee 38, 879
Canal’ZonesBiological@Area = = ss ss eee eee 4, 999
Wnallotte dessa Sak ware Le ae en ee net 2 AY 1, 338
6 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

In addition $949,426 was appropriated to the National Gallery of
Art, a bureau of the Institution but administered by a separate board
of trustees; and $455,400 was provided in the District of Columbia
appropriation act for the operation of the National Zoological Park.

Besides these direct appropriations, the Institution received funds
by transfer from other Federal Agencies, as follows:

From the State Department, from the appropriation Cooperation
with the American Republics, 1948, a total of $94,882 for the operation
of the Institute of Social Anthropology, including the issuance of
publications resulting from its work.

From the National Park Service, Interior Department, $73,800 for
archeological projects in connection with River Basin Surveys.

From the Navy Department, $11,000 for research studies on the
effects of radiation upon marine life as a result of atomic bomb tests
at Bikini Atoll.

VISITORS

An increase of 40,122 visitors to the Smithsonian Buildings was re-
corded over the previous year, the totals being 2,893,499, for 1948 and
2,358,377 for 1947. August 1947 was the month of largest attendance,
with 334,578 visitors; July 1947, the second largest, with 324,815.

A summary of attendance records is given in table 1:

TABLE 1.—Visitors to the Smithsonian Buildings during the year ended
June 80, 1948

Arts and Natural ‘Aircraft Freer Gal-

Smithson-

2 Industries History lery of Total
lan Bldg. Bldg. Bldg. Bldg. ‘Art
1947
JULY Roe eros ee aes 84, 741 132, 059 71, 128 24, 619 12, 268 324, 815
SAO US Hee eee eee 68, 144 138, 059 92, 225 26, 436 9, 714 334, 578
September==.- =e 41, 260 81, 068 49, 939 16, 702 7, 732 196, 701
October ea eee 31, 063 63, 580 41, 240 11, 031 5, 340 152, 254
INGA Sor sl see eee 24, 649 48, 643 37,175 10, 267 4, 630 125, 364
Wecemberas- 2-2-2 seco se 17, 235 30, 760 26, 491 6, 231 3, 150 83, 867
1948
January s--coeseesseees anes 15, 342 31, 752 25, 158 6, 942 3, 050 82, 244
Webruaryoosces ones oss e 18, 435 36, 526 29, 342 9, 020 3, 356 96, 679
Marches. 22. oir es oes 8 28, 466 71, 396 48, 299 14, 730 5, 467 168, 358
ING S| See Pe oe epee 48, 670 123, 800 75, 136 19, 363 8, 305 275, 274
NS ee ee eet 52, 050 125, 976 86, 819 19, 067 7,471 291, 383
Ab hoy: Wee ee a ee eer 50, 953 115, 538 67, 752 19, 924 7, 815 261, 982
otalueecnaccesose cose 481, 008 999, 157 1 650, 704 184, 332 78, 298 2, 393, 499

1 Not including 21,308 persons attending meetings after 4:30 p. m.

FIFTEENTH JAMES ARTHUR ANNUAL LECTURE ON THE SUN

In 1981 the Institution received a bequest from James Arthur, of
New York, a part of the income from which was to be used for an
annual lecture on some aspect of the study of the sun.

The fifteenth Arthur lecture, entitled “Mexican Calendars and the
Solar Year,” was given by Dr. Herbert J. Spinden, of the Brooklyn
SECRETARY’S REPORT v6

Museum, on March 3, 1948, in the auditorium of the National Museum.
This lecture, with illustrations, will be published in the Annual Report
of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution for 1948.

SOMMARY OF THE YBDAR’S ACTIVITIES OF THE BRANCHES OF THE
INSTITUTION

National Muscum.—Additions to the Museum’s collections numbered
507,000 specimens, coming mostly as gifts from individuals or as
transfers from Government agencies. The total number of specimens
in the Museum at the close of the year was 25,470,827. Among out-
standing accessions for the year were: In anthropology, 2,000 arch-
eological specimens from Cerro de las Mesas, Veracruz, collected by
the National Geographic-Smithsonian Expedition, the famous Ken-
sington stone lent by the Alexandria (Minn.) Chamber of Commerce,
and casts of the famous Tepexpan skull from Mexico; in zoology,
large collections of birds from Colombia, Panama, Paraguay, and
India, and valuable collections of fishes, mollusks, and marine inverte-
brates from the resurvey of Bikini Atoll; in botany, 5,000 specimens
of fungi bequeathed by the late William H. Long, of Albuquerque,
N. Mex., and 9,100 plants collected by H. A. Allard in the Dominican
Republic; in geology, five meteorites not previously represented, many
thousands of fossil invertebrates, including 15,000 Paleozoic and
Cretaceous fossils collected by the curator of the division, and a number
of outstanding fossil vertebrates including the skull and other bones
of a very rare tillodont from the Bridger formation in Wyoming; in
engineering and industries, a collection of 20,000 items assembled by
the late Charles B. Chaney, Jr., bearing on the history of railroads,
and equipment used in the first practical synchronization of sound in
motion pictures; in history, a large collection from the estate of the
late Victor L. Huberich including among other things 2,500 specimens
of United States, Canadian, and Japanese paper money.

Field parties from the Museum’s departments of anthropology,
zoology, botany, and geology visited many parts of the world, including
Arnhem Land in Australia, the Antarctic continent, the Bikini area
in the Pacific, the Persian Gulf, Colombia, Panama, and numerous
localities in the United States. Changes in the Museum organization
included the dividing of the department of biology into two depart-
ments—those of zoology and botany. The division of aeronautics was
separated from the Museum to become the nucleus of the National
Air Museum, a newly created bureau of the Smithsonian Institution.
Dr. Remington Kellogg, formerly curator of the division of mammals,
became Director of the Museum on May 26, 1948.

National Gallery of Art.—Visitors to the Gallery totaled 2,159,435
for the year, an increase of more than 700,000 over the previous year’s

817369492
8 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

figure. This large increase was due in part to the crowds attracted
by the paintings from the Berlin museums, which were shown at the
Gallery for more than a month in the spring of 1948. During the
showing, the attendance totaled 964,970, which is believed to be a world
record for museums or art galleries for a comparable period of time.
Accessions to the Gallery for the year numbered 1,360, including 113
portraits presented by the A. W. Mellon Educational and Charitable
Trust, 8 paintings by fifteenth- and sixteenth-century Italian and
German artists presented by Mrs. Ralph Harmon Booth, and 199
additional prints and drawings given by Lessing J. Rosenwald. Nine
special exhibitions were held at the Gallery, and two traveling ex-
hibitions were circulated to art galleries and museums throughout
the country. <A book of illustrations on the painting and sculpture
in the Widener Collection was issued, and additional fine-quality
color reproductions of paintings in the Gallery were made available
to the public. Many thousands attended the Gallery’s special tours
and lectures, and a calendar of events was mailed out to more than
3,000 persons a month. 'The Sunday evening concerts at the Gallery
were continued with undiminished popularity, 47 such concerts being
given before capacity audiences during the year.

National Collection of Fine Arts—Ruel P. Tolman, Director, re-
tired during the year and was succeeded by Thomas M. Beggs, Assist-
ant Director, formerly professor of art at Pomona College, Claremont,
Calif. At the annual meeting of the Smithsonian Art Commission
on December 2, 1947, four oil paintings were accepted for the National
Collection. Four miniatures, water color on ivory, were acquired
through the Catherine Walden Myer fund. A number of art works
were lent to other organizations for use in connection with special
exhibitions. Six paintings were purchased from the Henry Ward
Ranger fund and assigned to various art institutions. Any such
purchase may be claimed by the National Collection during the 5-year
period beginning 10 years after the artist’s death, and two paintings
by Bruce Crane were so claimed during the year. Photographic
prints and post cards of art works in the National Collection are
available for the public, and large numbers were sold during the year.
Nine special exhibitions were held under the auspices of the National
Collection of Fine Arts, for most of which catalogs were made avail-
able by the organizations holding the exhibitions.

Freer Gallery of Art—Additions to the collections included Chinese
bronze, ivory, lacquer, painting, and pottery; and Persian manuscript,
painting, and pottery. The work of the professional staff was de-
voted to the study of new accessions and to general research within
the collections of Chinese, Japanese, Arabic, Persian, and Indian ma-
terials. Reports were made upon 3,498 objects and 1,108 photographs
of objects submitted for examination. The very delicate task of re-
SECRETARY'S REPORT 9

pairing and restoring the Whistler “Peacock Room” was begun dur-
ing the year. Visitors to the Gallery totaled 77,012 for the year, and
1,650 persons visited the main office for special information. Sixteen
groups were given special instruction in the exhibition galleries by
staff members.

Bureau of American Ethnology.—Dr. M. W. Stirling, Director of
the Bureau, conducted archeological excavations in western Panama
for 314 winter months in cooperation with the National Geographic
Society, discovering a new, very early culture unrelated to anything
heretofore known in the Republic. Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr.,
Associate Director, was occupied mainly in directing the River Basin
Surveys, a unit of the Bureau set up to recover archeological ma-
terial that would be lost through construction of dams and the crea-
tion of river valley reservoirs. Surveys, with limited testing of sites,
were made in 18 States and 88 reservoir areas. A total of 1,576 sites
have been found, of which 250 were recommended for excavation.

Dr. John P. Harrington prepared a number of manuscripts in the
field of Indian linguistics, among them a 750-page grammar of the
Maya language. Dr. Henry B. Collins, Jr., as chairman of the Board
of Governors of the Arctic Institute of North America, devoted con-
siderable time to the affairs of that organization. Late in the year,
he left Washington to conduct archeological work for the Smithsonian
and the National Museum of Canada on islands in the Canadian Arctic
Archipelago. Dr. William N. Fenton carried on field work among
the Seneca in western New York and started an extensive program
of historical research connected with the League of the Iroquois. Dr.
Philip Drucker spent nearly half the year on detail to the River Basin
Surveys, taking charge of the work in the Columbia Basin. During
the rest of the year he completed two monographs, one on the Nootkan
tribes of British Columbia, the other on the Mexican La Venta culture.
Dr. Gordon R. Willey wrote additional sections of a report on “Ancon
and Supe: Formative Period Sites of the Central Peruvian Coast,”
and nearly completed a monograph on the archeology of the Florida
Gulf Coast. Dr. Willey accompanied Dr. Stirling on the archeological
expedition to western Panama, and also worked in Tennessee for 114
months on detail to the River Basin Surveys.

The Institute of Social Anthropology, an autonomous unit of the
Bureau, is financed by State Department funds to carry out coopera-
tive training in social anthropological teaching and research with the
other American republics. Under the directorship of Dr. George M.
Foster, members of the staff gave courses in various phases of anthro-
pological study and conducted cooperative field work in Brazil, Co-
lombia, México, and Peri. The Bureau issued volumes 3 and 4 of the
Handbook of South American Indians and four publications of the
Institute of Social Anthropology.
10 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

International Exchanges—The Smithsonian International Ex-
change Service is the official United States agency for the interchange
of governmental and scientific publications between this country and
the other nations of the earth. The number of packages handled by
the Service during the year was 760,119, with a total weight of 812,189
pounds. These totals represent an increase over last year of 56,321
packages and 38,214 pounds. The first shipments of exchange pub-
lications to Japan since the war were made this year. Consignments
are now sent to all countries except Rumania, and negotiations are
in progress for resumption of exchange relations with that country.
The Exchange Service now sends abroad 94 sets of United States offi-
cial publications, 73 copies of the Federal Register, and 66 copies of
the Congressional Record, in return for similar material received from
other nations.

National Zoological Park.—The year was a satisfactory one at the
Park in that a number of unusually interesting animals were received,
progress was made in recruiting personnel for the organization, and
various repairs and minor improvements were made to buildings and
grounds. The chief needs of the Zoo are more maintenance funds
and new buildings to replace the remaining antiquated unsuitable
structures built many years ago. The year’s visitors reached a total
of 3,040,540, an increase of more than 300,000 over the previous year’s
figure. The number of groups coming to the Zoo from schools was
1,454, comprising 79,249 individual students. These groups came
from 27 different States, the most distant being Maine, Texas, and
Wisconsin. ‘The total number of animals in the collection at the close
of the year was 2,797, representing 690 different species of mammals,
birds, reptiles, and other forms. Among the exceptionally interest-
ing animals received during the year were three species of penguins,
a monkey-eating eagle, Mindanao tarsiers, and an Arctic fox.

Astrophysical Observatory—W. H. Hoover was promoted to be
Chief of the Division of Astrophysical Research. Dr. Earl S. John-
ston, Chief of the Division of Radiation and Organisms, who has been
responsible for the recent development of the Division, died during
the year. He will be succeeded by Dr. Robert B. Withrow, of Purdue
University.

The field stations at Montezuma, Chile, and Table Mountain, Calif.,
continued regular solar observations, and the values were checked and
tabulated in Washington. The sun and sky radiation studies con-
ducted for 2 years at Camp Lee, Va., under contract with the Office
of the Quartermaster General, were terminated, but similar studies
will go on at the Montezuma and Miami, Fla., stations.

During a search for the best possible site for a new high-altitude
station, promising sites were located in Mexico, southern California,
and the Hawaiian Islands. Instruments were installed at each of
SECRETARY’S REPORT 11

the three sites for extended tests to determine which is the most satis-
factory. A redetermination of the Smithsonian standard scale of
solar radiation confirmed the Observatory’s belief that the scale of a
silver-disk pyrheliometer will remain unchanged for many years.

Research projects completed or well advanced during the year in
the Division of Radiation and Organism included studies of the res-
piration of broad-leaf plants; investigations on the effects of environ-
mental factors on the germination of seeds; and studies of the
developmental physiology of grass seedlings.

The results of Observatory research appeared in nine papers pub-
lished during the year.

National Air Museum.—Created as a bureau of the Smithsonian
Institution in 1946, the National Air Museum did not begin actual
operations in its own right until August 1, 1948, when its first appro-
priation of $50,000 became available. Thereupon the Institution’s
aeronautical collections and staff were transferred to the Air Museum,
the staff was increased from two to seven persons, and separate offices
were provided in the Arts and Industries Building of the National
Museum. The Air Museum’s Advisory Board met twice during the
year and made two important decisions: 1, that there be used as a
storage depot for the temporary safekeeping of Air Museum material
a part of the Douglas aircraft plant built during World War II on the
outskirts of Park Ridge, Ill., 20 miles from Chicago; and 2, that the
Air Museum should be located in the Washington area and that the
aid of the Public Buildings Administration be enlisted in designing
an adequate air museum building. The Public Buildings Adminis-
tration later in the year submitted a preliminary plan for a building
which was approved by the Board. Numerous improvements were
made to the present exhibits in the Aircraft Building, and several
special exhibits were prepared during the year. A large part of the
time of the curatorial staff was devoted to surveys to determine what
items should be added to the aeronautical collections and what ma-
terial was available throughout the country. <A total of 330 objects
were acquired during the year, the largest number of aeronautical
acquisitions recorded in any year of the Smithsonian’s history.

Canal Zone Biological Area——This tropical laboratory on Barro
Colorado Island, placed under Smithsonian administration in 1946,
celebrated its twenty-fifth anniversary on April 17, 1948, and in honor
of the occasion the Canal Zone issued a special commemorative 10-cent
stamp. The island is maintained as a completely unspoiled tropical
forest area, with laboratory facilities for investigations in biology
and related subjects. Some 20 scientists from numerous universities
and institutions came to the island to carry on investigations in widely
varied fields, including army-ant studies, a survey of the fresh-water
fishes, termite control through soil poisoning and wood treatment, the
12 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

effects of tropical conditions on photographic materials and equip-
ment, and studies of deterioration in the Tropics of fabrics, foodstuffs,
and other materials. The most urgent needs of the laboratory are a
more adequate supply of electricity, an enlarged library building, and
new water-storage tanks. The water-supply problem became so serious
that preliminary work has already been done on the site of a new
tank in the hope that the project may be completed next year.

PUBLICATIONS

The Institution’s publications constitute a principal means of carry-
ing out the “diffusion of knowledge” stipulated by the founder, James
Smithson. Starting with a single series in 1848, this important phase
of Smithsonian work has expanded with the growth of the Institu-
tion until today its publications appear in 14 separate series, as
follows:

Smithsonian Institution: Annual Report; Miscellaneous Collections; Special
Publications.
United States National Museum: Annual Report; Bulletin; Proceedings;
Contributions from the National Herbarium.
Bureau of American Ethnology : Annual Report; Bulletin.
Astrophysical Observatory: Annals.
National Collection of Fine Arts: Catalog.
Freer Gallery of Art: Oriental Studies ; Occasional Papers.
Institute of Social Anthropology : Publications.
These various series present the scientific findings of staff members
and collaborators of the Institution, as well as of outside scientists
working on its collections.

During the year, a total of 76 volumes and pamphlets were pub-
lished. Among the year’s outstanding publications may be mentioned
a new member of the Institution’s family of tables—“Smithsonian
Elliptic Functions Tables,” by G. W. and R. M. Spenceley; a Spanish
edition of the “Compendio y descripcién de las Indias Occidentales,”
by Antonio Vazquez de Espinosa, transcribed by Charles Upson Clark,
which had been published by the Institution in English translation
several years ago; “A List and Index of the Publications of the United
States National Museum (1875-1946)”; volumes 8 and 4 of the “Hand-
book of South American Indians” (volumes 5 and 6, the last two
volumes, were in press at the close of the year).

A total of 165,740 copies of publications in all series were distributed
during the year. A complete list of the year’s publications will be
found in Appendix 12.

LIBRARY

The Smithsonian library received during the year 53,129 publica-
tions, mainly in those fields of science and art, with which the Institu-
SECRETARY'S REPORT 13

tion is concerned. Among outstanding gifts was the library of the
late Charles B. Chaney, of Laurel, Md., a collection of 1,510 publica-
tions on the history of railroads. A number of rare, older books
needed in connection with the Institution’s researches were purchased
for the library.

Volumes and pamphlets were cataloged to the number of 6,148, and
35,357 cards were added to catalogs and shelflists, but the large back-
log of cataloging remained untouched for lack of sufficient personnel
to do the work. <A total of 10,151 publications were borrowed for use
outside the library, and the library staff answered more than 15,000
reference questions. For use in aiding destroyed libraries overseas,
36,701 pieces were selected from the Smithsonian library’s collection
of duplicates.

The total number of volumes in the library at the close of the year
was 915,987, more than half of which are housed as the Smithsonian
Deposit in the Library of Congress.

Respectfully submitted.
ALEXANDER Wermors, Secretary.
APPENDIX 1
REPORT ON THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the condi-
tion and operation of the United States National Museum for the
fiscal year ended June 30, 1948.

COLLECTIONS

More than 507,000 specimens were added to the Museum’s collec-
tions during the year, divided among the various departments as
follows: Anthropology, 16,585; zoology, 226,889; botany, 54,292;
geology, 107,332; engineering and industries, 22,961; history, 79,337.
Though considerably less than last year’s 757,000 specimens, the total
was still better than average. Most of the accessions were acquired as
gifts from individuals or as transfers from Government departments
and agencies. The complete report on the Museum, published as a
separate document, includes a detailed list of the year’s acquisitions,
of which the more important are summarized below. Catalog entries
in all departments now total 25,470,827.

Anthropology.—The largest archeological accession consisted of
more than 2,000 specimens from Cerro de las Mesas, Veracruz, collected
a few years ago by a National Geographic-Smithsonian Expedition
under the direction of M. W. Stirling. Nearly 500 potsherds, pro-
jectile points, and other artifacts, excavated from a Hopewellian
village site near Batchtown, Ill., came asa gift. The famous Kensing-
ton stone was lent to the Museum for 6 months through the courtesy of
the Alexandria (Minn.) Chamber of Commerce.

In the division of ethnology, the Far East was well represented in
new material received, objects from India, Siam, Japan, and Korea
being noteworthy. Interesting ethnological specimens came also from
Africa, especially three fine native wood carvings. An unusually
well-documented collection of Plains Indian and Apache materials
included several rare pieces of special historical interest, such as the
famed shield of Big Bow, a Kiowa warrior. Thirty-eight water-
color paintings, illustrating the folk costumes of the peoples of Central
and South America, the West Indies, and the Seminoles of Florida,
were presented by the artist, Carl Folke Sablin.

1 Revised estimates of specimens made this year in some departments, in addition to the
normal increase, have raised last year’s total by nearly 6,000,000.

15
16 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

Among the specimens accessioned in the division of physical an-
thropology were four casts of the Tepexpan skull and the head of this
skull as restored by the Washington sculptor Leo Steppat. Skeletal
material was accessioned representing Indian sites in Calhoun, Madi-
son, and Jersey Counties, I1]—additions to similar material of previ-
ous years.

Zoology.—Important mammalian accessions included collections
from the Arctic, Labrador and Newfoundland, Quebec and Maine,
eastern Pennsylvania, Panama, and Egypt. As in past years the
W. L. Abbott fund financed wholly or in part the acquisition of several
avian collections, containing a considerable number of forms new to
the Museum collections and to science; of these may be mentioned
2,630 skins and 145 skeletons of Colombian birds, over 900 birdskins
collected by the Smithsonian-Yale Expedition to Nepal, 835 skins and
skeletons of birds from the Panamanian jungles, 237 birdskins from
India, and 166 from Paraguay. Noteworthy among the reptilian
material received were 1,200 specimens of burrowing snakes of the
genera Sonora and Tantilla from Oklahoma and Texas; 50 Egyptian
and 250 Guatemalan reptiles and amphibians; 75 reptiles from Bikini;
about 50 Brazilian amphibians and 100 Peruvian reptiles and amphibi-
ans, and nearly 400 reptiles and amphibians from Virginia and North
Carolina.

This year, as last, the ichthyological collections were greatly en-
riched by the field studies made at Bikini Atoll for the United States
Navy by members of the Museum staff. More than 6,000 fishes from
this region were accessioned as a result of the 1947 Bikini Scientific
Resurvey. Other large fish collections included nearly 14,000 speci-
mens from Guatemala; about 6,400 fresh-water fishes from Idaho,
Nevada, California, and Arizona; and about 1,200 fishes from the
Texas coast.

Several large lots of insects were received: About 22,000 miscel-
laneous specimens, mostly Lepidoptera, brought together by the late
Elison A. Smyth, of Salem, Va.; 5,000 Far Eastern butterflies; 500
South American chalcid wasps, mostly type material; 1,500 miscel-
laneous insects from Liberia; an equal number from Guatemala; 4,500
from Alaska; and 77,000 transferred from the United States Bureau
of Entomology and Plant Quarantine.

Much scientifically valuable material was received in the division
of marine invertebrates. To the type collection of Foraminifera 836
slides were added, bringing the total now to nearly 11,500 slides.
Nearly 5,000 lots of fresh-water copepods, branchiopods, ostracods,
amphipods, and mysids were donated by the widow of the late S. F.
Light in his memory. Similarly, Mrs. Nathaniel Gist Gee gave about
1,250 lots of fresh-water sponges. The Bikini Scientific Resurvey, of
the Navy, yielded over 1,600 marine invertebrates for the Museum;
SECRETARY’S REPORT 7

about 8,800 Pacific invertebrates came from the Naval Medical Re-
search Unit No. 2; and about 6,000 from the Navy’s Second (1948)
Antarctic Development Project.

Outstanding among the year’s molluscan accessions were 3,000 speci-
mens from Cocos-Keeling Island; 9,000 from Bikini, Rongerik, and
Johnston Islands, collected by members of the staff during the Bikini
Scientific Resurvey ; a large number from various other Pacific islands;
and about 1,500 Antarctic marine mollusks. The Navy Antarctic Ex-
pedition yielded also about 500 echinoderms.

Botany.—Several unusually large plant accessions came to the Na-
tional Herbarium. Among these was the bequest of 5,000 specimens of
fungi, the herbarium of the late William H. Long, of Albuquerque,
N. Mex. H. A. Allard collected 9,100 plants for the Museum in the
Dominican Republic. An unusually interesting lot of Colombian
plants came from the collector Oscar L. Haught, and collecting work
of E. C. Leonard, a member of the staff, yielded 1,900 bryophytes from
the Patuxent Wildlife Research Refuge, Maryland. In addition,
many hundreds of desirable plant specimens and photographs were
obtained by exchange or purchase.

Geology—The general mineralogical collections continued to grow
through gifts, exchanges, and purchases, and as usual the year’s acces-
sions in this field included several new species of minerals. The out-
standing addition to the gem series was an Arabian stallion head
carved in turquoise by Oscar J. W. Hansen. Five meteorites not
previously represented in the department’s collections were received
by gift, and excellent additions to the ore collections came from many
sources. Rock specimens received contained important described
material.

Many important specimens of fossil invertebrates came to the
Museum as gifts, four of the larger lots being 2,000 Ordovician fossils
from Minnesota; 1,700 Mesozoic and Tertiary fossils from Cuba;
15,000 Devonian and Upper Paleozoic fossils from Nevada; and
1,700 Jurassic brachiopods and mollusks from the vicinity of the
Smithsonian’s Astrophysical Observatory station at Calama, Chile,
collected by Miss Jessie G. Beach, of the department staff, while on
vacation. Through the Walcott funds there were received 900 speci-
mens of various invertebrates from the famous Permian deposits of
Sosio Valley, Sicily; 2,500 from the Devonian of Ontario; 50,000
Paleozoic fossils collected by Dr. A. R. Loeblich, Jr., of the staff; and
15,000 Middle-Upper Paleozoic and Cretaceous fossils collected by
Curator G. A. Cooper and Elias Yochelson. Several large transfers
of specimens came from the United States Geological Survey.

This was a banner year for the division of vertebrate paleontology,
the greatest number of specimens being added to the collections since
the field season of 1931. ‘The outstanding acquisition was the skull,
18 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

jaws, and a foot of the tillodont 7’regosus castoridens from the Bridger
formation near Church Buttes, Wyo., the second skull of this rare
mammal to be found during intermittent exploration covering 75
years. Equally significant was the discovery of the rostral portion of
the skull of Y'sthonyx acutidens, an earlier member of the tillodont
order from the Wind River beds of Wyoming. This specimen, found
by H. A. Tourtelot, was transferred from the United States Geological
Survey. Exceptionally valuable for exhibition purposes was the large
slab of giant amphibian skulls and other skeletal parts representing
the Triassic form Buetineria perfecta, secured by the associate
curator’s party near Lamy, N. Mex. Other specimens that came as a
result of the division’s field work were two well-preserved skulls of the
Eocene primate Votharctus,; additional specimens of 7’rogosus, of the
rhino Hyrachyus, and the tapir Helaletes; and skulls of the small
rodents Mysops and Sevuravas. Jurassic fishes collected by the asso-
ciate curator represent some of the earliest bony fishes and are im-
portant in providing unusual specimens for growth studies.

Engineering and industries—An outstanding accession in the divi-
sion of engineering was the collection of railroad historical material
assembled by the late Charles B. Chaney, Jr., totaling about 20,000
items. Another railroad accession was a group of models showing the
evolution of the equipment of The Empire State Express, the New
York Central famous train. Various commercial firms continued their
cooperation by contributing material relating to industrial products
and manufactures, and interesting electrical items came from a num-
ber of sources. Through the Dahlgreen fund 15 fine original prints
of historical and technical importance were added to the graphic arts
collections; included in the group are prints by Breughel, Goya,
Delacroix, Blake, Daumier, Rodin, and Zorn. Among the photo-
graphic material received was equipment used in the first practical
synchronization of sound in motion pictures. An interesting acces-
sion in the division of medicine and public health was one of the
first of the so-called “drunkometer” instruments now used extensively
by police departments to determine the amount of alcohol in the breath
and tissues.

History.—A notable acquisition in this division was a large numis-
matic and philatelic collection from the estate of the late Victor L.
Huberich, consisting of more than 2,500 specimens of United States,
Canadian, and Japanese paper money and about 73,000 Mexican rev-
enue stamps and Japanese postage stamps. This is a collection of
unusual historical interest and is the first important addition to the
Museum’s collection of United States paper currency in many years.
The numismatic series were increased also by the addition of 72 com-
memorative medals lent by the Bureau of the Mint. The most
important addition to the costumes collection was a green silk, flow-
SECRETARY’S REPORT 19

ered, brocade wedding dress, worn by Sarah Pierpont who married
Jonathan Edwards in 1727. The military and naval collections were
enhanced by a number of interesting objects, one lot of special im-
portance being a collection of 72 Teacher Type ship models of the
sort used by the Navy for training during World War II and 10
wooden display cases for them.

EXPLORATION AND FIELD WORK

Field work by members of the staff of the departments of an-
thropology, zoology, botany, and geology was continued during the
year as opportunities offered.

In January four Museum staff members—Frank M. Setzler, head
curator of anthropology, and biologists David H. Johnson, Herbert
G. Deignan, and Robert R. Miller—left for Australia to participate
in an anthropological and biological survey of little-known Arnhem
Land sponsored by the Smithsonian Institution, the Australian Com-
monwealth, and the National Geographic Society. This expedition
was still in the field at the close of the fiscal year, but had already
reported good progress in its studies and collections.

Early in the year the associate curator of ethnology, John C. Ewers,
spent nearly 3 months on the Blackfeet Reservation in Montana and
the Blood Reserve in Alberta interviewing aged Indians on traditional
arts and crafts and on the role of the horse in Blackfoot culture.
Briefer periods were spent on the Flathead Reservation in
Montana and the Pine Ridge Reservation in South Dakota obtaining
comparative materials on Flathead and Oglala Sioux horse culture.

Dr. Waldo R. Wedel, associate curator of archeology, was detailed
during most of the year to the River Basin Surveys under the Bureau
of American Ethnology and spent considerable time in the field,
particularly in the Missouri River Basin. (See appendix 5 for
details.)

The Smithsonian took part in the Navy’s Second (1948) Antarctic
Development Project, and Commander David C. Nutt was employed
as biologist on a temporary basis to represent the Museum. The re-
sult was the collecting of one of the best representations of Antarctic
marine life, particularly invertebrates, ever to accrue to the national
collections. Charles O. Handley, Jr., likewise temporarily employed,
accompanied a naval expedition to the American Arctic Archipelago,
where he secured a fine lot of Arctic birds and mammals for the
Museum.

During the first 2 months of the year Dr. Leonard P. Schultz,
curator of fishes, Dr. J. P. E. Morrison, associate curator of mollusks,
and Frederick M. Bayer, assistant curator of marine invertebrates,
participated in the Bikini Scientific Resurvey organized by the De-
partment of the Navy, the United States Armed Forces Special Weap-
20 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

ons Project, and the Atomic Energy Commission. This investigation
was made for the purpose of determining the possible long-range
effects of the Operation Crossroads atom-bomb experiments on the
animal and plant life of the area. Extensive collections were made,
with emphasis on fishes and marine invertebrates.

Donald S. Erdman, biological aid in the division of fishes, left on
March 21 to make a survey of the fishery resources of the Persian
Gulf.

Other zoological field projects participated in by the Museum in-
cluded the following: A survey of the small mammals of eastern
Pennsylvania and their ectoparasites, sponsored by the United States
Public Health Service; a similar survey at Air Transport Command
bases in Greenland, Labrador, Newfoundland, Quebec, and Maine, in
cooperation with the Army Medical Center; two ornithological ex-
peditions financed by the W. L. Abbott fund, one in Colombia and one
in Panama; alcyonarian studies in southern Florida; a survey of
Lithia Spring, Fla., following the reported occurrence there of an
Asiatic snail known as the intermediate host of the disease paragoni-
miasis of the western Pacific.

No formal expeditions were participated in by the department of
botany during the year, but various members of the staff did collecting
work in eastern Canada, Maryland, and southern Oregon and north-
ern California. Dr. F. A. McClure, research associate, was in Central
America from December to June, continuing field studies of American
bamboos.

In the department of geology, field work again yielded interesting
and needed study specimens of fossils. Dr. G. A. Cooper, curator of
invertebrate paleontology, and party collected Devonian and Missis-
sippian fossils in the region of Alamogordo, the San Andres
Mountains, and Silver City, N. Mex., and later Permian fossils in the
Glass Mountains, Tex., and Lower and Middle Ordovician material] in
the Arbuckle Mountains and Criner Hills, Okla. Associate Curator
A. R. Loeblich’s field work took him to western New York and Ontario.
where he collected from Middle Devonian deposits; to Sylvania,
Ohio, where he obtained more Devonian invertebrate fossils; to [h-
nois (Pennsylvanian rocks) and eastern Missouri (Silurian) ; and to
Tennessee, where he collected Ordovician and Silurian fossils in the
Central Basin and also visited important Silurian and Devonian
localities in the western part of the State.

Dr. C. Lewis Gazin, curator of vertebrate paleontology, resumed his
program of mammalian collecting in the Middle Eocene Bridger
formation, Wyoming, and obtained outstanding primate, creodont,
insectivore, perissodactyl, and rodent material, as well as some good
reptile skulls.

Under the leadership of Dr. David H. Dunkle, associate curator
SECRETARY'S REPORT 21

of vertebrate paleontology, a field party spent several weeks at a Tri-
assic rock quarry near Lemy, N. Mex., recovering 19 blocks of the
bone-bed material. Composed primarily of the dissociated remains
of the giant stereospondylous amphibian Buettneria, the collection in-
cludes at least 35 skulls of this animal, as well as a multitude of other
skeletal parts. Dr. Dunkle also made a search for fossil fishes in the
Jurassic beds east of Santa Rosa, N. Mex., and his party obtained 87
specimens representing two genera of primative teleosts. Prior to the
close of the year Dr. Dunkle and A. C. Murray undertook field work
in the marine Pierre Shale north of Lusk, eastern Wyoming.

PUBLICATIONS

Twenty-four Museum publications were issued during the year:
1 Annual Report, 4 Bulletins, 17 Proceedings papers, and 2 papers in
the Bulletin series, Contributions from the United States National
Herbarium. A list of these is given in the complete report on Smith-
sonian publications, appendix 12. Special mention should be made
of Bulletin 193, published in December 1947, comprising a list and
index of all the publications of the United States National Museum
from 1875, when the first Museum Bulletin was issued, until the end
of 1946. It is the first such list and index to be published in more
than 40 years. It was compiled in the editorial division.

The distribution of volumes and separates to libraries and other
institutions and to individuals aggregated 50,970.

CHANGES IN ORGANIZATION

A number of important changes in the Museum organization were
effected during the year.

On July 31, 1947, the department of biology was divided into two
departments—zoology and botany—the former division of plants (the
National Herbarium) being raised to the status of a full department.
Ellsworth P. Killip was named head curator of the department of
botany, while Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt continued as head curator of zool-
ogy. Three divisions were created in the new department—phanero-
gams, grasses, and cryptogams—and toward the close of the year a
fourth one, the division of ferns, was established, to become effective
on July 1, 1948.

The division of aeronautics was separated from the department
of engineering and industries on July 31, 1947, to become the nucleus
of the National Air Museum, established by Congress in 1946 as a
bureau of the Smithsonian Institution. This change took from the
department Paul E. Garber, curator of aeronautics, with 28 years
of service in the Museum, to become curator of the National Air
Museum.
22 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

On March 7, 1948, Carl W. Mitman, head curator of the depart-
ment of engineering and industries since 1932, left the staff of the
National Museum to become Assistant to the Secretary for the Na-
tional Air Museum. Frank A. Taylor, curator of engineering, was
appointed head curator of the department on May 3, 1948.

During the year Dr. Alexander Wetmore, who since 1945 had been
serving in the double capacity as Secretary of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution and also as Director of the National Museum, relinquished the
latter position. Dr. Wetmore had been in charge of the Museum since
1925. On May 26, 1948, Dr. Remington Kellogg, curator of the di-
vision of mammals, was appointed as the new Director.

Respectfully submitted.

RemMINGToN KE .Loca, Director.

Dr. A. Wrermore,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 2
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

Sir: I have the honor to submit, on behalf of the Board of Trustees,
the eleventh annual report of the National Gallery of Art, for the
fiscal year ended June 30, 1948. This report is made pursuant to
the provisions of section 5 (d) of Public Resolution No. 14, Seventy-
fifth Congress, first session, approved March 24, 1987 (50 Stat. 51).

ORGANIZATION

The statutory members of the Board of Trustees of the National
Gallery of Art are the Chief Justice of the United States, the Secre-
tary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution, ex officio. The five general trustees continu-
ing in office during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1948, were Samuel
H. Kress, Ferdinand Lammot Belin, Duncan Phillips, Chester Dale,
and Paul Mellon. The Board of Trustees held its annual meeting on
May 4, 1948. Samuel H. Kress was reelected President and Ferdi-
nand Lammot Belin Vice President, to serve for the ensuing year.
Donald D. Shepard continued to serve during the year as Advisor
to the Board.

Ali the executive officers of the Gallery continued in office during
the year:

Huntington Cairns, Secretary-Treasurer.
David E. Finley, Director.

Harry A. McBride, Administrator.
Huntington Cairns, General Counsel.
John Walker, Chief Curator.

Macgill James, Assistant Director.

The three standing committees of the Board, as constituted at the
annual meeting May 4, 1948, were as follows:

HXECUTIVE COMMITTER
Chief Justice of the United States, ex officio, Fred M. Vinson, Chairman.
Samuel H. Kress, Vice Chairman.
Ferdinand Lammot Belin.

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, Dr. Alexander Wetmore.
Paul Mellon.

FINANCE COMMITTEE

Secretary of the Treasury, ex officio, John W. Snyder, Chairman.
Samuel H. Kress, Vice Chairman.

23
817369—49—_3
24 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

Ferdinand Lammot Belin.
Chester Dale.
Paul Mellon.
ACQUISITIONS COMMITTEE

Samuel H. Kress, Chairman.

Ferdinand Lammot Belin, Vice Chairman.
Duncan Phillips.

Chester Dale.

David E. Finley, ex officio.

Lamont Moore, curator in charge of education, resigned on August
31, 1947, to accept the position of Assistant Director of the American
Academy in Rome. On March 25, 1948, Dr. Raymond S. Stites was
appointed curator in charge of education.

On June 30, 1948, the Government employees on the staff of the
National Gallery of Art totaled 312, as compared with 305 employees
as of June 80, 1947. The United States Civil Service regulations
govern the appointment of employees paid from appropriated public
funds.

Throughout the year a high standard of operation has been main-
tained in all departments of the Gallery. The entire staff was
especially commended by the Board of Trustees for outstanding serv-
ice during the exhibition of paintings from the Berlin museums,
which brought unprecedented numbers of visitors to the Gallery.

APPROPRIATIONS

For the fiscal year ended June 30, 1948, the Congress of the United
States appropriated for the National Gallery of Art the sum of
$949,426 to be used for salaries and expenses in the operation and up-
keep of the Gallery, the protection and care of works of art, and ad-
ministrative and other expenses.

From this appropriation the following expenditures and encum-
brances were incurred:

Personal senvicese 22... = Sea ea ees eh ee $816, 880. 00
Printinesand binding 4222... ee ee eee 6, 181. 46
Supplies; equipment, \et@.=-_ === 2. eee eee 126, 319. 16
Wnencumbered \balance--- == 2 ee ee eee 45. 38

M0) ¢: 1 Se een oe pes SRA Pe is 949, 426. 00

In addition to this appropriation, the Gallery received from the
Department of State the sum of $5,800 to cover expenses during the fis-
cal year of the Inter-American Office, in closing out the Gallery’s
participation in the program of exchange of art and art materials be-
tween the United States and other American republics. Of this sum,
$5,327.06 was expended, primarily in the circulation of eight exhibi-
tions and the subsequent return of loaned objects. The unobligated
balance was $472.94.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 25

ATTENDANCE

There were 2,159,435 visitors to the Gallery during the fiscal year,
an average daily attendance of about 5,932. This was an increase of
711,397 over the total of 1,448,038 visitors in the previous fiscal year.
During the period between March 17, 1948, and April 25, 1948, when
the paintings from the Berlin museums were on exhibition, a total of
964,970 people visited the Gallery. On one day, April 11, 1948, the
Gallery attendance set an all-time high of 67,490.

ACCESSIONS

There were 1,360 accessions by the National Gallery of Art, as gifts,
loans or deposits, during the fiscal year. Most of the paintings and
a number of the prints were placed on exhibition.

PAINTINGS

A special opening was held February 1, 1948, to exhibit recent ad-
ditions to the Ralph and Mary Booth Collection, consisting of eight
paintings by Italian and German artists of the fifteenth and sixteenth
centuries. These paintings were presented to the Gallery by Mrs.
Ralph Harman Booth, of Detroit, and their acceptance was confirmed
by the Board of Trustees on October 13, 1947. Also exhibited at the
same time were previous donations to the same collection. <A special
catalog was prepared for the opening. The paintings received were:

Artist Title
BOLE aia 0 eee PEE Pes Rd es he 2 Portrait of a Youth.
Beli inieeeees eee ee Pi a Madonna and Child.
MINCOreutOe= 2 = 2 a i ee eee Eee Madonna of the Stars.
Cranach, Lucas, the Elder__—_--_-----__ A Prince of Saxony.
Cranach; Diucas; the) Hider==2. 22-322 = A Princess of Saxony.
Strige|]ee cee os Ae 2 The Mayor of Memmingen.
SGT oe eee eer Ee ee ie The Wife of the Mayor of Memmingen.
VEG WEY IC 2) eee oh eal elas OU Warne ky CELAiuen LOBE ee Portrait of a Nobleman.

The A. W. Mellon Educational and Charitable Trust presented to
the Gallery 113 portraits, which were accepted by the Board on De-
cember 22, 1947. The gift contains a provision for the transfer of por-
traits, in certain circumstances, to a National Portrait Gallery, when
and if established. The paintings areas follows:

Artist Title
DONMPEESSCLIU Sees eee ere nn Thomas Johnson.
mRembrandieeenles eile Sees George Washington (after Pine).
DOUSIAS AV Ol Kees eee! eres ee Abraham Lincoln.

John James Audubon (?)-----__--____-. Portrait of a Girl.
Asher Be Durand sons es eee Gouverneur Kemble.
TACODeHIChh Olt zee eee ee William Clark Frazer.
JACODME ICH WONG eee eens wk EN LEE EE ee James P. Smith.

Charles! LoringsMiliott=2 2 ee Self-Portrait.
26 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

Artist Title
Charles@ionring Miliotte = === William S. Mount.
Daniel Hunting tones ee eee Henry Theodore Tuckerman.
Henryainmanse Ste er eee eee George Pope Morris.
Williame Sa \lOunt 22a oe ees Charles Loring Elliott.
Charlesswillson#eealesa ese Timothy Matlack.
Thomas, SUL Vee ee ee eee Robert Walsh.
JEreMmiahs LHe US eee ee ae ee eee Isaac Motte.
AKU Marien pe ee William Rogers.
TOHMMVAN Cl liye eee ee nee eee John Sudam.
Mrancis-Auexan den. 422224 eae seen Sarah Blake Sturgis.
Washington Allston =. === ees Stuart’s Family.
Et WANT GS a ee oe ee ewe te ee Maria Gansevoort Melville.
Joseph Al AMCs Ae eset ee ee George Southward.
Joseph. Bad gers 25 2s es See ae eee Judge Robert Auchmuty, Sr.
Henry Benbridges. 2 eee Oliver de Lancey.
Joseph, Blackburn! 2222s 2s ase General Joshua Winslow.
CharlessBridgese==" 22422222. See ee William Gooch.
CharlessBrid ges 22 2 eee eee Anne Brown Hamilten.
MathemBrowns2 = 282 = Pee eee Thomas Dawson.
Mathers ro wine sess eee eee earners Alexander Hamilton.
PANyserl CLO Ke 2 2 eee ee ce eee ees Barnabus Clark.
James: Claypoole2=-=_2- 2-2 ee Margaret Hamilton Allen.
Johny Singleton! Copley2—— ==" ae Jeremiah Taylor.
Henri, Couturier: 2-—= 22. es Frederick Philipse.
Henri Couturier: = 2s 2 ee ee Oloff Stevense van Cortlandt.
ADEA AMO CLA 0 Vee eee Peter R. Livingston.
Walliams Dunlap eee a eer eee ere John Howard Payne.
Asher vB rown Ural Giese een eae Christian Gobrecht.
HverteDuyckin ck stasss eee Stephanus yan Cortlandt.
Hyvert Duyckineks 3rd] eee Ann Sinclair Crommelin.
Gerardus 3 Duy ckin ck. en ey James de Lancey.
Gerret;Duy.ckineke ssa ee ee cae Anne van Cortlandt.
Ral phys Wi al) ae ee eee Thomas Earl.
eu pheH see et see ee ee Samuel Stanhope Smith.
TACODE NICHOL (Zea es eae ee ees Mrs. Phoebe Freeman.
Nathaniel@ hmm ons sess ee Jonathan Belcher.
Robertalickes22 S22 hat A See Se ee Ruth Cunningham.
Roberto Heke! sexs oe Sheree ei ay ee ea Foster Hutchinson.
James Mrothinghames 225725 as Ebenezer Newhall.
Robertabulton! 2552 sae ee eee Mahlon Dickerson.
Robertelinl tna ee ssa ens ae Henry Eckford.
Rovertehultonese 2 = ee Marion (Bedell) Eckford and Henri-

etta Eckford.

Chesterarding == 225 a2 2 soa eee Chester Harding.
VAM ESeH CLIN pees se ew ae eee ee William Augustus Conway.
Danielebuntinetone2 2.) e2 se eee James Hall.
DaniclsHuntinetons 2-2 = =a s ee ee John Edwards Holbrook.
Je fesobeye:] Danae y oleee ieee a se ee Clara Barton.
IEVen ryan anaes eee ee ee Charles Fenno Hoffman.
IGN Tylana ee Se ee ee ee Mrs. Elizabeth Oakes Smith.
John Wesley, Jarvisoss=2" 22 eee eee James Lawrence.
Davids John So nae ses ae ae ee eee Hdwin Forrest.

oe Ss ee ee Ee Joseph Wesley Harper.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 27

Artist Title
Henrietta John stonese se Robert Johnson.
TODNE ON StO n= see eee eens een John Peck.
@harlessBinde kings Sessa es oe Grace Greenwood.
MhomaseseuawSonesss. else eke William Morris Hunt.
Hdward'G. Malbone: 2. 22 be ee Margaret Maria Livingston.
Hdwearde Marchant. 2 22s) 232 ee. Charles Fenno Hoffman.
TOWNS Nae eee ta Pe eee ee Robert Monckton.
HabyMetcalices 22 usr sheet Be ce Alexander Anderson.
Samuclehs bs iMorses sss as wees ra Coralie Livingston Barton.
Samuelebyby Morset22 se ree Katherine Augusta Rhodes Ware.
JohneNERs eet lens se et ALA ie ta John Davis.
JOnNSNEGH S] eMee ele Sel ee ae a EE Mrs. John Dickson.
OHTWN CG oi] Cx a ted Bi Se es oh ee Thomas W. Dyott.
JOhNGNCA So] Class ae ar ee Ann C. Rudman.
OUTPNEA 21 ees aE ee ede ee William C. Rudman.
Johny Neag lets pees lor a eee John Albert Ryan.
TOHNVNGR 21 es 2s ee ae eee ee ee Miss Ryan.
amespeeal Gla tie as ie ws fe ee ew General Mordecai Gist.
RembrandtyPeles.2: eek se ae Peter B. Porter.
Remprand tb call cae ee eee Richardson Stuart.
Betersbelhami es eee ae lee Jonathan Law.
Retergbelh any. 2 eee at As ee ee John Smibert.
Robert lidgve Pines 2 ee eee General William Smallwood.
Mattheweeratt. 2 208 Sie ee John Cochran.
WrilliamoRen dit 2 Bui ek git ee Richard Bellingham.
SOMME S mat ber Gs a ee ee Stephen de Lancey.
JohneSmiberts 0-2 ese Se ek see he Alexander Garden,
OHNE SMUD Cre es ee a es Governor William Shirley.
onnESmibert ess sep 2eS Foe Be hs Susannah de Lancey Warren.
Hise eS DON CCTs a ao ek Be el let a er ee Frances Ludlum Morris.
SUNS rubs Stearns. = 2. ee Charles Gamage Eastman.
Jeera ULV CROs ts Mek eee eS eas Jan Strycker.
PPR GE SUEY C KET sate steer we AC NT Adrian van der Donck.
Gilbent¥S tuantse 42s, ee eae Sir Francis N. P. Conyngham.
Gilbert pS tart Be re ve rr Cyrus Griffin.
Gilbertt Stuarts ot eat aie James Lloyd.
Gulberte Stuatte 08 a Mrs. Andrew Dexter.
ERT OMTaS SU yee eee eee ee er Thomas Alston.
ARNO MASH Sy Ulysse See at Se ee Dr. William Gibson.
ERO INAS ES Uys ee pe eee Julianna Hazeihurst.
BOTS HS Uys a ee ae Soe eel John Philip Kemble (after Stuart).
Jeremiahe Pheus2 2 fe. aoe wes ee Josias Allston.
Jeremiahyiheuse. 2a as ee Johann deKalb.
Hadwardiiriman= east ee Jonathan Sewell.
JohneVvand erly eee Miss Robinson.
BictersVanderlyn=="=2 8 Se ee Johannes van Vechten.
JOnN RWS one 22s eke ape ele Sir Peter Warren.
AdolpheU> Wertmullers=2 <22s aes es oe Philip van Cortlandt.
IBeny AMIN GWies teen eee ee Se Hlizabeth Beckford.
Benjamins VW estss 222k = oe Sete ee Hlizabeth Gordon.
VONNEVWOllaS tO ne sere =e eee Lee ee Captain Archibald Kennedy.
JONNEWOUWASLOM Hae. sauna mene reer John Stevens.

James R: Lambdin’ =e see Abraham Lincoln.
28 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

Cornelius Vanderbilt Whitney’s gift of a Van Dyck portrait of
Henri II de Lorraine, Duc de Guise, was accepted on the same date.

Three paintings given by William C. Freeman were accepted by
the Board of Trustees on October 18, 1947. One was a group portrait,
“The Coleman Sisters, Isabel, Sarah, and Margaret,” by Thomas Sully.
The others were portraits of Mr. and Mrs. Robert Coleman, by Rem-
brandt Peale. At the same time a painting given by Stephen C. Clark,
entitled “Hound and Hunter,” by Winslow Homer, was accepted.
On December 22, 1947, the Board accepted from Mrs. Gordon Dexter
an oil sketch entitled “The Death of Lord Chatham,” by John Single-
ton Copley. A portrait of George Washington, by Charles Peale Polk,
was accepted from William C. Freeman on the same date, to be held for
a National Portrait Gallery. On March 1, 1948, the Board of Trustees
accepted from Mrs. Henry R. Rea a portrait, attributed to the English
School, of the Earl of Essex, and from Mrs. Augustus Vincent Tack
a portrait of her mother, Mrs. George Fuller, by George Fuller. On
June 16, 1948, the Board accepted from Oscar Doyle Johnson a paint-
ing entitled “Catherine,” by Robert Henri.

PRINTS AND DRAWINGS

A gift from Lessing J. Rosenwald of 199 additional prints and
drawings was accepted on October 138, 1947, to be added to the Lessing
J. Rosenwald Collection. At the same time, six prints and drawings
were accepted from Myron A. Hofer. On May 4, 1948, the Board
accepted from Mrs. Josephine Bradlee, Mrs. Percy D. Morgan, and
Caspar C. de Gersdorff a total of 270 prints and drawings by Segonzac,
and 42 illustrated books, given in memory of the late Frank Crownin-
shield.

During the year the Board accepted from Chester Dale a drawing
and an etching, two prints from David Keppel, and a woodcut from an
anonymous donor. The offer of Lessing J. Rosenwald to exchange an
engraving by Aldegrever for a better impression was also accepted.

SCULPTURE

On October 18, 1947, the Board accepted from Kames MacVeagh a
bronze portrait medallion of Wayne MacVeagh, by Augustus Saint-
Gaudens, to be held for a National Portrait Gallery.

WORKS OF ART ON LOAN

During the fiscal year 1948 the following works of art were received
on loan by the National Gallery of Art:

From Artist
Anonymous loan:
Paradise: Vall ey 2422 oot epee a ne ee ee John La Farge.

Mrs. Charles Carstairs, Paris, France:
Colonel Pocklington and His Sisters____-__-----_--- George Stubbs.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 29

From Artist
Richard W. Norton, Shreveport, La.:
Resulot the WMlections aes ea ee. George Caleb Bingham.
George Matthew Adams, New York, N. Y.:
Memory Copy of Holbein’s Erasmus_________---_-_- Alphonse Legros.
DAd rin tsi BS ee Sa ee Rie ee! Alphonse Legros.

Robert Woods Bliss, Washington, D. C.:
80 objects of Pre-Columbian Art.

LOANED WORKS OF ART RETURNED

The following works of art on loan were returned during the fiscal]
year 1948:

To Artist
Mme. Charlotte Fuerstenberg, New York, N. Y.:
VV ESE ite © Ta ea rn Ny eet a as Ss Fa ee ee Cezanne.
ER eyS Kart oe Rein kee re ee ee ee Re ee ee ee Manet.
PAUIDe TGV iO liebe aie ee a eee ee A Manet.
Reinhold Hans Cassirer, New York, N. Y.:
EAN GS GI @ gba fil) (See ee erate ee Sts Re a es ee Renoir.
Mrs. Huttleston Rogers, New York, N. Y.:
ETN Gels CyiC] Cees ete se Pee tee wee ey es ed Fe OS i Monet.
SarahvBernmhnandtias eG onan 2 ses ee ee ae Stevens.
The J. H. Whittemore Company, Naugatuck, Conn. :
Behind the Scenes—Ballet Girls__________-_____-_____-____ Degas.
Still Life—Apples and Sugar Bowl_----------__---__-___ Renoir.
GENT LS CAT) Ceres ese eee ee deg eee Le ee 2 Ryder.
VOWEL SOD DIC DDC et ee Ne ee Whistler.
SERCO bra tH OUT LOS meee re re ee Nae ee eee: See a Whistler.
VENI CO— “MH ew) OOT Wiel Vee re ees ee Whistler.
HIST GRID ITA COTS ean te cnet ee aah ee wn ele ee ae Degas.
Two Studies of Mary Cassatt at the Louvre_________-________ Degas.
BalletsDancershixina, Her Slipper. 2-252 20a se eee Degas.
Ballet Dancer Weaning Morwards 2s oe ee Degas.
Nude Figure Leaning Forward and Holding Right Foot____ Degas.
Islets on the Seine at Port Villers, 1883__.___-_______________ Monet.
PTE C5 Cae ee es ee ee as, hen Oe Saas Sia eee ad Re ae wea Whistler.

James Hazen Hyde, New York, N. Y.:
4 tapestries.
Chester Dale, New York, N. Y.:
SOREN 9 NT 0 ee a eee ee ee Various.

WORKS OF ART LOANED

During the fiscal year 1948, the Gallery loaned the following works
of art for exhibition purposes:

To Artist

The Virginia Museum of Fine Arts, Richmond, Va.:

Benjamin bHarnisonwees 2) alee eee Charles Willson Peale.
The Saginaw Museum, Saginaw, Mich.:

JohniRand olphess222 222 sa eae Gilbert Stuart.
The Denver Art Museum, Denver, Colo. :

AMexandertamiliontss === 522 eee John Trumbull.
The United States Supreme Court, Washington,

Dox

LHOMAS JOHNSON) = seen e eee John Hesselius (?).
30 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

To Artist

The White House, Washington, D. C.:
George Washington] 2-2-2 —--252- == Rembrandt Peale (after Pine).
Hranklin’ Pierce. oe ee ees G. P. A. Healy.
James Monroesi22 202 23-2 eee John Vanderlyn.

The Whitney Museum of American Art, New York,

INDY:
Siegfried and the Rhine Maidens____---_-~_ Albert P. Ryder.
EXHIBITIONS

The following exhibitions were held at the National Gallery of
Art during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1948:

Chiaroscuro Woodcuts from the Sixteenth through the Highteenth Centuries.
Loaned anonymously. Continued from previous fiscal year. June 8 to November
16, 1947.

Etchings of James McNeill Whistler. Exhibition from the gift of Mr. and
Mrs. J. Watson Webb, New York, N. Y. Continued from previous fiscal year.
June 13 to October 24, 1947.

Prints by Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec. Exhibition of prints from the Rosen-
wald Collection. October 25, 1947, to April 4, 1948.

Men of Action of the Naval Services, World War II. A group of war por-
traits of personnel of the naval services, for eventual installation in the pro-
posed National Museum of Military and Naval History. November 23 to Decem-
ber 14, 1947.

The Art of France in Prints and Books. Exhibition of prints and books from
the Rosenwald and Widener Collections; also books from the Rosenwald Collec-
tion in the Library of Congress. December 12, 1947, to March 4, 1948.

Paintings from the Berlin Museums. Exhibition of paintings brought to this
country for safekeeping by the Department of the Army and stored at the
National Gallery of Art. Exhibited at the request of the Department of the
Army. March 17 to April 25, 1948.

Prints by James McNeill Whistler. Exhibition of prints from the Rosenwald
Collection; one print from the Hofer Collection. Opened April 6, 1948.

American Paintings from the Collection of the National Gallery of Art. Ex-
hibition of American paintings, featuring a group of portraits from Pocahontas
to General Hisenhower. Opened May 28, 1948.

Indigenous Art of the Americas, from the Robert Wocds Bliss Collection.
Continued from the previous year with rearrangements and additions made by
Mr. Bliss this year. Reopened with changes, May 23, 1948.

TRAVELING EXHIBITIONS

Rosenwald Collection —During the fiscal year 1948 special exhibi-
tions of prints from the Rosenwald Collection were circulated to the
following:

Los Angeles County Museum, Los Angeles, Calif. :
Rembrandt Exhibition, 50 etchings, 5 drawings.
November 18 to December 31, 1947.
Grand Rapids Art Gallery, Grand Rapids, Mich. :
Six Centuries of Prints, 80 prints,
December, 1947.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 31

The Art Alliance, Philadelphia, Pa.:
Contemporary Print Making in France, 8 prints.
February 2 to March 1, 1948.
Philadelphia Museum of Art, Philadelphia, Pa.:
Collector’s Choice, 5 prints.
February 7 to March 14, 1948.
J. B. Speed Museum, Louisville, Ky. :
“Great Passion” Woodcuts, 21 Diirer woodcuts.
March 6 to March 28, 1948.
Worcester Art Museum, Worcester, Mass. :
d0th Anniversary Exhibition, 22 prints.
April 7 to May 15, 1948.

Index of American Design.—Exhibitions from this collection were
shown during the fiscal year 1948 at the following places: Ohio State
Museum, Columbus, Ohio; N. W. Ayer Gallery, Philadelphia, Pa.;
Library of Congress, Washington, D. C.; M. H. De Young Memorial
Museum, San Francisco, Calif.; Pomona College, Claremont, Calif. ;
Santa Barbara Museum of Art, Santa Barbara, Calif.; Los Angeles
Public Library, Los Angeles, Calif.; Pasadena Art Institute, Pasa-
dena, Calif.; Pfeiffer College, Misenheimer, N. C.; Schenectady
Museum, Schenectady, N. Y.; Long Beach Art Association, Long
Beach, Calif.; Children’s Museum, Denver Art Museum, Denver,
Colo.; Honolulu Academy of Art, Honolulu, Hawaii; Winter Indus-
tries Cooperative, Northeast Harbor, Me.; Children’s Museum,
Irvington-on-Hudson, N. Y.; West Virginia Institute of Technology,
Montgomery, W. Va.; San Joaquin Pioneer Museum, Stockton,
Calif.; Western Reserve Historical Society, Cleveland, Ohio; Jewish
Community Center, Washington, D. C.; Smithfield High School,
Smithfield, Va.; Norfolk Museum of Arts and Sciences, Norfolk, Va.;
University of Oregon, Eugene, Oreg.; Albion College, Albion, Mich. ;
Washington County Museum of Fine Arts, Hagerstown, Md.; Joslyn
Memorial Art Gallery, Omaha, Nebr.; New York State Historical
Association, Cooperstown, N. Y.; Shaker Work Camp, Mt. Lebanon,
Noy:

PAINTINGS FROM THE BERLIN MUSEUMS

On March 6, 1948, it was announced that the National Gallery of
Art, at the request of the Department of the Army, would place on
exhibition from March 17 to April 18, 1948, the 202 paintings from
the Berlin museums which were brought to the United States in 1945
for safekeeping, and which had been stored since that time in the
National Gallery of Art. Shown during the Gallery’s regular exhibi-
tion hours, the paintings attracted widespread public interest, and
were viewed by such large numbers of visitors that new attendance
records were established. The exhibition was extended for one week
to April 25, and the total attendance reached an all-time high of
964,970 visitors, which is believed to be a record for any museum or
32 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

art gallery in the world in a comparable period. Following the close
of the exhibition, the custody of the paintings passed from the
National Gallery of Art to the Department of the Army.

In accordance with the expressed wishes of the Senate Armed Sery-
ices Committee and the Department of the Army, a meeting of museum
and gallery officials was held at the National Gallery of Art on
April 29, 1948, to prepare plans for an exhibition tour of certain of
these paintings. Attending the meeting were: David E. Finley, Di-
rector, National Gallery of Art, presiding; G. H. Edgell, Director,
Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, Mass.; H. F. Jayne, Vice Director, and
Dudley T. Easby, Secretary, Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York,
N. Y.; Fiske Kimball, Director, Philadelphia Museum of Art, Phila-
delphia, Pa.; Homer Saint-Gaudens, Director, Department of Fine
Arts, Carnegie Institute, Pittsburgh, Pa.; Daniel Catton Rich, Di-
rector, Art Institute of Chicago, Chicago, Il.; William M. Milliken,
Director, Cleveland Museum of Art, Cleveland, O.; Edgar P. Richard-
son, Director, Detroit Institute of Arts, Detroit, Mich.; Edward S.
King, Acting Administrator, and David Rosen, Technical Advisor for
Preservation and Restoration, Walters Gallery, Baltimore, Md.;
Blake-More Godwin, Director, Toledo Museum of Art, Toledo, O.;
Russell A. Plimpton, Director, Minneapolis Institute of Arts, Minne-
apolis, Minn.; James W. Foster, Jr., Baltimore Museum of Art,
Baltimore, Md.; also present were: Col. T. Scott Riggs and Maj.
Gerard B. Crook, General Staff Corps, Civil Affairs Division, United
States Army, and Abraham J. Harris, Department of Justice.

At this meeting a proposed schedule of exhibitions throughout the
United States was agreed upon, and subsequently confirmed with
amendments by the Department of the Army.

In conformity with instructions from the Department of the Army,
52 of the paintings which were considered most likely to suffer damage
or deterioration if sent on an exhibition tour were packed for immedi-
ate shipment back to the American Zone in Germany. These paint-
ings were chosen by the following committee, which met at the Na-
tional Gallery of Art on April 27, 1948: John Walker, Chairman,
Chief Curator, National Gallery of Art; Daniel Catton Rich, Director
of the Chicago Art Institute; George Stout, Director of the Wor-
cester Art Museum; Stephen §. Pichetto, Consultant Restorer to the
National Gallery of Art and to the Metropolitan Museum of Art;
and Dr. Irene Kuehnel, formerly Curator of Paintings of the Kaiser
Friedrich Museum and currently attached to Military Government
in the American Zone, Germany.

The remainder of the paintings were packed and sent on tour in ac-
cordance with plans approved by the Department of the Army. At
the Department’s request, the National Gallery of Art agreed to
supervise technical and professional details involved in sending the
SECRETARY’S REPORT 33

paintings on an exhibition tour. The following institutions were
scheduled to participate in the tour:

Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York, N. Y.

Philadelphia Museum of Art, Philadelphia, Pa.

Art Institute of Chicago, Chicago, Ill.

Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, Mass. -

Detroit Institute of Arts, Detroit, Mich.

Cleveland Museum of Art, Cleveland, Ohio.

Minneapolis Institute of Arts, Minneapolis, Minn.

M. H. De Young Memorial Museum, San Francisco, Calif.

Los Angeles County Museum of History, Science and Art, Los Angeles, Calif.
City Art Museum of St. Louis, St. Louis, Mo.

Carnegie Institute, Pittsburgh, Pa.

Toledo Museum of Art, Toledo, Ohio.

CURATORIAL ACTIVITIES

The Curatorial Department accessioned 1,360 new gifts to the Gal-
lery during the year. Advice was given in the case of 205 works of
art brought to the Gallery for opinion, and 21 visits were made in
connection with proffered works of art. More than 500 research
problems were investigated in response to inquiries received by the
Gallery. During the year 16 lectures and 4 lecture courses were given
by members of the curatorial staff. Charles Seymour, Jr., gave a
series of lectures on Renaissance art at the Johns Hopkins Univer-
sity, and carried on special research in Europe in connection with the
Gallery’s sculpture collection.

Changes were made in the installation of the Bliss Collection of
Pre-Columbian Art, to accommodate additional art objects loaned to
the Gallery by Robert Woods Bliss. The cataloging and filing of
photographs in the George Martin Richter Archive is continuing,
with the gradual enlargement of the collection.

Further activities of the department are indicated under the heading
of “Publications.”

RESTORATION AND REPAIR OF WORKS OF ART

Necessary restoration and repair of works of art in the Gallery’s
collections were made by Stephen S. Pichetto, Consultant Restorer to
the Gallery. All work was completed in the Restorer’s studio in the
Gallery, with the exception of the restoration of one painting, work
on which was completed in Mr. Pichetto’s New York studio.

PUBLICATIONS

During the year an article by Mr. Cairns, “The Future of Musical
Patronage,” was contributed to a symposium, “Music and Criticism,”
edited by Richard F. French, published by Harvard University Press,
Cambridge, Mass. It also appeared in the Atlantic Monthly. A lec-
34 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

ture by Mr. Cairns at the University of Mexico was published by the
University of Mexico, and a Spanish translation of an article by
Mr. Cairns on “Leibniz? Theory of Law” appeared in an Argentine
legal review. Mr. Cairns also edited with an introduction a volume
entitled “Lectures in Criticism,” to be published in the early fall.
His review of Randolph E. Paul’s “Taxation for Prosperity” was pub-
lished in Tax Law Review.

A series of 12 articles on French paintings in the Gallery, pref-
aced by one entitled “Connoisseurship and Nineteenth-Century French
Painting,” was published by John Walker in the Ladies’ Home Jour-
nal. Charles Seymour, Jr., published an article on “XIII Century
Sculpture at Noyon” and another entitled “Houdon’s Washington at
Mount Vernon Reexamined” in the Gazette des Beaux-Arts. Fern
Rusk Shapley contributed to the Gazette des Beaux-Arts. Articles
and book reviews by James W. Lane appeared in the Gazette des
Beaux-Arts, The College Art Journal, Art in America, The Ameri-
can Collector, Antiques, The Catholic World, and Commonweal.
Charles M. Richards contributed an article on measurements to Mu-
seum News. “A Study of a Painting Done by a Mental Patient,” by
Erwin O. Christensen, was published in “Case Studies in the Psy-
chopathology of Crime.”

A book of illustrations on the painting and sculpture in the Widener
Collection was issued during the year. Members of the curatorial staff
prepared a check list of the paintings from the Berlin museums, which
was placed on sale during the exhibition. A catalog of the paintings
presented by Mrs. Ralph Harman Booth was also prepared for the
opening of that exhibit.

Since 1941 the history of the Publications Fund has been one of
continual growth and development, and the fiscal year 1948 marks
another step in providing a varied but well-balanced selection of pub-
lications and reproductions for public use.

The Publications Fund has continued to supply color reproductions
of fine quality at a moderate price. During the year 8 new 11-inch
by 14-inch color reproductions, 8 new color postcards, including 6
subjects from the Index of American Design, and 19 large collotype
reproductions were made available. Of the large collotype reproduc-
tions, the Publications Fund now has 71 available. A new item was
supplied this year in the form of playing-card sets, two of which por-
trayed subjects from the Index of American Design, and one of re-
productions of paintings in the Gallery’s collections.

Catalogues of the various collections continue to be popular. Dur-
ing the year, increased distribution exhausted the supplies of the
Chester Dale Catalogue, the Preliminary Catalogue of Paintings and
Sculpture, and the catalogue entitled Indigenous Art of the Americas.
A fifth edition of the Chester Dale Catalogue is on order, and a textual
SECRETARY'S REPORT 35

catalogue of the entire collection to replace the Preliminary Catalogue
is in preparation. The end of the fiscal year brought the first ship-
ment of illustrated Widener Catalogues, and plans are in progress for
a similar catalogue of the Mellon Collection.

With publication scheduled for 1949 or 1950, the manuscript for
Erwin O. Christensen’s comprehensive survey of the Index of Ameri-
can Design, “Made in America,” is nearing completion. The Na-
tional Gallery of Art is collaborating with Penguin Books Ltd. in
preparing two books, “Popular Art in the United States,” by Erwin
O. Christensen, to be printed soon, and “Pictures from America,” by
John Walker, to be issued sometime next year.

EDUCATIONAL PROGRAM

During the year more than 20,000 persons attended the General,
Congressional, and Special Topic Tours, while over 24,000 attended
the Picture of the Week. Approximately 19,000 came to hear the
lectures and other programs in the Auditorium. Special appoint-
ments, tours, and conferences were arranged for over 2,000 persons.
The Education Department has continued the publication of a monthly
Calendar of Events, announcing Gallery activities, including notices
of exhibitions, lectures, gallery talks, tours, and concerts. The Cal-
endar of Events was mailed out to more than 3,000 persons a month.

LIBRARY

The library was given 131 books, 447 pamphlets, and 26 periodicals
during the year; 439 books, 55 pamphlets, and 608 periodicals were
purchased, and 35 subscriptions to periodicals were made. A total of
55 books, 103 pamphlets, and 406 bulletins were received on exchange
from other institutions; 265 photographs were received as giits to
the library, and 52 photographs were received on exchange. During
the year, 1,249 books were borrowed and returned, 1,175 of which
were borrowed from the Library of Congress. For the remaining
74 books, the library was indebted to museums, universities, and
public libraries. In addition, by special arrangement, the Gallery
received on loan from the Library of Congress a number of other
books on art and related subjects.

INDEX OF AMERICAN DESIGN

The Index of American Design continued during the year to be
enlarged by gifts and exchanges. Index material was used at the
Gallery by 232 persons, while 534 photographs of Index designs were
sold for use in commercial design, publications, references, exhibition,
and other purposes.
36 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

INTER-AMERICAN OFFICE

The Inter-American Office suspended operations at the close of the
the fiscal year, and its program of promoting art activities between the
American republics was terminated, owing to the discontinuance of
funds previously made available to the Gallery for this work.

CARE AND MAINTENANCE OF BUILDING

The installation of the fourth refrigeration machine to provide addi-
tional air conditioning for the Gallery building was completed in
March 1948. Since that time the machine has been in operation when-
ever required and has been giving satisfactory service.

During the year the mechanical staff overhauled three of the other
refrigeration machines, which would customarily have been done by
outside contract. The usual routine work in connection with the
structural care and maintenance of the building and its mechanical
equipment was carried on throughout the year. Care and improve-
ment of the Gallery grounds also progressed satisfactorily; and con-
siderable replacements were made in the Taxus hedge in various areas.
The gardening staff has continued to grow a substantial portion of the
smaller plants used for the decoration of the two Garden Courts.
Plans are now under way to extend the cold-frame equipment in the
southwest moat, to enable the gardening staff to produce more small
flowering plants used for decorative purposes.

The equipment in the cafeteria kitchen was rearranged during the
year, and additional items were purchased, to facilitate the operation
of the cafeteria.

OTHER ACTIVITIES

During the fiscal period a total of 47 Sunday evening concerts were
given at the Gallery. The concerts, free to the public, attracted
capacity audiences. Five Sunday evening concerts during the month
of May were devoted to the Gallery’s Fifth American Music Festival,
the most successful of these to date.

A total of 155 permits to copy paintings and 107 permits to photo-
graph in the Gallery were issued during the year. Prints of the
motion picture on the National Gallery of Art were loaned during
the year to 19 institutions.

During the year the photographic laboratory of the Gallery made
13,938 prints, 1,037 black-and-white slides, 891 color slides, 2,611 nega-
tives, in addition to infrared photographs, ultraviolet photographs,
and color separation negatives.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 37

OTHER GIFTS

Gifts of books on art and related material were made to the Gallery
library during the year by Paul Mellon and others. A sum of money
was given by an anonymous donor to enlarge a previously established
fund, the income from which will be available for the acquisition of
works of art by American artists, and for prizes and awards to
American artists.

AUDIT OF PRIVATE FUNDS OF THE GALLERY

An audit has been made of the private funds of the Gallery for the
fiscal year ended June 30, 1948, by Price, Waterhouse & Co., public
accountants, and the certificate of that company on its examination of
the accounting records maintained for such funds will be forwarded
to the Gallery.

Respectfully submitted.

HountTineTron Cairns,
Secretary.
THe SECRETARY,
Smithsonian Institution.
= cans rae ' “= Ms
7 f

"aif Lab

Pe the it ‘tir? Hat :
Sy Risnede t= mits al aac feibaLa me ih iS
Wedel en aa ee indent i . On weit at t aatel
to) aD; paige ae lation a wl Aye i} oe nf rt a
iy Alieh ue Bie ai tes Bit ee Shi PS a ite

7 —

wet DE, “#3 x apy 9
zi :

a are ip eee sec ue aut in) ia : 5

cy hie ee . en ye ry ue) 7
7 Mi ae ¥ iat Li it va ian Pith hie at aa nd ate Poe A [hh 1% il - 1
7 : : as hs : :
anil ie ra Tosh 7 oy ™ ¥ Gees oe as rok, iF at amine BN)
7 rt a spans ee oor ° «i te Alea ;

1 ois) is Ne ait Say at yf wt
a sue ' = : Poles en é i
ai 7 ve citer ve Weed eee) oa « Dt hd) we ie sie Hinars te ae ta ite

Pt eee Pat ney ae at

_ 27) = bp Af oem 7
By ye a oe i ai
~ i 7) i 7 a , : 7 i :
* peeie! cs iu rl yt na =a ra ‘ —
LAV ey lc Lire Wan unecns Cn e aee

Dee erat ¥ uate Sarit’ yar eae Xe ae

i - 7 iy = : r)
nS a ih is Or ; nt : is ; , oe
7 ” r oy : _ 7 rs mr : 7 y ar Uy Gt) Sak Ab ait wy AA: oe ~~,
> a ae a : A Atk
7 " aS. «4 _ wr
“y >» xs a mi 7 = : . rt + ue ,
: = ; 7 ye 4 ‘ a , } - :
ont if " one - - re : f 7 n 7 7 ae
7 ; 7 ; hd = _ hy . , i = y,
a fo ae “i : oy 7 * ! “ate a a
ns 7 a > es, - :
: Pe. | en - a 7 ; t Oat - ai) cole ‘
ie = <= x a : a tal n ;
: Wes m0 my ia . ry ms a} v
‘ 7 » ‘ a — A
is 7 _ t it)
i ; : i
. ’ # +
: io are a
i aan : a :
' _ > i = ; ie
ta7™ 9 A ae _ 7
Pi A ns = img iu
' io a7 a ne 7 : ‘ ay
= aes < ri ! ao ol Li 7 is
: m c
m 7 ' by 7 j ? : 7 , 7
7 7
- : i eer | a,
7 - "i : 7 ey a a :
, a J ‘ ol : a A
_ a s 7 - ’
- a i. - a | a
- “ts z a i oui ; , ' Ya bar at aaa if
7 7 7 7 y
1 Sh eee ee sa hais Sree taf
i i "7 * ; 7 os]
; a, vied ee gk RN". ar La
= in a i -
add = T a
: =
iT
i — -
APPENDIX 3
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activities
of the National Collection of Fine Arts for the fiscal year ended June
30, 1948:

THE SMITHSONIAN ART COMMISSION

The twenty-fifth annual meeting was held on December 2, 1947,
The members assembled at 10:30 a. m. in the Smithsonian Building
to pass on the works of art which had been offered during the year.
The following action was taken:

Accepted for the National Collection of Fine Arts

Oil, portrait of Mrs. Joseph B. Collins, by G. P. A. Healy (1813-94). Bequest of
Miss Susanna Claxton Collins.

Oil, portrait of George Fuller (1822-84), by Edwin T. Billings (1824-93). Gift
of Miss Catharine McH. Ames.

Oil, The Fall Season, by Bruce Crane, N. A. (1857-1937). Henry Ward Ranger
bequest.

Oil, December Uplands, by Bruce Crane, N. A. (1857-1987). Henry Ward
Ranger bequest.

Accepted for the National Portrait Gallery

Marble bust of Capt. John Ericsson (1803-89), by Augustus Saint-Gaudens,
N. A. (1848-1907). Marble eut by Jonathan Scott Hartley for Augustus Saint-
Gaudens who modified the bust by Horace Kneeland which is now in the National
Museum, Stockholm, Sweden. Bequest of Miss Georgiana Wells Sargent.

The members then met in the Regents Room, adjacent, for further
proceedings of the annual meeting. The meeting was called to order
by the chairman, Mr. Manship. The members present were: Paul
Manship, chairman; Dr. Alexander Wetmore, secretary (member, ex
officio) ; and George Hewitt Myers, William T. Aldrich, Mahonri
Young, Gilmore D. Clarke, David E. Finley, George H. Edgell, Lloyd
Goodrich, John N. Brown, and Archibald G. Wenley. Ruel P. Tol-
man, Director, and Thomas M. Beggs, Assistant Director, National
Collection of Fine Arts, were also present.

The Commission recommended the reelection of William T. Aldrich,
James KE. Fraser, George H. Edgell, and Lloyd Goodrich for the usual
4-year period.

The following officers were elected for the ensuing year: Paul Man-
ship, chairman; Robert Woods Bliss, vice chairman; and Dr. Alex-
ander Wetmore, secretary.

39
817369—49—-4
40 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

The following were elected members of the executive committee for
the ensuing year: David E. Finley, chairman, Robert Woods Bliss,
and Gilmore D. Clarke. Paul Manship, as chairman of the Commis-
sion, and Dr. Alexander Wetmore, as secretary of the Commission, are
ex officio members of the executive committee.

THE CATHERINE WALDEN MYER FUND

Four miniatures, water color on ivory, were acquired from the fund
established through the bequest of the late Catherine Walden Myer,
as follows:

64. William Furness, attributed to Benjamin Trott; from Ray Rink, Baltimore,
Md.

65. Matilda Watson (Mrs. John Watson), by Sarah Goodridge (1788-1853) ;
from Bessie J. Howard, Boston, Mass.

66. Clara Bartlet Gregory Catlin (wife of the artist), by George Catlin (1796-
1872) ; from Mary Cogswell Kinney, Washington, D. C.

67. Howes Goldsborough (1775-1841), by James Peale (1749-1831); from
Edmund Bury, Philadelphia, Pa.

LOANS ACCEPTED

Twenty bronzes, by Frederic Remington, N. A. (1861-1909) :
Bronco Buster (small cast), Bronco Buster (large cast), Bronco
Buster (Bonnard cast), Comanche Indian, Dragoons, Mountain
Trapper, Off the Range, Outlaw, Polo Players, Rattlesnake, Scalp,
Scalp, Trooper of the Plains, Wicked Pony, Wounded Bunkie, Indian
Head, Head of the Rough Rider, Mountain Trapper, Stampede, and
Paleolithic Man; and one bronze by Sally James Farnham, Paleolithic
Woman, were lent by the R. W. Norton Art Foundation, Shreveport,
La.

One miniature on ivory, Portrait of Miss Goss, by Eda Nemoede
Casterton, was lent by the artist.

WITHDRAWALS BY OWNERS

Two oil paintings, Portrait of a Gentleman, by Sir William
Beechey, and A Cottage Scene, by Ladbrooke, were withdrawn March
23, 1948, by Mrs. Feroline Perkins Wallach, Administratrix of the
Estate of Cleveland Perkins.

LOANS TO OTHER MUSEUMS AND ORGANIZATIONS

Two oil paintings, Fired On, by Frederic Remington, and Mist in
Kanab Canyon, by Thomas Moran, were lent to The Washington
County Museum of Fine Arts, Hagerstown, Md., to be included in an
exhibition “The American Indian and the West,” from September 14
through November 2, 1947. (Returned November 3, 1947.)
SECRETARY’S REPORT 4]

An oil painting, Moonlight, by Albert Pinkham Ryder, was lent
to the Whitney Museum of American Art, New York City, to be in-
cluded in an exhibition of paintings by Ryder from October 17 to
November 30, 1947. (Returned December 10, 1947.)

Eight pieces of porcelain from the Alfred Duane Pell bequest,
were lent to Howard University, Washington, D. C., to be included
in an exhibition of ceramics made between 450 B.C. and A.D. 1946,
held from October 16 through November 30, 1947. (Returned Decem-
ber 5, 1947.)

Four oil paintings, Grand Canal, Venice; The Windmill, Dordrecht,
Holland; Leonie; and Santa Maria della Salute, Venice, by Eugene L.
Vail, were lent to the Engineers Club, 1325 E Street NW., Washington,
D.C. (Returned June 25, 1948.)

An oil painting, The Flags (The Piazza San Marco, Venice), by
Eugene L. Vail, was withdrawn by the National Gallery of Art. This
painting was donated to the National Collection of Fine Arts by the
artist’s widow, subject to the condition that it be offered to the National
Gallery of Art at the time it is eligible to become a part of that collec-
tion. It is understood that the painting shall be kept in the custody
of the National Gallery of Art and may be loaned to the Department
of State for the decoration of our Embassy in Ottawa.

An oil painting, Portrait of John Graham of Claverhouse, by Mary
Beale, was lent with the consent of the owner, the Bruce Corporation,
Ltd., to the British Overseas Airways Corporation, for a Scottish Dis-
play, June 21 to 30, 1948.

LOANS RETURNED

A water color, Coal Barge, Capri, 1880, by William H. Holmes, lent
to The White House, January 25, 1946, was returned February 10, 1948.

THE HENRY WARD RANGER FUND PURCHASES

The paintings purchased by the Council of the National Academy
of Design from the fund provided by the Henry Ward Ranger bequest,
which, under certain conditions, are prospective additions to the Na-
tional Collection of Fine Arts, and the names of the Institutions to
which they have been assigned, are as follows:

Title Artist Assignment
120. Sunlight on the Waterfront---__- Merdinand stem VWArren jen = seAee |= see ee oe
(elect) (1899- ).
121 eVillage Green: 2 sss 28 Sac ee JOHNePike:Ne-AvnCleCt) RULO1—e)p | Saans eee eee ee eee tee ee
1225 OityBy-WSys eee eee Joon Lavylor (89%—s ) See ae ae ae Hickory Museum of Art,
Hickory, N. C.
123. Gravel, Fish and Soya Beans_-_.| Carl Gaertner (1898- )__-----._-- Sheldon Swope Art Gallery,

Terre Haute, Ind.
1 24S DODStERINen eee ee eee FAN OTOWAWANLCn a Nera S05—28) =e5| = a een ee et ee
125. Patio Royale, New Orleans___-- Robert: PhilippsNaAS G805—7p) eso |e Lekre ee ei ears ert oe
42 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

Since it is a provision of the Ranger bequest that paintings pur-
chased from the fund and assigned to American art institutions may
be claimed by the National Collection of Fine Arts during the 5-year
period beginning 10 years after the death of the artist represented,
three paintings were recalled for action of the Smithsonian Art Com-
mission at its meeting December 2, 1947.

Two Ranger Fund paintings were accepted by the Commission to
become permanent accessions of the National Collection of Fine Arts
as listed earlier in this report.

One Ranger Fund painting, The Harvest Moon, by Charles Melville
Dewey, N. A. (1849-1937), was returned to the Fine Arts Society of
San Diego, San Diego, Calif., thus becoming its absolute property.

THE NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS REFERENCE LIBRARY

A total of 470 publications (256 volumes and 214 pamphlets) were
accessioned, bringing the total National Collection of Fine Arts
library accessions to 11,016, plus the volumes of serials formerly ac-
cessioned by the Museum library for the “National Gallery of Art,”
now the National Collection of Fine Arts.

PRESERVATION

Plaster busts of Lincoln and Harrison, by Charles Henry Niehaus,
were bronzed and delivered to The White House for Miss Marie J.
Niehaus.

Portraits were cleaned, restored, and revarnished for the following
departments: State Department—President Madison, by A. G.
Heaton; William Seward, by Rufus Wright; and Hamilton Fish, by
Daniel Huntington. Department of Agriculture—Secretary J. M.
Rusk, by S. Jerome Uhl. Marine Corps of the Navy Department—
Former Commanders Charles G. McCawley and William P. Biddle,
by R. N. Brooke; Charles Heywood and John Zeilen, by L. H. Geb-
hard; and John Harris, by R. LeGrande Johnston.

Many minor repairs have been made to our own specimens.

PAINTINGS COPIED
The portrait of Commodore Stephen Decatur, by Gilbert Stuart,
was copied by Casimir Gregory Stapko, Washington, D. C., for the
University of Pennsylvania, ROTC.

INFORMATION SERVICE

The large number of requests for information and the volume of
photographic prints and post cards sold in the office give evidence of
the importance and value of these services. No detailed account has
SECRETARY’S REPORT 43

been kept of the many paintings, sculptures, and other art objects
brought and sent in for examination and judgment.

Four outside talks were given to art organizations and service clubs
concerning specific material in the National Collection of Fine Arts,
or on subjects of general art interest. Service on juries of award was
performed for five different art societies holding competitive exhibits.

CHANGE IN DIRECTORSHIP

Ruel P. Tolman, after 35 years with the Institution, including 15
years in which he directed the National Collection of Fine Arts,
retired March 31, 1948. He was succeeded by Thomas M. Beggs,
formerly professor of art, Pomona College, Claremont, Calif., who had
been appointed Assistant Director July 30, 1947, and who became
Director April 1, 1948.

SPECIAL EXHIBITIONS

October 6 through 31, 1947.—Exhibition of 78 paintings by Sefor
and Sefiora Oscar Garcia Rivera, of Havana, Cuba. A catalog was
privately printed.

November 9 through 30, 1947,.—The Tenth Metropolitan State Art
Contest, held under the auspices of the District of Columbia Chapter,
American Artists’ Professional League assisted by the Entre Nous
Club, consisting of 271 specimens of paintings, sculpture, prints,
ceramics, and metalcraft. A catalog was privately printed.

January 7 through 29, 1948.—The Sixth Annual Exhibition of the
Florida Gulf Coast Group, consisting of 51 paintings. A catalog
was privately printed.

January 16 through February 15, 1948.—The Forty-sixth Annual
Exhibition of Miniatures by The Pennsylvania Society of Miniature
Painters, consisting of 120 miniatures. Reprint of catalog used in
Philadelphia.

March 7 through 28, 1948.—The Fifty-second Annual Exhibition
of the Washington Water Color Club, consisting of 190 paintings and
prints. A catalog was privately printed.

March 7 through 28, 1948.—The Fifteenth Annual Exhibition of The
Miniature Painters, Sculptors and Gravers Society of Washington,
D. C., consisting of 168 examples. A catalog was privately printed.

April 4 through 28, 1948.—The Fifty-seventh Annual Exhibition
of The Society of Washington Artists, consisting of 69 paintings and
13 pieces of sculpture. A catalog was privately printed.

May 16 through 30, 1948—Biennial Exhibition of the National
League of American Pen Women, consisting of 228 specimens of paint-
ings, sculpture, prints, ceramics and metalcraft. A catalog was
privately printed.
44 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

June 7 through 29, 1948.—Exhibition of 168 paintings in oil and
water color made during three expeditions to Tibet by the French
painter Lafugie.

Respectfully submitted.

Tuomas M. Brees, Director.

Dr. A. WErMorgE,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 4
REPORT ON THE FREER GALLERY OF ART

Sir: I have the honor to submit the twenty-eighth annual report
on the Freer Gallery of Art for the year ended June 30, 1948.

THE COLLECTIONS

Additions to the collections by purchase were as follows:

BRONZE

47.11. Chinese, Shang dynasty (1766-1122 B. C.; late). Ceremonial tripod of the
type li-ting; variable gray to green patina; decorated with casting in
low and bold relief and in intaglio; strongly projecting flanges; in-
scription of one character. 0.218 x 0.184.

47.12. Chinese, Chou dynasty (1122-256 B. C.). Covered ceremonial vessel of
the type yu; smooth variable olive-green to brown patina; decorated
with casting in low relief; zoomorphic heads in the round terminating
bail handle; inscription of three characters. 0.229 x 0.228.

47.13, 47.14. Chinese, T‘ang dynasty (A. D. 618-906). Pair of seated lions cast
in bronze and gilded; encrustations of cuprite, azurite, and malachite;
details incised; on low square platforms with lotus bases; rectangular
mortises and incised characters underneath. 0.092 x 0.052; 0.093 x 0.052.

47.15. Chinese, Chou dynasty (1122-256 B. C.; late). Incense burner of the type
Po-shan Hsiang-lu; stemeup with high conical cover cast in relief to
represent mountain landscape with animals and human figures; en-
twined dragons in relief around foot; inlaid with gold, silver, turquoise,
and carnelian. 0.179 x 0.100.

47.20. Chinese, Chou dynasty (1122-256 B. C.; late). Covered ceremonial tripod
of the type ting; green patina with encrustations of azurite and mala-
chite; upper part of body, cover, and handles decorated with casting
in low relief. 0.385 x 0.493.

48.1. Chinese, Shang dynasty (1766-1122 B. C.; late). Ceremonial vessel of the
type hu; silvery and grayish-green patina with encrustations of cuprite
and malachite; decorated with casting in relief; bovine heads as handle
lugs. (Illustrated.) 0.3881 x 0.274 x 0.227,

IVORY

48.8, 48.4, 48.5. Chinese, T‘ang dynasty (A. D. 618-906). Three figures of
carved ivory aged to dark brown; representing three Buddhist deities:
the Bodhisattva AvalokiteSvara, the Buddha Maitreya and the
Bodhisattva Bhaisajyaguru. 0.095 x 0.020; 0.094 x 0.021; 0.095 x 0.020.

LACQUER

47.24. Chinese, Chou dynasty (1122-256 B. C.; late). Shallow cup of wood
covered with red and brown lacquer; lateral handles; geometric, floral,
and animal decoration ; from Ch‘ang-sha. 0.050 x 0.171 x 0.152.

45
46 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

MANUSCRIPT

47.19. Persian, Mongol period (early 14th century). Fragment of Tarjama-i
Tarikh-i Tabari, i. e., Bal’ami’s Persian translation of Tabari’s Uni-
versal History ; 205 fols. ; 33 lines of black naskhi per page with captions
in red naskhi; seven miniatures in color and gold; modern red leather
binding; pages 0.410 x 0.285.

PAINTING

47.17. Chinese, Ming dynasty (A. D. 13868-1644). Scroll painting by Hsii Pén
dated in correspondence with A. D. 1877; landscape in ink on paper;
signature and 11 seals on painting; title, 7 colophons and 18 seals on
mounting. (Illustrated.) 0.285 x 4.968.

47.21, Persian (14th or 15th century). Page from a pharmacological treatise;
paintings in color on paper of a duck (obverse) and a cock pheasant or
jungle cock (reverse) ; naskhi script in black for text, red for headings.
(Illustrated.) 0.245 x 0.162.

47.22. Persian (first half 16th century). A galloping Turki horseman painted in
black and red on paper; inscription “Portrait of Muhammad Shah
Padishah”’; seal. 0.101 x 0.154.

47.23. Persian (late 16th or early 17th century). A dervish in landscape smok-
ing a qualiiin pipe held by a disciple; black and colors on paper;
Signed by Muhammad Muhsin. 0.168 x 0.093.

POTTERY

47.16. Chinese, Ch‘ing dynasty, K‘ang-hsi period (A. D. 1662-1722). Vase with
globular body, low foot and tall, slender neck; thick, rich gray-blue
glaze with minute bubbles and brown stained crackle. 0.412 x 0.212.

47.18. Persian, Seljuk period (11th-12th century). Deep bowl of fine white clay;
decorated with the figure of a winged griffon carved in the body and
covered with blue, green, purple and yellow glazes against the white
glaze. (Illustrated.) 0.083 x 0.344.

48.2. Chinese, Ming dynasty (A. D. 1368-1644; early). Vase of bottle shape
with high spreading foot, slightly spreading neck, and short vertical
lip; annular handles and free-moving rings; white porcelain with
creamy-white glaze; decorated with phoenixes and dragons finely in-
cised in the clay almost invisible under the glaze. 0.185 x 0.085.

48.6. Chinese, T‘ang dynasty (A. D. 618-906). Tomb figurine of a seated man
holding a fowl on his left knee and a basket of peas (?) on his right;
fine-grained, buff-white clay, partly glazed and the rest painted with
black, green, and red. 0.260 x 0.171 x 0.168.

48.7. Chinese, T‘ang dynasty (A. D. 618-906). Tomb figurine of a woman
seated on the ground holding and feeding a fowl; fine-grained buff-
white clay painted with black, green, and red. 0.151 x 0.152 x 0.171.

The work of the staff members has been devoted to the study of new
accessions, of objects submitted for purchase, and to general research
within the collections of Chinese, Japanese, Arabic, Persian, and In-
dian materials. Reports, oral or written, were made upon 38,498 ob-
jects and 1,108 photographs of objects submitted for examination; and
288 oriental language inscriptions were translated.
Secretary's Report, 1948.—Appendix 4 PLATE 1

48.1

2 SCs Lf

RECENT ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTION OF THE FREER GALLERY OF ART.
Secretary's Report, 1948.—Appendix 4 PEATE

Hike pei woe a NOU A LEE
pac, Be pla snbbaslne Linas 2it
ee F BLD po SPS le POCEASE
Sislrab 5 ga sien? oes aie

SS PANERA: GNASS 050s

7.21

4-7.18

RECENT ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTION OF THE FREER GALLERY OF ART.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 47
REPAIRS TO THE COLLECTIONS

A total of 16 objects were remounted or repaired as follows:

Chinesespaintingssremounted sss ee ee eee 10
Chineselpaintings repaired s.= as ee E Ee 1
Chinesesculptunemep alte ds eas ee ee ee eee eee Opt
Japanese: painting, remounteds.]—— ee eee 1
Japanesespaintingssrepaire de kee we eee ee ee ee ee 2
Japanesespottery wepalrede see -ee  ee e eee ee ee 1

The long-overdue task of repairing and restoring the Peacock
Room by James McNeill Whistler was begun on October 10, 1947. This
work involves taking down all four walls of the room, removing all
leather from the original paneling, constructing a complete set of new
panels of harborite, reconditioning the leather and cleaning all painted
and gilded surfaces, remounting the leather on the new panels by
means of a moisture-proof wax adhesive, and reinstalling all panels
and shelving. All phases of the actual restoration are being done by
Messrs. John A. and Richard M. Finlayson of the Museum of Fine
Arts, Boston, on a part-time schedule. All structural work is being
done in the Gallery cabinet shop. The work is still in progress.

>

CHANGES IN EXHIBITIONS

Changes in exhibitions totaled 1,196, as follows:

American arts:

OEE ts To $5 tl A lr Es se es ee 92
ID PAWAN SSN CePA Stel gk x se ee tee a 3 a ae ee 32
AREA UGS es eae eee he wy ead Alle alle rent oct Se Rertiewe Earl ten Tomes LEANN WE LISP oe 43
Arabic arts:
ES COE Din Chita eae aa i ere ee re a Ne 4
CT Ea Ss ea ene SR ae ae Se ers es Be ac en Ree, EA 2
Manis Crip tse = eer ee ae ee ee ee eee ee a ee ee 35
VERB Oa ayaa) ae ol ch le Soe oe Ne ae ee ee ee AAS Seo 16
AVVO O LEG UTE Vill) aw me neeencs ena rae etal eee ee Nees eke NE See ee 2
Armenian arts: 2
MIATA S Crh) tee eee ee A eet St ces ee 24
Bactrian arts:
Metal onka = D2 oem eee ne oe se eee ee ee Se eee oe ee eee 2
Byzantine arts:
Crys taller ee eee see Oe es eee ape ald raed 2
Mie tatliw 0 Tk eke ee oe ee ee eae ee ee 9
DP AAT CT Oe aes os Seu de ee eS Rae eee Se ee a ee Sees 12
Chinese arts:
IST 11.2, ae a a en Se et ee Se = See Lie 100
Jade ee ee a ee eee ee eet Ties Mee 42
Metalwotks aa seas = sak Se ee es oe eee ea Se a 31
Paintin gasses sees ee ee ee ee eet eee 38
Pottery 2o= 22+ se te ee ee eee ee re ee See eee ee 31
SE Gs ea eee St I ee rn eas eee Ee gh 2

Wioodisculpturetia 22 suS 5 ai ste eee ee eee ne oe 6
48 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

CHANGES IN EXHIBITIONS—continued

Coptic arts:

Manuseriptitstie a! ot 208 trae a bee Ee ee ee 1

Patio e Se ee ee ed 6
Hgyptian arts:

Rottery: 22222 2 32 Se a ee ee ee 3
Greek arts:

Manuscript. 22323 en ee ee eee 16
Indian arts:

Era US Cry te ee Sc Re SR a ae a 6

Paintings ce het oe SEE DAA ee eae eee See er eee 145

Selipltwres ee a a A ee ee eee ee 12
Japanese arts:

Thacquen. 2 See a eee 18

Paintings 225. = Sees ee a ee ee ee ee 125

POttGRY se ae ee ee ee 78

S(oby e) heapy  oPeAe us seater e ee OO ER eye Bain Lh Je Re gE ae 4
Korean arts:

Bronze! 228 22s be ee oe eee 1

Pottery2 = a2 22a ee ee ee 30
Mesopotamian arts:

Pottery seen set ne a en ee 8
Persian arts:

IBOOkDIn Ging = ee oe ee eee 6

Manuseriptts 222 sae 2 et i ee Se ee eee 10

Metal wotlk. 2.3 22) ee ee eee eee 23

Paintings: 2 2 ee Se ae ee ee 124

Potteryse2o2228) 1 oe se Se ee eee 38
Syrian arts:

QGliase8 52 oe se ee ee Se 8 ee ee eee = al

Metalwonkes 22 23S es eee ee eee 5
Veneto-Islamic arts:

Metalwork..2=22-= - oo o2 ok a ee ee eee 1

ATTENDANCE

The Gallery was open to the public from 9:00 to 4:30 every day
except Christmas Day. The total number of visitors to come in
the main entrance was 77,012. The weekday total was 61,916 and the
Sunday total was 15,096. The average weekday attendance was 198,
the average Sunday attendance was 290. The highest monthly at-
tendance was in July with 12,230 visitors; the lowest was in December
with 3,045 visitors.

There were 1,650 visitors to the main office during the year; the
purposes of their visits were as follows:

Hor generalwintormation= = a a ee ee eee 1,113
To; isee\ stati members) 22-2 ee eee 115
Movread in the libraryos2s 52 ae ee ee ee eee 266
To make sketches and tracings from library books_-___--_---_----_-_- 17
No see, building and) installations=2-— 2252 2— = eeeee 46

To make photographs in court and sketches in exhibition galleries____ 41
SECRETARY’S REPORT 49

To examine, borrow, or purchase photographs and slides__--______-- 308
To Submit-objects| for examina toni eee Be ae ee eee 433
‘ROPSEE ODI CCHS FIM ISEORA Gerth ENE Tees as ae as 2 eee 214

WashingetonsmanuscriptSs= sas ee es 10

Far Hastern paintings and textiles________.____________ 52

Near Hastern paintings and manuscripts_______________ afl:

Ribetan’spaintime se sess Mess SNe ee

AMeLiCAn paImbtIng sit. csi kesh Ue Ee Se 32

WIDTS ELSIF spoT Se See eae Be a A ae 4

Oriental pottery, jade, bronze, lacquer, and bamboo___. 88

Gold treasure and Byzantine objects___________--_____-_ 3

CASTE SS Ca liga Gar ea ee ee EEN Se ATE RE A 10

Syriancand other glass. 222 Vai i Sie eae 34

DOCENT SERVICE, LECTURES, MEETINGS

By request, 16 groups met in the exhibition galleries for instruction
by staff members. Total attendance was 311.

On invitation, the following lecture was given outside the Gallery
by a staff member:

Mepis a Mr. Pope lectured on “The Pottery and Porcelain of China”
at the Chevy Chase Women’s Club. Attendance: 30.

The Auditorium was used for meetings as follows:

1947

INOV4ee 9 USS Bureau of Economics, U. S. Department of Agriculture.
Attendance: 80.

NOVA O eee he = Ditto. Attendance: 155.

INO VIG Rae cet 10: Ditto. Attendance: 140.

INOW? (232 ii Ditto. Attendance: 75.

1948

Jans 20se 202 Ves Art Section, Twentieth Century Club; lecture by Mr. Pope.
Attendance: 90.

Mars ia nS ee 20 ia Art Section, Chevy Chase Women’s Club; lecture by Mr.
Pope. Attendance: 20.

Apre2gee lei Division of Dairy Herds Industry, U. 8S. Department of
Agriculture. Attendance: 45.

Mary lis 08 2 National Conference on Family Life. Attendance: 212.

ING YY (Coe oe National Conference on Family Life. Attendance: 52.

dunes aS Museum group. Special Libraries Association; lecture by

Mr. Pope. Attendance: 36.

Members of the staff traveled outside of Washington for profes-
sional purposes as follows:

1947

Julys des Dr. Ettinghausen in Baltimore, at the Walters Art Gallery,
to examine and select Indian miniatures for exhibition
in London.

Oct 4-10 2222s Mr. Pope in New York and Boston; in the Museum of Fine

Arts, attended symposium in connection with exhibition
of the Bernat collection; examined objects belonging to
museums, private collections, and dealers.
50 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

1947

Te fe ee Mr. Pope in Baltimore, at the Baltimore Museum of Art, to
examine objects of Siamese art and select for exhibition.

INOWie 2 eee Mr. Pope in Philadelphia, at the Philadelphia Museum of
Art, to examine objects and discuss plans for a proposed
exhibition.

Dec. 10-11________. Mr. Wenley in Williamsburg, Va., at the College of William
and Mary, to examine Chinese objects and select for
exhibition.

1948

eps pa een es Dr. Httinghausen in Baltimore, at the Walters Art Gallery,
to examine objects.

HebsrZ0l 2s sae. Mr. Pope in New York; examined objects belonging to
dealers.

Mar. 29-Apr. 2___.. Mr. Wenley in New York; attended annual meeting of the

American Oriental Society ; at executive committee meet-
ing he reported on the Hackney Scholarship Fund of
which he is committee chairman; examined objects be-
longing to dealers; attended organization meeting of the
Far Eastern Association.

Mar, 30—Apr. 2____- Mr. Pope in New York; attended annual meeting of the
American Oriental Society; examined objects belonging
to dealers; served as temporary secretary at all-day
organizational meeting of the Far Hastern Association,
and was elected to Board of Directors of the Association.

ADT 14s eee ee Dr. Ettinghausen in New York, Boston, and Cambridge;
attended meeting of Committee on Near Eastern Studies
of the American Council of Learned Societies; examined
objects belonging to museums and dealers; did research
in connection with current studies.

JNy aes ONG Roles eee Mr. Wenley in Ann Arbor; at the University of Michigan,
conferred with University officers on problems related to
Far Hastern studies.

May 14-1822) 2. Dr. Ettinghausen in Boston, Cambridge, New York, Prince-
ton, and Philadelphia for research and conferences in con-
nection with objects in the collections and Gallery publi-
cations; in Boston attended meeting of the Archaeological
Institute of America to discuss the foundation of an
American School of Egyptian Studies in Cairo; examined
objects belonging to museums, private collections, and
dealers.

May 15-18__---__-. Mr. Pope in Boston, Cambridge, and New York; at the
Fogg Museum of Art attended a pottery symposium which
resulted in the formation of the Far Hastern Ceramic
Group; conferred with editors of Harvard Journal of
Asiatic Studies; examined objects belonging to museums,
private collections, and dealers.

Misys 24 sete Baas Mr. Wenley and Mr. Rawley in New York; attended sympo-
sium on museum lighting at the Metropolitan Museum of
Art.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 51

1948
Maye20=2Saueweee ee Mr. Wenley in Providence, Boston, and Cambridge; at-

tended annual meeting of the Association of Museum
Directors at the Museum of the Rhode Island School of
Design; at the Fogg Museum of Art and the Museum of
Fine Arts, examined bronzes, paintings, and new acces-
sions,

Respectfully submitted.
A. G. Wentry, Director.
Dr. A. Wetmore,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
th whe - ny ae : 7 ane ae ry fs at

7 — :, st? be ay’ ee i",

7 Fe i ns Oe. . +

a wn) ; ‘i

an jeonratm Vi was sigh a! i Amn Det, Fah mn
cine Rr SHRI 4 mi) Vr yh hg we ar Neg O OTS.
an faite 7 Betis PN ecu Sh Lt net route hy ergavuls =
td cate aed da Thyes HE Ag ef aeIseid) aia tM: Ad) Wg rat net
sate al iyi Seyi ty } a onay ue iu ae ee t

iit /
i . 7 7 re Pa a io _=S > ~*~ ‘ SS ¥
; ™s | mn" 7
: 7 ; marie = 7 cod eh nt, aight nea ey towags
7 _ J rene + v - -
ater pens kh — n
Le } — _ : _— - F
ame A ) a 7 ict
we A ' = see Py es ] it 28 vee ° 0 tala {S.., re uy ul eee
nS CG Cub
De eee ras eee che ace
a ~ a _
\ a ve ie om iy n - 7r
. 4 a a a a (= ae av i’ : “4 are a “he
> 7 J 7 iy ae ie ar :
a ; a ; is i =a - aay * 7 i, ¥ y - 7 oi
: '_-, * ; i ' van hs i T ') mr nl 0 an)
_ - ‘ - - viel? : me. = uF i ‘8 =|
— _ A) —— ;
Po bh Pee ee elie ane ie ae ee
es -— - ——. : va >
=7 7 an me =| : a hae ee mar , obget. ad - i M,
: f . ab = Yi ta " PGs ee 7 =? rT’ pie
ne A ik on Ole te ae -_ : an ota, al a
at 7 ws fore iD iy i i Le | “ene ;
i = — - re
, oo ih wit” AGH , ow! - SN GRE) Sire: ieee ae at
Oh td er ee tS
— rae aia i iia les a) Th. Oris teat Oi is
- “8 7 T aT Se ale a eal om - f .
- =

es ©, Ta 1 oe Ge ee

ite et ae
V0; = us — Rey ee tl On tie i Serres ay ix 2? pe
ry : : 7 \ 7 - i mee Ae aie cr ie as ¢ ee 7 : y ney _
f Se th wee Hog ritarthe if nates et eee
_ ih may igs ag ier ee Hy ir oer
— | " poplin’ a wt 7 ; y
it eS, - hier ae 3) n ve 7 ie ft “we : ae i 7
fri Seu aa He Ton ft i Rote Oy us we Se hn Seen
a . in T - ete 7
ieee! kyr ir . Wisely Tae ye an ee
7 Gait iid Pie _ a 4 Wet f ae : 1 7 . 7
a. aT A ns a Lark ee ae
7 7 7 ro has fie - : oa a A - ie ‘\ re ue a4 :
; = ae ey 7 a 4 Typ Ve yt ae ; ;

>
:
_
.
-
oe
-*
a
=
Pag

ayia aes oF
Pi Pi E om S a a a 4
: - ss er,
‘7 ! ie ae -
- t
a ——- on ;
7 ae -
‘ af 7 : 1 F - ‘<= :
_ \ : =
Ww te ; ee: pen) a eS
: iy hob - _ a ' (2 ni
id fru t _ yo
a if 1 i 4 rs
W a. _ i 7 fi oy yp G
17 ? -
se y
= en ra a as , !
t «6 ’ ° 7
: Ss i es | i '
} i) > , om ee
7 p
1 c
- i
— )
7 _ ‘
af
i 10
ih
_
7
ot i)
+
f *
APPENDIX 5
REPORT ON THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the field
researches, oflice work, and other operations of the Bureau of Ameri-
can Ethnology during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1948, conducted
in accordance with the Act of Congress of June 27, 1944, which pro-
vides “* * * for continuing ethnological researches among the
American Indians and the natives of Hawaii and the excavation and
preservation of archeologic remains. * * *”

SYSTEMATIC RESEARCHES

Dr. M. W. Stirling, Director of the Bureau, spent the first part of
the fiscal year in Washington attending to administrative duties and
in preparing a study on “Olmec Jade.”

On January 1 Dr. Stirling left for western Panama where he spent
31% months in the excavation of four archeological sites on the Azuero
Peninsula in cooperation with the National Geographic Society. Two
of these were representative of the relatively late Coclé culture. A
third was a mound site representing a new culture apparently ances-
tral to Coclé, while the fourth site was a shell mound near the mouth
of the Parita River, which was found to contain a very early and
completely new culture, unrelated to anything heretofore known in
Panama. During this work Dr. Stirling was assisted in the field by
Dr. Gordon Willey of the Bureau staff.

At the close of the archeological field season a brief visit was made
to the Guaymi Indians in the Province of Chiriqui.

Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr., Associate Director of the Bureau
and Director of the River Basin Surveys, was mainly occupied
throughout the fiscal year in directing the River Basin Surveys. In
connection with this work he established cooperative projects with
State and local institutions in various parts of the country, aided in
the preparation of preliminary reports pertaining to the results of
investigations in various reservoir basins, and wrote progress reports
for the cooperating agencies. He went to Lincoln, Nebr., November 26
to December 5, where he inspected the field headquarters and labora-
tory for the Missouri Basin project, received reports on the results
of the summer’s surveys in that area, and aided in the preparation of
plans for evaluating and handling the material collected. While in
Lincoln he attended sessions of the Fifth Plains Conference for Ar-
cheology and presided at a symposium on “The Paleo-Indian in the

53
54 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

Central Plains.” He also took part in a regional conference of Na-
tional Park Service officials at which various phases of the River
Basins program were discussed and plans for the future were formu-
lated. In May he went to Milwaukee, Wis., to attend the annual
meeting of the Society for American Archeology and presided over a
symposium on “The River Basin Archeological Surveys.” Dr. Rob-
erts’ report on the River Basin Surveys appears in another section of
this report.

Dr. John P. Harrington, ethnologist, was occupied at the beginning
of the fiscal year in the preparation of a supplement to his recently
completed Aleutian grammar. This supplement contains a long list
of terms relating to natural history, weather, material cultures,
sociology, religion, and geography. Following this Dr. Harrington
completed a grammar of the Maya language consisting of 750 type-
written pages. This study is of particular importance, as Maya is
one of the “classic” languages of aboriginal America.

Dr. Harrington then prepared and brought to completion a gram-
mar of the Cahuilla language. The Cahuilla Indians are at present
the leading native tribe of southern California. A large report on
the Guarani language of South America was also finished. Guarani
in the Republic of Paraguay has been given equal cfficial and legal
standing with Spanish. This is the only instance in which a native
Indian language has been given a true literate status. A smaller paper
on the Matako language of the central part of the Gran Chaco of
Argentina was next completed. It was found that in many respects
this language is surprisingly similar to Guarani. Another large
paper was then prepared, describing and discussing the three principal
ideographic writing systems of the world, Egyptian, Chinese, and
Maya.

Dr. Henry B. Collins, Jr., ethnologist, spent the period from June
19 to August 16 on Martha’s Vineyard, Mass., engaged in an archeo-
logical survey of the western end of the island. He found a number of
prehistoric Indian village and camp sites, mainly in the Chilmark-
Menemsha-Gay Head region, and made collections of artifacts. On
returning to Washington he resumed his Eskimo studies.

As chairman of the Board of Governors of the Arctic Institute of
North America, Dr. Collins continued to devote considerable time to
the affairs of that organization. In the course of the year the Arctic
Institute, with increased support from governmental and other sources,
expanded its research and other activities. It opened a New York
office at the American Geographical Society headquarters, established
an open membership, and began publication of a journal. It spon-
sored and administered a number of field studies in anthropology,
botany, zoology, geology, and geography. These projects carried out
SECRETARY’S REPORT 55

in Alaska and northern Canada were financed in large part by the
office of Naval Research and the Canadian Government.

Dr. Collins continued to serve as chairman of the Directing Com-
mittee for the Arctic Institute’s Bibliography and Roster projects.
This committee selected personnel and put into operation these two
projects—the preparation of a comprehensive annotated and indexed
bibliography on the Arctic, and a roster of Arctic specialists. The
projects are supported by funds from the Office of Naval Research,
the Army, and the Defense Research Board of Canada. The bibliog-
raphy project, with four expert bibliographers and three assistants,
is under way at the Library of Congress; the roster project, with a
director and assistant, has been given office space in the building of
the Carnegie Institution of Washington.

At the invitation of the Canadian Government, Dr. Collins left
Washington late in June to conduct archeological work for the Smith-
sonian Institution and the National Museum of Canada in the northern
part of the Canadian Arctic Archipelago.

At the beginning of the year Dr. William N. Fenton was on leave
while teaching in the summer session of Northwestern University
(June 23 to August 23), where he was invited to occupy the post of
professor in the department of anthropology during that quarter.
While in the Chicago area, he was able to spend considerable time
examining rare books and manuscripts in the Ayer Collection of the
Newberry Library and to study ethnological collections from the
Troquois Indians in the Milwaukee Public Museum and in the Chicago
Natural History Museum. Returning, Dr. Fenton spent the first 2
weeks of September at field work among the Seneca Indians of Alle-
gany Reservation in western New York.

Teaching a course in primitive political institutions suggested a
plan for undertaking a comprehensive political history of the League
of the Iroquois which would attempt to test the findings of ethnology
in the historian’s traditional materials. The documentary materials
on the Six Nations comprising the Iroquois League for the Federal
Period alone and for the succeeding first decade of the nineteenth
century exist in several large collections of papers which have not
been used extensively by historians of Federal and Indian political
relations. First, the papers of Samuel Kirkland (1741-1808) contain
interesting sidelights on the political activities of the Six Nations,
covering missionary activities among the Oneida, Tuscarora, and
Seneca tribes; the correspondence of an agent of the American Revo-
Jution; and the gradual civilization of the native Indians. Exami-
nation of the Kirkland papers at Hamilton College was begun in
September with the help of M. H. Deardorff of Warren, Pa., and
Charles E. Congdon, an alumnus. The project is indebted to Dr.
Arthur C. Parker of Naples, N. Y., for the loan of a Seneca Census of

817369—49——5
56 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

1840 and several minute books of the Six Nations Council at Buffalo
Creek by the New England missionary Rev. Asher Wright; these have
subsequently been acquired by the American Philosophical Society.

Two grants were received for Iroquois research. Toward the col-
lection of materials for a political history of the Iroquois the American
Philosophical Society made a grant for travel, photoduplication, and
secretarial assistance; and a similar grant was received from the Vik-
ing Fund, Inc., for field work.

Beginning in February, Dr. Fenton spent about 1 week of each
month in travel to repositories of historical materials. He visited
Salem and Boston to examine the Timothy Pickering papers, working
in the Essex Institute and the Peabody Museum of Salem, and the
Massachusetts Historical Society and the Houghton Library of
Harvard in the Boston area. Frequent short trips were made to the
library of the American Philosophical Society, Philadelphia, to ex-
amine parallel papers and to identify a Constitution of the Iroquois
Confederacy by Seth Newhouse. In April Dr. Fenton went back to
Hamilton College for further work on the Kirkland papers, and re-
turning, he stopped at Vassar College library to arrange for copying
the Jasper Parrish papers. Kirkland, Pickering, and Parrish were
all concerned in negotiating treaties with the Six Nations after the
Revolution, and their letters led to the immense collection of mementos
relating to western New York which Henry O'Reilly of Rochester had
collected in 15 large folio volumes for presentation to the New York
Historical Society. By the end of June Dr. Fenton had completed
a first examination of the O’Reilly papers and had arranged for micro-
filming a substantial part of them. A policy of collecting as much as
practicable on microfilm has cut down the cost of travel.

Dr. Fenton completed a term as senior editor of the Journal of the
Washington Academy of Sciences. In June he was appointed anthro-
pologist member of the Language Panel of the United States National
Commission for UNESCO.

A second album of Iroquois records with program notes, edited by
Dr. Fenton, entitled “Seneca Songs from Coldspring Longhouse,”
was published by the Library of Congress.

Dr. Philip Drucker, anthropologist, was detailed to the River Basin
Surveys July 1 to October 1, 1947, for work in the Columbia Basin.
He returned to Washington on October 1, and during the ensuing
months he brought to completion an ethnographic monograph entitled
“The Northern and Central Nootkan Tribes,” based on field investi-
gations which he had made among the Nootkan-speaking Indians of
Vancouver Island, British Columbia, some years before. This report
describes in detail mode of life and customs of these Indians during
the closing decades of the nineteenth century and is to be followed by
a study tracing the cultural changes produced by European contacts
SECRETARY’S REPORT 57

during the maritime fur trade a century earlier. On finishing this
report, he completed an archeological monograph, “La Venta,
Tabasco: A Study of Olmec Ceramics and Art,” which summarizes the
principal results of the studies made by the Smithsonian Institution-
National Geographic Society expeditions to southern Veracruz and
Tabasco, Mexico. In addition, he prepared two short papers for
publication—‘Preliminary Account of Archeological Reconnaissance
on the Chiapas Coast,” and one entitled “The Antiquity of the North-
west Coast Totem Pole”—as well as summary reports for the Director,
River Basin Surveys, on the results of investigations of 14 reservoir
areas in the Columbia Basin and of 10 in California during the pre-
ceding field season.

On May 2 Dr. Drucker proceeded to Boston and Salem, Mass., to
examine collections of manuscript materials and museum collections
from the period of the maritime fur trade on the Northwest Coast,
in the archives of the Massachusetts Historical Society and in the
Peabody Museum, Salem. Through the courtesy of officials of those
institutions, he was given access to the collections and was able to
assemble a considerable amount of unpublished data relating to the
problem of culture change due to early European influences. On
May 9 he returned to Washington.

On May 18 he was again detailed to the River Basin Surveys and
left for the Pacific Coast, to resume charge of the River Basin Sur-
veys work there. He was occupied with these duties at the end of
the fiscal year.

Dr. Gordon R. Willey was detailed to the River Basin Surveys for
the period August 15 to October 1, 1947, for work in Tennessee.

In the month of October Dr. Willey was occupied in writing addi-
tional sections of a report, “Ancon and Supe: Formative Period Sites
of the Central Peruvian Coast.” ‘This paper is being prepared in
conjunction with J. M. Corbett and L. M. O’Neale and is to be pub-
lished under the auspices of Columbia University. In November and
December full time was devoted to a long monograph “Archeology
of the Florida Gulf Coast.” This involved both writing and a mu-
seum survey in late November. Collections were examined in Cam-
bridge, Andover, and New York.

On January 1, Dr. Willey accompanied Dr. Stirling to western
Panama for 314 months of archeological excavations in Herrera Prov-
ince. Four sites were examined and stratigraphic tests made in the
most promising locations of each. May and June, following the re-
turn from Panama, were occupied with writing the “Archeology of
the Florida Gulf Coast.” This report should be completed early in
September 1948.

In addition to regular research duties, Dr. Willey has attended
two meetings of the Institute of Andean Research, of which he is a
58 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

member, and a meeting of Florida archeologists held early in August
at Daytona Beach. He has also served as assistant editor to Ameri-
can Antiquity, to the Handbook of Latin American Studies, and to
the Journal of American Archaeology. For all these journals his work
has entailed the covering of recent South American archeological lit-
erature.

In the Bureau he has acted as consultant during the final editing
of the third and fourth volumes of the Handbook of South American
Indians.

The following articles were prepared by Dr. Willey for publication
during the year 1947-48: “Culture Sequence for the Manatee Region
of West Florida,” American Antiquity, vol. 13, No. 3; “The Cultural
Context of the Crystal River Negative Painted Style,” American An-
tiquity, vol. 18, No. 4; “A Proto-type of the Southern Cult,” Ameri-
can Antiquity, vol. 13, No. 4.

SPECIAL RESEARCHES

Miss Frances Densmore, collaborator of the Bureau, conducted spe-
cial research on music among the South American Indians and sub-
mitted a manuscript entitled “Musical Customs of the Southern Hunter
Indians of South America” as compiled from the Handbook of South
American Indians.

INSTITUTE OF SOCIAL ANTHROPOLOGY

The Institute of Social Anthropology was created in 1943 as an
autonomous unit of the Bureau of American Ethnology to carry out
cooperative training in anthropological teaching and research with the
other American republics. During the past year it was financed by
transfers from the Department of State, totaling $94,882, from the
appropriation “Cooperation with the American Republics, 1948.”
The major activities of the Institute of Social Anthropology during
the fiscal year 1948 are as follows:

Washington office—Dr. George M. Foster continued as director of
the Institute of Social Anthropology. He traveled to six South Amer-
ican countries during the period February 14 to April 12, 1948, visiting
Institute of Social Anthropology field stations in Popayan, Colombia,
Lima, Pera, and Sao Paulo, Brazil. In addition, courtesy calls were
made on anthropologists in Barranquilla and Medellin, Colombia,
Quito, Ecuador, Cusco, Pert, La Paz, Bolivia, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil,
and Caracas, Venezuela. Dr. Foster also spent 8 weeks in México
(November 25—December 15, 1947) reading final proof on Publication
No. 6 of the Institute of Social Anthropology.

Brazil.—Drs. Donald Pierson and Kalervo Oberg continued their
work in Sao Paulo in cooperation with the Escola Livre de Sociologia
SECRETARY’S REPORT 59

e Politica. They gave a number of courses in sociology and anthro-
pology, supplementing other courses given by local professors in the
general field of the humanities. Dr. Oberg, accompanied by several
advanced students, returned to the Mato Grosso for 3 months, July-
September 1947, to complete field work initiated the preceding year
among the Terena and Caduveo Indians. Dr. Pierson, assisted by
advanced students, continued field work at “A Vila,” a caboclo com-
munity near Sao Paulo. The proximity of “A Vila” to Sio Paulo
made it possible to utilize week ends and short vacations throughout
the year, rather than spending a continuous longer period in the field.

Colombia.—Dr. John H. Rowe continued to represent the Institute
of Social Anthropology in Popayan, Colombia, cooperating with the
Instituto Etnolégico of the Universidad del Cauca. Courses in
ethnology, linguistics, and archeology were given to the students
enrolled in the Instituto and 2 months of field work was carried out
among the nearby Guambiano Indians, August-September 1947. Dr.
Rowe also twice visited Bogota to consult with local anthropologists
of the National Ethnological Institute concerning anthropological
activities in Colombia. Sr. Gabriel Ospina, formerly a student of
Institute of Social Anthropology scientists in México, was named
director of the newly established Instituto de Antropologfa Social of
the Escuela Normal Superior. Utilizing field techniques learned
while working with Dr. Foster in Tzintzuntzan, México, he began a
4-year anthropological study of the pueblo of Viani, to train local
personnel, and to throw light on the functioning of this aspect of
Colombian culture.

México.—Dr. Isabel Kelly and Dr. Stanley Newman continued to
represent the Institute of Social Anthropology in its cooperative plan
with the Escuela Nacional de Antropologia. Because of reduced ap-
propriations as compared to the fiscal year of 1947, it was necessary
to terminate studies in cultural geography on August 31, 1947, when
Robert C. West left this service. Five courses in ethnology and lin-
guistics were given during the academic year. Dr. Kelly, assisted by
four students, returned to Tajin, Veracruz, to continue her study of
the 'Totonac Indians. A photographic exhibit in the Benjamin Frank-
lin Library in May 1947, of 'Totonac Indian scenes, prepared by Dr.
Kelly, received favorable comment from many Mexicans, and was
thoroughly described in El Nacional, the official Mexican Government
newspaper. Dr. Newman, working with other faculty members and
students, and working with native informants brought from the field,
continued research on the Otomi and Nahuatl languages.

Pert.—Dr. Allan Holmberg continued to represent the Institute of
Social Anthropology in Perd in its cooperative work with the Instituto
de Estudios Etnolégicos. As in the case of México, reduced appro-
priations made it necessary to reduce the Peruvian staff ; the services of
60 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

Dr. Webster McBryde were terminated on September 30, 1947. Dr.
Holmberg gave three courses in ethnology during the year; two, in-
cluding a seminar on field methods, in the Instituto de Estudios
Etnoldgicos, and one in the University of San Marcos. Three months,
February through April, 1948, were again spent in the Vira Valley,
bringing to a close the studies initiated the preceding year by Dr.
Holmberg, Dr. Jorge Muelle of the Instituto faculty, and selected
students.

Dr. Holmberg was one of three official United States delegates to
the Hylean Amazon Project of the UNESCO in Iquitos, Pert, in
May 1948.

Publications —Institute of Social Anthropology Publications Nos.
4, 5, 6, and 7, appeared during the fiscal year. These are listed with
the publications of the Bureau of American Ethnology on page 82.

RIVER BASIN SURVEYS

The River Basin Surveys, a unit of the Bureau of American
Ethnology organized to carry into effect a memorandum of under-
standing between the Smithsonian Institution and the National Park
Service providing for the recovery of such archeological and paleon-
tological data and materials as will be lost through the construction
of dams and the creation of reservoirs in many of the river valleys of
the United States, continued its investigations throughout the year.
The work was carried on in cooperation with the National Park
Service and the Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior,
and the Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, and was
financed by the transfer of $73,800 from the National Park Service
to the Smithsonian Institution. These funds were provided in
part by the National Park Service and in part by the Bureau of
Reclamation.

Most of the work in the field was of a reconnaissance or survey
nature, with only a limited testing of sites where such was necessary
to determine their extent and character. In a few cases, however,
actual excavations were undertaken. The activities involved 18 States
and 38 reservoir areas. By the end of the year the number of reser-
voir basins surveyed, since the first parties started in July 1946, totaled
85. Their distribution is: Virginia 1, West Virginia 2, Georgia 2,
Tennessee 1, Oklahoma 2, Texas 5, Colorado (outside of the Missouri
Basin) 4, California 13, the Missouri Basin (7 States) 50, and the
Columbia Basin (4 States) 15. Those where surveys were under
way but not completed by June 30 are not included in this summary.
In the various areas visited 1,576 sites were noted and recorded and of
that number 250 have been recommended for extensive excavation.
The excavations completed or in progress on June 80 were: New
Mextco 1, Wyoming 1, Nebraska 1, South Dakota 1, North Dakota 1,
SECRETARY'S REPORT 61

Texas 1, and Washington 1. Preliminary appraisals with recommen-
dations for further work, supplemented by some technical reports,
have been completed for all the areas surveyed. Limited editions of
61 have been mimeographed for distribution to the cooperating
agencies. The others were in varying stages of being processed at the
end of the year. These mimeographed pamphlets have not been
made available to the general public because they are not complete
archeological reports and are intended to be used only for reference
purposes by the Surveys staff while the program is going forward.
Reports for general distribution will be issued after the archeological
and paleontological work in each unit has been completed.

General direction and supervision of the work in Georgia, West
Virginia, Tennessee, Oklahoma, Texas, New Mexico, Colorado (outside
of the Missouri Basin), and some of the California projects were from
the main office in Washington. Direction of the program in the
Missouri Basin was from a field headquarters and laboratory at
Lincoln, Nebr., while the activities in the Columbia-Snake Basin were
under the supervision of a field office located at Eugene, Oreg.

The assistance and whole-hearted cooperation given to River Basin
Surveys staff men in the field by representatives of the National Park
Service, the Bureau of Reclamation, and the Corps of Engineers con-
tributed in no small degree to the success of much of the work. At
some of the projects temporary office space and storage facilities were
provided, at others transportation was furnished, and in a few cases
labor was made available to help in emergency excavations where
material had to be recovered immediately. The National Park Service
not only obtained the funds necessary for carrying on the program
as a whole, but also served as the liaison between the Smithsonian In-
stitution and the other governmental agencies to the benefit of all
concerned.

Washington office ——The main office of the River Basin Surveys was
under the direction of Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr., throughout the
fiscal year. Carl F. Miller, archeologist, continued to operate from
this office, while Joseph R. Caldwell joined the staff as archeologist
on December 14, 1947, by transfer from the United States National
Museum, and Ralph S. Solecki was appointed in the same capacity
on March 2, 1948.

Mr. Miller spent the months from the beginning of the fiscal year
until January in completing a “Comprehensive Report on the Archeo-
logical Aspects of the Buggs Island Reservoir, Virginia and North
Carolina.” He left Washington on January 10, 1948, in company with
Mr. Caldwell, for Augusta, Ga., where they conferred with the Resi-
dent Engineer of the Clark Hill project on the Savannah River.
From Augusta they proceeded to Lincolnton, Ga., where they estab-
lished headquarters, January 13, and proceeded to make a survey of
62 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

the archeological remains of the area to be flooded by the Clark Hill
Reservoir. During the course of this work they located 128 sites,
70 of which will be covered by water when the dam is completed.
These sites included former village areas, camps, and stone-chipping
stations, with a few mounds. Materials collected from the surface
suggest the former presence of at least six sequent cultural groupings
in the area, including a considerable number which possibly antedate
the introduction of pottery making. Most of the sites are small and, as
a result of long-continued cultivation and erosion, few have any depth.
Three of them have been recommended for excavation. Two of the
latter are representatives of the type of culture which has been named
Stalling’s Island, and the third is the Rembert Mound Group described
by William Bartram in 1791 and partially excavated by C. C. Jones
in 1878 and Cyrus Thomas in 1894 but never thoroughly studied.
These mounds belong in the so-called Lamar period in the South-
eastern cultural sequence.

Miller and Caldwell completed their work at Clark Hill on May 31
and returned to Washington. They spent the remainder of the fiscal
year writing a preliminary report on the results of the survey and
preparing recommendations and estimates for an excavation program
in the basin.

Mr. Solecki left Washington on March 8, 1948, for Hinton, W. Va.,
where he established headquarters and began a survey of the Bluestone
Reservoir Basin on New River. He completed the preliminary recon-
naissance on April 19 and left for Huntington, W. Va., to confer
with the District Engineer, Corps of Engineers. En route he stopped
at Charleston where, with the aid of Mrs. Roy Bird Cook, State
Historian and Archivist, he checked the records and manuscripts in
the History and Archives Department of West Virginia for possible
information on the Indians and early Colonial settlers in the New
River valley. He left Huntington on April 21, for Pittsburgh, Pa.,
stopping to examine some archeological sites at Moundsville, W. Va.
At Pittsburgh he obtained information from the District Engineer,
Corps of Engineers, about the proposed West Fork Reservoir in
the Monongahela Basin in north-central West Virginia. From Pitts-
burgh he proceeded to the West Fork Reservoir area and made a
preliminary reconnaissance of the area that ultimately will be flooded.
This work was completed on May 6, and he returned to the Bluestone
area for more intensive investigation of the remains occurring there.

Inasmuch as both of the reservoir projects surveyed by Mr. Solecki
are in mountainous regions, most of the traces of Indian and Colonial
occupation occur along the river bottoms. A total of 42 archeological
sites were found in the Bluestone area. These include mound groups,
village remains, rock shelters, one location where there are pictographs,
and four Colonial forts. At two of the sites, where potsherds were
SECRETARY’S REPORT 63

found on the surface, Solecki did some test digging. The material
thus obtained places the cultural horizon in late pre-Columbian times
and indicates certain links between the Ohio Valley and the Great Val-
ley of the Shenandoah. Test excavations were also made in the largest
of the rock shelters where both historic and prehistoric objects were
found, the latter occurring in the deposits to a depth of 5 feet.
Because no previous archeological work has been done in this district
the excavation of three of the village sites and the large rock shelter
has been recommended. Solecki found 14 small sites, presumably
places where transient hunting parties had camped, in the West Fork
Basin. None of these are of sufficient size or depth to warrant further
study and no additional work was recommended. The West Virginia
surveys were completed on May 28 and Solecki returned to Washing-
ton where he spent the remainder of the fiscal year preparing reports
on the results of his investigations.

Dr. Gordon R. Willey, archeologist on the regular staff of the
Bureau of American Ethnology, was detailed to the River Basin
Surveys during August and September. On August 14 he went to
Nashville, Tenn., where he visited the office of the District Engineer
for the purpose of obtaining information about the Center Hill proj-
ect on the Caney Fork River near Baxter, Tenn. From there he
proceeded to Baxter and from August 20 to September 12 carried
on a survey of the area to be flooded. He found 29 sites consisting of
temple mounds, small earth-rock mounds, villages, and caves showing
some signs of occupation. Many of the sites proved to be Middle
Mississippian in culture and period; some suggested that they be-
longed in the pre-Mississippian category, and others may even repre-
sent the Archaic. The Middle Mississippian designates the period
when the people lived in large sedentary communities, depended pri-
marily on intensive agriculture for their subsistence, built temple or
substructure mounds, and made characteristic types of pottery and
other artifacts. This generally is believed to have been about A. D.
1300 to 1700. Pre-Mississippian also has been called the Burial Mound
period, or Southeastern Woodland culture. At that stage the people
lived in smaller communities or scattered households, lived pri-
marily by hunting, fishing, food gathering supplemented by a little
agriculture. This was during the centuries from approximately
A. D. 800 to 1300. The Archaic refers to small, scattered groups of
primitive hunters and food gatherers who are believed to have oc-
cupied the area prior to A. D. 700. Excavations were recommended
for one of the temple-mound sites and one of the earth-rock burial
mounds, with testing in some of the village remains. Unfortunately
flooding started before this could be accomplished, and the material
obtained from the survey constitutes most of our knowledge of that
portion of the Cumberland Basin.
64 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

After completing the survey at Center Hill, Dr. Willey proceeded
to Knoxville, Tenn., where he discussed archeological problems with
members of the Department of Anthropology at the University of
Tennessee. From there he returned to Washington and prepared his
report. He returned to his regular duties as a member of the Bureau
staff on October 1.

Oklahoma.—David J. Wenner, Jr., was appointed field assistant
on July 29, 1947, and proceeded to make a survey of the Hulah Reser-
voir basin on the Caney River in Oklahoma. The area to be in-
undated by this project is not large and he was able to cover it in a
few days’ time. He found four sites, all apparently camping places,
and because of their meager nature, did not believe them worthy of
further investigation. From the Hulah region he proceeded to the
Fort Gibson Reservoir project on the Grand (Neosho) River. A
rapid survey of that basin located 24 sites consisting of 1 mound
group, 1 bluff shelter, and the remains of 22 villages or camps. All but
three of the sites will be covered by water. The most important is the
mound group known as the Norman site. It originally consisted of
six earth mounds and a large surrounding village area. Some work
was done in four of the lesser mounds a number of years ago by the
University of Oklahoma. One of the two remaining mounds is the
largest at the site and is connected to an adjacent low mound by a
ramp. Small test excavations have been made in the low mound
but the large one is virtually intact. It represents a stage of cultural
florescence in the southern United States about which very little is
known and may be comparable in scientific wealth to the famous Spiro
mounds, located in an adjacent county, destroyed by treasure hunters
some 15 years ago. Excavation of the Norman mound probably
would provide information essential to dating the Spiro-type culture
which presumably was the forerunner of the native Caddo culture of
the southern Plains at the beginning of historic times. For this
reason thorough investigation of the remaining manifestations at the
Norman site was recommended.

Mr. Wenner completed his field investigations on August 15 and
proceeded to Norman, Okla., where the University of Oklahoma pro-
vided him with facilities for studying the material collected and writ-
ing his reports. During the period of the surveys and the prepara-
tion of the reports, Dr. Robert E. Bell, of the Department of An-
thropology at the University, assisted Mr. Wenner as an advisor and
consultant. After completion of the work Mr. Wenner left the Sur-
veys to return to college. He again joined the staff on June 28, 1948,
and at the close of the fiscal year was engaged in making a survey of
the Tenkiller Ferry Reservoir on the Illinois River in the eastern part
of the State. Robert Shalkop and William Mayer-Oakes, student as-
sistants, were aiding in this work.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 65

Texas.—The River Basin Surveys in Texas continued to operate
throughout the year from the base and headquarters supplied by the
Department of Anthropology at the University of Texas, Austin.
Excavations were completed at one project, the survey of another res-
ervoir basin was brought to conclusion, and two others were started
and finished.

At the beginning of the year Joe Ben Wheat, archeologist, was en-
gaged in excavations at the Addicks Reservoir. This work was termi-
nated on July 15. Mr. Wheat then proceeded to Austin where he
studied the material he had collected and prepared a preliminary
report covering both the results of his survey of the Addicks Basin
and his excavations in two of the sites located there. He also
wrote a paper “Archeological Survey of the Addicks Basin: A Pre-
liminary Report” which was published in volume 18 of the Bulletin
of the Texas Archeological and Paleontological Society. He resigned
from the Surveys on August 15 in order to return to the university
and complete his graduate work.

The excavations at the Addicks Reservoir proved interesting because
they revealed a sequence of cultural stages extending from the era
before pottery making and agriculture were introduced through suc-
ceeding centuries until the beginning of contact with European cul-
ture. The period covered is from about A. D. 900 to 1700. Who the
people were is not known, but certain postulations may be made. At
the time of the first French and Spanish explorations of the region
the Akokisa band of the Atakapan occupied the area. Although little
is known of the specific culture of this group, it is generally considered
to have shared the general Atakapan culture extending into the lower
Mississippi Valley. The archeological culture is of the same south-
eastern pattern, which may point to the Akokisa as being the pre-
Columbian inhabitants of the Addicks district.

At the beginning of the fiscal year Robert L. Stephenson, arche-
ologist, was making a reconnaissance of the Whitney Reservoir Basin
on the Brazos River north of Waco. This work continued until Oc-
tober 1, although August 2-4 he returned to Austin for the purpose of
depositing material collected and of conferring with members of the
Department of Anthropology at the University of Texas; August
30 to September 1 he visited the Spanish Fort and other sites in the
central Red River area; and September 13-14 he went to a number of
archeological locations near Waco, but outside the reservoir basin, for
the purpose of gathering comparative data. On August 23 he made a
114-hour flight over the entire Whitney area, successfully locating
archeological sites from the air and obtaining a comprehensive under-
standing of the district asa whole. He returned to Austin on October
1 and spent most of the following 2 months studying the material col-
lected and writing the preliminary report. He also prepared an ar-
66 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

ticle, “Archeological Survey of Whitney Basin,” which was published
in volume 18 of the Bulletin of the Texas Archeological and Paleonto-
logical Society.

During the course of his investigations Mr. Stephenson located
and recorded 61 sites in the Whitney Basin. These consist of 14 rock
shelters and 47 occupational areas in the open. Two fossil localities
were also located. He recommended 32 sites for further testing and
excavation. Such work should produce important evidence on the
cultural complexes of that portion of Texas.

Mr. Stephenson left Austin on November 26 and went to Lincoln,
Nebr., where he studied the field and laboratory methods being used
by the Missouri Basin Survey group. While at Lincoln he also attend-
ed the Fifth Conference for Plains Archeology and presented a paper
on the work which he had been doing in Texas. He returned to Aus-
tin on December 5 and on the 9th left to begin a survey of the Dam “B”
Reservoir basin on the middle Neches River in the eastern part of the
State. This work was completed on January 18, 1948, having been
interrupted by a trip to the Whitney Reservoir where 3 days were
spent in showing Dr. Theodore E. White, paleontologist, the bone
deposits located earlier. While on this trip Mr. Stephenson located a
large mound and accompanying village remains on the upper Neches
River near Palestine, Tex. From Dam “B” he proceeded to the McGee
Bend Reservoir on the lower Angelina River. Inclement weather,
however, interfered with active work in the field, and most of the time
until February 16 was devoted to studying local collections of arti-
facts, working on field notes, and on the report on the results of the
Dam “B” investigations. During this interval he also went to Galves-
ton, Tex., for a 3-day conference at the office of the District Engineer,
Corps of Engineers, regarding the dates of beginning and completion
of reservoir projects in all parts of Texas. The period from February
16 to April 15, except for 8 days (March 5-7) spent at Nacogdoches
studying old records to obtain data on the early history of the area, was
devoted to reconnaissance of the McGee Bend basin. When the survey
was finished Mr. Stephenson returned to Austin and was occupied until
the end of the year in preparing his reports on the Dam “B” and
McGee Bend investigations.

In the survey of the Dam “B” area 12 sites were located, but none
gave indication of being of sufficient importance to warrant further
examination. Comparable material occurs both in the McGee Bend
Basin and elsewhere in the region. Unless construction work should
reveal subsurface deposits of archeological significance no additional
work will be required at this reservoir and none was recommended.
At McGee Bend 80 sites were located and recorded. Of this number,
8 are early and contain no pottery, 34 are early pottery sites of the
Alto Focus (ca. A. D. 1000 to 1800) , 22 are late pottery sites of Bossier,
SECRETARY’S REPORT 67

Belcher, and Frankston Foci (ca. A. D. 1450 to 1600), and 1 is a historic
site. At many of these locations there are evidences of occupation
through two or more cultural periods and they are important for that
reason. Out of the group 31 sites have been recommended for fur-
ther testing or more extended excavation.

New Mezxico.—The only work done thus far in New Mexico con-
sisted of the excavation of portions of two shallow rock-shelters 8
miles southeast of Tucumcari. The manifestations at that location,
the Hodges site, were outside of the area directly involved by the
Tucumcari project and were in no danger of destruction either by
construction work or flooding. They were being dug, however, on
week ends and holidays by workmen from the project and by settlers
attracted to the district by the development of the irrigation program.
In order to salvage as much as possible of what still remained, the
excavations were initiated by Herbert W. Dick, temporary field assist-
ant, who was employed by the Surveys for that purpose. Mr. Dick
worked at the Hodges site from August 18 to 26. He found that
both shelters contained a homogeneous lot of archeological material
representing a late pre-Columbian cultural period in that part of the
Southwest. On the basis of potsherds, found in association with the
stone and bone artifacts, a late fourteenth or early fifteenth century
dating is given to the archeological manifestations. After completing
the digging Mr. Dick went to Albuquerque, N. Mex., where he proc-
essed the specimens and prepared a preliminary report on his findings.

While Mr. Dick was engaged at the Hodges site it was visited by
Dr. Sheldon Judson who was completing a geological study of the
San Jon, N. Mex., region for the Smithsonian Institution. Dr. Jud-
son found that the lower deposits in the shelters contained interesting
and helpful stratigraphy and from the evidence he obtained there was
able to add another link in the “alluvial chronology” which he has
established for that district, the chronology which promises to con-
tribute much to the understanding of the complex history of the
Late Pleistocene and subsequent periods in the Southwest. Because
of this the Hodges site enjoys an importance out of all proportion to
its antiquity and the archeological information which it produced.

Colorado.—Investigations in certain portions of Colorado are a part
of the major program for the Missouri Basin, but there are a num-
ber of others which fall outside that drainage area and which are
being conducted as separate units of the Surveys as a whole. These
are in the Arkansas and Gunnison Basins. Later they will be ex-
panded to the Colorado-Big Thompson projects and other tributaries
of the Colorado.

Donald Eastman and Gary L. Yundt were appointed field assist-
ants on June 7 and immediately began surveys at a number of reser-
voir basins in the Gunnison drainage. Brief preliminary investiga-
68 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

tions had been made at a number of these projects by Western State
College, Gunnison, students under the direction of Dr. C. 'T. Hurst of
that institution. Working in conjunction with Dr. Hurst and under
his general direction, Eastman and Yundt completed the surveys of
the Cottonwood, Cebolla, Gateview, and Almont reservoir areas and
at the close of the year were engaged in a reconnaissance of the Taylor
Lake project. The four basins where investigations were completed
contained 16 sites consisting of both rock shelters and open camps.
None appeared to be of sufficient importance to warrant recommenda-
tion for further study by the River Basin Surveys. However, Dr.
Hurst and Western State College volunteered to take over such of
the units as indicated the possibility of contributing some knowledge
and assume responsibility for the additional work needed to obtain it.

Arnold M. Withers was appointed to the Surveys staff on June 13 as
archeologist and on June 21 left Denver accompanied by W. W.
Thompson and M. F. Sullivan, student assistants, to begin the recon-
naissance of a number of reservoir projects in the mountains west of
Pueblo. This work was going ahead at the close of the fiscal year.
Mr. Withers and his associates used space made available by the De-
partment of Anthropology of the University of Denver as their base
of operations.

Missouri Basin—The Missouri Basin project continued in full
operation throughout the year. On July 1, three archeological surveys
and one paleontological reconnaissance were under way and the head-
quarters and laboratory at Lincoln, Nebr., were actively engaged in
processing data and specimens received from the field parties. Most
of the activities were of a survey nature, but some digging was done
at Birdshead Cave in the Boysen Reservoir, Wyo., at Medicine Creek
Reservoir, Nebr., and at several paleontological sites in Wyoming.
By the end of the first week in November weather conditions were such
that it was necessary to stop explorations for the season and all regular
personnel returned to Lincoln. From then until conditions again
became favorable in the spring, the time was devoted to the study of
materials and data collected and the preparation of reports. Field
work was initiated March 29, 1948, when an extensive series of exca-
vations was started at sites soon to be destroyed by construction oper-
ations at the Medicine Creek Dam in western Nebraska. This work
was in accordance with an agreement with the Bureau of Reclamation
whereby the River Basin Surveys provided the technical supervision
and the Bureau of Reclamation furnished the necessary labor and
equipment. This undertaking was still in progress at the end of the
fiscal year. On June 1 one archeological party left Lincoln for the
Angostura Reservoir, S. Dak., for further survey and excavation, and
on June 3 another left for Heart Butte Reservoir, N. Dak., to begin
similar activities. A paleontological party departed on June 1 for the
SECRETARY'S REPORT 69

Boysen Reservoir area, Wyoming, to resume the collecting of fossil
material. All three parties were at those respective locations at the
end of the year.

The general results of the Surveys’ findings in the Plains were out-
lined in the 64th Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology
and, although subsequent work added important details, need not be
repeated. Some mention, however, should be made of the excavations
carried on in the present year. Birdshead Cave, located near the
base of the Owl Creek Mountains, in the Boysen Reservoir basin,
Wyoming, contained several levels of aboriginal debris of occupation
separated by layers of decomposed rock and dust. The artifacts re-
covered, although small in number, show significant differences from
level to level. If these specimens can be correlated with those from
some of the single-occupation sites in the basin, a task which was being
attempted at the close of the year, it may be possible to arrange the
latter in a sequential order and thus establish a relative chronology
for the area. As a whole the material from upper levels of the cave
suggests a late pre-Columbian occupancy by Indians from the Great
Basin farther west rather than by people from the Plains. This in-
troduces another set of problems pertaining to the interrelationships
between two rather distinct groups over a long period of time. Fur-
ther work in the area should throw light on the subject.

Excavations at the Medicine Creek Reservoir were carried on from
September 5 to November 9, but little more than sampling was under-
taken at that time. When the work was resumed in March, large-
scale operations became possible through the labor and power ma-
chinery contributed by the Bureau of Reclamation. The use of heavy
equipment ordinarily is frowned upon by archeologists. Because of
the short time available for excavation before the sites were destroyed
by construction activities and the lack of funds needed to hire large
labor crews, however, it was deemed advisable to use bulldozers and
highway-grading machinery to remove the overburden from buried
village remains. The results obtained amply demonstrated the prac-
ticability and effectiveness of such equipment in uncovering archeo-
logical materials with a minimum of breakage, and wherever possible
its use probably will be extended to other projects. At Medicine
Creek entire sites were stripped of their sod or other cover, making it
possible to observe the complete village plan, to study village pat-
terns, and to discover small features not readily determinable by the
usual hand-labor methods. From March 29 to June 30 the remains
of 25 houses were uncovered, 37 cache pits located beneath their floors
were investigated, 13 similar pits outside the houses were examined,
and 13 middens were dug. Some 28,000 specimens including utensils
made of pottery, tools of bone, stone, and shell, and the remains of
various food stuffs such as animal bones, mussel shells and charred
70 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

vegetal materials (corn, beans, seeds of sunflower, squash, and wild
plum) were found. In a number of cases sections of wood in an
excellent state of preservation were obtained from post holes in the
house floors. These specimens are of value for determining the type
of vegetation in the area hundred of years ago and possibly may
furnish information for dating purposes.

Most of the remains in this district belong to the Upper Republican
culture, so named because the first of the type studied and defined
were located in the Republican River drainage of southern Nebraska.
It is not possible at this time to correlate them with any of the known
tribes, such as the Dakota, Pawnee, or Comanche, but this may be
done later. Remains of this culture are believed to date from ca.
A. D. 1200 to 1500. A few of the sites appear to belong to what has
been called “Woodland” because of their close relationship to others
east of the Missouri. Tentative dating places it in the centuries
A. D. 500 to 1200. In addition there are traces of a primitive hunting
people who inhabited the area several millennia earlier. There is no
doubt that the work at Medicine Creek has added a large and im-
portant body of new data on the pre-Columbian inhabitants of western
Nebraska and from it an unusually complete picture of life in the
area should emerge. It seems evident that several long-held scientific
theories regarding those people and their relationship to their environ-
ment will need to be revised. The information from Medicine Creek
certainly will be one of the most significant contributions yet made to
the study of Plains prehistory.

The paleontological work, under T. E. White, while not as important
in some ways as the archeological investigations, is making a definite
contribution to geology. This is particularly true in the Wind River
Basin in Wyoming where data collected by the River Basin Surveys
field party has aided in the identification of younger beds than pre-
viously had been supposed to be present in the area. Furthermore, no
historical summary of paleontology in any of the river basins would
be complete without consideration of the fragments of fossil bones and
leaves frequently found by archeologists in Indian sites. These ob-
jects probably were collected as curiosities, although they occasionally
were used as ornaments and sometimes attempts were made to work
silicified bones into implements. While not of great significance to
paleontology, they are a part of the story, and study of the material
is helpful. Thus far 94 reservoir areas in the Missouri Basin have been
examined either briefly or in some detail, and specimens have been
collected from some 68. In a number of cases this material has helped
to clarify understanding of the area and will provide useful data for
future reference.

As during the previous year, Dr. Waldo R. Wedel, on detail to the
River Basin Surveys from the Division of Archeology, United States
SECRETARY'S REPORT val

National Museum, was in charge of the program. He prepared gen-
eral plans and coordinated all phases of the work, making numerous
trips of inspection to the areas where surveys and excavations were in
progress and supervising the work at Lincoln. He returned to his
official station at Washington on October 31, but during the fall and
winter months made regular monthly trips to Lincoln to check on the
work being done at the field headquarters and laboratory and to assist,
through advice and discussion, in the preparation of the reports on
the summer’s activities. He left Washington on May 26 for Lincoln
and on his arrival there resumed active direction of the program for
the field season.

J. Joseph Bauxar, archeologist, was at Chamberlain, S. Dak., at
the beginning of the fiscal year with the party, under the direction
of Paul L. Cooper, which was engaged in making a preliminary
reconnaissance of the west side of the Missouri River in the Fort
Randall Reservoir area. During the continuance of this work 82
sites were visited, and data on about 20 others were obtained from local
people. On July 19 test digging was initiated in some of the more
promising sites. The period from July 19 to August 20 was devoted
to the examination of burials at the Wheeler Bridge mound site.
These occurred in2 low mounds. At one of these there were 12 bundle
burials, and at the other 2, or possibly 3, of the same type. Inasmuch
as there were no funerary offerings accompanying any of the burials
and the material in the mounds was scarce, there was nothing to
indicate possible cultural relationship for these remains. On August
20 Mr. Bauxar shifted his operations to the Pease Creek site where
he opened an exploratory trench through a large refuse mound.
Two definite occupation levels were noted there, and a large quantity
of cultural material was recovered. The specimens suggest affiliation
with either Upper Republican or prehistoric Arikara peoples. On
September 17 investigations were started at another site which gave
indications of a well-defined occupation level. Two trenches were
dug at that location. They revealed a well-defined occupation level
which extended below the plow zone. This work was completed on
October 6, and attention was then turned to the Oldham site where two
subsurface circular house floors were uncovered. These presumably
belong to a late occupation which apparently was Arikara. Some
slight evidence of an earlier Woodland occupation was also noted.
A preliminary examination of all the data collected from the various
sites investigated indicates a range of cultural types extending back
from late historic Yankton through what possibly was early Arikara
and even earlier Woodland.

Mr. Bauxar returned to Lincoln on November 6 and from then
until April 4 was engaged in working up his material and in establish-
ing an ethnohistory file for the Missouri Basin to be used as a ready

817369—49——_6
72 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

reference by the staff in correlating archeological materials with those
of known tribes. The Thwaites and Biddle editions of the Lewis and
Clark journals and the Ordway journal were the sources examined
for the desired information. A total of approximately 1,500 items
pertaining to tribal locations, contacts, material culture, and other
features were extracted from these journals. When this material has
been prepared for filing under tribal and subject-matter headings, it
probably will fill some 15,000 index cards.

From April 4 to June 26 Mr. Bauxar was on special assignment to
the National Park Service for the purpose of conducting historical
investigations at the Homestead National Monument in Gage County,
Nebr. Five limited areas were examined, and a report on the excava-
tions was prepared and submitted to the National Park Service,
Region Two Office, at Omaha. Upon the completion of this detail
Mr. Bauxar returned to the Lincoln headquarters and resumed his
work on the ethnohistory project.

On July 1 Wesley L. Bliss, archeologist, was working with the
field party under his direction at the Glendo Reservoir project in
Platte County, Wyo. The survey of this area, started in the month of
June, was completed on July 2, and having located a total of 43 sites
the party moved the following day to Boysen Reservoir, in Fremont
County, where further investigations were carried on until July 26.
During this period tests were made in Birdshead Cave in the Owl
Creek Mountains about 5 miles west of the dam site. This cave
showed six levels of occupation, and prospects for obtaining interest-
ing information about the aboriginal inhabitants of the area were so
promising that plans were made to return to it later in the season.
On July 27 the party moved to the Oregon Basin project in Park
County where it continued reconnaissance work, locating additional
sites which increased the total for the basin to 28, and did some test
digging in two rock shelters. August 11 it moved to the Canyon
Ferry Reservoir near Helena, Mont. Investigations there added to
the number of sites located during the preliminary examination of
the area in 1946, making a total of 31. The work there was completed
on August 26, and attention was turned to the proposed Tiber Reser-
voir near Shelby, Mont., where work continued until September 9.
During this period Mr. Bliss and his party spent 4 days traveling by
boat in order to locate and examine sites exposed along the river-cut
terraces. These sites could not be reached by land and were not
visited during the preliminary reconnaissance made the previous year.
Additional sites located bring the total for Tiber to 53. Leaving this
area, Mr. Bliss returned to the Boysen Reservoir and from September
11 to November 6 completed excavation of the Birdshead Cave and
did some test digging in other sites. He returned to Lincoln on No-
vember 8 and from then until the end of the fiscal year was engaged
SECRETARY’S REPORT 73

in laboratory work and the preparation of supplementary reports
on the Glendo, Boysen, and Canyon Ferry projects. He also wrote
a “Summary Report on the Archeology of the Wyoming-Montana
River Basin Surveys of 1947—with Comments on Smokey Hill and
Republican River Sub-basins in Kansas and Nebraska.” Mr. Bliss
presented two papers at the Fifth Conference for Plains Archeology
in November. One of these summarized the results of the archeologi-
cal surveys in Wyoming and Montana and the other discussed the
subject of Early Man in the northwest Plains. Mr. Bliss also attended
the joint meeting of the American Anthropological Association and
the Society for American Archeology at Albuquerque, N. Mex., in
December, and presented a paper dealing with archeological problems
in the western Plains.

As previously stated, Paul L. Cooper was in charge of a survey party
which at the beginning of the fiscal year was operating in the Fort
Randall Reservoir area in South Dakota. On July 12 and 13 Mr.
Cooper attended a field conference of workers in upper Missouri River
archeology at Bismarck, N. Dak., and from there he accompanied Dr.
Waldo R. Wedel, field director of the River Basin Surveys, and Dr.
Jesse D. Jennings, National Park Service archeologist, on an inspec-
tion trip to a site which was being excavated by the University of
North Dakota near Fort Yates, N. Dak. From there he returned to
Lincoln and until August 4 worked on a preliminary report on the
archeological resources of the Fort Randall Reservoir. On August 6,
after conferring for 2 days with personnel of the Corps of Engineers
in Omaha and with the Director of the University of South Dakota
Museum at Vermillion, Mr. Cooper returned to the Fort Randall field
unit which had been under the direction of Mr. Bauxar during his
absence. From then until October 28 he remained with the field party
and participated in the investigations already discussed in connection
with Mr. Bauxar’s activities. He then returned to Lincoln to take
charge of the field headquarters upon the departure of Dr. Wedel for
Washington.

Mr. Cooper continued this supervision, which was both technical
and administrative, throughout the fall and winter months during the
periods when Dr. Wedel was in Washington. He made several trips
to Omaha and Denver for the purpose of consulting with officials of
the National Park Service, the Corps of Engineers, and the Bureau of
Reclamation. As time permitted, the data collected during the field
season were summarized preparatory to the writing of technical re-
ports, and preliminary reports were prepared on certain phases of the
field work. He also participated in the Fifth Conference for Plains
Archeology, presenting a paper summarizing the field work and dis-
cussing pottery types found in certain districts in the Plains area. In
May Mr. Cooper represented the Missouri Basin project of the River
74 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

Basin Surveys at the annual session of the Nebraska Academy of Sci-
ences and read a paper explaining and summarizing the activities of
the Surveys. On June 3 Mr. Cooper left Lincoln for North Dakota.
Two days were spent en route in conferring with personnel at the
University of South Dakota Museum. Arriving at the Heart Butte
Reservoir project on the Park River in North Dakota, Mr. Cooper
initiated reconnaissance work and started some test excavations in
a site not far above the location for the dam. These investigations
were in progress at the close of the fiscal year.

Robert B. Cumming, Jr., archeologist, continued to serve as the
laboratory supervisor at the Lincoln headquarters. He planned and
directed the procedures for processing specimens, photographic nega-
tives and prints, the preparation of maps and diagrams for the reports,
the typing of manuscripts and cutting of stencils, and the general
maintenance of equipment. During the course of the year 37,406 speci-
mens were cleaned, repaired if necessary, numbered, cataloged, and
stored. Since the beginning of the project 59,306 specimens have been
processed. Over 830 photographic negatives and their prints were
added to the files, bringing the total to 1,256. Approximately 100
kodachrome positives were cataloged, making 179 now available for
use in illustrating talks about the program. During the year Mr.
Cumming established a file for photographic enlargements suitable
for publicity purposes and one for lantern slides. Reference maps
and aerial photographs were indexed and filed, 835 of the former and
277 of the latter now being available for use by the staff. In addition
Mr. Cumming assisted in and supervised the mimeographing and
assembling of reports issued during the year. These consisted of 10
preliminary archeological reports, 5 supplementary archeological
reports, and 2 paleontological reports. He also carried on the project
inventory and requisitioning of supplies throughout the year. During
such times as the field director and acting director were away from
Lincoln he was in charge of the field office.

From July 1 to November 7, Jack T. Hughes, archeologist, assisted
Wesley L. Bliss in Wyoming and Montana, where he participated in
reconnaissance and survey of several reservoir basins. From Novem-
ber 8 to May 30 he worked in the office at Lincoln where he aided in
the preparation of various reports on the field work of the 1947
season. He wrote two reports entitled “Supplementary Appraisal of
the Archeological Resources of Oregon Basin Reservoir, Park County,
Wyoming” and “Supplementary Appraisal of the Archeological Re-
sources of Tiber Reservoir, Toole and Liberty Counties, Montana.”
He also prepared the following section of a report entitled “Archeology
of Birdshead Cave, Fremont County, Wyoming”: Introduction, site,
locale, occupation, and complexes, as well as parts of those on remains
SECRETARY'S REPORT 75

and conclusions. During this period Mr. Hughes also devoted some of
his time to an analysis of the archeological materials in the collection
of the Nebraska State Historical Society from the Barn Butte site on
the North Platte River in Garden County, Nebr., in the preparation of
a report on this site; the preparation of a table showing proposed
correlations of geological, climatological, and archeological events
at several selected sites in the western United States; and in the prepa-
ration of a report on stonework terminology for the Nomenclature
Committee of the Conference for Plains Archeology.

Mr. Hughes left Lincoln on June 1 for the Angostura Reservoir
in South Dakota where, with J. M. Shippee, field assistant, he began
a reconnaissance and intensive survey of the area to be flooded. This
work was in progress at the close of the year.

At the start of the fiscal year, Marvin F. Kivett, archeologist, was
in charge of a party engaged in an archeological reconnaissance of
the proposed Garrison Reservoir in northwest North Dakota. This
reconnaissance included surface survey and limited test excavations in
a number of the more important of the 70-odd known sites located in
and adjacent to the reservoir. These sites include permanent earth-
lodge villages, buried occupational zones, burial locations, and
numerous tipi-ring groups. The reconnaissance was terminated at
Garrison on August 20, and the party transferred its attention to
the Baldhill Reservoir on the Sheyenne River, where a brief recon-
naissance was carried on from August 22 to August 28. This resulted
in the location of 10 archeological sites, 7 of which were occupational
areas and 8 were mound groups. All the occupational sites yielded
some pottery, while one mound tested yielded four disarticulated
burials. The party returned to the River Basin Surveys Laboratory
in Lincoln on August 29.

On September 5 Mr. Kivett went to the Medicine Creek Reservoir,
Frontier County, Nebr., to do some test digging at several previously
located sites. Four pit-house floors, located in two village sites at-
tributable to a variant of the Upper Republican complex, were ex-
cavated, and an occupational area located on a low terrace near the
mouth of Lime Creek was tested by means of trenches. The latter
site presumably is a variant of the Woodland pattern. This work was
terminated on November 9 because of inclement weather, and Mr.
Kivett returned to Lincoln.

During the period November 10 to March 27 Mr. Kivett prepared
preliminary archeological reports for the Baldhill and Garrison Reser-
voirs in North Dakota, and the proposed Davis Creek Reservoir in
Nebraska. He also worked on a technical paper dealing with a shell-
bead ossuary excavated during the fall of 1946 on Prairie Dog Creek,
Phillips County, Kans., near the upper limits of the Harlan County
Reservoir.
76 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

On March 28 Mr. Kivett returned to the Medicine Creek Reservoir
to begin an extensive excavation program. During the period March
29 to June 30, three village sites on or near the dam axis were excavated,
and digging was started at the remains of a fourth village a short
distance above the dam in the reservoir basin. This work included
the uncovering of 25 house floors, the recovery of 2 burials, and ex-
tensive excavations in midden areas associated with the house floors.
Power machinery, furnished by the Bureau of Reclamation, was used
primarily for removing the sterile overburden covering most of the
area, for the removal of refuse dirt, and for digging exploratory test
trenches. ‘The bulk of the materials recovered appear to be attribut-
able to the Upper Republican aspect. At the close of the fiscal year
the work was continuing, with attention being directed toward a series
of small sites on the right bank of the reservoir basin approximately
1 mile above the dam axis.

George Metcalf was appointed field assistant on September 25 and
proceeded immediately to the Medicine Creek Reservoir where he
joined Marvin ¥. Kivett in the excavation being conducted there.
He returned to Lincoln on November 9 and from then until March
28, when he again went to Medicine Creek, he devoted his time to
classifying, studying, and writing a technical paper on the specimens
collected during the field work. This report included not only the
material obtained by the River Basin Surveys party, but also that
secured by a group from the Nebraska State Historical Society which
had excavated several house sites in the area during the summer.
Mr. Metcalf’s manuscript will be incorporated into the major report
on the Medicine Creek investigations. On June 30 he was in charge
of a portion of the work at Medicine Creek.

J. M. Shippee, field assistant, was with the Bliss party from July
1 to November 8. After his return to Lincoln he devoted the time
in the laboratory to work on the specimens from Birdshead Cave, the
sorting and classifying of artifacts from other localities, and the prep-
aration of maps. He left Lincoln on June 1 with the Hughes party
and was participating in the surveys at Angostura Reservoir at the
end of the year.

Dr. Theodore E. White, paleontologist, was occupied in paleontolog-
ical reconnaissance from July 1 to September 19. In the course of
this work he visited 7 reservoir areas in Nebraska, 23 in Wyoming, and
25 in Montana. This phase of his investigations was interrupted
from August 21 to September 11 while he dug the skull and several
vertebrae of a dinosaur from the Jurassic Morrison beds in the Middle
Fork Reservoir area in northeastern Wyoming. Dr. White returned
to the Lincoln office on September 20 and spent the time until Octo-
ber 8 preparing preliminary reports on the reservoir projects exam-
ined during the summer. He then left for the Rocky Ford and Philip
SECRETARY’S REPORT Ti

Reservoir areas in South Dakota and from there proceeded to the
Boysen Reservoir in Wyoming where he initiated a survey of the area
to be inundated by that project. While in the Boysen Basin he col-
lected a number of specimens of fossil mammals and a large soft-
shelled turtle. He returned to Lincoln November 7 and from then
until January 6 devoted his time to writing reports and consulting
geological literature for information bearing on the reservoir areas.

Leaving Lincoln, Dr. White went to Texas where, from January 9
to 29, he made a paleontological reconnaissance of the Whitney Reser-
voir basin on the upper Brazos River. From there he returned to
Washington, D. C., and from February 2 to May 15 worked in the
United States National Museum identifying osteological material ob-
tained from archeological sites, examining specimens, consulting geo-
logical literature relative to the reservoir areas in the Missouri Basin
and Texas, and preparing reports. He then went to the Lincoln office
and devoted the period from May 18 to June 1 making preparations
for the summer’s field activities. He left Lincoln on June 1 for the
Boysen Reservoir where he resumed the investigations interrupted by
the onset of bad weather the previous autumn. From June 4 to June
30 he collected a number of specimens of fossil mammals and reptiles
and made extensive notes on the structure and stratigraphy of the
area.

A number of student assistants were employed during the year as
members of the various field parties. Robert L. Hall and Warren
Wittry were with the Cooper party in South Dakota from July 1 to
September 10, when they returned to college. Both men again joined
Mr. Cooper on June 22 and were working with him at the Heart Butte
Reservoir at the end of the fiscal year. Gordon F. McKenzie, John
L. Essex, and Leo L. Stewart were with Marvin F. Kivett at the
Garrison and Baldhill Reservoir projects in North Dakota at the be-
ginning of the fiscal year. Mr. Stewart left the party on August 20, and
Mr. Essex and Mr. McKenzie terminated their employment on August
30 following the return to the Lincoln headquarters. H. G. Pierce was
with the Bliss party in Wyoming and Montana from July 1 to Sep-
tember 10. John C. Donohoe assisted Dr. Theodore E. White from
July 1 to September and again joined him on June 14 for work in the
Boysen Reservoir. Ernest Lundelius joined the staff on June 1 and left
Lincoln with Dr. White when he started for Wyoming. Both he and
Mr. Donohoe were with the White party at the close of the year.

Pacifie Coast area—During the fiscal year the River Basin Surveys
project in the Pacific Coast region carried out investigations of the
archeological and paleontological resources in 14 reservoir areas in
the Columbia Basin, and in 7 reservoir areas in central California.
The results of this work were described in reports prepared for mim-
eographing and limited distribution. A total of 180 sites were found
78 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

in the Columbia Basin reservoirs, including sites of major and minor
importance, and a total of 80 in those in California.

Dr. Philip Drucker, detailed from the regular staff of the Bureau
to serve as field director, was in charge of activities in thisarea. Dur-
ing the period from July 1 to September 30 he made field headquarters
at Eugene, Oreg., utilizing office space made available to the Surveys
by the Department of Anthropology of the University of Oregon. He
divided his time about equally between the Eugene office, where he
planned the survey work and carried out the routine necessary for its
operation, and the field, where he at times accompanied the survey par-
ties, and checked on the results of their investigations. At the end of
September he departed for Washington, D. C., having closed the field
headquarters for the winter. In Washington he prepared the reports
previously mentioned on the basis of the data collected by the field
parties, in addition to his activities as a member of the staff of the Bu-
reau of American Ethnology.

On May 13 he left Washington for the Pacific Coast, stopping en
route at Milwaukee, Wis., for the purpose of conferring with the
Committee for the Recovery of Archeological Remains which met
in that city on the 14th and of participating in a symposium on the
River Basin Surveys program. He arrived at Portland, Oreg., where
he conferred with the officials of the Columbia Basin Recreational
Survey Office concerning the status of various reservation projects
of the Bureau of Reclamation and the Corps of Engineers in the
Columbia Basin. On May 18 he arrived in Eugene, Oreg., where he
completed arrangements for office and laboratory space at the De-
partment of Anthropology of the University of Oregon. From May
20 to 28 he conferred with officials of the Region Four Office of the
National Park Service at San Francisco on plans for the field season,
and also with representatives of the departments of anthropology at
the University of California, Berkeley, University of California at
Los Angeles, and the University of Washington. As the result of
these conferences, arrangements were made for two cooperative pro-
grams of research. The Department of Anthropology of the Univer-
sity of Washington arranged to put a party in the field under the direc-
tion of a member of the River Basin Surveys staff, to make an intensive
survey and preliminary testing of the Potholes (O’Sullivan) Reservoir
area in eastern Washington. The corresponding department at the
University of California arranged to undertake investigations during
the latter part of the summer in reservoirs in the upper San Joaquin
drainage that had previously been examined by the survey.

During the month of June Dr. Drucker was occupied with planning
the itineraries of survey field parties and obtaining the necessary per-
sonnel and equipment for them. On June 28 the parties were as-
sembled, given the necessary instructions, and sent into the field. At
SECRETARY'S REPORT 79

the close of the fiscal year Dr. Drucker was at the field headquarters
in Eugene.

Franklin Fenega and Clarence E. Smith, archeologists, had just
commenced their field work at the beginning of the fiscal year. During
the month of July they investigated three reservoir areas in the
Willamette River drainage, the Detroit, Dorena, and Meridian, in
Oregon. From there they proceeded to the site of the McNary Reser-
voir on the Columbia River just upstream from Umatilla, Oreg., and
Plymouth, Wash., where they continued investigations for the re-
mainder of the summer. All these reservoirs are Corps of Engineers
projects. McNary Reservoir they found to be extremely rich in archeo-
logical remains, and after the preliminary reconnaissance survey had
been completed on August 20, they carried out an intensive survey to
establish which of the many sites found would most fruitfully reward
excavation. On the basis of their intensive survey it was possible
to make recommendations for the excavation of five groups of sites.
On completion of the field work they summarized their field data, and
submitted a preliminary report. Mr. Fenega resigned from the River
Basin Surveys on September 22 in order to return to his academic
work at the University of California. Mr. Smith was transferred to
temporary headquarters at Berkeley, Calif., on the 22d, and carried
out surveys at the following reservoirs in California: Dry Creek,
Monticello, Kelsey Creek, Indian Valley, Sly Park, and Wilson Valley.
On December 17 he resigned from the Surveys to resume academic
work at the University of California.

Richard D. Daugherty, archeologist, and Francis A. Riddell, field
assistant, were also just starting field work at the beginning of the
fiscal year. During the remainder of the field season they examined
the following reservoir areas: Cascade, Smith’s Ferry, Scrivers Creek,
Garden Valley in Idaho; Equalizing, Long Lake, and Potholes (O’Sul-
livan) in Washington; Anderson Ranch and Palisades in Idaho; and
Hungry Horse in Montana; all projects of the Bureau of Reclamation.
The greatest wealth of archeological remains they found to occur in
the Bureau of Reclamation’s Columbia Basin project, comprising
Equalizing, Long Lake, and Potholes (O’Sullivan) Reservoirs. Both
men resigned from the River Basin Surveys staff on September 24,
having completed the preliminary reports on their field investiga-
tions for the season. On June 15, Mr. Daugherty was reappointed to
the River Basin Surveys staff and was put in charge of the coopera-
tive project arranged with the Department of Anthropology of the
University of Washington. On June 19 he departed for the field
with his crew and established a field camp in the Moses Lake area.
At the end of the fiscal year he was still in the field in that location,
Mr. Riddell was reappointed to the River Basin Surveys staff as field
assistant on July 28 and departed with other members of the survey
80 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

crew to begin an investigation at Benham Falls Reservoir in eastern
Oregon.

George L. Coale, archeologist, Harry S. Riddell, Jr., field assistant,
and Douglas Osborne, field assistant, joined the staff of River Basin
Surveys on June 28 and proceeded to Benham Falls Reservoir to begin
the season’s survey work there.

Albert D. Mohr and William S. King, who had assisted Clarence
K. Smith during October and November, were employed by the River
Basin Surveys temporarily as field assistants during the period May
16-21 to carry out an investigation of the Mariposa Reservoir basin on
Mariposa Creek on the east side of the San Joaquin Valley in central
California. Only three small sites were located and none were rec-
ommended for further investigation.

Cooperating institutions.—State and local institutions have con-
tributed to the River Basin Surveys program in various ways. In
addition to furnishing space for field offices and laboratories as at the
University of Nebraska, the University of Texas, the University of
Denver, Western State College, the University of California, and the
University of Oregon, universities and local institutions in some cases
have joined forces with the Surveys for cooperative projects and in
others have taken over units in the survey program. As previously
mentioned, the excavation project at the O’Sullivan Reservoir in
Washington was a cooperative undertaking between the University of
Washington and the River Basin Surveys. This also was true for the
surveys in western Colorado where members of the Surveys staff
worked with field parties from Western State College at Gunnison.

During the year the University of Kentucky made surveys at the
Wolf Creek Reservoir on the Cumberland River, and at the Dewey
Reservoir on Johns Creek in the Big Sandy River drainage. In
addition, the University conducted excavations at the Wolf Creek
Reservoir and furnished the River Basin Surveys with a detailed
report on its activities. The University of Georgia established sur-
veys in the Chattahoochee and Flint River basins and did some ex-
cavation work in areas which will be inundated. The Alabama Muse-
um of Natural History did reconnaissance work and some digging.
The Florida Park Service took over the survey of the area in Florida
which will be flooded by the construction of the Woodruff Dam on
the Apalachicola River near Chattahoochee. The University of Ten-
nessee made a survey of the Stewarts Ferry Reservoir basin on Stones
River and did preliminary reconnaissance at the Harpeth River proj-
ect. It also made arrangements for some salvage work at the Center
Hill Reservoir where the impounding of water began too soon for the
River Basin Surveys to do more than make a reconnaissance and rec-
ommend the excavation of certain sites. The University of Missouri,
in cooperation with the Missouri Archeological Society, made surveys
SECRETARY'S REPORT 81

in the Bull Shoals, Clearwater, Pomme de Terre, Joanna, Table Rock,
and Waco Reservoirs, and carried on excavations in key sites at Bull
Shoals and Clearwater. The University of Oklahoma did some exca-
vation work in a village site which will be flooded by the Fort Gibson
Reservoir on the Grand (Neosho) River. The University of Kansas
did survey work and started excavations at a village site in the Kanap-
olis River basin on the Smoky Hill River in Kansas. In Nebraska the
State Historical Society carried on excavations at archeological sites
in the Medicine Creek Reservoir area outside the Federally acquired
lands adding important supplemental information on remains beyond
the localities being worked by the River Basin Surveys. The Lab-
oratory of Anthropology of the University of Nebraska excavated in
two important sites in the Harlan County Reservoir area on the Re-
publican River in the southern part of the State. The University of
Nebraska State Museum carried on paleontological work near the
Medicine Creek Dam site and on Lime Creek, a tributary of Medicine
Creek, where important information was obtained on some of the earli-
est cultural remains thus far found in North America. The Museum
also collected paleontological material from the Harlan County Reser-
voir. The University of North Dakota, in cooperation with the
North Dakota Historical Society, carried on excavations at the Heart
Butte Reservoir, on the Heart River, in the summer of 1947, and at
the Baldhill Reservoir on the Sheyenne River beginning June 21,
1948. ‘The University of Colorado made a preliminary reconnais-
sance of the 8 reservoir areas comprising the Colorado-Big Thompson
project, while the University of Denver made brief surveys of 12 reser-
voir basins comprising the Blue-South Platte project. Western
State College of Colorado did preliminary work in nine reservoir
basins of the Gunnison-Arkansas project. The Museum of Northern
Arizona, at Flagstaff, assumed responsibility for surveys at the Alamo
project on Williams River in the western part of the State, but had
not started investigations at the end of the year. The Archeological
Surveys Association of Southern California, sponsored by a number
of museums in that area, completed surveys in eight proposed reservoir
and flood-control projects in that portion of the State. The Univer-
sity of California, at Berkeley, took over responsibility for the exca-
vation of key sites located by the River Basin Surveys in the Pine
Flat Reservoir on King’s River and in the Isabella Reservoir on Kern
River. Actual operations had not yet gotten under way, however,
by June 30.

Progress reports and completed reports prepared by the cooperat-
ing organizations are sent to the River Basin Surveys so that the
results of their investigations may be coordinated with the over-all
82 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

program. All the information obtained by these groups thus becomes
a part of the general record of the River Basin Surveys.

EDITORIAL WORK AND PUBLICATIONS

There were issued 1 Annual Report, 2 Bulletin volumes (Hand-
book of South American Indians), and 4 Publications of the Institute
of Social Anthropology as listed below:

Sixty-fourth Annual Report of the Bureau of American HWthnology, 1946-1947,
30 pp.

Bulletin 148. Handbook of South American Indians. Julian H. Steward,
editor. Volume 3, The Tropical Forest tribes. 986 pp., 126 pls., 184 figs., 8 maps.
Volume 4, The Circum-Caribbean tribes. 609 pp., 98 pls., 79 figs., 11 maps.

Institute of Social Anthropology Publ. No. 4. Cultural and historical geography
of Southwest Guatemala, by Felix Webster McBryde. 184 pp., 48 pls., 2 figs.,
25 maps.

Institute of Social Anthropology Publ. No.5. Highland communities of Central
Peru: A regional survey, by Harry Tschopik, Jr. 56 pp., 16 pls., 2 maps.

Institute of Social Anthropology Publ. No. 6. Hmpire’s children: The people
of Tzintzuntzan, by George M. Foster. 297 pp., 16 pls., 36 figs., 2 maps.

Institute of Social Anthropology Publ. No. 7. Cultural geography of the
modern Tarascan area, by Robert C. West. 177 pp., 14 pls., 6 figs., 21 maps.

The following publications were in press at the close of the fiscal
year:

Bulletin 143. Handbook of South American Indians. Julian H. Steward,
editor. Volume 5, The comparative ethnology of South American Indians.
Volume 6, Physical anthropology, linguistics, and cultural geography of South
American Indians.

Institute of Social Anthropology Publ. No. 8. Sierra Popoluca speech, by
Mary L. Foster and George M. Foster.

Institute of Social Anthropology Publ. No. 9. The Terena and the Caduveo of
Southern Mato Grosso, Brazil, by Kalervo Oberg.

Institute of Social Anthropology Publ. No. 10. Nomads of the Long Bow:
The Siriono of Hastern Bolivia, by Allan R. Holinberg.

Publications distributed totaled 25,037 as compared with 8,205 for
the fiscal year 1947.

LIBRARY

Accessions in the library of the Bureau totaled 145 volumes, bring-
ing the total accession record as of June 30, 1948, to 34,607.

ILLUSTRATIONS

Work on the restoration of Indian photographs consumed the
greater part of the year. The rest of the time was spent on work for
the editors and on the preparation of maps and illustrations for
Bureau publications.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 83

ARCHIVES

Ever-increasing use is being made of the manuscript and photo-
graphic collections of the Bureau. Cards for the manuscript catalog,
compiled for publication, have been typed and assembled. Upon
completion of this project, a similar catalog of the photographic
negatives in the Bureau collection, was begun. Approximately 2,600
cards for this catalog were typed by the end of the fiscal year.

The Bureau also put into operation its new filing system of photo-
graphic prints, the first installment of 30 albums having been ac-
quired for prints from newly restored negatives. Each print is
labeled with information pertinent to the subject. Full biographical
data is furnished where possible in the case of portraits, so that the
information is easily accessible to inquirers. At the close of the fiscal
year, approximately 200 new file prints have been thus filed. Prints
for the duplicate reserve file also have been labeled and filed with
protecting paper between the prints. Requests for pay orders ex-
ceeded 300 prints during the year.

Up to July 1, 1948, 200 restorations of old negatives were com-
pleted. This necessitated the making of 200 11- by 14-inch enlarge-
ments, 200 mountings, 200 8- by 10-inch negatives, and 600 8- by
10-inch file prints. In addition to the restoration program, the Bureau
photographer filled requisitions for 53 negatives, 988 prints, and 807
enlargements.

COLLECTIONS
Collections transferred by the Bureau of American Ethnology

to the United States National Museum during the fiscal year were
as follows:

Accession
No. Collection
177,085. 1 skeleton of an Indian child, 2-3 years old, from near Lela, Wheeler

County, Tex.

177,393. 1 skull and 4 cervical vertebrae of a dinosaur. Collected by Dr.
Theodore BH. White 1214 miles west of Kaycee, Johnson County, Wyo.

178,819. Archeological material collected at Cerro de las Mesas, Veracruz,
México, 1941, by the National Geographic Society-Smithsonian Insti-
tution Expedition under the direction of Dr. M. W. Stirling.

178,831. 3 Miocene specimens from the Canyon Ferry Reservoir area in Mon-
tana; and 6 EHocene specimens from the Boysen Reservoir area in
Wyoming. Collected by Dr. T. E. White and John ©. Donohoe.

178,942. 538 specimens of archeological material collected by Dr. Gordon R.
Willey from the Center Hill Reservoir on Caney Fork River, DeKalb
County, Tenn.

179,088. 2 mollusks from Medicine Creek, Nebr.
84 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

MISCELLANEOUS

During the year Dr. Antonio J. Waring of Savannah, Ga., was
made a collaborator of the Bureau of American Ethnology, while
Miss Frances Densmore and Dr. John R. Swanton continued as
collaborators.

During the course of the year information was furnished by mem-
bers of the Bureau staff in reply to numerous inquiries concerning
the American Indians, both past and present, of both continents.
Various specimens sent to the Bureau were identified and data on
them furnished for their owners.

Respectfully submitted.

M. W. Stieuine, Director.

Dr. A. Wermore,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 6
REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE

Sir: [ have the honor to submit the following report on the activities
of the International Exchange Service for the fiscal year ended June
80, 1948.

The Smithsonian Institution is the official United States agency for
the exchange with other nations of governmental, scientific, and
literary publications, This exchange is carried on throughout the
world under various conventions, treaties, and other international
agreements.

The number of packages received for transmission during the year
was 760,119, an increase over the previous year of 56,321. The weight
of these packages was 812,189 pounds, an increase of 38,214 pounds.
The average weight of the individual package is approximately 1
pound, 1 ounce, as compared with the average of the previous year of
1 pound, 2 ounces—an indication that the institutions are shipping
less of the material that was held during the war. The material re-
ceived from both foreign and domestic sources for distribution is
classified as shown in the following table:

Packages Weight
Number Number Pounds Pounds
United States parliamentary documents sent abroad -_-- 346; (68a | Std Fee 1633:262)o ts ele
Publications received in return for parliamentary docu-

MENTS Seen ee eee nee ee eee ee ae ee ee poe ee eee D200) bane saeen eee 6, 993
United States departmental documents sent abroad_-_- NSGAO20 | ese vceetseys oe 22450030
Bublications received in return for departmental docu-

pre Anh Pepe aide tee eee a Ra ge a OE PETS OBA Ee hoes Nee Mey SAG 2a | ee eas 12, 034
WARGISOES scientific and literary publications sent

SbroaGees s.22 eee a eae ee eae LOS A600n|peaeseoeeoee 330;040) Baoan sane
Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications re-

ceived from abroad for distribution in the United

States see eee oe 8 LAI Te Se Se oh ee Abed EE DRE OY EG os a a 59, 192

Totals. sess ee Sa ae eee neocon 731, 423 28, 696 733, 970 78, 219
Granditotal l= eee ss 522 = ae eee JOE 760, 119 812, 189

The packages are forwarded partly by mail direct to the addressees
and partly by freight to the foreign exchange bureaus. The number
of boxes shipped to the foreign exchange bureaus was 3,107, an in-
crease of 529. Of the boxes shipped 533 were for depositories of full
sets of the United States Government documents furnished in ex-
change for the official publications of foreign governments for deposit

85
86 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

in the Library of Congress. The number of packages forwarded by
mail was 197,355.

The first shipments of exchange publications to the Japanese Ex-
change Bureau, under the jurisdiction of the National Library of
Japan (the former Imperial Library), were made during the year.

In spite of the fact that considerable savings in transportation cost
were effected by exporting from Baltimore instead of New York, and
in spite of the advantage gained through special arrangements for
shipments to Germany, the allotment for transportation was practi-
cally exhausted by the end of March 1948. Therefore, it was necessary
to curtail shipments sharply during the last 3 months of the fiscal year
1948, which resulted in a backlog at the end of the year of approxi-
mately 225,000 pounds.

Consignments are now forwarded to all countries except Rumania,
with which country negotiations were continued through diplomatic
channels to effect the resumption of normal exchange relations.

FOREIGN DEPOSITORIES OF GOVERNMENTAL DOCUMENTS

The number of sets of United States official publications received by
the Exchange Service to be sent abroad in return for the official publica-
tions sent by foreign governments for deposit in the Library of Con-
gress is 94 (57 full and 387 partial sets). The Bulgarian Bibliograph-
ical Institute has been added to the list as the official depository of
Bulgaria.

DEPOSITORIES OF FULL SETS

ARGENTINA: Direccién de Investigaciones, Archivo, Biblioteca y Legislacién Hx-
tranjero, Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriories y Culto, Buenos Aires.
AUSTRALIA: Commonwealth Parliament and National Library, Canberra.
NEw SoutH WALES: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Parliamentary Library, Brisbane.
SoutH AustTRALIA: Public Library of South Australia, Adelaide.
TASMANIA: Parliamentary Library, Hobart.
Vicrorta: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.
Austria: National Library of Austria, Vienna.
BeEtGIuM: Bibliothéque Royale, Bruxelles.
BraAziu: Instituto Nacional do Livro, Rio de Janeiro.
Bute@sariA: Bulgarian Bibliographical Institute, Sofia.
CanapDA: Library of Parliament, Ottawa.
MAniroBa: Provincial Library, Winnipeg.
ONTARIO: Legislative Library, Toronto.
Quesec: Library of the Legislature of the Province of Quebec.
CHILE: Biblioteca Nacional, Santiago.
CHINA: Ministry of Education, National Library, Nanking, China.
Perrine: National Library of Peiping.
CotomsBiIA: Biblioteca Nacional, Bogota.

1 Added during the year.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 87

Costa Rica: Oficina de Depésito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, San José.
Cusa: Ministerio de Estado, Canje Internacional, Habana.
CZECHOSLOVAKIA : Bibliothéque de l’Assemblée Nationale, Prague.
DENMARK: Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes Selskab, Copenhagen.
Eayrt: Bureau des Publications, Ministére des Finances, Cairo.
Estonia: Riigiraamatukogu (State Library), Tallinn.
FINLAND: Parliamentary Library, Helsinki.
FRANCE: Bibliothéque Nationale, Paris.
GERMANY: Offentliche Wissenschaftliche Bibliothek, Berlin.’
GREAT BRITAIN :
ENGLAND: British Museum, London.
Lonpon : London School of Economics and Political Science. (Depository of
the London County Council.)
Hungary: Library of Parliament, Budapest.’
Inp1a: Imperial Library, Calcutta.
IRELAND: National Library of Ireland, Dublin.
Itaty: Ministerio della Publica Istruxione, Rome.
JAPAN: National Library of Japan, Tokyo.
Mexico: Secretaria de Relaciones Exteriores, Departamento de Informacién para
el Extranjero, Mexico, D. F.
NETHERLANDS: Royal Library, The Hague.
New ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.
NorTHERN IRELAND: H. M. Stationery Office, Belfast.
Norway: Universitets-Bibliothek, Oslo. (Depository of the Government of
Norway.)
Peru: Seccién de Propaganda y Publicaciones, Ministerio de Relaciones Ex-
teriores, Lima.
PHILIPPINES: National Library, Manila.
POLAND: Bibliothéque Nationale, Warsaw.
PorTUGAL: Biblioteca Nacional, Lisbon.
RuMANIA: Academia Romani, Bucharest.”
Spain: Cambio Internacional de Publicaciones, Avenida Calvo Sotelo 20, Madrid.
SweDEN: Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm.
SWITZERLAND: Bibliothéque Centrale Fédérale, Berne.
TuRKEY : Department of Printing and Engraving, Ministry of Education, Istanbul.
UNION oF SouTH AFrica: State Library, Pretoria, Transvaal.
UNIon oF Soviet Socialist REpusLics: All-Union Lenin Library, Moscow 115.
UKRAINE: Ukrainian Society for Cultural Relations with Foreign Countries,
Kiev.
UnitTep Nations: Library of the United Nations, Geneva, Switzerland.
Ugucuay: Oficina de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Montevideo.
VENEZUELA : Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.
YueosLavia: Ministére de l’Education, Belgrade.

DEPOSITORIES OF PARTIAL SETS

AFGHANISTAN; Library of the Afghan Academy, Kabul.
Botivia: Biblioteca del Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores y Culto, La Paz.
BrRaAzIL:

Minas GeEraes: Directoria Geral e Estatistica em Minas, Bello Horizonte.
BRITISH GUIANA: Government Secretary’s Office, Georgetown, Demerara.
BurMa: Secretary to the Government of Burma, Education Department, Rangoon.

2 Temporarily suspended.
®§ Changed from Library, Hungarian House of Delegates, Budapest.

817369—49——-7
88 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

CANADA:
ALBEBTA: Provincial Library, Edmonton.
BriTisH CoLtuMBIA: Provincial Library, Victoria.
New Brunswick: Legislative Library, Fredericton.
Nova Scotta: Provincial Secretary of Nova Scotia, Halifax.
SASKATCHEWAN: Legislative Library, Regina.
CryYLon: Chief Secretary’s Office, Record Department of the Library, Colombo.
DoMINICAN ReEpusBtic: Biblioteca de la Universidad de Santo Domingo, Ciudad
Trujillo. ;
Ecuapok: Biblioteca Nacional, Quito.
GREECE: National Library, Athens.‘
GUATEMALA: Biblioteca Nacional, Guatemala.
Haitr: Bibliothéque Nationale, Port-au-Prince.
HONDURAS:
Biblioteca y Archivo Nacionales, Tegucigalpa.
Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Tegucigalpa.
IcELAND: National Library, Reykjavik.
INDIA:
Bru aR AND OrISSA: Revenue Department, Patna.
Bompay : Undersecretary to the Government of Bombay, General Department,
Bombay.
UNITED PROVINCES OF AGRA AND OUDH: University of Allahabad, Allahabad.
West Benga: Library, Bengal Legislature, Assembly House, Calcutta.
TRAN: Imperial Ministry of Education, Tehran.
Iraq: Public Library, Baghdad.
JAMAICA: Colonial Secretary, Kingston.
LipekiA: Department of State, Monrovia.
Matra: Minister for the Treasury, Valleta.
NEWFOUNDLAND: Department of Home Affairs, St. John’s.
NIcaRAGUA: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Managua.
PaNAMA: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Panama.
PAKISTAN: Chief Secretary to the Government of Punjab, Lahore.
Paraguay: Ministerio de Relaciones Hxteriores, Seccién Biblioteca, Asuncidn.
SALVADOR:
Biblioteca Nacional, San Salvador.
Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador.
Sram: National Library, Bangkok.’
VaTIcAN Ciry: Biblioteca Apostolica Vaticana, Vatican City, Italy.

INTERPARLIAMENTARY EXCHANGE OF THE OFFICIAL JOURNAL

There are now being sent abroad 73 copies of the Federal Register
and 66 copies of the Congressional Record. The countries to which
these journals are being forwarded are given in the following list:

DEPOSITORIES OF CONGRESSIONAL RECORD AND FEDERAL REGISTER
ARGENTINA:
Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Buenos Aires.
Biblioteca del Poder Judicial, Mendoza °
Camara de Diputados, Oficina de Informacion Parliamentaria, Buenos Aires.
Boletin Oficial de la Repfiblica Argentina, Ministerio de Justica e Instrucci6n
Publica, Buenos Aires.

4 Added during the year.
5 Changed from Department of Foreign Affairs.
® Federal Register only.
SECRETARY’S REPORT

AUSTRALIA:
Commonwealth Parliament and National Library, Canberra.

89

New SocutH WaAtss: Library of Parliament of New South Wales, Sydney.

QUEENSLAND: Chief Secretary’s Office, Brisbane.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA; Library of Parliament of Western Australia.
BRAZIL:
Biblioteca do Congresso Nacional, Rio de Janeiro.
Imprensa Nacional, Rio de Janeiro.®
AMAZONAS: Archivo, Biblioteca e Imprensa Publica, Mandéos.
BAHIA ; Governador do Estado da Bahia, S40 Salvador.
Espirito SANTO: Presidencia do Estado do Espirito Santo, Victoria.
RIo GRANDE po SUL: Imprensa Oficial do Estado, Porto Alegre.
SERGIPE: Biblioteca Publica do Estado de Sergipe, Aracaja.
SAo PAvuto: Imprensa Oficial do Estado, Sao Paulo.
BritisH HonpurAs: Colonial Secretary, Belize.
CANADA:
Library of Parliament, Ottawa.
Clerk of the Senate, Houses of Parliament, Ottawa.
CUBA:
Biblioteca del Capitolio, Habana.
Biblioteca Publica Panamericana, Habana.°®
Et Satvapor: Library, National Assembly, San Salvador.’
EGYPT: Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Egyptian Government, Cairo.®
FRANCE:
Bibliothéque, Chambre des Députés, Paris.
Bibliothéque, Conséil de la Republique.
Publiques de l’Institute de Droit Compare, Université de Paris, Paris.°
GREAT Britain: Printed Library of the Foreign Office, London.
GREECE: Library, Greek Parliament, Athens.
GUATEMALA: Biblioteca de la Asamblea Legislativa, Guatemala.
Harti: Bibliothéque Nationale, Port-au-Prince.
HONDURAS: Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Tegucigalpa.
INDIA:
Civil Secretariat Library, Lucknow, United Provinces.®
Legislative Assembly Library, Lucknow, United Provinces.
Legislative Department, Simla.
IRELAND: Dail Hireann, Dublin.
ITaLy: International Institute for the Unification of Private Law, Rome.*®
MEXIco:

Direcci6n General de Informacion, Secretaria de Gobernacién, Mexico, D. F.

Biblioteca Benjamin Franklin, Mexico, D. F.

AGUASCALIENTES: Gobernador del Estado de Aguascalientes, Aguascalientes.

CAMPECHE: Gobernador del Estado de Campeche, Campeche.
CHIAPAS: Gobernador del Estado de Chiapas, Tuxtla Gutierrez.
CHIHUAHUA: Gobernador del Estado de Chihuahua, Chihuahua.

COAHUILA: Periéddico Oficial del Estado de Coahuila, Palacio de Gobierno,

Saltillo.
CoLImA : Gobernador del Estado de Colima, Colima.

DvRANGO; Gobernador Constitucional del Estado de Durango, Durango.
GuaNnaAJUATO: Secretaria General de Gobierno del Estado, Guanajuato.

7 Added during the year.
® Congressional Record only.
90 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

Mexico—Continued
GUERRERO: Gobernador del Estado de Guerrero, Chilpancingo.
JALISCO: Biblioteca del Estado, Guadalajara.
LOWER CALIFORNIA: Gobernador del Distrito Norte, Mexicali.
México: Gaceta del Gobierno, Toluca.
MicHoacAN: Secretaria General de Gobierno del Estado de Michoacan,
Morelia.
MORELOS: Palacio de Gobierno, Cuernavaca.
NAYARIT: Gobernador de Nayarit, Tepic.
Nuevo LEéN: Biblioteca del Estado, Monterrey.
Oaxaca: Periodico Oficial, Palacia de Gobierno, Oaxaca.
PUEBLA; Secretaria General de Gobierno, Puebla.
QUERETARO: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Secci6n de Archivo, Querétaro.
San Luis Potosi: Congreso del Estado, San Luis Potosi.
SINALOA: Gobernador del Estado, de Sinaloa, Culiacan.
Sonor4 ; Gobernador del Estado de Sonora, Hermosillo.
TLaxcaLaA: Secretaria de Gobierno del Estado, Tlaxcala.
Villahermosa.
TAMAULIPAS: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Victoria.
TLAXCALA: Secretaria de Gobierno del Estado, Tlaxcala.
VERACRUZ: Gobernador del Estado de Veracruz, Departmento de Gobernacién
y Justicia, Jalapa.
YucatTAn: Gobernador del Estado de Yucatin, Mérida.
Nrew ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.
PERU: CAmara de Diputados, Lima.
POLAND: Ministry of Justice, Warsaw.’
SPain : Diputacion de Navarra, San Sebastian.
SwITzERLAND: Bibliothéque, Bureau International du Travail, Geneva.’
UNION oF SOUTH AFRICA:
CAPE oF Goop HorE: Library of Parliament, Cape Town.
TRANSVAAL: State Library, Pretoria.
UnuGvAy: Diario Oficial, Calle Morida 1178, Montevideo.
VENEZUELA : Biblioteca del Congreso, Caracas.

FOREIGN EXCHANGE AGENCIES

Exchanges are sent to all countries except Rumania. The countries
listed are those to which shipments are forwarded by freight. To
other countries not appearing on the list, packages are forwarded
by mail.

LIST OF AGENCIES
Austria: Austrian National Library, Vienna.
Be.cIumM: Service des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Royale de

Belgique, Bruxelles.

CHINA: Bureau of International Exchange, National Central Library, Nanking.
CZECHOSLOVAKIA: Bureau des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque de l’Assem-

blée Nationale, Prague 1-100.

DENMARK: Institut des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Royale, Copen-

hagen K.

Keyrr: Government Press, Publications Office, Bulag, Cairo.
FINLAND: Delegation of the Scientific Societies of Finland, Kasiirngatan 24,

Helsinki.

®° Federal Register only.
SECRETARY’S REPORT Ol

France: Service des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Nationale, 58 Rue
de Richelieu, Paris.

GERMANY: Offentliche Wissenschaftliche Bibliothek, Berlin.” ™

German Central Committee for Distribution of Cultural Materials,
Stuttgart” *

Great BriraAINn AND IRELAND: Wheldon & Wesley, 83/84 Berwick Street,
London, W.1.

Houneary: Hungarian Libraries Board, Ferenciektere 5, Budapest, IV.

InpIa: Superintendent of Government Printing and Stationery, Bombay.

Iraty: Ufficio degli Sambi Internazionali, Ministero della Publica Istruxione,
Rome.

JAPAN: International Exchange Service, National Library of Japan, Uyeno Park,
Tokyo.”

NETHERLANDS: International Exchange Bureau of the Netherlands, Royal Li-
brary, The Hague.

New Souta WALEs: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.

NEw ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.

Norway: Service Norvégien des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque de )’Uni-
versité Royale, Oslo.

PALESTINE: Jewish National and University Library, Jerusalem.”

PotanD: Service Polonais des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Nationale,
Warsaw.

PorTUGAL: Seccio de Trocas Internacionais, Biblioteca Nacional, Lisbon.

QUEENSLAND; Bureau of Exchanges of International Publications, Chief Secre-
tary’s Office, Brisbane.

RuMANIA: Ministére de la Propagande Nationale, Service des EXchanges Inter-
nationaux, Bucharest.”

SoutH AUSTRALIA: South Australian Government Exchanges Bureau, Govern-
ment Printing and Stationery Office, Adelaide.

Spain: Junta de Intercambio y Adquisicién de Libros y Revistas para Biblote-
eas Pfiblicas, Ministerio de Educaci6n Nacional, Avenida Calvo Sotelo 20,
Madrid.

Swepen: Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm.

SwITzERLAND : Service Suisse des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Centrale
Fédérale, Palais Fédérale, Berne.

TasMANIA: Secretary to the Premier, Hobart.

TURKEY: Ministry of Education, Department of Printing and Engraving,
Istanbul.

UNION oF SoutH ArricA: Government Printing and Stationery Office, Cape Town,
Cape of Good Hope.

UNION oF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS: International Book Exchange Depart-
ment, Society for Cultural Relations with Foreign Countries, Moscow, 56.

Victoria: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.

Yuaostavia: Section des Echanges Internationaux, Ministére des Affaires
Eitrangéres, Belgrade.

Respectfully submitted.
D. G. Wuu14Ms, Acting Chief.
Dr. A. Wetmore,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

10 Distribution under supervision of War Department.
1 For all sectors of Berlin and Russian Zone.

2 For American, British, and French Zones.

13 Shipments suspended.
lis... +.” osnpkee aed

San pushin anyisantitalty mma ea mY rik sat

“ - Oo sift arent i wetsattieity

neptbbiaiioct. fcc = “ie aby ftotenattd toy ir
“Son on ee .

¥ bu aie? Sear na ' jot ‘Hee - fi tw
—. fe ve » it oem ten of
a ye Min =! Dy Bei ral tre iva eceutt aiflicathl abies

— -_ Romney Ath sr hele a ada pHintincret on) io Jeb inte
“apart ‘A SiG white NTP tnt lionaihe 1 Eee ‘iat 4

: ers Gee = _ ria i om] a ;
: aa Pplies iH ( re ae enh tau hae ae rent at ule
yp i. a ; 7 " 7 a)
ans ( ingil ipa Dey “aty ud fe shuigi cae iia: a hs viii 7m ts
ri Pt, ‘c be aa ica 1. Gis ;
» ei i> niga heel ve ata. “ae ve 10 ul, is sitet 4 eth 20

is uaAlle Mae, Rta ieee upene Otsd a
_— ay ee oe attinitil ran ayyinatns i Wit fale: Aen sued =)

! : = a ui i hay ee AE ;
i oy = ‘Sau Al iid To fener i “ate Pt oe is WA htt pal Wik
solnt Haiti his es He? enna shire sith: Aneta: Pao ‘si dol BL
7 a - ; a ¢ - : . 7 7 a:
att “ lutay ge i si ay) TaAubanersy an Pure an ieee ery
i rs B fark nt) + nara en Maint Soitahhn pace the 15) the sioner - ty inn & su ae tz
: . er a ee +i ae 7 art ee cee ACY > abe ole rr } Seton Bh at
inked aarti oe a mil headin Jeti Lise ny att ae vty’ tok oft y
a) jerrcie ot yer -_ aon nee is ty seh sae i canal
: a iB ite e 7 gh rae ral fea At ati yy ier lish ied peok AUTRES 1 J
: ti net ot pa fy Ae  . Ser tui AT foot MPT he q su oy iay
sei a ied sivei Lan & SED 3 ot Wott tu teh, Paine 40. Py ul Mt
a ie li hois: ne allin ay fe th rahe nee ddaoghee cage, abeneten i i Sal ant,
mit Reedy : bed
. Pe at 0 Pn eee ee inn teo GANGES walle nee oe
~ alt reine A aba ne ati Fhe: inst is Ree gh marti eelvsed ee or
a i 90 rece iby (pe Sba sats ai

a . si mA “edunl Sohniet oh at: ena teri ae aa
AMPA ‘bag oz pin ae, ays its cr ae) * Ati thes, iw sa srisiait ti
_ a aj Fi « anh es cw a ae 74 iy? & id
; <i al! haat nas fe sachin hy Ny Pu) jad Jpeg yoly ine jut hi gerbe

; al eee: Al:

—

- | vine Ros agit ib Goan aii? Jaaruewaast, runs td aS
th, AiPODnon ssh isi TO ACNT eye henna fein mn ‘ste

= 2 1s iF tet <7 \ ai owtintliite hy WAI US part doy
" re <> ie Ad Maayan rints inh ain hehe ak oumy i ea alk
5 insta eH, ug sities a Seatac a, wip sab. a

a

jee Se : i 4 nd ays
> 7 ig yas ie at | ~ a mm Gy oe.
Raji ona . fii a a: a ie
et mm yf os ae Od, i at ne = Fear mS
J) Beis tae + reat che am bsrue lh
F i . ty a 7) ~ _ ty al a 7 i
‘a ; “wi ay
APPENDIX 7
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera-
tions of the National Zoological Park for the fiscal year ended June
30, 1948.

An appropriation of $455,400 for the operations of the Zoo was
provided in the District of Columbia appropriation act. Subject to
minor changes in final bills, a total of $441,200 was expended for all
purposes, and an unexpended balance of $14,200 remains. This saving
was almost entirely from salaries because of the impossibility of filling
positions promptly.

The year was a very satisfactory one. Animals of exceptional
interest were received; fair progress was made in recruiting the
organization, although it still is not fully manned; and some repair
work was accomplished.

Minor improvements included the construction of 1,200 linear feet
of concrete copings and 12,000 square feet of bituminous concrete
sidewalks around some of the animal exhibits and adjacent to road-
ways; surfacing 4,800 square yards of parking area near the Harvard
Street entrance and a short length of service road with penetrating
oil and slag covering; constructing and placing 48 park benches made
with concrete legs and wood slats.

Chemical fighting of poison ivy was continued with good success.
Supplies of building maintenance material which had become badly
depleted were somewhat replenished, and some construction, repair,
and maintenance equipment was obtained. As a whole the physical
condition of the establishment has been improved by concentrating on
the places that were most in need of attention.

The National Zoological Park renders a variety of services to the
American public. Besides the public exhibits of nearly 2,800 animals
and the providing of an attractive recreation area, opportunities are
offered for students of biology, particularly vertebrate zoology, as
well as for artists, photographers, writers, and research workers—
provided the method of research does not endanger the welfare of the
animals or of the public. Other direct services are answering in per-
son, by phone, mail, and telegraph, questions regarding animals,
their care and transportation; the furnishing of information to other

93
94 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

zoos and private and public agencies regarding structures for keep-
ing and housing animals; cooperation with other agencies of the
Federal, State, and Municipal governments in research work.

NEEDS OF THE ZOO

The two chief needs of the Zoo are: 1, sufficient funds for a minor
increase in personnel and to provide for proper care of the animals and
the maintenance of the establishment in a presentable condition; 2,
new buildings to replace antiquated structures that have long since
ceased to be suitable for the purpose, presentable, or even safe for use.
The more urgently needed buildings are: (1) a new administration
building to replace the 143-year-old historic landmark now in use for
an office building for the Zoo, but which is neither suitably located nor
well-adapted for the purpose. This building is in an excellent loca-
tion for a public recreational structure and could probably be rehabili-
tated and used for recreational purposes, perhaps as a children’s mu-
seum, and thus maintained asa historic building. The new office build-
ing should be better located both from the standpoint of accessibility
to the public and convenience for the administration of the Zoo; (2)
a new building to house antelopes and other medium-size hoofed ani-
mals that require a heated building.

VISITORS

It had been anticipated that after the war the fluctuation in at-
tendance during the week would again be pronounced. It has there-
fore been surprising to note that attendance on early days of the week
has been relatively high, and the peak attendance of the week ends
has been less pronounced than before the war. This is probably due
to continued high employment in the Washington area and to increase
in travel accompanying the general economic prosperity.

The total attendance was 3,040,540, an increase in 309,862 over the
previous year and the second largest year’s attendance the Zoo has
ever had.

ESTIMATED NUMBER OF VISITORS FOR FISCAL YEAR 1948

dulyc194 (ese = oe ee 4347500) Mevruanya ese ee eae 98, 250
PAIS Cee ee ren ne ee ree 35952001 aVisrc eee ena eee 300, 590
Septemberls 202 aie eas 2977800) fA pril ee eee 341, 800
Octobe rae = se satires eee 252 OOM Va yes Pee eee eee eee 325, 700
INOVeMbere == eee ee TI UO HRaTO sO) HA Yoo (Ve es 385, 600
December aa= Stes Sees 110, 500 SSS
Panuarya (O48) == ee 44, 000 Total 2 an eee 3, 040, 540

Groups came to the Zoo from schools in 27 States, some as far away
as Maine, Florida, Texas, and Wisconsin.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 95

NUMBER OF GROUPS FROM SCHOOLS

Number | Number Number | Number

of groups | in groups of groups | in groups
Ma bamaees set ae seco see 3 ALS | MNG Wid CLSOyseer ae eee 23 1, 807
@onnecticut=ss- =e seeen eee 4 DAV BING Woy OD Kae ss neo eae er? 61 3, 682
ID EAR aen et ee 8 285 || North Carolina______________- 91 3, 230
District of Columbia__-__-__-- 112 5, 539 efi ben 5 Soe 44 od
Hlorid ao Se ee Se 2 Oklahomaeeess sneer nee 1 27
Géorpiat sear ae 30 1,209) |ennsylvaniges 22255 ees 192 9, 290
Hincisss = a ee 1 lg} Prvhodeulslandmes == eons ee 1 63
nidiani gee eee ee ea 7 232) (South Caroling 222 10 339
ICON UNC Ky eee ate See 4 3263||/eLennessee2s 2-2 ves il ea aie 22 867
Maine ies obser eee 7 5460) | Rexasee en cae ose nears 1 16
WMiaiyian dass estes 505 SOR 208a||VAreinig. = 222 ee ee 290 16, 145
Massachusetts___..----------- 9 S79) | eWwesteVirginiges s2 252s sen seo 27 1, 241
Wichiganes sis emer eo ee 5 434.1) Wisconsinei2_--2 2212228822 1 81
IVISSOUNT See eee ee eee 2 66 | —_—_—_
New Hampshire__....__..---- 1 120 Motal=2es ese eas oe 1, 454 79, 249

About 2 p. m. each day the cars then parked in the Zoo are counted
by the Zoo police and listed according to the State, Territory, or
country from which they came. This is, of course, not a census of the
cars coming to the Zoo but is valuable in showing the percentage of
attendance by States of people in private automobiles. The tabula-
tion for the fiscal year 1948 is as follows:

Percent Percent
Washington, 1s) Oxi) lhe WOO WO 22 elo tetera te 1.6
Marylanidls oo Sa ooo ele 26:20 | WeSt, Virginia, 2202-22 2 ee 1, 04
Vili rt eect ene tee 20 NG Wr Jerseyanie 2 22 ae sree 1.01
Pennsylvania il ee eet Ae inp MEI O1SS ea See PA a Ee a 1. 01
IN GWOT Key Sees see ee ek 2roy Massachusetts 22.5 2. Aue 9
INonthis Carolina) ae = ee SO'S RO ric toe ae 5 = ee Prete ed ee be aS

The cars that made up the remaining 11.24 percent came from every
one of the remaining States, as well as from Alaska, Alberta, British
Columbia, Canal Zone, Cuba, Great Britain, Hawaii, Manitoba, Mex-
ico, Newfoundland, Nova Scotia, Ontario, Panama, Philippine Is-
lands, Puerto Rico, Quebec, Saskatchewan.

It is well known that District of Columbia, Maryland, and Virginia
cars bring to the Zoo many people from other parts of the United
States and of the world, but no figures are available on which to base
percentages.

THE EXHIBITS

Animals for the collection are acquired by gift, deposit, purchase,
exchange, births and hatchings, and are removed by return of speci-
mens on deposit, exchange, or death. Although depositors are at lib-
erty to remove the specimens that they place in the Zoo, many leave the
specimens for the rest of their lives.

The animal collection has been definitely improved during the year.
The total number of specimens on hand June 30, 1948, was 2,797, or
210 less than a year ago, but the collection as a whole is more valuable
because of the addition of a number of rare animals.
96 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

STATUS OF COLLECTION

Class Species individ: Class Species are
Maming ssa ie= 2 soe aee eee 196 209}! *Insects: 28-8 es il 100
Bind sie 2242 ie a 339 1/0647) "Arachnids!= 32-2252 sa 2 3
Reptiles’s ee 100 5067 UMrollisksts se nene eeeenee 2 12
Amphiblanssss ssn seceenns 25 179 ——_—__—_|—___—_
i Cicadas ne See 25 224 Total’, Seats lees 690 2, 797
SUMMARY
Animals on hand July; -194vs 2 eS a eee eee 3, 007
Accessionsiduring: the year. oo Sey Ee eee ek ai eee 1, 041
Total number of animals in collection during the year______-_____ 4,048
Removals for various reasons such as death, exchanges, return of animals
ONVOEDOSICE CEC asi aS ys ee EN Ta ae ie NE ig ets 2 al ath ee eels 12a
In collection on, June 30; 1948 <4 2h 2 a as pe ie ee 2, 297

ACQUISITION OF SPECIMENS

Air transportation of specimens of moderate weight but of unusual
interest has brought to the Zoo some of the outstanding exhibits of
the year, including the collection of tarsiers, cloud rats, tree shrews,
monkey-eating eagle, and other specimens brought from the Philip-
pines by Charles Wharton. The National Geographic Society sent
by air from Santa Cruz, Bolivia, to Washington a pichi ciego mayor
(Burmeisteria retusa), a small, very peculiar type of armadillo, which
is a great rarity in collections. It was alive when it arrived in Miami,
Fla., but unfortunately died before it reached Washington. However,
the National Museum gained a valuable specimen and some of the
Washington biologists had their first glimpse of the remarkable little
creature. This may be the first one to have arrived alive in the United
States.

The outstanding animals received during the year were:

4 King penguins. 1 Arctie fox.
28 Mindanao tarsiers. 2 Snow buntings.
9 Philippine tree shrews. 104 Elepbant shrews. These were
7 Bushy-tailed cloud rats. brought to the United States
1 Monkey-eating eagle. from East Africa by the Medical
3 Coconut crabs. Division of the United States
1 Sitatunga. Navy for studies of tropical dis-
6 Giant racquet-tailed drongos. eases, and were quartered at the
8 Emperor penguins. Zoo until the Navy could provide
4 Adelie penguins. quarters for them.

As in any colony of living things, there is a steady turn-over, so
that the exhibits are constantly changing. Thus, the inventory list of
specimens in the collection on June 80 of each year does not show all
the kinds of animals that were exhibited during the year; sometimes
creatures of outstanding interest at the time they were shown are no
longer in the collection at the time the list is prepared.
Secretary's Report, 1948.—Appendix 7 PLATE 3

1. PHILIPPINE MONKEY-EATING EAGLE (PITHECOPHAGA JEFFERY!) AND AN
AMERICAN SPARROW HAWK ON THE HAND OF MRS. JOHN N. HAMLET.

Photograph by John N. Hamlet.

2. PHILIPPINE TREE SHREW (UROGALE EVERETT!).
Photograph by Ernest P. Walker.
PLATE 4

Secretary's Report, 1948.—Appendix 7

1. MINDANAO TARSIER (TARSIUS CARBONARIUS).
Photograph by Ernest P. Walker.

oo

2. BUSHY-TAILED CLOUD RAT (CRATEROMYS SCHADENBERGI).
Photograph by Ernest P. Walker.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 97

DEPOSITORS AND DONORS AND THEIR GIFTS
(Deposits are marked *)

Abbott, Capt. J. M., Fort Belvoir, Va., through Dr. John Aldrich, of Fish and
Wildlife Service, bald eagle.

Abramson, Dr. Alfred, Arlington, Va., 3 Pekin ducks.

Aburrow, Margaret, Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Allen, Arthur, Washington, D. C., Pekin duck, red-shouldered hawk.

Allen, George and John Jr., Tehran, Iran, 2 Syrian brown bears.

Allen, Mrs. Stanley, Washington, D. C., French salamander.

Animal Rescue League, Washington, D. C., white-tufted marmoset.

Arnold, J. O., Silver Spring, Md., Pekin duck.

Baker, Adelbert R., Washington, D. C., box turtle.

Bartsch, Dr. Paul, U. S. National Museum, Washington, D. C., mourning dove.

Bayer, F.N., Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C., 3 coconut crabs.

Beauchart, Harry J., Washington, D. C., 11 golden hamsters.

Bell, Donald, Washington, D. C., eastern robin.

Berrey, H. K., Jr., Washington, D. C., 3 horned lizards.

Blalock, A. D., Orinda, Calif., 2 yellow-billed magpies, 2 Boyle’s king snakes, 8
California house finches, yellow-billed magpie.*

Boswell, William, Washington, D. C., red-tailed hawk.

Boys of Camp Letts, Y. M. C. A., Edgewater, Md., 2 black vultures.

Brady, Morris K., Washington, D. C., 2 cuzumbies.

Bricker, Mrs., Kensington, Md., 5 opossums.

Brill, Wallace, Jr., Washington, D. C., Cooper’s hawk.

Brown, J. A., Chevy Chase, Md., 2 Pekin ducks.

Brozyna, C. A., Takoma Park, Md., 2 grass paroquets.

Bullock, Carl, Bethesda, Md., domestic rabbit.

Burgess, H. E., Washington, D. C., 4 golden hamsters.

Butcher, David H., Falls Church, Va., 2 Pekin ducks.

Calhoun, Frank, Clinton, Md., domestic sheep.*

Carter, C., Winchester, Va., rhesus monkey.*

Chicago Zoological Park, Brookfield, IIl., 2 sitatungas.

Christopher, L. C., Arlington, Va., 2 Pekin ducks.

Clark, W. R., Arlington, Va., barred owl.

Clarry, Warren A., Arlington, Va., 2 barred owls.

Clemm, Frank, Arlington, Va., loggerhead turtle.

Cleveland Zoological Park, through Fletcher Reynolds, Cleveland, Ohio, 2
massasaugas.

Conger, Richard, Washington, D. C., 2 box turtles.

Couch, V. L., Arlington, Va., 2 Pekin ducks.

Craig, Costello M., Washington, D. C., grass paroquet.

Crawford, R., Warren, Ohio, 8 massasaugas.

Curtis, Representative Carl T. of Nebraska, domestic rabbit.*

Cynthia Warner School, Takoma Park, Md., domestic rabbit, 4 Pekin ducks.

Dahl, George, Washington, D. C., eastern robin.

Dargan, Lucas, Washington, D. C., jumping mouse.

Davis, Malcolm, National Zoological Park, Washington, D. C., domestic pigeon.

Davis, Mary, Arlington, Va., mockingbird, 2 blue jays.

De Bruhl, Ben, Washington, D. C., 2 Pekin ducks.

Decker, Robert L., Deale, Md., 14 mallard ducks.

De Santis, Sherwin and Lawrence, Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Detwiler, D. T., Richmond, Va., rhesus monkey.
98 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

De Zerne, George, Arlington, Va., 2 skunks.

Dillon, Ray A., Washington, D. C., star-nosed mole.

Dog Pound, Washington, D. C., gray fox, raccoon.

Dow, Brenda L.. Chevy Chase, Md., 2 Pekin ducks.

Edwards, Naney, Takoma Park, Md., 3 Cumberland terrapins.

Fergeron, E., Schriever, La., false chameleon.

Ferry, Maxine T., Washington, D. C., 8 domestic rabbits.

Finch, Dick, Arlington, Va., hoary bat.

Foehl, Arthur, Williamstown, N. J., 4 giant land snails.

Fudge, Bill M., Bethesda, Md., osprey or fish hawk.

Geesa, Mrs., Washington, D. C., 2 Pekin ducks.

George Green’s Animal and Bird Farm, Bulls Gap, Tenn., box turtle.

Gilbert, Jimmy, Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Gilbert, Paul E., Washington, D. C., double yellow-headed parrot.*

Ginsberg, Harry and Jerry, Washington, D. C., pilot snake, water snake.

Glazier, Stephen, Washington, D. C., domestic rabbit.

Golden, Miss Helen, Grand Forks, 8. Dak., 14 Indian rock pythons.

Green Acres School, Bethesda, Md., pied grebe.

Hall, Miss Janet, Washington, D. C., Mexican falcon.*

Hanna, Bob, Bethesda, Md., grass paroquet.

Harrison, Mrs. L. H., Washington, D. C., purple grackle.

Harvey, Dr. Verne K., Alexandria, Va., eastern robin.

Heinz, John E., Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Hershup, Boyd, Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Higgins, J. W., Arlington, Va., snapping turtle.

Hines, W. M., Sr., Arlington, Va., tortoise.

Hoek, Raymond, Fairbanks, Alaska, Arctic fox, 2 snow buntings.

Holmes, Mrs. N. H., Washington, D. C., ring-necked snake.

Horton, Mrs., Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Hughes, Charles, Silver Spring, Md., alligator, painted turtle.

Hunter, Jan F., Washington, D. C., 8 Mexican free-tailed bats.

Huppman, Louis R., Baltimore, Md., woolly monkey.*

Ingham, Rex, Ruffin, N. C., raccoon, 2 plains prairie dogs.*

Ingles, O. C., Washington, D. C., muscovy duck.

Jennier, Roy H., National Zoological Park, Washington, D. C., 8 marine toads.

Johnson, John H., Silver Spring, Md., horned grebe.

Johnson, Mrs. W., Chevy Chase, Md., American goldfinch.

Jones, Mrs. Clara, Washington, D. C., black muskrat.

Kaufman, Judy, Greenbelt, Md., blue jay.

Kensey, A. L., Washington, D. C., 2 Pekin ducks.

Kent, Donald, Washington, D. C., opossum.

Kent, Robert R., Washington, D. C., sparrow hawk.

Kley, John A., Washington, D. C., 3 horned lizards.

Knop, Peter, Wood Acres, Md., musk turtle.

Kornfield, Isadore, Washington, D. C., 2 Pekin ducks.

Kroh, Miss Kay, Baltimore, Md., green guenon.

Kuntz, Robert E., Washington, D. C., 3 collared lizards, 6 Zanzibar-Madagascar
snails.

Lady, John B., Takoma Park, Md., 3 moscovy ducks.

La Fever, Larry, Arlington, Va., water snake.

Lagarde, B., Frederick, Md., 4 pilot snakes.

Lawler, Mrs. Norton, Washington, D. C., 2 Pekin ducks.

Legel, E. F., Arlington, Va., 7 canaries.

Le Roy, Mrs. H. B., Arlington, Va., Pekin duck.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 99

Lipscomb, George W., Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Lohman, K., Alexandria, Va., purple finch.

Long, Mrs. D. E., Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Luethje, Harry M., Washington, D. C., sparrow hawk.

Lund, R. J., Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Lyons, Miss Nancy, Washington, D. C., 2 Pekin ducks.

Maker, Colin, Washington, D. C., 3 horned lizards.

Mann, O. R., Gaithersburg, Md., 2 domestic geese.

Marknett, K. A., Aldie, Va., red-tailed hawk.

Matthews, Calvin, Washington, D. C., rhesus monkey.*

May, David, Takoma Park, Md., eastern cottontail rabbit.

McCann, Bernice, Washington, D. C., grass paroquet.

Meacham, Miss Ann, Washington, D. C., 2 Pekin ducks.

Meems Bros. & Ward, New York, N. Y., black rhinoceros.*

Megill, W. F., Washington, D. C., mallard duck.

Meyer, F. A., Washington, D. C., tarantula.

Mickey, M. G., Washington, D. C., barn owl.

Miller, Lt. William, Fort Clayton, Canal Zone, white-breasted toucan.

Mills, John, National Zoological Park, 6 pine or fence lizards,

Montminy, Clarence, Washington, D. C., worm snake, 2 pine or fence lizards.

Monzer, Nolan, Garrett Park, Md., 5 opossums.

Morgan, David, Bethesda, Md., barn owl, sparrow hawk,* Cooper’s hawk.*

Morris, James, Washington, D. C., American crow.

Murphy, Glen F., Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Musser, G., Falls Church, Va., copperhead snake,

Musser, George, Washington, D. C., eastern diamond-backed rattlesnake, hog-
nosed snake.

Myers, Miss E. V., Washington, D. C., vervet guenon.*

National Geographic Society, Washington, D. C., pichi ciego mayor.

National Zoological Park Police, Washington, D. C., muskrat.

Natural History Society of Maryland, Baltimore, Md., water moccasin, 2 copper-
head snakes.

Nelson, Judy, Alexandria, Va., domestic rabbit.

Nesser, Julius, Chevy Chase, Md., alligator.

Newell, C., Arlington, Va., blue jay.

Newill, Dr. D. S., McConnellsville, Pa., ocellated turkey.

Nigh, Frank, Washington, D. C., gray squirrel.

Oney, Mrs. H., Washington, D. C., tarantula.

Packer, Mrs. D. M., Alexandria, Va., horned lizard.

Paul, Rev. J. Edward, Wilmington, Del., Virginia deer.

Payne, Dorothy, Washington, D. C., screech owl.

Payne, Harold O., Washington, D. C., opossum,

Power, Stacy, Washington, D. C., Philippine macaque.*

Randel, Lt. H., U. S. Army Medical Corps., jaguar, fer-de-lance, water snake,
6 howling monkeys, 3 Panama curassows, 5 Central American boas, 2 sumba-
doras or mussurana, 5 tropical rattlesnakes, 16 terrapins.

Reuter, Mrs. L., Washington, D. C., raccoon.

Rhodes, Mrs. I. L., Washington, D. C., gray squirrel.

Rhodes, John, College Heights, Md., Pekin duck.

Roberts, John C., Alexandria, Va., 2 horned lizards.

Roberts, L. W., Washington, D. C., Siamese black-hooded cobra.

Rogers, Raymond, McLean, Va., pilot snake.

Roland, T. J., Washington, D. C., domestic rabbit.

Rucker, Colburn, Arnold, Md., pilot snake.
100 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

Schafer, Frederick, Washington, D. C., turkey vulture.

Scherfee, S. H., Los Angeles, Calif., California king snake, California racer
snake, Pacific rattlesnake.

Schrieber, W. H., Washington, D. C., mallard duck.

Seay, Charles F., Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Shaw, H. L., Baltimore, Md., hamadryad baboon.

Shipley, Mrs. William H., Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Sigwald, Mr., Bethesda, Md., hawk.

Simpson, Miss Jacqueline, Washington, D. C., 2 sea horses.

Sloan, Leonard, Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Smith, Mrs. Don C., Washington, D. C., 6 golden hamsters.*

Souder, L. B., Arlington, Va., 4 mockingbirds.

Spahn, Carl, Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Speaker, Miss Terry, Falls Church, Va., alligator.

Spiegler, Mrs. Paul, Washington, D. C., 2 zebra finches.

Stephenson, Rear Admiral C. 8., Washington, D. C., Pekin duck X mallard duck
hybrid.*

Stevenson, William R., National Zoological Park, Washington, D. C., mole.

Stoessel, Mrs. Victor, Falls Church, Va., skunk,* Philippine macaque.*

Stohlman, Jack, Chevy Chase, Md., weasel.

Talbert, Mrs. Marian, Washington, D. C., 2 Pekin ducks.

Taylor, Walter, Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Thomas, J. L., Jr., Washington, D. C., 2 horned lizards.

U.S. Naval Hospital, Bethesda, Md., rhesus monkey.*

U. S. Naval Medical Research, Bethesda, Md., 104 East African elephant shrews.*

U. S. Naval Second Antarctic Expedition 1947-48, collected by Malcolm Davis of
National Zoological Park, Washington, D. C., 8 emperor penguins, 4 adelie
penguins, carrier pigeon, douroucouli or owl monkey, brown booby or ganet,
honey creeper, pileated tinamou, blue tanager, plain-colored tanager.

Van Horn, Mrs. Lena M., Washington, D. C., double yellow-headed parrot.

Vipond, L. C., Silver Spring, Md., Pekin duck.

Walker, Ernest E., Washington, D. C., 5 golden hamsters.

Wallace, E. E., Landover Hills, Md., sparrow hawk.

Weber, Mrs., Washington, D. C., domestic rabbit.

Welch, Carl, Washington, D. C., skunk.

Wharton, Charles, Avondale Estates, Ga., palm civet,* slender-tailed cloud rat,*
monkey-eating eagle,* Philippine serpent eagle,* 26 Mindanao tarsiers,* 7
Philippine tree shrews,* 5 bushy-tailed cloud rats,* 5 reticulated pythons,*
2 monitor lizards,* siren, amphiuma.

Whitmore, Mrs. M. C., Silver Spring, Md., map turtle.

Willard, Miss Carol, Norman, Okla., alligator.

Williams, Clifton R., Washington, D. C., 2 coatimundi.*

Williamson, Mr., Washington, D. C., 8 pilot snakes, 8 water snakes, 4 smooth
green snakes.

Wilson, Mr. and Mrs. Ross, Liberia, West Africa, African leopard.

Wilson, Sam, Washington, D. C., eastern robin.

Wilson, Vanez T., Supt., Bear River Migratory Bird Refuge, Brigham, Utah,
6 green-winged teals, 4 baldpates.

Winder, William T., Jr., Alexandria, Va., pilot snake.

Withers, John, Clinton, Md., garter snake.

Woden, Mrs. H. L., Washington, D. C., domestic rabbit.

Wood, Harold, Winchester, Va., domestic pigeon.

Wordford, Mrs., Washington, D. C., alligator.
SECRETARY’S REPORT

BIRTHS AND HATCHINGS

101

MAMMALS
Scientific name Common name Number
PAC UTTLOUR CO ESILET.U UC ey ne ee AQud ad Resets me fy eer” 4
VALeles GeOUTOYt VELIETOSUS= == = ae a ee Spidersmonkey2 2. 222-4222 2— 1
PA CITLN OLS Bae ee A ee TASKS TCL OC Tay Sere ee on ree eae 1
BUSOTROTSO Tm ee ee et ne es American, bDISON a. se eee 1
BO SILC ALS ee ae ar an tenet eee ee BritishyPark cattles:_2225 222 1
ESO SAE CULTS esa eee ee a West Highland or Kyloecattle. 1
CAMmelusDaciitaniusa = 32ers so ee Bactrian: cameles 2222.25. 2— 1
Cephalophus nigrifrons_-.------------ ..._. Black-fronted duiker_._.___.- 1
Cercopithecus aethiops pygerythrus X C.
QCLILO DS SLUACUS aetna ae ae ee Vervet guenon X green guenon

hy pride a2 SOE UL ay 1
Cercopithecus aethiops sabaeus___---------- Green-guenon 20st ates 2
Ghoeronsisulibentensi sa oe ie ee Pigmy hippopotamus- -----~.- 1
Cynomysludovictanus. >= == 22 sae Plains:prairie dog... ~22 2222. 10
DOM OAL ae eat ee ee ee Brown fallow deer_____--_--- 3
DAMON Gea cee ee eee a ee ne ee) White fallow deer__.--___-_-_ 5
OSU DROCLO DIU CLOLG a= ae ee ee ppecklediarcoutio—-=_- sees 1
ELtS CONCOLOT ee Se US Ieee POMBE 2255 55 Ae eh 1
Hemitragus4yemiahicus- = 2552 2 oe a i oH ot eae ee me ies Sa eye RT ee Ra aye 1
Hippopotamus amphibius_---------------- Huppopotamls.22=5--2522218 1
Hylobates agilis X H. lar pileatus_-_____-_- Hy bridveibbon=.- 2. cso cee = 1
VIO IOL ONION Oa ee a ee Ce ee Wiood chick sss see se ae eas ae 4
Odocotleus virgintanus 2252-822 oh soe Wirginiardeets2-220aoos.soee 1
ODUSHEUOD CCO nee ane a ee Moufloness. 2226 eee sees 1
TRA COSMNONINMNUS 22 5552 Soe See Polar beares.. 2822 22 seco eee 2
Thalarctos maritimusX Ursus middendorfi-_.. Hybrid bear_____.---------- 4
VATION RYL OY Te eat ies See ee ae ee ee ena Red Ox 2S sree Se oe 2

BIRDS
PANUSEPLALIE RYN CROSS Ae ee eS ees) Mallard'duck ==. 2s. ie! 38
ELANUUCONAUCTEIS 2 =e se ee ee eee a Canada goose+ =~ cL) te 2e Soe 18
CATER LOSCHR OLE nee eae pe ne es Muscovy duck) uss e eos. 4
CHEN ODSUSROLT CLO s gee eae ee ee en Blackiswaneces- see ne seed 2 10
UCN CECT Gaye eae ns ee IAMeTIC Any COOLS es aera 8
Gallustap Oe ta ee setae San es ee ee Bightine-fowll 2sos-2205) 2.8 4 1
Larus novaehollandiae_ =22 20 2222) Silver gulls) Joe Soe hess Ses 4
GEN CODIOUL ULE 2 eae a te en ra Snow y:cgreto. soos. ove 82S 1
INasClecoTaciny CLeCOT. Ac) NOGCHIIS 522 en ae Black-crowned night heron___ 18
EZAVONCTUSLAL LS ee Se ek or ne Ne a iBluespestowl!==so5245 225s 82 4
GE DI ACTUE CULO ees are ee es en Long-tailed finch_______-__-- 2
SPRENISCUS UMDOIELE een ne ee Humboldt penguin. _-___-_-- 1
MRACNLOD UGTA CASLANOLLS See en ee Zebrasunc hess eee 3
REPTILES

Crotalusthorredusinorniidiuse see eee Timber rattlesnake. _..___--- 6
Blanenguttataes sa = as Saree Seon ee ee CWormmisnakeeecne ses eee ee = 7
ET DUCT ALESECETLCILT.US Sern aye at ee Rainboasboaes=so 2s eeeee et 4
102 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

ANIMALS IN THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK, JUNE 30, 1948

MAMMALS
MARSUPIALIA
Sclentifie name Common name
Didelphiidae:
Didelphisiwirginiang.2222 oo ose eee Opossumeese Ss 2.22622 See
Metachirus nudicaudatus__......-------- South American naked-tailed
OPOSSUM 42222254 Se 5eeee=
Phalangeridae:
JEAIROIS ODO CG Oro es oo eee Lesser flying phalanger______-_
CLOG ALS ESCL1LGC1LS ae Australian flying phalanger-_-
Macropodidae:
Dendrolaguevwnustuss 2.3 22- 5 eee ene New Guinea tree kangaroo-_-
INSECTIVORA
Talpidae:
Condyliura cristela= eo == eee See Star-nosed mole_______-_----
Soricidae:
WrogGleeuerciit te 5. Soest ee Philippine tree shrew. --.--.-
Erinaceidae:
Painaceus Curopaeusecn oon eae see ee European hedgehog----------
Macroselididae:
FULEDR ANUS Wb eSCEM Sao aa eee East African elephant shrew--
CHIROPTERA
Molossidae:
RAG Gri NExtCON Ces eee Hree-tailed bat= 2222222222 ee"
CARNIVORA
Felidae:
Telisteh augue se Oe Skok Sees eee Junglercatse a. eee
CLUSICONCOLO I ana ee ae ee PMs ose See ee eee
Felis concolor patagonica___-.------------ Patagonian pumas-2-5---22e5
Felis concolor X F. c. patagonica___------ Hybrid North American X
South American puma_--_-__
CLUS SEO A) Ms SG Sy yt ee ee pate ge ee WiGnh Ae soe eee ee
: JaCUaruceS ae eee Seo
NE ec i Se es hag jACual 2 oe
Pelisipardalts 2a ook se ae Seen Se ee Ocelotecau223 S22. pu oseeeee
, Indian leopard 22222225
OSES ILLS Fie toi Stocia are rane Indian leopard--_-_-----
Telistpandas=s22e Sa es oe ee a Seer Africanvleopard@ == seas
NGS UAT OIOCI Ae SCO es se See eaoe Goldenteate eee sos eee
Welisttigri sa eo eee ee Bencalitigers2—2)—-- oes ae
Helesizgned LONGUD tae ee ee Slberianil cele
HCLUSELAQTUSESUITUCLUT, CC ee Sumatran tigers. 2-2 - see
Herpatlurus yaguarondt=- 24-2222 5 Kyra or yaguarondi___-___---
TSU TORT UPUS Sere aa ete eye re ete Hastermubobrucata= ===
Oncrfelisigcoliroyise nese ae Geoffroy’s cat=22224s a

Oncilla nardinoides 2-5 2 see ee ae Ihesser;tiger cat2-22- ==" sae

Number
SECRETARY’S REPORT

Scientific name Common name Number
Viverridae:
Arctictzs binturong-.\. 0 2vssee6 eo - 25k Binturone2o3 225-2. sos 1
CWerectis CWCiOs. cet Boon ae eee Afzicanscivets<. 222.2. 2586 = 1
DVI ON AC SUM OUIRCUS =e. eee eae IDwarticivetae sees Sa ore a ae 1
INONGiNtOOLnOlaiOs ease see sen ee African palm civet_.....__-__- 1
Paradoxurus hermaphroditus...---------- Small-toothed palm civet__-__- 2
Hyaenidae:
Crocuta crocuta germinans_.------------- East African spotted hyena_-_ 2
Canidae:
PALO DEDIAGODUS= a Cie Besutios = Sloe oso ATCHCHOK] Sal 225 5eesese ne 1
CONS 0INGO 222 Danae eee eee ane Dingo. 22222 jase see ees 2
Canvelatrans cesat. see ee ea Coyotes 2 s0 seca aes 1
Canis pus muoiliss= 22 ee ane ee eae Plainswolle sso. 2222s eets 1
Cuon javanicus sumatrensis....--------- Sumatran wild dog_..-_------ 1
HCNNECUSECET CO Ramee eee eee eae Henne Ctoxee eee See ee eee 1
Nyctereutes procyonoides_...------------ aCCOOnrGOe 222 a550 25. eeo 1
Wrocyoncmereoargenteuss. 9 s_ o e Gray fOxs os. Soe see es ae 8
Vailpesifulide == <u Jee esse HMediOxses oe Soho eee tt
Procyonidae:
BaSSUTICyON SPs Yee as os eases Cuzumbie. 22. 2222222 secs 228 2
NGS UT CR a te aS ee ers Se eS Coatimiundiss.. joes ease 10
INESUULOSUO saa e se oe eee ee Red coatimundi_.._=22-—.-3 1
INOSUG MELSON ies 2k nee ece ea SoS Nelson’s coatimundi--__--__--- 1
WAOLOSTIQUUS ns hs ee ne a te KMinkajotisss 222528 so 6
Reccoons wate boeken eS 8
PROCTOMMOLOT = Aaa nna eam eee Black raceoons so... 255-224 =. 3
Raccoon (albino)_-.---____-- 1
Bassariscidae:
IBASSAr7SCUS ASLULUS2 es eee ee ae Ring-tail or cacomistle----_--- 1
Mustelidae:
Gris0neUlG RUnonad ote! tee ee nee GrisON: 22225 ef eeoe se. Wess 1
Butrarcanadensts vagds2. 2-222 5-2 eee ase S Hlorida otterze=2-s22-55ee55— 1
Martes (Lamprogale) flavigula henricit___- Asiatic marten_------------- 1
Meles meles leptorynchus__-------------- Chinese bad gerssac ete ee 1
WVEELAVOFGICUDENSIS la oo eee ne Fates: = ate Set es ia 1
Menhitis mephttts Nigra asa Skink: 32. Batok ee a) 1
WVinistelasevensmannvase see oe ea ee Herre ts ae se eas 7
Mustela frenata noveboracensis__--------- Wiesel 222: Sexen= pice ets terre ae 1
Dexidcatacuseee sae ease aes American badger. .----..---- 1
Rayranvaruara U0rboT asses see Wihttetayratas-o 2h ets 2
Tayra VarTvarG senviyesisc nso) 2-8 a ek Gray-headed tayra_.-.------ 2
Ursidae:
USUarCLOS CMETICANUSito set as oe ee Black bears 22-222 25-e52502 2
LOR CLOS (nLOCLONUSs = es eee Himalavanibearecee ss cee 1
iiclarctos;malayanuse 22. 20s soe 5 oes a Malay or sun bear___-------- 1
VAC Un SUSMULSTUS Ee ae ee ey 8 ets Slothubearss == 2c eset tet 1
AiNGlancloseiNaniiLin ise se ee eee Polaribeate 222 esees ee 2
Thalarctos maritimus X Ursus midden-

LOT ae eee ee re en a a eae nivbTidpoeahee saa = =e eae a= 4
TeTVOTClOs ONNAVUSES ee ee re See Spectacled bear.._---------- 1
Win stis. ar Clos are es IS a European brown bear-------- 1
Ursus arctos occidentalis. _..------------ Syrian: brown, bearas. s.\-32)2 4 2
Wrsusigyass sui pares A ee Alaskan Peninsula bear------ 4
Ursus middendorgisa see eee ae Kodiakj bearisw.cesac sts 3
Ursus siuikenstsee ae on a ee a ee Sitka brown bear-.---------- 3

817369498
104 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

PINNIPEDIA
Scientific name Common name Number
Otariidae:
Zalophus.calijorntanius: =) 2 22 Sea lion. <5 2cuse ss eee 2
Procidae:
Phoca-situtine.richardiz 222 a2 ees Pacific harbor seal__-------=+ 2
PRIMATES
Lemuridae:
enmvurnmQCacd0me som ee eee eee Acoumba lemur--=--23-2342 2
Lemur Mongo? san oa ee eee Mongoz lemur= =. = 5.35 3 2
MarSss COVOONOTLUS fos ee ee ee ea Mindanao tarsiers_ = 202-2222 3
Callitrichidae:
Beontocevus Osage se eee Silky or lion-headed marmo-
Set.-o2 3 sss 05e eee 2
Cebidae:
Aotusiriviwrngatus.. 0S sen Ss Se Douroucouli or owl monkey_-_ 6
Ateles geoffroyi vellerosus___.------------ Spider monkey, -_-2 225 5ie= 2
Cevusianellanws. saan ee eee a ees Gray capuchin _- 2-1 52)oee 3
Gebas.CONUCInUS sett oe eee ee White-throated capuchin---_-__ 4
Cebussjatuelluss 522 ces een See Weeping capuchin_-_______-- 3
Cercopithecidae:
Cercoceiusicternmus. = eae ee ee Black-crested mangabey-__-___- 1
Cercocevusmilligunosusme = tee eee Sooty mangabey___--_-_-_-_- 2
Cercocebus torquatus lunulatus___-------- White-crowned mangabey__-. 1
Cercopithecus aethiops pygerythrus_-_-_---- Vervet guenon..- 5343 433=" 1
Cercopithecus aethiops sabaeus__--------- Green: cnenon_—_-- = ee 1
Cercopithecus aethiops sabaeus X C. a. pyg-
CN ERTUG se eres enn ts Se onan Hybrid green guenon X vervet
guenon.22 5.222224. ee 3
Cercopithecus Cepnus = —- 8 et eee Moustached guenon____--__-- 2
Cercopithecus diana =a ee Diana monkey 224. 32 3
Cercopithecus diana roloway_------------ Roloway monkey-_-_---------- il
Cercopithecus meglecius soe eee De Brazza’s guenon________-- 1
Cercopithecus nictitans petaurista_-_-_------ Lesser white-nosed guenon.__. 2
Cercopithecus preusst_ =<. 802 52S Se Preussi’s guenon____-_------- 1
PUtRe OCCU US POLAS eo oe Patas monkey2.22 5. =e 1
Gumnovygd Mauris =a. = ee ee Moor monkey222 2 -5_22 ee 1
(NMGCOCE ATS: Se on ye Crab-eating macaque___-____ 1
MMIGCACG ALUS MOTddte 4 ae ee ee Javan Inacaque._ <2. -2) eae 4
VMiacacaslastotishe = oe ee ee Chinese macaque_-_________-_ 1
WVGCACGATULC LE me ee re Rhesus monkey __-__---__-_-_ 3
Macaca memesining 22ers ee Pig-tailed monkey___________ 1
IMOACACAIDR UTD DINenstse a ee Philippine macaque__________ 4
Miacacatstlen Sia te ee ee ee Wanderoo monkey-_-_.--____-_- 2
INPOCOCH: 8191060 2 ae ee eee eee Toque or bonnet monkey__-__-_ 1
WWiaGCaCG;: SPECtoSG nt eee eee Red-faced macaque_--______-_- if
PGD10:DOnCOTIUS ee ee Chacma baboons.22 222 sueen ]
Hylobatidae:
Huylobatesagilts(2e22 Lee a Sumatran gibbon___________- 1
Hylobates agilis X H. lar pileatus.__.-_-- Hybrid gibbon=2= 5 1
Ea lobatesihoolockese see eee Hoolock gibbon=2- 2-222 35522 if
Haulobatestlarpiueatius.- 1 ei fo Black-capped gibbon_________ 1
Symphalangus syndactylus__...___-_---- Siamang gibbon sua 222 see 1
SECRETARY'S REPORT 105

RODENTIA

Scientific name Common name Number
Sciuridae:

Citellus beecheyt douglasii__._..______--- Douglas ground squirrel_.-____ #

Cynomys ludovicianus__..._-_---------- Plains prairiedog. -_ =). = 66

Faunisciurus leucosttgma__-. = - 5-5 West African bush squirrel___. 2

GIMICOMYS OOIENS 2. Soa s sae Elyine-squirrel: 2-0 6

WMGTNOLO NONE 8 oo sae oe Woodchuck or ground hog_.._ 4

SCHURILS SENG MUNCUS ee re oe a South American gray squirrel. 2

ERO WITGSUSULLACUS ste ee Sr ee Ae es Eastern chipmunk___________ 1

RAMUASCLUTUS RUASONICUS == oa a Redisquirrelai = see 1
Heteromyidae:

Di podomiusiOndi aeons oe nk ee Ordtkangaroo rats... 22-8 => 2 2
Cricetidae:

WMesocnicetusvQuratusea = 22s ee eee Golden hamster... 30

Mucrotus pennsylvanicus. =. Meadow mouse. _-...-_------ 6
Muridae:

Crateromys schadenbergi____.__.___------- Bushy-tailed cloud rat__-___- 1

Meriones unguiculatus.._._..........---- Mongolian gerbil_-_.__..__--- 1

VIS eEIUSCUL US ee orn see ee te oe White and other domestic mice 10

Ondatra zibethacus.__... 222 =_-.-.-.5- Musirats 225 8 e ee eee i

Onvzomys Nalusiris. 2222 2. Soe 2e as eee Ricewat. ea eee eee 4

Phloeomys cumingt..2_-_2_ 2222-2 ee Slender-tailed cloud rat_-___-- 3

Malus orvegeeus. oe ee ee Hooded laboratory rat__..._-- 21
Hystricidae:

Acanthion brachyurum____..-.---------- Malay porcupine_-__-_------ 3

PALRETIU US OIL ECH IIS iets a = ae See ee West African brush-tailed

POLCUPINGs==se aa se- eee 1

Myocastoridae:

WVIAIOCOStOTACOU TUS Se a es = Coypie steer eae Le ee aoe 3
Capromyidae:

Gapromys: piuloriaes 2 ee ee Birtles Sena ae tee 2
Dasyproctidae:

OAOTCULUS PACU ae eee Soe te on oe LA gra ok ck cys ALE 9 Dn Pr A 2

Dasyprocta prymnolopha____-_---------- AOL Raye serene et 1

DGS DTOCIOSDUNCIOUE. oe ee te ee Speckled agouti-.-..-------- 1
Chinchillidae:

Chinchilla ;chinehila 2. -- ees Chinchillgt= =< Ss s2 2 22 3 2s 4

Gagiliam v1scaccttas 2 ee Peruvian: viscacha: 2-2-2 5
Caviidae:

Cauia porncelluse a0 eee nee Guinea pigsae ee ee onan 2

Dolichotis patagona__._.....------------ Patagonian cavy------------ 1

LAGOMORPHA

Leporidae:

Oryctolagus cuniculus__.............-<=- Domestic rabbit=-_2 222-2222 1

Suloilagus floridanus.........---------- Cottontail rabbit_.-........__ 1

ARTIODACTYLA

Bovidae:

ANAMOUAGUE EnV see cea ee tae eee AOUGAU MEA eee ae eee 21

Y EYIO ES IoCG (AYER TY ees Be ie wre PRO a ol te in ee Gane settee amet NF 3

Bison bison

American Dison==22= 2222222 13
Albino bisone see eee ee 1
106 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

Scientific name Common name Number
Bovidae—Continued
IBOS MON GICUst ae 2 a ese Nae eee eee Zepto elec 2 eee 3
ISOSELG UT US ate oa ee ee eee Domestic cow (Jersey) ______- 1
Bositaurus eave te Sere ee eee a a West Highland or Kyloecatile. 4
Bos lauruss 2s ee fe at ee eee ee British Park cattle__...______ 6
BUbalus DUDA tsa sa ae ee es Water buffalo: --.2 == === 2
CAD: OISUOUSC ae ees eee ee I loys), ¢ phrase el mane he pee EE Bie Cute j
Cephalophus mazwellii__......-.-------- Maxwell’s duiker_____-_-_---- 1
Canhalopius tiger. =. sa ae ee Black.duiker=. 2-2 4 os 1
Cephalophus nigrifrons_......-.--------- Black-fronted duiker______-_-- 3
Eemitragus 7emlanicuse a oes esas abt es 2 Sees a eee 6
Limnotragus spekite2= 223222 Soe SitalUn ga oe a ee 1
Onyrileuconya. 22 a2 ae ein eee eee et AT SDT ANE ORV ae 1
OVS ONES tts ee ee ee oa oe eee ee Domestic'sheepso- 222222 oe 1
Oorseun0paea. 8st 22 2 ee ee a ee Mouilono. 2-202. eee 3
POC DRAGUSHONUNNTEN Smee eee ee G5): la ep ee ee PROM yz 5
PSE UCOTSN TLC 1 CLS er ete ee Bharal or blue sheep_______-- 1
SUNCEnUS COUN = 2 se ae ee Africanibuitalos2 222-4222 5ee 2
TULUM ONO GUBTONUT 22 == te ee ee Eland? 2.722. See a 2 eee 4
Cervidae:
AT BNOELS ea che ne he ene Rae eres ae Aisideer «202 setae eee 4
Genius canadensismsa 9 eae Americanielk ses sa eee 4
Gervusela nna: sense acon e oleae see Redi deer! 22. 2-2 ees) ae 2
Cervusintp pO oie oa ee eee ae Japanese deers a= aa. 2s ee 5
Cervus nippon manchuricus__..---------- Dybowsky deers... 2220-225 2
Duneaane ane decks... 2 ts 13
Fete we ee na ane White fallow deer__..._._.-. 16
Odocotleus virguntanus = 22 4e- ee Virginia: deer. 2) eee 8
Giraffidae:
Girafia camelonardaies a2 a8 ase ae nee Nubianigiratiees 9-2 45-= =e 4
Girafia reliculatas S24 42 .@. aaa ee see eee Reticulated giraffe_...._..__- 1
Camelidae:
CamelusbactiiGnis ee ee Bactrian.camel =]. 3
CAMElUSIATOMECOTLUS ae ee he ee Single-humped camel--_-___-_-_- i
TG OC LOM = ae oes ea Se eee ee Tela as Sep eee ee 1
VECINGNOUO OA 01 CO ee Guandcoe 325 s8. 2 ee 3
QING. DAC08= S-2 cake a ee ee eee Alpaca. 2228 a2 as 22 oce eee 2
VACUGTEORUTCILO Tem ere ee Vicu@e-. 62 22 a6 55 2 eee 1
Tayassuidae:
PeCaniangulialusas 25 ono = oe ae ee Collared peccary..----.----- 1
Suidae:
BQUinUSSQ UODYTUSSO se ee Babinissa <2 3-h 52 eee 1
Phacochoerus aethiopicus aeliani__...----- East African wart hog... --_-- 2
SUS“8Ch OO we ae eee ee ee ae, eee European wild boar__-.------ 2
Hippopotamidae:
Choecronsis labentensiss = 2) 22 552 eee ee Pigmy hippopotamus- ~~ _-_-- 6
Hippopotamus amphibius.....-.-------- Hippopotamus: === ==2=-24=— 2
Equidae: PERISSODACTYLA
Equus burchellii antiquorum___..-------- Chapman’s zebra_.__-------- 2
FLO ALUCG ICL CLT. ee ee Asiatic wild ass or kiang_____- 1
EQUUS ON AUGER? 2 =o bY eas eet eane ae Onager =. 2l. Asean 2 eee 1
Equus pr2ewalsktts- ee a ee eee Mongolian wild horse._._---- 3
TSO U US LEON re ne ne ee Mountain) zebrass2e.s-ee nee 1
SECRETARY’S REPORT 107

Scientific name Common name Number
Tapiridae:
VACROCOGLOMLN GLC ane ee ee ee Asiatic tapir 22222 ee 2
Rhinocerotidae:
Dicerosibicornise2o02 te be Sue ee Black rhinoceross J22 2222222 1
Rhinoceros unicornis— 3 sees Great Indian one-horned rhino-
COQOS 2a eae A aa 1
PROBOSCIDBA
Elephantidae:
Lozodonta africana oxyotis_...-..------.~- African elephant. = 32. 22222. 1
EDENTATA
Dasypodidae:
Chaetophractus villosus....-- 25225522552 Hairy armadillos2__ 20.2225 2 1
ED AGO CLUSESCLCUICLILS seme eee ee Six-banded armadiilo________ 1
Myrmecophagidae:
Myrmecophaga tridactyla_._._._.-------- Giant anteater.-__._...._--- 1
BIRDS
STRUTHIONIFORMES
Struthionidae:
SUMINUO COMEIUS 2 ss 3 Fe 8 oo ee oe Ostrich: qits. 2) 282 See es 1
RHEIFORMES
Rheidae:
FOREGO MeTiCONGs oo 8 2S aS eek Common rhea__._._.-.------ 3
CASUARIFORMES
Casuariidae:
Casuarius casuarius aruensis_____.___-- Aru cassowary...-.--.---.-- 1
Casuarius uniappendiculatus occtpitalis__ Island cassowary_--_-------- 1
Casuarius uniappendiculatus untappen-
GiCUl Olu eee ee ee eit: A he aa 2 One-wattled cassowary-___--_-- 1
Dromiceiidae:
Dromiceius novaehollandiae.._.._._------ Common enils=: 222-2 5-2 see 2
SPHENISCIFORMES
Spheniscidae:
AMLENONYTES J OUSLET? 2 =e a= eee ie ee Emperor penguin______-_---- 2
Pardyptes Chiysolopnussae= 2228 aoa aoe Macaroni penquin_____-_-_-- 2
PSUAU DIES CHISIQUU Gena ae a eae ee Rock-hopper penguin. --.---- 1
ISZINEMISCUSIACINETSUSeee = oe ae eee Jackass penguin___.__.----_-- 3
SDRENISCUS NIINUOI a= 25 shee See Humboldt penguin. .____---- 2
Spheniscus magellanicus_--------------- Magellan penguin. -...._--_- 2
PELECANIFORMES
Pelecanidae:
Pelecanus erythrorhynchus_..--.--------- White pelican®2222 222 eee ars 4
Pelecanus occidentalis californicus.------- California brown pelican--.-_- 2
Pelecanus occidentalis occidentalis. _.-_--- Brownunelican. e222 ee 2
IPClECANnUS TOSEUSE a= oo eee eee Rose-colored pelican___.-_--- 3
Sulidae:
IS ULLASLOLLCOQUSLEn. hae a ee eee Peruvianybooby 2 oes. eee 1
Phalacrocoracidae:

Phalacrocoraz auritus albociliatus_._..-.--- Farallon cormorant....------ 1
108

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

CICONIIFORMES
Scientific name Common name Number
Ardeidae:
Ardea herodiass. 5.5 422 io eee Fee Great blue heron_____.--___- 2
Hydranassa tricolor ruficollis___.-._------ Louisiana herons... --.a52.20 1
eucophoye Ulan se ee eee Snowy egret =<. ee 5
Notophoyz novaehollandiae__.----------- White-faced heron____..__--- 1
Nycticorax nycticoraz hoactli_-___-------- Black-crowned night heron-__ 35
Cochleariidae:
Cochleartusicochleatiusss 22 se Boat-bill‘heron =. 2 222 1
Ciconiidae:
Dissoura episcopus. 9-2 s2 eee eee Woolly-necked stork-_.._____- 1
EVES ICUTLET OTL a ors ee Re ence Tn nee ae Malay stork 22.30 cee 4
LAT RONG 0 fo ot ee ae cpg I I a Jabirus2 5-22-3422 2
eplopulusicnimMmencienus= oma Marabous 22. 22. ee 1
WEDLOD UUs OULU s ee ee ee eee Indian adjutant. 42-2-22==— 1
iRentonulus javanicus eee eee ee Lesser adjutant. = =. 252s 2e 2
Mii] Cleve Meri CNG a ee eee Woodubis. 2222-2 eee 1
Threskiornithidae:
AFOTONOIOI Osc one ee eee ee Roseate spoonbill__......-__- 4
GUOGNGLDG rene =e 82 2 eae A eee White ibis... - -- 25: S00ee 8
Guara alba-X+G. rubra ee = eee Hybrid white and scarlet ibis. 1
GUAT CRUD Seas Roe Penn ne une Ae ore Scarletyibis#ee. 22) aa 1
Threskiornis melanocephala..-_..._------ Black-headed ibis_____._______ 4
Thresktorn.a spin COs se Straw-necked ibis_....._____- 2
Phoenicopteridae:
Phoenicopterus antiquorum_...---------- Old world flamingo.._...-_-_- 6
iPhoentcoplerus Chilensigie ne ss a ee Chilean flamingo._...___-_-- 2
Phoenicopterus ruber....-.------------- Cuban flamingo®—=_ = 22 1
ANSERIFORMES
Anhimidae:
ChaungChavaniges se ee ee White-cheeked screamer____-_- 1
Chaunatorqualacee as ee eee Crested screamer:.. 22 222 5
Anatidae:
AGES DONS men eer oe oe a ne Se ee Wood ducks2.- 23222222222" 4
ARGSIDORQGMENSIOS on as a ee ee Bahamas pintail=2- 522 2seee2 Z
FAT SEONCSCLLCTEST S see en ae Brazilian teal. 5-2 222 se—=e= 2
PAT CLSHCLO NILE SLUCO sata ea ema ar a nee Pekin ducky - 2222225) 5eeee 42
Anas platyrhynchos___.....-.---------- SNe SS a= =
et ~>" | White mallard duck. 222 -= 6
CATVOLS TtLOTiE DOS merce ee eee ney eee Blick ducks 222224222450 5
CAMSET CIOL ;LONS hn es a eee eee ee American white-fronted goose. 1
Anser cinereus domestica_____.-_---_-_-- Toulouse'g00ses = 4
Anseranus semipalmala=— 22222 2 Australian pied goose________ 2
AGL RUCE Pp Sen AS er Do ee een a eee ee Eybrididuck2 222222 =aa== 1
Avythya valesinerta.2 92 ee Canvasback duck___.......-- 2
TORO CANGENS 188s ne Canadaycooses. == 4 17
Branta canadensis occidentalis__.._.___-- White-cheeked goose________-_ 21
Branta canadensis X Chen caerulescens... Hybrid Canada goose X blue
ZOOS cae ee eRe eee 2
Brontavhutchinisiss220 8 ee ee iEutchin’s goose... -= eae 3
Branta hutchinsts minima.-.-.----<------ @gekling gooses22.- 2-2 see 3
SECRETARY’S REPORT

Scientific name Common name Number

Anatidae—Continued
Carnenainioschata manasa eee eee Muscovyduckss= see eeoe oe 9
Cereopsis novaehollandiae_-.-.---------- Cape Barren goose__.______-_ 1
Cheniatlantica= es = ae ee ek cee Snow Po0se: sos. se ee 3
Chenicacnulescens = eee ee ee ee Blue; g00sesee ae ee ete ees 3
CGhenopisvatrataes ee SOU wert Blackiswatss 2.22 = .'see 11
Chloephaga leucoplena=-2 22.2 t—e 252255 Magellan goose___..__._...._. 1
Coscoroba.cascorova -.- <2 5 8 eee @Woscorobasee2s. 2-22-42 2
Cygnonsis ey ONOtes ame e naa ese ee ne ae Domestic goose. _-_-_..------ 1
Ovgnus conmmbraniss =a 2a es 2 Whisthngiswan2 26 2 S2822 2
Cygnus melancoriphuss oo 1 ted se Se Black-necked swan____---__- 1
DO SAGACULG = 82 oe Oe SSS Pintailes 6 fa bos Pee 8
DOG SPINIChUd es ee See es oS Chilean pintaile 322 ee 1
Dendrocygna autumnalis__....---------- Black-bellied tree duck_______ 3
DEnarOCygnanwvaualie a ee ee White-faced tree duck________ 3
Dendronessa galericulata__._._._..._------- Mandarin duck=_ 222.5202 1
VOT CCOMOINCTTCO NG nee tae ee tee Baldpatess [2 este ha wae 1
MMC UGO TINS Sasa eae see Ma 2 ae besser scaup fossa 1
Vict COLL: 1S ee ee ee ee Ring-necked duck__________-_ 1
Wietopiang Meposaca =o.) Meets 2 Le Rosy-billed pouchard-_-____-_- 3
UNCLLLOTUICOMOLUIVENS Carrs ae eats 2 Green-winged teal___________ 3
INICLELON ELON INOSILM LS oaie tt Be ER Nes Baikaliteale Ula a. a ee 2
IPRUCCLE CORO GTCO aoe 2 RL Fes ees Emperor goose__--- 2220 yss.2 2
QUEL GuLeaula GtSCOnsneet ee NeUs si ees Blue-winged teal___...------ 2

FALCONIFORMES

Cathartidae:
COL NOTH: (UGA Ss I aE Be a eee ‘hurkey, vultures. 2252222 ee 1
Conroy petal ats on Si ae ene eo lack: yulturésvs fo 2 ee es 3
ISONCORG TIL DILALS AD CP) Cte as es ee Kan cay ulhurets ss ae eee 2
VOIP OAD Dae SEa Sores ese Andean: Condor = 2525222 o ae 1

Sagittariidae:
DGQULanTUs SCrPeEntariua. too. es Secretary(birdio. wes a 2

Accipitridae:
PS ULCOL I UINOUCENS1BL ote Lae se eS Red-tailed hawk:.-........- 4
USQULCONLENLCOLUSHLLIVEQLUS eee ee Red-shouldered hawk--_------ 1
Buteounelanoleucuseesne = eee ee South American buzzardeagle. 2
USULCORDIGLY DLCI{L Sie ene ee ee Broad-winged hawk________- 1
ESULCONDOCCILOCR OU S =a te a Red-backed buzzard________- 2
ESMCCORSLDCLLIUS O10 Ue te ee eee eee ae Swainson’ sihawk. 222-2255 1
Gypohterax angolensts__......2.=-..-.L.. Fish-eating vulture____.._._- 1
Gas DSU ilies = a een ee ae ele es ese Griffonsvulture==- se Saas 1
GrDSirepnelise. secs soe ee yee nas Ruppell’s vulture__._......-- 2
Haliaeetus leucocephaluse--—- = 222222252 2= Bald. éaplen ss “Sak ee) we 5
HHalzaectustleucogastens= ss nee ee White-breasted sea eagle____-_ 1
Fastin S aa eee ees eee yee ee Brahminy kites. es. eos eeee 4
JER NOE [NOT sa os ye Se ae eee Harpyneagles 2 aoe 2s See a 2
Malvagochimangoss= sae een eee Chimango ses = eee 3
Malvus migrans parasituss.. 22522222 522—= African yellow-billed kite_-_-__ 2
Or QUUlLeOTUNICINCLUS ee aes oe ee One-banded hawk_______-__- 1
Puhecophagayepenyiss eae ae Monkey-eating eagle_____--_-- 1
SAME OCT SNC LUE See a ya oes ee a Indian Pondicherry vulture___ 1
wpiziasiur melanoleucus..—.—s25-5----=-- Black and white hawk eagle-_ 1
110 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

Scientific name Common name Number

Falconidae:
DO DULtUS CMETACONUS= 2 ee Red-throated caracara- - _---- 3
GICOMMEZICONUS ae ee ae ee ee prairie: falcon =e sss. ae 1
Falco peregrinus anatum_..----_--------- Duckhawkss 25 eee eee il
FGICO SDOTUCTUUS = 2 sam oes ee ae Sparrowhawk. 22208 2a 6
Polyborus planus =24s 52s ee oe South American caracara-_---- 1

GALLIFORMES

Cracidae:
COG ASCLOLALG Sa ee eee erp ees Crested curassow..---.------ 2
CRO ULO nO ee ete ee a te Sen a Sok ee Panama Curassowee=—2--eeee 1
CrOciSClatergee aie aera rk yee ee ene Sclater’s curassow..-----..--- 1
WEA ee rs eR ee Razor-billed curassow-------- 1

Phasianidae:
FAT OUSTANUSLORGIULS Sey ee ee ee Argus pheasants = 22225225 2
Catreus wallechit au 2s sein ees ee ee Cheer pheasant. 2352-422 22= 1
Chrysolophusiamherstiaes 252-2 )0 222 Lady Amherst’s pheasant___~- 1
Chiyjsolophus.picius 3 eee Golden pheasant. 2 2aeees= 4
Grossopiilon aunt se a ee Blue-eared pheasant-_-------- 1
Gallusisp a= 524s new Bats teen. See Bantam chicken_.....-..---- 4
Galas Rp nee ee Beet pape sree ae ee Oriental silky bantam fowl.--- 4
Gallvsisp. os = eee es 282 ae eet ee Hishting fowl] 4.) =e 3
Gallusigqaulusesss so 2 Be ee ew oe Red jungle fowl. 222222 11
Gallusigalits..2 eno ee oe ie et eee! Hybrid red jungle fowl X ban-

tamifowlo. Se 2224222 1

Gallus lafayette cease oe eee Ceylonese jungle fowl_____-_-- 1
Galles s0nnenGhits eee ote 2 ae Gray jungle fowl___-._-__--- iL
Gennaeus albocristatus............------ White-crested kaleege_______- i
Gennaeus leucomelanus._.-.------------ Nepal-kaleege:-2 == +22 2G oaee 2
Gennaeus nycthemerus__-..-.----------- Silver pheasants 22-2. 4a == 3
EIGen OPRASUS "SWiNhOU = =e ee Swinhoe’s pheasant_-_-_------ 2
PQUONCRISEGLUS oe ee ee ee Peafowlsi 5.222.526 9
IPRAStONUSLOTOUGLUS a= oak Se ee Ring-necked pheasant_------- 2
Polyplectnon: napoleonis a= 22a oa Palawan peacock pheasant... 1
SUnMOlicus TeCvCst eae na eee Reeve’s pheasant__---.------ 2

Numididae:
Acyl wuluUrinUuinicss — 2- ee Vulturine guinea fowl__--_---- 1
IN UVLUE ORB Dee een ee Guinea fowl 2-22 2222 2

Meleagrididae:
Agriocharis ocellata._..........-----.-.- Ocellated turkey_...-------- a
Meleagris galonavls 2-2 eee ee Wild: turkey= 3-3). ee 2

GRUIFORMES

Gruidae:
ARLRTONOTLCS UIT 0 ee ee ee Demoiselle crane.___-------- 2
Baleanscapavoninais. 3.4 eee West African crowned crane__ 2
Balearica regulorum gibbericeps._.------- East African crowned crane._. 1
Grusileucnuchen2 232 Nee ee ae White-naped crane_____----- i
GiuiseleUcogend Usa eae ee Siberian crane. os. == 5252508 2

Psophiidae:

sophia leucopterd sso) 2 eee eee eee White-backed trumpeter-----
SECRETARY’S REPORT

Scientific name Common name Number
Rallidae:
Amaurornis phoenteurus.—.-.-..------.-- White-breasted rail________-_ 1
ATMmides) COJUNEMS = = ae oon Sane ee Wiood' rails: S2tesan sen scaes 2
HiUlica GmeniCOndge st = 2b ee neon ese American coot—— 2. 2b. 828 6
Gallinula chloropus cachinnans_---------- Florida gallinules.— <= 5s. ek 1
Cariamidae:
COTIGMOICristhlasa se ose ea Soe ee Cariama or seriema.._-.------ 2
CHARADRIIFORMES
Scolopacidae:
PhtlORCLG: MiNOF ase meen Seen se sae Woodcock: 2.222452 80 1
Recurvirostridae:
Himantopusmecicanus 2-222 - - = +2222 Black-necked stilt....-..-.-- 2
Burhinidae:
BUThiNUs OtstrAiee nana eee Sa South American thick-knee__._ 2
Haematopodidae:
Haemalopus ost alegus:= 5.) 228 =e oe Se European oyster catcher-____-- 1
Charadriidae:
Belanopterus chilensis............-..--- Chilean Japwing:.U. = -i.22.2 2
Laridae:
TET ILSIATOCTAGUIUS: tS. en eee Herringgull, fo 2
GT US CELGWOTeNStS= = ae = eee ae eee Ring-billed culls 2 S22 24-22 1
EGEUSICOMNICALUS ne eee ee Kelpyoull ea coo ote eae 2
Larus novachollandiaes 2252222 - 325 - = Silveriguile 3222. soe eset 8
COLUMBIFORMES
Columbidae:
Colimbarliiat ees tae sone Se eee ees Domestic pigeon......------- 5
DCU CIC EE Bor he cera ia Se Green imperial pigeon___.-_-_- 1
DEC ULC RDO TCR Cee ek eee eee oes Ee Celebian imperial pigeon--~---_ 2
Gallicolumba:lizontca 22 eae a Bleeding-heart dove__.._---- 1
Gallicolumba luzonica X Turtur risorius.. Bleeding-heart dove X ring-
necked dove hybrid___----- 1
GlODEIIA CURCHLA ee eR eee ee ene Dismond dovess 22 s22222se5= 1
GOUnMOIClOTIO= =. ose eee ee ae. ESL AS Victoria crowned pigeon_-_---_- 1
Streptopelia tranquebarica__.------------ Blue-headed ring dove---_---- 2
MUR CUT AT ISON UR a = noe eee ke ome ee te Ring-necked dove-_.-.-.----- 2
ZCTULLC ONO T CLUE) a ee South America mourning dove 1
PCROtOGEIOChOUL C= sae nee rs ae ee Mourmming dovers252--6282.4 2
PSITTACIFORMES
Psittacidae:
AGODORNISIIIUANGE = == eee ee ee ae Red-faced love bird_____-__-_- 1
FAQ OPOLILUS ER OSCLCOLLTS see ee ee Rosy-faced love bird________- 2
PAIN OZONE ROESLLUC ae mee Blue-fronted parrot__._---__- 1
VAMNOZONGCUTODGULLGLO ae ee Yellow-naped parrot______-_-_- 3
AMaZOnG OChLOCEDNGLG seas nee Yellow-headed parrot_______-_ 3
VAG OZ OT CHOT.OL 10 ee ne Double yellow-headed parrot. 6
Anodorhynchus hyacinthinus__..._------- Hyacinthine macaw-___---___- 1
PAT GLOTOTOUNG sen ae a Yellow and blue macaw---_-_-_- 1
CAG Ci TIC COO er ars tes a ee 2 2 ee Red, blue, and yellow macaw. 4
E12 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

Scientific name Common name Number
Psittacidae—Continued
Ar alingaieuops eect ea eee ee Cuban conure:2222 51252) 1
AR ALING A Dentenalaas sere ae _.. Gray-headed conure_-_-_______ il
Calyptorhynchus magnificus_______-___ _.__ Banksian cockatoo_______-__- 1
Ducorpsis sanguineus s& Sistah = eee Bare-eyed cockatoo__.-_____- 1
Kiakatoe aloas cr sate oe a ee White cockatoo...__.cucissten 2
Kakotoeducrape sie Spe ee Solomon Islands cockatoo__._ 2
Makatoeigalerttan = Ss ee a eee Large sulphur-crested cockatoo 3
Kakatoe leadbeatert_ =.=. 23 t Viee Leadbeater’s cockatoo_______- 1
IGGIGLOCMOLUCCENSIS ae ee Great red-crested cockatoo___ 1
Kakatoe. sulpnureaes 2 esi SA a ene Lesser sulphur-crested cocka-
(002s o522 225 52 Se eee 1
Doriusdomeceliaur 2 see sae a eee Rajahslory leit 1 eee 2
OPtUSiGOTTULUS: operas Seis ets apes Ae Red lorys.2.... 2-2 2M 1
Melopsiitacus undulatus__.__..__._..------ Grass ‘paroquet_2. 2) uae 23
Nestorznvotautite.22 3s soe ee ee Kea. ots. =. bey Oe 1
Nymophicus hollandicus!= S022) CockatielZss2 30225 3: So peaaee 2
Pesiltaculaxeupalrid <3 2 en at ek eee Red-shouldered paroquet__-___ 1
isiitacula kramert es oe en ee Kramer’s paroquet-_-_-____-_- 1
PPStHACUIOMLONG2CAUCG 2 je ee ee Long-tailed paroquet___-_-____ 1
CUCULIFORMES
Musophagidae:
LouUraco:COrythaig he NEU eine 2 ee South African turaco________- 2
OUT OCOPGONGLOSONG 9 ee ee Donaldson’s turaco________-_- 1
STRIGIFORMES
Tytonidae:
Ttonalog DrGuUncol he ee oe ee Bpamiowl eee 3
Strigidae:
SG ORULNGLILL GILLS a ae ee ee ee Great horned owl__..____-___ 9
etu DO keLupG. = sen oe ae ee Malay fishing owl______-__-- 1
Ou aStO Se ee Oe ee A er ee Screechiowl 222222 .=- 42 3
SEREL UOTE ORC etal ere eee eee Barrediowle == ==222 aa 11
TROGONIFORMES
Trogonidae:
Pharomachrus moctnos 2-2 522 = 52-2 Quetzalza= = a ei 3 1
CORACIIFORMES
Alcedinidae:
Dacelorgigasece Sea a at ge ee re Kookaburra: 2-5-5. == === 2
Coraciidae:
Anthracoceros coronatus__.-_...-.------- Pied hornbill-2 22. 2. ee ee
MOCK is UtnOSinis ase A Ae ee A Gray hornbill -_- eee 1
Momotidae:
VIOMOLUSILESSO TUT meee Motmot2=s4-- 2-2 nee a ae 1
PICIFORMES
Capitonidae:
Megala:ma*astatica-.2. 2-522 eee Blue-throated barbet-_-_-_------ 1
SECRETARY’S REPORT 113

Scientific name Common name Number
Ramphastidae:
Aulacorhynchus sulcatus sulcatus___------ Groove-billed toucanet------- 1
Pieroglossus aracaria. sete nui tih 2 Black-necked aracari___------ 2
Pienoglossis) tonguarus ak. es Se Aracari toucans oie s eso 1
RAM DNRGStosrantel nat ae lee eee Ariel COuUCcam ayes nee ae ere 2
LAM DROStOSICONTNAULSS ena eee Sulphur-breasted toucan____-- 3
Ramphastos culminatus 5522822 ee White-breasted toucan_-----_- 1
IEOIMPRASLOS! PUSCIWOTUSE ee eee ee ae Toco.toucane= essa eee ene 1
PASSERIFORMES
Cotingidae:
Teme DICOla TUDtCOLa = a7. tS eer ee Cock-of-the-rock__....------ 2
Dicruridae:
Drssemunis Pordd1seuss os Laid oe Se Giant racquet-tailed drongo_.__ 5
Corvidae:
Callocsttasormosa-2 242s 420) Site ee ee Mexican jay2-=> 3022 eat 1
CrssvlopNanyucataniCQsn 2) aa ee Yucatan blue jay. 2!22'2 = 1
Corpus orachyrhyncnoss 2s American crow. 23). 20s 228 4
Corvus;corar wprincipalis= 2) 2 oo Northern raven2= 302 foe?
Convsrconiic ne ae RE ee ok Hooded-crow sf ust s it sean 1
Convusicryplolieucus oO a White-necked raven___--__-- i
Coruusansolensi a 8 VERO NE ee a he Indian: crows 20 220 StS es 2
CH OMOCTILO: CHIESA Se to ee ATS Oh et BIG G Aye ooo ee 7
CYyanocorac-Chrysopsess ss Pov UU A pe Wire Cas] BV soa Se 1
Cy anOprcare yang Honk ae Sk NN Cee eee Azure-winged pie_.---------- 1
GOnriulUslancenlaties janet) ee Black-throated jay_--------- 1
Gymnorhina hypoleucg #2) 2 ee White-backed piping crow---- 1
PA COMTULL OU Bs am a at He PN ls Yellow-billed magpie_-_------- 1
Picaepicainudconicg - 22S 259 oh American magpie_----------- 2
Wroctesa caerulea ee aS PE Formosan red-billed pie - - -- -- 2
Paradiseidae:
AGL UROCEUS CLOSSUTOSU 18s oe a a eee Australian catbird__--------- 1
Ptilonorhynchus violaceus_.....--------- Satin bowerbird_-_----------- i
Timaliidae:
Se ETEU LLG USCOVOT Ss Deere ate sepa ee ge White-headed laughing thrush. 2
Garrulax pectoralis picticollis.....--.---- Chinese collared laughing
thrushseese sees oes 1
Pycnonotidae:
PICler O DRASTIC CANINUM O ee eee eae Black-headed sibia____.------ 4
UACTOMOLUSKETLOLES at UL a etn eee eee Yellow-vented bulbul_------- 1
Pycnonotus leucogenys._--.------------- White-cheeked bulbul__------ 2
Mimidae:
Vg ALSEDOlyQLOLO Se eer ees rare 2 Nocking pindesetts ssn eee ee 4
Mimus polyglottos leucopterus____._------ Western mockingbird -_ ------- 1
Turdidae:
GeO ICRIOLCH Ona wy ee Seer Orange-headed ground thrush. 2
ILA CLERIC LUUE DES eae =e et ee Yellow-footed thrush____----- 1
HTTRDITES i p24 I aes Po a pe pes pln Be at eal Bonaparte’s thrush __..._._-- 1
MAT SRINEGhALOnLUS oo a ee ee Masternirobiness. 22222. eee 4
114 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

Scientific name Common name Number
Sturnidae:
Galeopsar salvadoriss2 2! aoe Crested starling -------- mi fe elf 1
Graculaireligsosa se == she ae ae ee Aillmynah = 35s see 1
Graculipica melanoptera_..-.------------ Whiteistarling =< -\=~24 s-=354 1
Lamprocouus splendens22-2-2252------_— Splendid glossy starling - ----- 4
GLamprotornss ausivalistee = ae ea a Burchelli’s glossy starling___-- 4
SLULNUMALADantCa =e ae ee Pied mynahs:is2- 2s. ee 1
Slurnus Culgarntiel. = ane ee ee Starling 22202. 52 25 ee 1
Ploceidae:
PAGAeMOSYTe CONLANS == 22 =a Se ee Tawny waxbill’.- “2 2.454 6
Aidemosyne malabarica_-_.-------------- Indian silver-bill= =~ 222-2222" 2
Ardemosime:Mmodestte. s== ee = eee eee Plum-head finch=_-- 222522 2
Alisteranus CUnClusssa ea sae ae eee Parson finch 2-22-2253 2
VAM OAtN OY OSCLOLGe ee ee Cut-throat weaver finch___-_-__ a
Cayleymnaspictanac2 Sto Soa e cow e aes Painted finch 225-22 ee 1
DiatrOpUnG: DrOCne s aaee ae eee ee eee Giant whydahs=_----a2-eee 2
EIStRt LL GAG SLROLGe aen ee a Red-eared waxbill____---__-- 8
Pistralday CUneCn ed ee ye ee Common waxbill___....___--_ 16
Buplectes franctscanG@. = =- eee oe ee Bishop weavers sse see 5
Hypochera ultramarina_..-.-.---------- Combasou or indigo bird____-_ 1
Lagonosticta senegalla..._..-._-.-.-------- African fire finch==_>5=55552— 2
Lonchura leucogastroides__......-------- Bengallee finch2=2252-"-—- eee 2
NMUNIGIMOIO Sars hoe e ne a ot eee ela White-headed munia_________ 2
WVIGi TGR OLGCCO se ee eee ee Black-throated munia____-_-__ 1
MMGiN GOT 21001 Os re ee ee J&VS SPAITOWs 222-028 -=eee 5
VAIN EG UTE CLUL OL at ee eee eee Spice finch: 2. = sae eee 3
Neopoephila personata_ =. =.= 2-2 2-2 Masked finch322s-=---—---=— 2
Ploceusi0Gy Geno sak Ree ha Ae Baya weaver... 5-5 2
IPloceusentenmediuss sense eee ee Black-cheeked weaver____-__-_ 2
Ploceus vitellanus 222 so oe Se ee Vitelline masked weaver_-_-_-_-- 7
eocnhilarculscaudgs= =a Long-tailed finch... _.._.-- 1
IPOeDAUG GOUlatAe nas ae eee se eee Gouldian finch-—===2->->22== 1
Queleaiqueleg=22-0. 5: eB a a eee et aes ee Red-billed weaver_____---_-- 5
Sporaeginthus melopodus____._-.-------- Orange-cheeked waxbill______ 10
Steganua paradisea._..-.-...._._._---.-- Paradise whydah______-_---- 10
Stictoptera bichenovit._......-...-.------ Binchenov’s finch__________-- 1
Taeniopygia castanotis__._..__-.-_------- Zebra) inches =s 22 =e 10
Uraeointhus bengalus-..._._._._.._.---_-- Cordon bleu finch. __-___-_-- 10
Coerebidae:
Cyuanerpes CYUQneUs nano noon ee en Blue honey creeper. .-.------ 15
Icteridae:
“Algelavusiass7mn7lisss = ee ee Cuban red-winged blackbird__ 2
Amblyrhamphus holosericeus___.___.------ Scarlet-headed blackbird -_ ~--__ 1
Cassiculus melanicterus_.._.....--------- Mexican cacique_--.-___-__-_ 1
Gymnomystax mexicanus.._..-..-.------ Giant oriole. 2322. ee 1
Hictert@iOUllOCK is ee ae ee eee Bullock’s troupial_..___...-- 1
Molothrus bonariensis____..._.._--------- Shiny cowbird-.=—---=--=e= 1
INOVLONSARICUnCESUSE ee eee ee Chilean blackbird_-________-- 2
OQutScalis QUtsCLlGs = een eae ene eee Purple grackle: 32-22-2235 2
Drapeavesiae filep Dt sas ea ee Militanyistarling 2222225 see 4
Xanthocephalus xanthocephalus......----- Yellow-headed blackbird ----- 2
SECRETARY'S REPORT 115

Scientific name Common name Number

Thraupidae:
Calospiza inornata languens___._-------- Plain-colored tanager________ |
RGM DROceMisiCan00e nee aoc ee Silver-beaked tanager________ 2
Ramphocelus dumidiatus 2-5 = Crimson tanager....._.-__-- 2
Ramphocelus flammigerus.-.-.---------- Yellow tanager=—.2_2252-2222 2
Ramphocelus passerint._..-...---------- Passerini tanager__-_._-_-_-- 1
RONAGTORG CATT ae ae ees Darwin’s tanager____._______ 2
AT Ups CONG tn eee ee Se iBluetanagers_= 222252 secce = 3

Fringillidae:
Aeginthatemporalis= 2022 anes cee Sydney waxbill2 2 Us ee 12
@arnodacus:mertcanus <2. ~ ec enesan= se Mexican house finch________- 6
Carpodacus purpureus californicus__._-_-- California purple finch. —___-_- 1
Coryphospingus cucullatus..._.-..------- Red-crested finch__.._______-- 1
Cyanocompsa argentina__.-.------------ Argentine blue grosbeak_____._ 2
DUCA AUUCE mean Ne eh 8 2 ee Ee Dincasinch ee eee 1
WOMhROSPIngus PUsulUs 22-2) eS ee sce ee Black-crested finch_...__-_-- 2
WIClODUTERG NIOtG sa wan sen nate one Cuban bullfinch 2225-2 52ee2 2
IMCLGR DIZ INCLOOIO Sn 2 see oer ee eee Song Gparrow 22.2822 Sebo 2
1 ERR OG TAG HH G3 hy RE ge ey SO eee Brazilian cardinal......._.-- 2
Paroaria gularis nigro-genis_.___._----__- Black-eared cardinal_________ 3
IBGSRENCUG WLOCQ a2 = an alate ery Hox Sparrow.) 2-282 sec cess. 1
IPASSeTAN GG Moen Gea peer ee Lazuli bunting—=4-..5-2-2522 1
PASSENING CY ONEO saa aoe Se eee Indigo: bunting. = 322522522522 2
PPOSSentinleClancnent 22a. cee ee Leclancher’s bunting_______-- 2
Passerina versicolor... 2.22252. 2-5-2 --- Blue bunting cssscas- 24 ees 1
Pheucticus aureoventris__.....---._.----- Black and yellow grosbeak__.. 2
Phrygulue alaudinus._ 02 2.-..-s-.-2= Chilean lark finch.._________ 1
PRM GUUS) TULA COL ee ee Mourning finch___________-_- 4
IPP Gis Q0Yte. aoe ee ee eee Gay’s gray-headed finch______ 1
Piect:opnenar Niwas. 5 20 2a SHOW DUNGIN@ ss. ee sae 2
P2OOS(U CW) LOL QUOLG Sen a Ss en le Ringed warbling finch_______- 2
Richmondina cardinalis____......------- Cardinale: Sane ee ee 3
ERIN ISKCONOTLIRY ate hoa ee ee Canary, : ue ee oS ee aes 13
Serinus canarius X Carduelis mezicana_._ Canary X siskin hybrid___-_- 2
IS CRATE UESLICLOR US ee a ae eee hee Green singing finch__________ 1
ICUS NAVEOLIL ae 2k iene te ee Mysto finch. 2 Ye Ase eee ie. 1
SECOLISELIN COL ee ee eee tee Saffron fineoh.2 222 hee eae 3
ACOLISIININON eee ae eee a eee Lesser yellow finch._____-___ 4
IS ILIVILS IST CS rey re ee gs 2 American gold finch___.____- 1
Spinus anopyoraliss. = 22 2 esee os. 8 Chilean:siskins--=sss5 2520 1
SPOLOD RUG CULO Sno See es eee Hick’s seed-eater___________- 1
Sporophila gutturalis_..-........---_---- Yellow-billed seed-eater______ 2
Sporophila melanocephala.__._..-_------ Black-headed seed-eater-_____- 2
TVOTASIOLRVACE One re ee ee Mexican grassquit__.._.___-_- 2
Volatenta jacarint.2 3-2 6 ae ee Blue-black grassquit_________ 1
ZOROICKIC GLUICOULSS aoe 2 a White-throated sparrow____-_- 2

ZOROLACR UG CODEN S18 2a ee ee @hingolos222 2st coe anes 4
116 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

REPTILES
LORICATA

Scientific name Common name Number
Crocodylidae:

Alligator massissiprensigac os ee Alligators 0 i. Die eee o

Allegator-sinenst gos = AR seh es ee ee Chinese alligator. ___.______- 3

Caiman latunosirte = ee oe ne Broad-snouted caiman_______- 1

Caiman-sclerops >) Die SE As #255 29s Spectacled caiman___________ 3

Crocogulusiaculuges te ee ee American crocodile__________ 3

Crocodyluscalapnraciua spe ee Narrow-nosed crocodile______- 1

Grocadiylusntloticusss 22 = uae African crocodile 22 2525-556 2

Crocodylus palustris. 3 32-02 392 ae Toad’ scrocodiless -22-354=5e" 2

Crocodylisi Nonosus toy = Ae eee Salt-water crocodile__________ 1

Crocodylus rhombijer..-*=--.-.__.____-- ‘Cuban erocodiles...545- =e 1

Osteolaemus tetraspis_.._._._.__..-.--.----- Broad-nosed crocodile________ 3
Lacertidae:

UGGCCTIG MUT alten lst get eee eed a ee Wallilizard. sou. 11 ania ee

LQCEriG OCCU GA eae Bee ee Eyed lizard 3505 2 ames 2
Tguanidae:

ANOLLS CATOLINEN STS eee ef a False chameleon____________-_ 125

IBOStISCUSIOULGLUR SC ee es ae Basilisk 22 25.24 89 2

Phrynosoma-cornutumes 2Uses ls Horned: lizard) !*. 35 83522205 6

SCELOPOFUS UNG ULattiotes (uUee ee ae nee oe Pine or fence lizard__________ 6
Anguidae:

Ophisauris veninalisuse = ee Legless lizard or glass “‘snake”_ 1
Agamidae:

Uromastix acanthinurus__._.._..-------- North African  spiny-tailed

lizard ioe =e Soe sae eee 2

Helodermatidae:

FIClOdenma NOviduni coos tee ee 2 Mexican beaded lizard_______ 2

ielodermasuspectuma 22-2 Gilg-monster. 2 =) eee 6
Teiidae:

Tupinambis nigropunctatus.____.__-_-_-- Black tegus 5.2. Seen 5
Scincidae:

UM ECES I GSClOLUS 2 5ee eee e e Blue-tailed skink____________ 2

DAlAQ UA SCENCOUGES a= 02 a Blue-tongued lizard__________ i
Varanidae:

Varanus spices Ming pen Go Philippine monitor____-______ 1

Varanus komodoensis__._._____..__---_-- Komodoidragonssss. eee 1

Varanus niloticus’ =5a8n os 2 African. monitors.5_5J49o%882 2

Varanusisalvaton= [slim Uat See Sumatran monitor___________ 3
Zonuridae:

ZONUPUS OIGanteus te ee ee African spiny lizard_________- 5

SERPENTES

Boidae:

Consirictor constrsclor 52522 oe Bos, constrictor. eee 1

Constrsctor-cmperaton. 22) een ee Central American boa___-___- 10

Constrictor mexicanus_._._...._-..---.--- Southern boa. 4- 255) ose 1

Epicrales CONCATAB= 8 ee Rambow boas ess eee 13}

PED ICh COLES CLOSSUS = 8-2 eee Salamanta- eso. eee 1

EEDACTOLES SUTTQLUS oe ee eee Haitian b0a-2 2222 2 ee 1
SECRETARY’S REPORT 117

Scientific name Common name Number
Boidae—Continued
EU ECLESLINALTUTUUS EEE ane NPE ee ANACONGR | See UES Ok ha 1
Python malurus ee weiss BG tee RE = os Indian rock python_____.____ U7
PStLROMMEOLUS Hee Soe aes Se ae eS Ballepythonsees. = 2a te 1
Puthon retteulatus. 24 26.2 ate ee Regal pythonao 5522-524 5
Colubridae:
ESET OLCIRL LU Ee re hs eer ee Bee Brown tree snake_._.________ 1
CarmmnopninGmoena- on 5.2-- 282 eee Wormisnakess S222 2g. ss = 1
Coluber constrictor mormon__..-...------- California Tacers 2 s2.5 352 1
WAOD LIS VUNCALUS ne Basse eee Ring-necked snake____-______ 2
DMNA CO Wien nae Se oe oa fouth African mole snake____ 2
J RGN IOLA) een ee ee ee Corm/isnake s2<0 5 9scyo sa) 9s 2
EA Dhe OUSOLel ee eae ae is ere 2 Buotsnake® esse 2s Se. ‘f
lope quadratic ee so ee @hickentsnake=. 22055. S322 1
Eleler odor CONLON UTIL was so rs Hog-nosed snake____________ 1
Lampropeltis getulus boylit_.....-------- Boyle’s king snake__.________ 3
Lampropeltis tiiangulum triangulum_-_-__-_- Milk snake or spotted adder_. 1
Masticophus taeniGhisSeee a5. aa Lined Mexican racer________- 1
UN GEEnIES Dene area Re te eee a Ie Water snake: oo soe 12
UNGURIE UD USCOLOR Soar on Ne ee Checkered keel back____.___- 3
INGER CDA aI ee ae See ee Banded water snake. _.__.__- 3
Oaybeles acuminatuse ose 2 se Pike-head snake_____________ 1
TUNICS ATU UCOS ILS Seeing OS ee thee ee Indian rat snake___...______ 1
WSLOLERIGTU ENGL aoe WB Ss tear eh is Lae De:Kay’s snake. oc 2. 22. = 2
Thamnophis macrostemma__-....-------- Mexican garter snake________ 1
Thamnophts ondinoides= = 2 2-26 Western garter snake________ 1
ERGMNODRUS SITAUS Ss oF 2 ek Garter snake soo = 21m pete c
A OSODSRIACKSOILL Tana te en en ee ee Black'treeisnake: 522222255" 1
Elapidae:
DET ATOGSNUSEULIIA US ee ee Green mambas oo eoe 1
IVGVORMCLONOLEUCE oa. Sosa e ee West African cobra_........- 44
Viperidae:
WADE GLDEnUS a es Sie ye Re Ee Huropean viper 2222-22225 2
Crotalidae:
AGKISILOGONmnOKesOna ea ee TRS Copperhead snake__________- 3
Agkistrodon piscivorus_.—....-_---=+--=- Cotton-mouth moccasin_----__ 2
Bothrops. tanceolatusss. 021 Saab ok Fer de-lance 22.3 S322 yi et 1
Crotalus atone ee ean Peels SAF Texas diamond-backed rattle-
snakes 225 Se Se keke eee 2
Crotalusihorniduss rt. Ory Eastern diamond-backed
rattlesnakes 2222-5222 - 2228 6
Crotalus horridus horradus_..-_—--=--_=-- Timber rattlesnake__________ 1
Crotalus oreganius 2 9224 DRE So. oss Pacific rattlesnake__________- 1
TESTUDINATA
Chelydidae:
BOLFACREMYSINUSULA so ee ee Ce South American side-necked
Curtglese cs wen Lee ee oer 2
PIV OR OS TUSIS p= ea ee ee eee Cégado or South American
snake-necked turtle. _______ 1
Figdnomeausa teciijerae= =e en ee South American snake-necked
Cuntle wee es ere ey ee 16

PlAlemy Ss DIAL CEPhOll aan eee Flat-headed turtle___.______- 1
118 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

Scientific name Common name Number
Kinosternidae:
Kinosternon, subrubrum ool. 220220220688 Mud or musk turtle...__-____ 5
Sternotherus odoratus._ 2202-2222 2 Mud or musk turtle._.______ 4
Chelydridae:
Cheljdratserpentind =e ese es eee Snapping turtle.._...---2 222 4
Macrochelys temminckii_........----.--- Alligator snapping turtle. ____ 1
Testudinidae:
Batagiur Casha ren eee Se Indian fresh-water turtle____- 1
Chrjsemyspicha swan se ee eee Painted turtle:-.. 5. - =e 7
Clentmys Gulalaane as = a eee Spotted: turtle. 2-3 22.2) aes 6
Clemmi SVs CUl pias ae ae ee ee Wood turtle: 2>>2s2222 2 3
Cyclemys ambornensts— == == £2 se Kura kura box turtle._______ 1
Grapiiemysiarvounte ene. 2 ne Barbour’s turtle. 222 2022-2 6
Malaclemiys centrata2 2-2 = oe Diamond-backed turtle_____-- 5
Relomediusagaedia es 2 alee sn. See Common African water tor-
toises2 LSS ee 1
Pxeudem ys concen eta ee ee Cooters.-2 i. ee ee 1
Pscudemiys elegangan 22 ae ee eee Mobile ‘terrapin= 2222 2-2 2e = 12
Pseudemys ornata subsp...-------------- Central American terrapin._-__ 6
PeSCUGEMUS TUGOSE 2a ee ene Cuban: terrapin=222-422- 2 2
Merranene CArOUING faeces Box turtles 2235022 50
Rervapene-mojorase se. uae es he ee ee Florida box turtle__-----___- 4
Destudovenhippiuim= =. ee Duncan Island tortoise__-_._-. 1
CSU onhooden sta face ee eee ee a ee Hood Island tortoise_-------_- 2
Restudo-tabulatiae sss a ee eee South American tortoise___--__ 1
Mestidortornieniss oe see ee ee ee Soft-shelled land tortoise. -_-__ 1
Destudanvrcinaes ft ee ee Albemarle Island tortoise_-____ 5
Trionychidae:
AMUAG fCrOL Sea Aree asa eee Soft-shelled turtle. _-__------ 6
AMYOGNTTUNGUISE ee ee ees Ae eee West African  soft-shelled
turtlesso2 e022 2c eee 1
AMPHIBIA
CAUDATA
Salamandridae:
Triturus cristatus danubialis__._....-.- -- Crested newt == 2222.44 12
Uriunus nyrrhogasters ass). sees Se Ae Red Japanese salamander___._ 2
DirsturustOnOSusacs <5 yao es ese rs Giant:newt: 2... 2-22 ee 5
Diratunus OUlganis nae) t ss tee ta ye a Common European salaman-
Gers 5 oo on 3
Amphiumidae:
Amphiumameansianze tas nhbge ts — Congo eel. =... 2.223452 52323 1
Ambystomidae:
AmUYyslOmaiODaCUM ce = 2st eee Marbled salamander- -- ------ 1
AMOYSLOMOtIOnINUN as a= ose Tiger salamander___-_-------- 30
Cryptobranchidae:
Megalobatrachus japonicus.___..-------- Giant Japanese salamander_ 1
Sirenidae:

Siren lacertinG 224 ee ee Sirenes 20222 oo eee 1
SECRETARY’S REPORT 119

SALIENTIA

Scientific name Common name Number
Dendrobatidae:

FALeLO DIES UANLUSICTUCIIEN see es eee Yellow atelopus_-------_-- 20

DENGROCALESRAUT CLUS Ree ee ee ee Arrow-poison frog___-------_ 52

Dendy Odes Wiulela. = o-oo ee ee Red and black frog______-- 1
Bufonidae:

DSETON CEN U COALS set mr et ee ee eS Common:toad----- 2-52 i

PS USOLE DUSUS ae ee a yn ee Dano de.conchae— 22. === 4

EU OMINOUS =e ee ee oe ee Marine toads =.22) ta 6 ane 10

UTORDCILOCED INCLU = 2a ee a Cuban giant toad____------ 2
Discoglossidae:

Bombina bombina_.------ se ye Lee, me EE Red-bellied toad____---_--- 12
Ceratophrydae:

CeracopnrysiOrnalo=— ems =e eee ae Hormedirog = 22255. .8 222 2
Hylidae:

TULA TS Sees ee ie ee I ee. WireednO es oss ase 1

ESL QNCIILCT/ OTe term act ere Me eee Sn ek TCG MEO Pat soe ne ee 2
Pipidae:

JY OSG OY ee ee pene eh i Ra SURINAM. toad oo. one ke 2

ENCILO DISH CUIE@ es tr ee ee eee oe African clawed frog___-_-_- 2
Ranidae:

DEATEARCLOII LONG am ante Se 2 ee Oe ee Greentrog. soe oe 2

ONCE DEDLCTSS 2a - re es oo eat ee Se Beopardirogusde2=> ss 552 10

LEACH ANT) CSTUIDIGT AY ofa Be 8 Sa pee ofc ret a cca Wood frog 3-22.22 2552020 1

FISHES

PANUCBLCSLUCIIICUS aoa ae ee eae eee Climbing perch: 2. ==. 20 = 2 5
ANODUCHIRYS JOTAGRI.. 222 =nes2 ho. 52k ee lindvcharacins22. =.=. --)52- i,
SOT DURNCUCRCLLE os fac ee ey ey ee Oa Sa Clown: Darbis22 2-22 LZ.
SOn0us parti pemazona.. 25-228 eee eo Banded: barb. 22252222 5250-5 8
Brachydanio albolineatus_._.__..._.-..---- Pear damos es 2 2
IBY ROA OOOH OO) TRAR Was ae Se Se Se Hepra daniQuss 5252 aes ae 3
COTASST SHO UNULUG Ha tte er eed fe ee COLGH S inser es See yee ee 2,
CHANMONISTOLICO Me = nee ee ee es pnakehends: S28 ory € cue 1
COR GOnESES DE eer eee te a ae South American catfish.______ 3
DONOR GLO OnICO Me oe = Sr, eee ee Blue @anio. 22222 pe eae 2
Gymnocorymbus ternetze.. = 2 Blgckaterra seh ee ee 2
IG POCOIMDUS Sete ts cee ore a es a Ses NOrse ss s22e ee aw eet 2
FIUPRESSOTUTYCON TUNESta = 25-2 ee INeonstetra a ee = a ee oe 1
KG UPLOMLCHUSAUTCUTNISE ae cee oe 2 ee GIASSICATISham ss 2 a ee 1
Wbebistesircriculaius= == See oe 2 eee eee Guppy soa ee ee Bee 100
enidosiren. paradoras. 2 ee South American lung fish__--- 2
WNIT OLE ee ee ee ee Cuban limigoet es ae 10
IVIESORAUIGLINSTONTS tee mae te nie Mees oy ee pe ie ee ea ye gees PY Pye 11
Mothenasia aphenops.—..2252._ 222-2 oases Victory molly! <= tee se oe 8
Monocirrhus polyacanthus__.____..._------ hesifishi esses ee ee oo. Ake 2
OloCtn CLUS ATU fame a ee Soe Suckercathish=-2-) 2-- 3225 52 6
Ula Poecius Mmaculguus. == ee Redim oon see a ee eee 8
Poecelobucon unifasciatus..__..___..-__._. Pencilfish #22024) pa yocrk ee 1

817369—498——_9
120 ANNUAL REPORT

Scientific name
iRrestella niddlete== se ee oe

Furypelma spa se LE Se ose eu er
Latrodectus mactans_-._.-----

Blabera Spa 22s= > see e ae

Achatina achainag=--22 2 eee
A ChOUN Gh COne =e eee

Respectfully submitted.

Dr. A. WETMORE,

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

Common name

4d fe et ai Be African lune tish== 22.228
Blackiwactail!.-2 -5s2 2a

ARACHNIDS

INSECTS

iiaG See ee Giant cockroach__________

MOLLUSKS

W.M. Mann, Director.

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 8
REPORT ON THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera-
tions of the Astrophysical Observatory for the fiscal year ended June
30, 1948:

The Observatory organization comprises the office of the Director
(which includes three shops for the preparation of equipment: the
wood, glass, and metal shops) and two research divisions: (1) the
Division of Astrophysical Research and (2) the Division of Radiation
and Organisms.

In September 1947 W. H. Hoover was promoted to be Chief of the
Division of Astrophysical Research. Mr. Hoover has been a member
of the Observatory staff since 1923. It is a sad duty to record the
death on December 17, 1947, of Dr. Earl S. Johnston, Chief of the
Division of Radiation and Organisms. Dr. Johnston joined the divi-
sion at its beginning in 1929 and was responsible for a large portion
of its development in recent years. Before the close of the fiscal year
the Observatory was fortunate in completing arrangements to have
Dr. Robert B. Withrow, of Purdue University, succeed Dr. Johnston
as Chief of the Division, beginning September 1, 1948. During the year
Dr. R. L. Weintraub, biochemist, and L. B. Clark, expert glass blower
and technologist, transferred to National Defense agencies.

(1) DIVISION OF ASTROPHYSICAL RESEARCH

The year may be characterized as one of exploration and develop-
ment since considerable effort was expended in search for a suitable
high-altitude site for a third solar station, and in planning and pre-
paring new equipment. It is proposed at the new station not only
to conduct routine solar-constant observations, but also to test new
electronic equipment and to conduct special researches. One project
planned is a day-to-day study of changes in the infrared band of ozone
at 9 microns wave length. For this work a special double spectroscope
designed by Dr. Abbot, research associate, is being constructed by the
Gaertner Scientific Corporation. New mirrors, aluminized and coated
with magnesium fluoride, for both coelostat and spectrobolometer are
on order. A fused-quartz prism, very free of bubbles, has been com-
pleted, also a new vacuum bolometer. The bolometer, planned and
built by L. B. Clark, is so designed that the vacuum around the bolom-

121
122 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

eter strips will not deteriorate with time. Preliminary tests show
it to be about three times as sensitive as the bolometers we are currently
using.

Work at Washington —The observations and computations from
the Montezuma and Table Mountain field stations were carefully
checked and appraised. Results for the calendar year 1947 were tabu-
lated in the form given in table 24 of volume 6 of the Annals of the
Astrophysical Observatory.

Arrangements were completed for the preparation of new and com-
pletely revised editions of the Smithsonian Meteorological Tables and
the Smithsonian Physical Tables. Work on the Meteorological Tables
is now in progress under the editorship of R. J. List, of the United
States Weather Bureau. The Physical Tables will be edited beginning
September 1, 1948, by Dr. William E. Forsythe, formerly of the Nela
Research Laboratories, Cleveland, Ohio.

The sun and sky radiation studies at Camp Lee, Va., under contract
with the Office of the Quartermaster General, were terminated on
January 1, 1947, at the completion of 2 full years of observations.
These observations included continuous records of the total sun and
sky radiation, and of the relative energy in the ultraviolet, visible,
and infrared portions of the spectrum, as received on a horizontal sur-
face, on a plane 45° to the east, and on a plane 45° to the south. Part
of the instrumental equipment was left at Camp Lee, and observations
are being continued there under the sponsorship of the Camp Lee
Quartermaster Board. <A total of 16 reports were submitted to the
Office of the Quartermaster General, summarizing the Smithsonian
observations.

Under an extension of the contract with the Office of the Quarter-
master General, equipment for radiation measurements similar to
those made at Camp Lee was prepared for the temporary sea-level sta-
tion (Miami, Fla.), and for the high-altitude, dry station at Monte-
zuma, Chile. These preparations were under the direction of Mr.
Hoover, chief of the division. One difficulty encountered in the Camp
Lee work was the great amount of time required to read and sum up the
many daily records, and special efforts were made to devise an auto-
matic integrator. Mr. Hoover succeeded in working out the details of
such a device, and three were built by the instrument maker, Mr. Tal-
bert. The device is now in successful operation at the Miami station.
It separately sums up the reading of four different recording pyrheli-
ometers as registered on a four-point Brown electronic potentiometer.
By simply taking the readings on each of four counters, the total radia-
tion received by each of the four pyrheliometers is obtained. The re-
sults have repeatedly been checked against a complete reading of the
record, and the integrator has proved surprisingly accurate.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 123

Dr. Abbot, research associate of the Observatory, has made further
contributions in his studies of relationships between solar changes and
weather (see list of publications below). Mr. Hildt, mentioned in
last year’s report as assisting Dr. Arctowski in his researches concerned
with the solar and terrestrial atmospheres, found it necessary to end
this work on October 1, 1947. Miss Joyce Wilson substituted for Mr.
Hildt for the remainder of the fiscal year.

Work in the field.—Regular observations for the determination of
the solar constant were continued throughout the year at two high-
altitude stations, Montezuma, Chile (9,000 ft.) and Table Mountain,
Calif. (7,500 ft.). In addition, at Montezuma preparations were made
for exposures of certain textiles and observations of the amount and
quality of sun and sky light, similar to the work now in progress at the
Miami station. However, unexpected delay was encountered in the
transfer of part of the equipment to Montezuma, so that these ex-
posures and observations had not yet been started at the close of the
fiscal year.

As stated in last year’s report, a cooperative program was arranged
between the General Motors Corp., the Quartermaster Department,
and the Smithsonian Institution for exposures and radiatiton measure-
ments to be carried out at the General Motors Test Field at Miami,
Fla. The program also included the mounting and servicing of the
panels and filter boxes by the South Florida Test Service, under the
direction of E. M. DeNoon. In November 1947, panel exposures both
in the open and under filters, at an angle of 45° to the south, were
begun at Miami. The measuring instruments and the filters are
similar to those used at Camp Lee, Va. In addition, the spectrobo-
lometer formerly at the Tyrone, N. Mex., station has been mounted and
adjusted. Whenever the sky is sufficiently clear of clouds, bolographs
are taken just as in our usual solar-constant program. From these
bolographs we obtain valuable data concerning sea-level water-vapor
conditions, as well as additional data on the relative distribution of
energy throughout the spectrum as received from direct sunlight. The
complete program was started in December 1947.

In July 1947 the Director began a tcur in search of the most promis-
ing high-altitude site to which to transfer the Miami spectrobolomet-
ric equipment at the conclusion of our sea-level observations. It was
thought that possibly somewhere in the high plateau region of
Mexico sufficiently cloudless and pure skies might be found. With
the cordial cooperation of the staff of the National Observatory of
Mexico, at Tacubaya, many records of sky conditions were examined
and several promising sites were visited. It is regretted that though
the climate was uniformly delightful and invigorating, none of these
sites proved to be sufficiently cloudless. Floating clouds are very
prevalent.
124 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

In September, while vacationing in Honolulu, the Director learned
of a site on the island of Hawaii where the annual rainfall is less than
10 inches and the skies described as remarkably clear. He visited that
location where, at an altitude of 6,500 ft., he found a road, abundant
water supply, electric power and telephone already installed, and skies
which may prove to be clear and uniform from day to day.

In October Dr. Abbot and A. F. Moore visited the region of southern
California near the Nevada border, including Clark Mountain (7,900
ft.), where the annual precipitation is 8 inches. They encountered
excellent skies in this region.

Since tests covering an extended period are the only safe criteria
for determining a satisfactory site for a solar station, Mr. Hoover in
May 1948 installed a recording Eppley pyrheliometer at each of the
three following promising sites: (1) Torreon, Coahuila, Mexico; (2)
Mountain Pass, Calif., near Clark Mountain; and (3) Pohakuola,
Island of Hawaii. The instruments are operated through the kind
cooperation of men living near the sites. The records for the month
of June 1948 indicate Clark Mountain as having the best skies thus far.

Dr. Abbot and the Director spent a month beginning August 10,
1947, at the Mount Wilson Observatory, Calif., having planned to
assist each other on two projects. One project was to redetermine the
Smithsonian standard scale of solar radiation. We reconditioned,
remounted, and adjusted our standard double water-flow pyrheli-
ometer, last used in 1934, and made a series of careful comparisons
between it and two substandard silver-disk pyrheliometers which we
had carried by hand from Washington. The mean of 33 comparisons
agrees within 1 part in 1,000 with the results of 1934 and 1932. This
confirms our belief that the scale of an individual silver-disk pyrheli-
ometer with ordinary care will remain unchanged over a long period
of years.

The second project was a continuation of Dr. Abbot’s previous work
to determine the energy spectra of some of the brighter stars, with the
aid of the 100-inch Mount Wilson telescope. Dr. Abbot’s sensitive
radiometer, now under excellent control, permitted actual measure-
ments on eight different stars at eight different wave lengths. Since
the percentage accidental error was rather large, only the general
forms of these curves were determined. Dr. Abbot has encouraging
plans for improvement in the measurements and he hopes to repeat
this project in the near future.

(2) DIVISION OF RADIATION AND ORGANISMS

Owing to the illness and death of the chief of the division, Dr. Earl
S. Johnston, and to changes in personnel, the research program in
progress at the beginning of the year was necessarily altered and
somewhat curtailed. Leonard Price, now the senior staff member of
SECRETARY’S REPORT 125

the division, has as far as possible arranged to bring current projects
to satisfactory completion and to undertake no new projects except
those of short duration.

Dr. Weintraub, after his transfer to a National Defense agency,
continued periodic visits to the division to complete certain phases
of his work. In these visits Mr. Price found his advice and aid of
much value in rounding out the current experimental work. The fol-
lowing summarizes the work accomplished :

Several years ago, Dr. McAlister developed in the division an in-
strument for measuring accurately and quickly by spectroscopic
means the carbon dioxide content of a volume of gas. Dr. Johnston
later made certain modifications and carefully tested the instrument.
Dr. Weintraub and Mr. Price subsequently used it in a study of the
effect of plant growth regulators on the respiration of potato tubers.
After the construction of a larger respiration chamber, a similar study
was started using broad-Jeaf plants. This project was nearly com-
pleted at the close of the year.

Two new thermostats, installed early in the year, aided greatly in
the control of environmental factors in germination studies using
lettuce seeds. The effects of temperature, light, composition of at-
mosphere, and composition of substrate have been studied individually
and in combination. Two phases of this study are completed and a
third nearly completed.

Considerable progress was made in studies of the developmental
physiology of grass seedlings. Growth curves for both mesocotyls
and coleoptiles of plants grown under various combinations of con-
trolled environmental conditions have been obtained. Plants grown
in various salt solutions have yielded information on cation and anion
effects. Salts show a retarding effect during initial germination
which is then followed by a period of extended growth beyond that
of plants grown in the absence of salts. The retardation and extended
growth periods are proportional, within limits, to the concentration
of the salt used. Several papers on these developmental physiology
studies are in preparation.

The histological study of the mesocotyl, which was undertaken to
explain the gross morphology effects of various environmental con-
ditions, was continued for only part of the year. Being a long-range
project, it was abandoned to permit the completion of other projects
that were further advanced. However, before this work was stopped
the cellular development of mesocotyls of etiolated corn seedlings had
been charted.

A report is in preparation on the study of the effects of various
fungicides on the germination and development of grass seedlings.
Experimentation for this problem has been completed.
126 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

PUBLICATIONS

The following publications relating to the work of the Observatory
were issued during the year:

ApspoTt, C. G. Precipitation affected by solar variation. Smithsonian Mise.
Coll., vol. 107, No. 9, August 1947.

AggoT, C.G. A revised analysis of solar-constant values. Smithsonian Misc. Coll.,
vol. 107, No. 10, August 1947.

AspoT, C. G. 1947-1948 report on the 27.0074-day cycle in Washington precipita-
tion. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 110, No. 4, March 1948.

AspoT, C. G., Solar variation attending West Indian hurricanes. Smithsonian
Mise. Coll., vol. 110, No. 1, April 1948.

AspoT, ©. G. Magnetic storms, solar radiation, and Washington temperature de-
partures. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 110, No. 6, June 1948.

ABBOT, C. G., and ALpRIcH, L. B. Energy spectra of some of the brighter stars.
Smithsonian Mise. Coll., vol. 107, No. 19, February 1948.

AvpricH, L. B., and Asspot, C. G. Smithsonian pyrheliometry and the standard
scale of solar radiation. Smithsonian Mise. Coll, vol. 110, No. 5, April 1948.

ALpRIcH, L. B., and associates: Reports to the Office of the Quartermaster
General on Camp Lee studies. (Report No. 12 through No. 15, and special
report of May 17, 1948.)

WEINTRAUB, R. L. The influence of light on chemical inhibition of lettuce seed
germination. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 107, No. 20, May 1948.

WEINTRAUB, R. L., and Price, L. Inhibition of plant growth by emanations from
oils, varnishes, and wood. Smithsonian Mise. Coll., vol. 107, No. 17, March
1948.

WEINTRAUB, R. L., and Pricr, L. Influence of illumination on reducing sugar
content of etiolated barley and oat seedlings. Smithsonian Misc. Coll.,
vol. 110, No. 2, March 1948.

Respectfully submitted.

L. B. Aupricu, Director.
Dr. A. Wetmore,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 9
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL AIR MUSEUM

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera-
tions of the National Air Museum for the fiscal year ended June 30,
1948.

ESTABLISHMENT

Although the National Air Museum came into being as a new bureau
of the Smithsonian Institution on August 12, 1946, through the enact-
ment of Public Law 722, and an organizational and survey program
was inaugurated shortly thereafter, actual operations of the bureau
in its own right did not begin until August 1, 1947, one month after
the beginning of the fiscal year. On that date the authorized appro-
priation of $50,000 for National Air Museum purposes became avail-
able to the Institution.

Thereupon, and in accordance with a previously prepared plan of
operations, there was effected by administrative action the interbureau
transfer of the Institution’s aeronautical collection and the staff
charged with its care, from the United States National Museum to the
National Air Museum. As a matter of record the Smithsonian Insti-
tution has been gathering and safeguarding significant aeronautical
materials for over 70 years. At the time of the transfer this nucleus
for an air museum consisted of over 3,500 objects, comprising the most
valuable collection of its kind in the United States, or, in fact, in the
world. By this transfer the National Air Museum began its active
life with full responsibility for the proper operation of a “going” aero-
nautical museum. Until it has a building of its own, the Air Museum
has assigned for its use the metal hangar known as the Aircraft Build-
ing and, in addition, a certain amount of exhibition, office, and storage
space in the Arts and Industries Building of the National Museum.
The Air Museum will share, too, with its affiliates the various auxiliary
services of the Smithsonian Institution.

On completion of the transfer of the aeronautical collections, ad-
ministrative action was begun to provide the nucleus for an adequate
staff for the new bureau. By March 1948 a force of seven persons
(an addition of five to the original staff of two) was actively engaged
in the many ramifications of the bureau’s work.

127
128 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

Another matter given early attention in establishing the Air Mu-
seum was that of obtaining working quarters. These were provided
in the West-South Range of the Arts and Industries Building of the
National Museum and were available to the staff beginning June 15,
1948.

ADVISORY BOARD

Two meetings of the Air Museum’s Advisory Board were held dur-
ing the year, on August 19, 1947, and April 15, 1948, respectively. The
problems of major concern to the Board this year were the acquisition
of a storage depot for the temporary safekeeping of Air Museum ma-
terial, and the determination of a suitable land site and building for
the Air Museum. Both meetings of the Board centered largely on
these two problems.

Prior to the August meeting a careful study had been made by the
Air Museum’s staff and by Mr. Loening, Board member, of several pro-
posed storage depots. Asa result a recommendation was made to the
Board at the August meeting suggesting the selection of a part of the
Douglas aircraft plant built during World War IT and located on the
outskirts of Park Ridge, Ill., about 20 miles northwest of Chicago.
After due deliberation, including consideration of the fact that aero-
nautical museum material gathered by the United States Air Force
for the National Air Museum was stored in this plant, the Board
accepted the recommendation and by resolution directed that “the
Chairman plan the operations of the National Air Museum in such a
way that it will be prepared to take over and operate the storage facil-
ity at Park Ridge .. .”

In considering the problem of sites and a building for the Air
Museum (the planning of which was authorized by law establishing
the National Air Museum) the merits and advantages of various
locations in the Nation were fully considered at the August 1947
Board meeting. The discussion led to the unanimous adoption of a
resolution that “the National Air Museum should be located in Wash-
ington, and that search be made for sites which are to be submitted
to the Advisory Board for approval as to location and adequacy in
size.”

Regarding an appropriate building for the Air Museum, the Board
discussed at length the scope of the aeronautical collections to be
assembled, the quantity of full-size historical and irreplaceable air-
craft that merited consideration for a place in the future building,
and the many factors involved in the maintenance, exhibition, and
preservation of the collection. To further the study of the building
problem the Board at its August 1947 meeting directed the Chairman
to enlist the aid of the Public Buildings Administration of the Federal
SECRETARY'S REPORT 129

Works Agency and to submit a report at the next Board meeting.
Following a full and detailed discussion of this report, the Advisory
Board approved the basic study and building plan presented and in-
structed the Chairman to proceed with the building study to determine
costs.

PLANNING
STORAGE OF MUSEUM MATERIAL

Immediately following the selection by the Advisory Board of a
portion of the Douglas plant near Park Ridge, Ill., for the storage of
Air Museum material, negotiations were begun to obtain this facility.
Following the termination of World War II this Douglas plant, which
had been built during the war by the Government, was taken over
by the U. S. Air Force and used in part as a storage facility and in
part as headquarters of the Air Arm of the Illinois National Guard.
Subsequently, control and management of the property was placed
in the hands of the Air Defense Command of the United States Air
Force, where it rested at the close of the year.

While negotiations for storage space in this building were under
way, attention was given to plans for the Museum’s operating organi-
zation at Park Ridge. The protection, preservation, and maintenance
of the stored Air Museum material will constitute the principal re-
sponsibilities of this field organization. There is planned, therefore,
for this field service a staff of 14, consisting of an associate curator
with administrative and aircraft-maintenance experience, in charge,
an aircraft technician, 10 guards, and 2 skilled laborer helpers.

MUSEUM SITE AND BUILDING

As indicated earlier in this report real progress was made during
the year on the investigation of sites and a building for the Air Museum.
The staff worked closely with the Office of Design and Construction of
the Public Buildings Administration, contributing realistic concepts
of a functional museum structure from knowledge gained through
many years’ experience in the engineering and industrial museum
field. The staff furnished, too, much factual material representing
considered judgment as to the essential requirements of the proposed
building. In this connection the incorporation of a place of honor for
the Wright Brothers’ original aeroplane of 1903 was given full con-
sideration. The advice and suggestions of Mr. Loening, Board mem-
ber, regarding this important matter were most helpful.

The entire museum structure will require in excess of 500,000 square
feet of exhibition area, providing for an expected initial collection of
some 200 full-size aircraft, and for future expansion of the collection.
130 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

In addition there will be incorporated within the structure the usual
space for offices, laboratories, library, auditorium, manufacturers’
display rooms, and shops, as well as facilities for building mainte-
nance and operation.

CURATORIAL ACTIVITIES

The curator, Paul E. Garber, reports on the year’s work as follows:

EXHIBITION

The close of the fiscal year finds the exhibits in greatly improved
condition. All full-size aircraft were given a thorough cleaning;
several required minor repairs; four engines were reconditioned and
remounted. The exhibition of many propellers was improved. The
insignia which provide a colorful border to the walls of the Aircraft
Building were touched up. A number of bases and cases were reno-
vated and numerous scale models were repaired. At the suggestion of
Gen. Frank Lahm and with the advice and assistance of Orville
Wright, the lever which controls the balance and steering on the
Wright Brothers’ Military Flyer of 1909 was remodeled to conform
with its condition when in active service. The incomplete parts of
the John J. Montgomery gliders of 1905 and 1911 which had been ac-
cessioned the previous year were partly assembled. The series of
frames containing the illustrated story of the Wright Brothers re-
ceived additional drawings and photographs depicting more facts in
this chronicle. Two large cased exhibits were formed to group en-
gines of types used by the “Early Birds” (pioneer flyers of 1903-16)
and those of World War I. The gondola of the balloon Ezplorer-2,
which 13 years after its ascent still holds the world’s absolute manned
altitude record, had its rigging elevated to make a more understand-
able display. The exhibition of the Norden bombsight by which the
atomic bomb was directed at Hiroshima was improved by adding two
large photographs to illustrate its destructive effect. Extensive re-
arrangements of cases effected improvements in space and groupings,
and a program of relabeling provided better captions for numerous
items.

Several special exhibits were prepared: The first use of aircraft for
polar exploration was undertaken by Salamon Andrée and two com-
panions, 1897. Their heroic effort was commemorated by the Air
Museum on the fiftieth anniversary of their departure. During the
month of August the U. S. Air Force displayed current flight equip-
ment including engines, ordnance, instruments, and training devices.
The featured item was a Lockheed P-80 jet-powered fighter. The
National Air Museum prepared a historic aeronautic display for Air
SECRETARY'S REPORT 131

Force Day at Bolling Field, D. C. When the Navy’s Douglas Sky-
streak established a new world speed record of 650.6 miles per hour
on August 20-25, 1947, this event was soon featured in the Museum
by a representative display which included a 1:16-size scale model
of the Skystreak, a drawing showing its functional parts, autographed
photographs of the pilots, and views of the plane in flight. May
15, 1948, marked the thirtieth anniversary of the establishment of
air mail on a permanet scheduled basis. The Air Museum had an
outstanding display ready for the anniversary. Special exhibits were
also prepared by the staff on the occasions of meetings of the Smith-
sonian’s Board of Regents and the Air Museum’s Advisory Board.

INFORMATIONAL SERVICES

The Air Museum conducts public relations and educational services
through correspondence, by telephone, and by personal contact, a
function that requires more curatorial attention than any other phase
of the Air Museum’s work. The Department of Education of the
State of California adopted the Handbook of the National Aircraft
Collection as a reference book for use in schools and ordered a number
of copies. The American Helicopter Society was given drawings
and texts to illustrate early rotor experiments. The Air Transport
Association was furnished details on the first commercial air load,
and the curator served as judge for the annual Science Fair held in
Washington, May 3, 1948. The Boeing Aircraft Co. and the Curtiss-
Wright Corp. required photographs of pioneer types of their own
historic craft. Technical charts prepared by the Douglas Aircraft
Co., Inc., were checked and corrected for historic accuracy.

The regrettable death of Orville Wright and the expected return
to America of the famous aeroplane invented and flown by him and
his brother brought a flood of requests for information on Wright
aircraft and details of the brothers’ lives.

Acknowledgments.—Many sources were consulted by the staff in
order to accomplish their duties. The curator wishes to acknowledge
the valued help of Dr. W. R. B. Acker of the Freer Gallery in trans-
lating Japanese inscriptions on ex-enemy equipment and Dr. Waldo
L. Schmitt of the National Museum in making German translations;
the aid by Charles Burgess of the Department of the Navy in review-
ing the development of lighter-than-air craft; the constant assistance
of Alfred Verville, also of the Department of the Navy, in locating
and evaluating naval objects of museum interest; and the supplying,
by the Department of the Air Force, through Lt. Robert Strobell, of
Wright Field, of extensive data on ex-enemy aircraft. The Naval Air
Reserve Training Unit, Anacostia NAS, provided expert technical
132 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

help in conditioning and mounting several aircraft engines, and the
engineering branch of the Bolling Field Air Force Base dismantled,
moved, and assembled the Curtiss Racer R3C-2 for reexhibition in the
Museum’s aeronautical hall.

Lectures.—The curator gave the following lectures:

October 22, Optimists’ Club of Arlington, Va.: National Air Museum’s progress
and plans.

January 21, a group of grade-school teachers at the Air Museum: Significance
of the collections to school groups.

February 18, a group of 22 Turkish aviators: Tour of the collections.

March 20, a broadcast over station WGAY: The Air Museum’s place in aero-
nautical education.

March 24, the Civil Aeronautics Club: The history of aeronautics.

March 31, the Civil Aeronautics Club: Tour of the collections.

May 21, Women Flyers’ Club of Berkeley, Calif.: The National Air Museum’s
program.

May 30, Oakland Airport, Calif.: Plans for the National Air Museum.

June 6, Los Gatos, Calif., at the home of Robert Fowler (first to fly across the
United States, eastward, 1911): Representations of “Early Birds” in the na-
tional collections.

June 11, Aviation Committee of the Bay Area, San Francisco: Representa-
tions of California airmen in the National Air Museum.

The associate curator gave one broadcast, as follows:
June 8, a broadcast over station WOL: The famous B-29 bomber Hnola Gay.

SURVEY

In accord with the Advisory Board’s motion, which inaugurated an
extensive survey to locate desirable aeronautic materials, much cura-
torial time was devoted to: first, research to decide what items should
be added to the collection; second, extensive correspondence to inves-
tigate availability, condition, and arrange procurement; third, meet-
ings at the Air Museum with prospective donors; and fourth, visits
to locate, examine, and receive material. The results of successful
surveys are shown in the list of accessions.

Very helpful information on the condition of foreign aeronautical
collections, and a number of leads for procurement of objects, resulted
from a trip abroad by Mr. Loening, Board member, during August
and September. The thorough manner in which he inspected mu-
seums, and the report, photographs, and catalogs which he brought
back enabled the staff to gain a first-hand impression of the extent of
air exhibits in England, France, and, to a certain extent, in Germany.

ACCESSIONS

The following listing of 45 accessions and 830 objects constitutes
the largest lot of aeronautical acquisitions recorded in any year of the
Smithsonian’s history.
SECRETARY’S REPORT IBS)

NATIONAL AIR MUSEUM ACCESSIONS DURING THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED
JUNE 30, 1948

(Except where otherwise indicated, these have been entered as gifts or transfers)

AEROJET ENGINEERING Corp., Azusa, Calif.: (Through D. A. Kimball) 2 JATO
rocket motors (178901).

Air TRANSPORT ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA, Washington, D. C.: (Through Admiral
Emory 8. Land) 5 bound manuals relative to scheduled United States air lines’
work in World War II (179056).

Avery, Joun B. (See under Consolidated Vultee Aircraft Corp.)

BAuscu & Loms Co., Rochester, N. ¥.: (Through K. EB. Reynolds) A current
form of bubble sextant and accessories for celestial navigation (178841).

BELLINGER, Vice Admiral P. N. L., Washington, D. C.: A United States flag and a
naval pennant flown on a Curtiss C-3 United States Navy flying boat during
extended air scouting operations at Veracruz, Mexico, 1914 (179055).

Be_r, Ambassador GUILLERMO. (See under Cuba, Republic of.)

Benpix AviaTION Corp., South Bend, Ind.: (Through Cameron, Kerkam, and
Sutton) A sectionalized Stromberg “injection carburetor” developed by the
donors just before World War II and used on the majority of American mili-
tary planes (179058).

Brooks, EpitH, Washington, D. C.: Group of mementos from Air Meet at Nice,
France, April 1910 (179060).

Brown, Lt. K. S., Biloxi, Miss.: 50 specimens of German and Japanese aircraft
instruments of World War II (179701), 5 items on loan,

CAMERON, KERKAM, AND SuTToN. (See under Bendix Aviation Corp.)

Carrot, ScHoon oF AviATIoN, Latrobe, Pa.: An Ackerman landing wheel, 1918
(176869).

Cuing, AL. (See under Northrop Aircraft, Inc.)

CoNSOLIDATED VULTEE AIRCRAFT Corp., San Diego, Calif.: (Through John B.
Avery) 3 models, 1:48 size, of World War II Consolidated-Vultee designed
aireraft: PBY-5 Catalina Flying Boat, PB2Y-3 Coronado Flying Boat, and
B-24 Liberator Bomber (178899).

CRUVER MANUFACTURING Co., Chicago, Ill.: (Through C. L. Cruver, Jr.) A set
of 82 plastic scale model airplanes manufactured by the donor for the United
States Navy and Army Air Corps during World War II (178941).

Cusa, Republic or: (Through Guillermo Belt, Ambassador, Washington, D. C.)
A diploma and medal in commemoration of the Pan American group flight
of 1937, “pro Faro-Colon,” granted by the Cuban Government (178900).

Darter, Henry M. (See under National Military Establishment, Department of
the Navy.)

De Havititanp AircRAFT Co., Lrp., Hatfield, Herfordshire, England: (Through
Martin Sharp) A 1:16-size model of the De Havilland Comet, winner of the
MacRobertson London to Melbourne Race, 1934 (179057).

Der Youna, M. H., MemMorraAL MUSEUM, San Francisco, Calif.: (Through Dr. Walter
Heil) Nose fragment from the 1910 Antoinette airplane which was flown by
Hubert Latham and made a number of West Coast flights (178955, loan).

Dovctas ArrcRArFT Co., INc., Santa Monica, Calif.: (Through G. B. Gelly) 2 scale
model airplanes, 1:16 size, of Douglas types: the AD-1, carrier-based attack
plane, and the D-558, Skystreak jet airplane which established the recent
world’s speed record (179700). Five charts illustrating characteristics of the
earth’s atmosphere and graphic presentations of transportation speeds
(177266).

817369—49——_10
134 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

Firr, Capt. Wittram P., Johnson City, Tenn.: A Japanese parachute, Worla War
II, picked up by the donor in the Philippines at Clark Field, 1945 (178940).
Forp, Harry H., Bridgeport, Conn.: A Roberts engine, an El Arco radiator and
a wooden propeller used on donor’s Curtiss type “hydroaeroplane,” 1912-13,
and a photograph which shows the plane with donor at controls, taking off

from Bridgeport Harbor, Conn., July 4, 1912 (179698).

Forp, LYMAN. (See under Pioneer Parachute Co., Inc.)

Garger, Paut Epwarp, Washington, D. C.: An criginal Currier & Ives print illus-
trating the use of Thaddeus Lowe’s Civil War Balloon at the Battle of Fair
Oaks, Va., May 31, 1862 (176970).

GARDNER, GEORGE. (See under Pan American World Airways System.)

GELLY,G.B. (See under Douglas Aircraft Co., Inc.)

Goopricu Co., B. F., Akron, Ohio: (Through H. W. Maxson) Stratosphere pres-
sureized suit, designed and constructed by the donor organization for United
States Air Forces (179106).

HEIL, Dr. WALTER. (See under M. H. DeYoung Memorial Museum.)

Hicxs, Ser. Witt1AmM T., Washington, D. C.: Winter flying suit used by Japanese
aviators in World War II (178840) ; a Japanese aerial bomb of the small anti-
personnel type (179061).

Hovey, Brig. Gen. B. M. (See under National Military Establishment, Depart-
ment of the Air Force.)

JACOEL CABLE SPLICING EQUIPMENT Co., Philadelphia, Pa.: (Through J. Reaney)
A Jacoel machine and kit used for splicing aircraft cables (175189).

Kerp, F. B., Santa Clara, Calif.: A group of 26 photographs illustrating the
accomplishments of Prof. John J. Montgomery of Santa Clara University in his
glider flights, 1905-11 (179258).

KIMBALL, D. A. (See under Aerojet Engineering Corp.)

Koprrers Co., Inc., Baltimore, Md.: (Through John D. Waugh) 2 examples of
Aeromatice propeller development in the past 10 years and a 3-bladed German
VDM propeller (179611).

Kovnat, BERNARD. (See under United Air lines.)

LaNp, Admiral Emory S. (See under Air Transport Association of America.)

LaskowI1Tz, I. B., Brooklyn, N. ¥.: A wind-tunnel test model of a rotary unit as
applied to a direct-lift rotary winged aircraft ; and reference material (178990).

LorNporr, WALTER, Waukesha, Wis.: A pair of goggles worn by Rear Admiral
Albert C. Read (then Lt. Cmdr.) when commanding the Navy’s NC-4 flying
boat which accomplished the first trans-Atlantic flight, 1919 (179609).

Maxson, H.W. (See under B. F. Goodrich Co.)

McRoberts, Sgt. Roperr L., Washington, D. C.: 2 original photographs of Lilien-
thal gliders, 1896, obtained from Otto Lilienthal’s son by the donor in Augs-
burg, Germany, 1945 (178938).

Muzzy, A. V., Tyler Tex.: Experimental ground-to-air human pick-up equipment
invented by donor in 1937 (176281).

NATIONAL MILITARY HSTABLISHMENT:

Department of the Air Force, Washington, D. C.: (Through Brig. Gen. B. M.
Hovey) 2 insignia painted on masonite plaques illustrating devices for
identifying airplanes based at Bolling Field, D. C. (178716); (through
Gen. Carl Spaatz) a German machine gun, World War I, recovered from
one of the 54 planes shot down by the French ace, Georges Guynemer ;
originally presented in December 1946 to Gen. Carl Spaatz by Mr. Guy-
nemer’s sister Mme. de la Noue (178839, loan).
SECRETARY'S REPORT 135

Depariment of the Navy, Bureau of Aeronautics, Washington, D. C.:
(Through Capt. Leroy Simpler) Material illustrating the recent world
speed record flight established by the U.S. Navy with the Douglas airplane
Skystreak (179696) ; (through Rear Admiral A. M. Pride) Japanese Baka
suicide rocket aircraft bomb of the type used against our naval forces in
the later part of World War II (178989). From Naval Air Station,
Patuxent River, Md.: (Through Capt. C. W. Seitz) A Kasei-22 14-cylinder
twin-row air-cooled radial engine of the type used in the large Japanese
Kawanishi 4-engine flying boat Emily (179610). From Office of the Chief
of Naval Operations, Washington, D. C.: (Through Dr. Henry M. Dater)
An original set of 82 pen-and-ink drawings made by artist Frank Tinsley
for weekly syndication in newspaper feature sections, each depicting the
exploits of a famous Marine air hero (179719).

NortHror AIrcrAFT, INC., Hawthorne, Calif.: (Through Al Cline) A 1: 16-size
scale model of the P-61C Black Widow night fighter, the XF-15 photo recon-
naissance plane, and the N3PB twin-float patrol bomber (179059).

NorkTHWEST AIRLINES, INnc., St. Paul, Minn.: 1 set of double seats of the type
used in their DC-4 airplanes (176933).

Pan AMERICAN WorRLD AIRWAYS SysteM, New York, N. Y.: (Through Juan T.
Trippe) 5 sets of double aircraft seats and 1 set of Pan American’s DC-3
transport panel-chairs (178715, 179702). (These and other seats accessioned
were donated for comfort and convenience of Museum visitors.) (Through
George Gardner) 2 cutaway display models: a 1:10-size model of a Boeing
307 Strato-Clipper and a 1:16-size model of a Boeing 314 Flying Clipper
(179417).

PIONEER PARACHUTE Co., INc., Manchester, Conn.: (Through Lyman H. Ford)
Original parachute pack and harness (with a replacement canopy) used in
making the first jump with a nylon parachute, June 6, 1942, and 4 framed
photographs of Adeline Grey who made the jump (179697).

PoweELL, Lester W. B., Washington, D. C.: A 2-piece flying suit, used by the
German Luftwaffe, World War II; it is stuffed with asbestos as a protection
against flames (179257).

Prive, Rear Adm. A. M. (See under National Military Establishment, Depart-
ment of the Navy.)

REANEY, J. (See under Jacoel Cable Splicing Equipment Co.)

REYNOLDS, K. E. (See under Bausch & Lomb Co.)

RicHARDSON, Brig. Gen. WiitIAM L., Washington, D. C.: A German machine
gun mount taken from a JU-88 aircraft shot down in World War II (179699).
(The donor affirms that the destruction of this aircraft was the final ground-
to-air victory of the war.)

Seitz, C. W. (See under National Military Establishment, Department of the
Navy.)

SHarp, Martin. (See under DeHavilland Aircraft Co., Ltd.)

Srmpter, Capt. LeRoy. (See under National Military Establishment, Department
of the Navy.)

Spaatz, Gen. Cart. (See under National Military Establishment, Department
of the Air Force.)

Tuomas A. Epison, INc., West Orange, N. J.: (Through Arthur R. Tice) Group
of 5 aircraft instruments (178939).

Tice, ARTHUR R. (See under Thomas A. Edison, Inc.)

Triprr, JUAN T. (See under Pan American World Airways System.)
136 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

UniTep Arr LINES, Chicago, Ill.: A 72-inch-span scale model of the Douglas DC-6
transport, and photos illustrating the transcontinental record set by this plane
carrying passengers and crew, March 29, 1947, together with the National
Aeronautical Association’s homologation of that flight (179416); (through
Bernard Koynat) 2 sets of double aircraft seats from a DC-4 Mainliner 230
(179602).

WauGH, JOHN D. (See under Koppers Co.)

Respectfully submitted.
Cart W. Mirman,
Assistant to the Secretary for the National Air Museum.

Dr. A. WETMoRE,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 10
REPORT ON THE CANAL ZONE BIOLOGICAL AREA

Sir: It gives me pleasure to present herewith the annual report of
the Canal Zone Biological Area for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1948.

TWENTY-FIFTH ANNIVERSARY

On April 17, 1948, the island laboratory celebrated its twenty-fifth
anniversary. A special commemorative 10-cent stamp was issued by
the Canal Zone, consisting of an outline drawing of the island, and
within this the gato-solo (coati-mundi), the most versatile, intelligent
mammal of the island. First-day covers, containing the 1947 annual
report, were sent to those who had been on the island during the past
25 years, and many very interesting repliey were received.

SCIENTISTS AND THEIR STUDIES

Dr. T. C. Schneirla, curator of the department of animal behavior of
the American Museum of Natural History, continued his studies on
army-ant behavior, assisted by Dr. Ernst Enzmann, of the Harvard
Biological Laboratories, and by R. Z. Brown, of Swarthmore College.
They “investigated the behavioral and biological conditions of two
army-ant species, Heiton hamatwm, a typical column raider, and
EF. burchelli, a typical swarm raider. The studies were begun in early
November 1947 and continued through March 1948, thus starting late
in the rainy season and extending well into the latter part of the dry
season.”

The study was concerned particularly with the manner in which
army-ant colonies adapt to dry-season conditions, and the manner in
which these ants produce their fertile females (dichthadiigynes). The
project was designed to complete a general investigation on army-ant
behavior and biological conditions begun in 1932 on Barro Colorado
Island.

As a result of the findings, it is now clear that but one sexual brood
per colony appears annually in the army ants, and that the pre-con-
ditions of this brood are peculiar to the dry season. With further
information about the timing of the one sexual brood per year and
the conditions of its production, the implications of the army-ant situ-
ation for problems of caste and sex determination now are clearer.

137
138 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

The single sexual brood of 2,000 to 3,000 males and a dozen or less
queen-type individuals is somehow produced by a functional queen
which otherwise delivers huge all-worker broods at regular intervals
throughout the year.

Facts concerning queen production in Eciton were checked in the
study of a number of colonies. It was found that the number of young
queens matured was very small, as a rule less than a dozen. They are
fully developed in advance of the males, usually about 3 days. This
female precocity proves to be very important for the process of colony
division. Since young queens are present as adults before the males
begin to emerge from their cases, it is possible for subsectioning of
the colony to occur on a chemical-attraction basis before emergence of
males arouses the colony into a move from its statary bivouacking
site. The old colony queen is apt to be present in one of the subsections
which becomes a new colony, one of the young new queens in another;
these move off divergently and thenceforth behave as new colonies.
The other young queens, through an interesting behavior process in
the worker, are “sealed off” and eventually abandoned.

Dr. R. A. Johnson, State Teachers College, Oneonta, N. Y., came to
the island when Dr. Schneirla and his associates were studying their
army ants; hence it was a splendid opportunity for him to study the
birds that attend the swarm raids of these ants, their various types of
adjustment to habitat, territorialism, and social stimulation. In ad-
dition to the ant birds proper (Formicariidae), birds of other groups
were found associated with these ant swarms. These associations dif-
fer distinctively, although all are represented by species of the
Formicariidae.

Mrs. Dorothy Hobson, vice president of the Indiana Audubon So-
ciety, spent 2 months studying primarily the birds of the island, their
nesting habits, and general behavior. She added much valuable in-
formation which will appear soon in published form.

Miss Clara Alma Moore, of Indianapolis, Ind., acompanied Mrs.
Hobson and devoted most of her time to painting the birds in their
natural habitats, nestings, and also some of the more conspicuous
flowers. In addition she also made studies of nesting habits of birds.

Fred E. Moorehouse and Don F. Loughnan, of the Forest Products
Laboratory of the United States Department of Agriculture at Madi-
son, Wis., made careful inspection of the various types of container-
grade plywood which have been in test on the island for several years.
This also included cleated-plywood boxes. The tests were made to
determine the effectiveness of various glues, glue preservatives, and
toxic water-repellent treatments on the maintenance of quality of con-
tainer-grade plywood when exposed to tropical conditions. The in-
formation obtained provides data desired by the Air Forces, as well
SECRETARY’S REPORT 139

as adding much to the laboratory’s knowledge of the effects of tropical
exposure on these various types of plywoods. A comprehensive report
on these results was prepared.

Dr. Edna Robbins, biology teacher at the Mary C. Wheeler School
for Girls, Providence, R. I., spent a short time on the island to get
acquainted with the tropical flora and certain of the invertebrates,
and to add to her knowledge of environmental factors.

Dr. A. Brazier Howell, formerly of Johns Hopkins University, now
retired, spent 10 days on the island in December, accompanied by Mrs.
Howell, for the purpose of noting the changes that have taken place
since he studied here 19 years ago. “A period of this duration can
have practically no effect on a tropical rain forest undespoiled by man,
and undoubtedly the habitat under which the fauna exists at this
locality is now as nearly identical in comparison with two decades ago
as it can be. But it is probable that the fauna is now in a more stable
state than it was then. As time passes the absence of human inter-
ference, coupled with the segregation essential in an island habitat, re-
sults in an adjustment in the interrelationship of the elements of the
fauna that is as near natural as can possibly be.”

Dr. Marshall H. Stone, formerly of Harvard, and now with the
Department of Mathematics of the University of Chicago, accom-
panied by Mrs. Stone, likewise spent a short time on the island, with
broad interests in fauna and flora.

Dr. Nevin S. Scrimshaw, of the University of Rochester Medical
School, returned to the island for a brief visit, to make a survey of
the fresh-water fishes in connection with his previous studies there
on this subject.

John Sellman, of the Sayville High School, New York, spent a
short time on the island studying the animal life, in order to be able
to give first-hand knowledge of the life in the American humid Tropics
to his students. He has published several interesting articles on his
observations.

H. C. Secrest, entomologist in the Division of Forest Insect Investi-
gations of the Bureau of Entomology and Plant Quarantine, came in
order to make examinations of the several thousand soil-poison tests
and treated-wood series installed by Kowal, Dews, and Johnson, and
reported upon in the 1947 report. The results of these experiments
are most interesting, but no conclusions are being announced as yet.

Fred W. Gottschalk and R. B. Putnam, of the American Lumber
& Treating Co., of Chicago, Ill., came in order to get first-hand in-
formation on the very large series of termite tests being conducted by
the Bureau of Entomology and Plant Quarantine. These tests, begun
nearly a quarter of a century ago, are, in fact, a history of wood
preservation.
140 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

Dr. Eugene Eisenmann, lawyer of New York City and an orni-
thologist of note, again spent some time on the island studying the
birds and, as in the past, added many new records. The island is
greatly indebted to him not only for sound advice, but also for his
repeated assistance in other ways.

W. Doyle Reed, who is in charge of the entomological work for the
United States Army, visited the Isthmus in connection with arrange-
ments for the extension of this work in the army units here. Many
conferences were held with the resident manager, and a short stay
was made on the island to get acquainted with the entomological
studies being conducted there. He was accompanied by Maj. Osborn
A. Kinzer, C. E., of Dallas, Tex.; Maj. J. Phoble, C. E., of the Carib-
bean Defense Command; Maj. Ralph W. Bunn, M. Sc., of the Surgeon
General’s Office; Walter V. Kell, O. C. E., of Washington; and Col.
Karl R. Lundberg, M. C., of the Office of the Chief Health Officer of
the Panama Canal.

Jerry H. Staedeli, stationed with the army at Corozal, mainly in-
terested in reptiles, spent 2 weeks on the island observing and record-
ing the fauna seen, covering more than 30 miles of trails, as well as
about 20 miles in a cayuco around the island.

Per Host, from Norway, ornithologist and mammalogist, spent con-
siderable time on the island, chiefly in photographic work. Never
before has the island had a visitor with the equipment he had for
both still and motion pictures. He made over 3,000 feet of what are
probably the finest motion pictures ever taken of the animals of the
island, and many hundred “stills” in black and white and in color.
He duplicated successfully a number of the experiments recorded by
Chapman with the versatile coati-mundi, and has a splendid series
of motion pictures of these in color. He also has slow-motion pictures
of animals climbing and leaping. Most of his spectacular photography
was taken from the main laboratory site. In his own words: “I am
extremely satisfied both with the opportunities for getting pictures
that I enjoyed, and for the education and introduction to the Tropics
made possible by this unique combination of easy access to observa-
tions of a virgin jungle with the facilities of the laboratory and
library.”

Dr. C. C. Soper, in charge of the Tropical Research Laboratory of
Eastman Kodak Co., continued his studies throughout the year on the
effects of tropical conditions. Valuable data have been obtained on
the keeping quality of film, papers, chemicals, and photographic equip-
ment in general. Data have also been obtained on the tropical deteri-
oration of photographic negatives and prints, particularly the de-
terioration attributable to biological origin. The studies on the island
are also adding rapidly to the problems of tropical lighting conditions,
SECRETARY’S REPORT 141

and the exposure of both black and white and color films, as well as
to the related problem of film processing at high temperatures.

Many of the data have been utilized in the preparation of a manu-
script on tropical photography, which when released will be of imme-
diate help to photographers working in tropical and semitropical
areas. This is a most valuable contribution and represents many years
of careful, detailed study right in the Tropics, most of it on the island.
The two basic sources of trouble are heat and humidity, especially the
latter. In this work, Mr. Soper is assisted by Mr. Hermle.

James Zetek continued his studies on fruitflies, as well as the ex-
tensive termite tests in preparation for his forty-first progress report.
This very large series of exposures, which in addition to termite tests,
include rot, beetle, and other tests, is each year yielding more import-
ant data. In addition to this series, examinations were also made of
the extensive soil-poison and treated-wood tests initiated and installed
by Kowal-Dews-Johnson.

Smithsonian Institution. The following were visitors to the lab-
oratory: Dr. Alexander Wetmore, Secretary, who had been in Herrera
Province on ornithological reconnaissance, assisted by W. M. Perrygo,
visited the island in February and in April largely on plans and dis-
cussions with the resident manager. John E. Graf, Assistant Secre-
tary, spent some time op the island, likewise in discussions of plans,
as well as to get acquainted with the island and the Tropics in general.
This was his first visit to the Tropics, and it left him with lasting
impressions and with the urge to return soon. Thomas F. Clark, ad-
ministrative accountant, also spent some time on the island to become
acquainted with the general set-up and to discuss property and fiscal
matters with the resident manager. These three visitors and coun-
selors were most welcome.

Dr. Matthew W. Stirling, Director of the Bureau of American
Ethnology, with Mrs. Stirling, and Richard Stewart, staff photog-
rapher for the National Geographic Society, recently returned from
archeological explorations in the region of Parita, were welcome
visitors in April.

STUDIES ON DETERIORATION AND CORROSION

During World War II a great amount of work was done on the
island with refernce to deterioration and corrosion, much of it related
to war needs. As the program continued, it became more and more
apparent that the island was especially well fitted for this sort of
work, and that in addition, the isolation gave security. The studies
included not only fabrics, foodstuffs, and corrosion of lenses, but also
packing and packaging, the use of substitute materials, and similar
142 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

problems. High temperatures and humidities, especially the latter,
with the growth of fungus and other organisms, create serious prob-
lems. Elsewhere in this report reference is made to the large number
of such studies undertaken by Eastman Kodak Co., as a result of which
it is possible to avoid many of these difficulties. It is believed that
this phase of practical studies should be expanded, and facilities will
be granted to concerns and government units that have need for such
information.

BUILDINGS

The main laboratory building, 32 by 55 feet, contains laboratories,
a dining room, dormitory, and photographic darkroom. It is in
excellent condition, showing neither termite damage nor rot. Three
buildings—the Barbour guest house, the Chapman house, and the
“Zetek” Z-M-A house—each provide adequate lodging for four per-
sons, and the first two have ample laboratories. The kitchen building
has on the second floor a dormitory for six persons. Other buildings
are the masonite building used by the labor force; the caretaker’s home;
the library; Zetek’s quarters, a concrete-block building used as office
and living quarters for the resident manager; and the kodak test
building, which is itself a termite test in addition to housing Eastman
Kodak’s exposure tests for corrosion and deterioration.

The remaining buildings are five small structures, each located at the
end of one of the island trails. All are available for the use of scien-
tists, each structure accommodating two persons. These buildings are
also practical termite tests.

A paper entitled “Inspection of Test Buildings Treated for Ter-
mites on Barro Colorado Island, Canal Zone, Panama,” by Thomas
KE. Snyder and James Zetek, was published in the March 1948 issue of
Pests and Their Control, Kansas City. Those interested in the effec-
tiveness of treated wood in termite control will find this report of
value.

IMPROVEMENTS MADE

Both the coal-tar creosoted and cypress water tanks were in such
bad condition that replacements were necessary, and a concrete tank
of 4,000 gallons was built at a cost of about $400. This tank is for
safe drinking water. Since plans had to be made for a much more
adequate gravity-flow water supply, a site was selected for a new
14,000-gallon concrete water tank on the Snyder-Molino trail. The
area has been cleared and leveled, and the necessary galvanized pipe
procured. Work on the tank will be started when the rains subside.

The present dock, owing to the silting of the bay and the low level
SECRETARY’S REPORT 143

of Gatun Lake, had to be enlarged. The new center dock, which has
concrete piers, should be adequate for many years to come. The old
shingle roof of the Fuertes House, at end of the Pearson trail, was
replaced with one of galvanized corrugated iron.

TaBLe 1.—Annual rainfall, Barro Colorado Island, Canal Zone

Total Station Total Station

Year: inches average | Year: inches average
LO 2 oe eee ee Qua 8 eee NOS (eee eee eee S 124. 138 110. 12
NOD Ge ee AE et 118. 22 SH OG | MOSS2 eee = eee ee 117. 09 110. 62
NOD ieee eee Sen et 116. 36 PLAN GS hOs Ges = ease eee ae 115. 47 110. 94
NODS eee Se oe ke 101. 52 tet 35: EL O40 es See ee ee 86. 51 109. 43
It AU hn aol ot SER ye 87. 84 NOG256)| 1G 4Ne eee 91. 82 108. 41
NOS OSs eee OL ee 76. 57 OU SR MOS ae eee eee ENE) 108. 55
OSI ee al eee 123. 30 NOANG ONG 4322 oo aes 120. 29 109. 20
O32 ee ea ee SO 2 NOE EAD: || AIC Be Ee oe Le 111. 96 109. 30
GUS 3 Ses ou te 101. 73 NO Sas 24| MOA eee ees eee 120. 42 109. 84
OS 4aee ee ees S28 122. 42 NOME OA |W VOAG HES Se Pee ee 87. 38 108. 81
O35 See eens. 143. 42 ORS ot OA eae re eee 77. 92 107. 49
WOSG@eetes S556 93. 88 108. 98

TABLE 2.—Comparison of 1946 and 1947 rainfall, Barro Colorado Island,
Canal Zone (inches)

Total Accumu-

Month ee eee |) Station |) ~ears/of:| E:xcession|" slated
average record |deficiency| excess or
1946 1947 deficiency
PANU ANY eon ee eae eee ee ee neces 0. 45 0. 40 1.84 22 —1.44 —1.44
INebruarys these esa ino eee oe ene eee 0. 32 2.14 1, 27 22 +0. 87 —0. 57
AG 5 ee) 6 Ua eae eg ee 8 RR Oe ee fe ieee ee ileyAl 0. 54 1.42 22 —0. 88 —1. 45
NG 0 Ue ee pte 1.41 3.09 2.81 23 +0. 28 —1.17
BY eae Se ee ee ee eee aoeatee 8.05 4. 82 10. 85 23 —6. 03 —7. 20
JUNO he see ene sank oe Lb eoe ssc esses sess 7.94 12.06 11.31 23 +0. 75 —6. 45
BT AD 7 5 a ay a 12. 58 7. 63 11. 63 23 —4,10 —10. 55
ANIPUSUS secs cae ses cucsc oe csse ss seee esas 10. 50 11. 76 12. 53 23 —0.77 —11.32
Bente bere s ase ee oe. ee eee 10. 67 9. 53 10. 43 23 —0. 90 —12, 22
October ie © 5 Sa eo ease 9. 00 13.17 13.17 PAY | lente Reka! —12, 22
INGOT D Ol es sn oe ee LO ek ee ee 14. 98 7.25 18. 78 23 —11. 53 — 23.75
MECEM DER teen ce anes ee ean assteaneeae 9.77 5. 63 11.45 23 —5.82 —29. 57
NY OAT toe eee se ee Ce 87.38 77. 92 1072495 |e = a eee —29. 57
TD a castes ee a 3.89 6101/75 7 4 eee toes |e ee sik
AWG teers ee ee ne ee ee res 83. 49 71. 75 LOO SS? See SS sca bee eves —28. 40

URGENT NEEDS

First on the list of urgent needs is a more adequate supply of elec-
tricity on a 24-hour daily basis. The present small generators are
inadequate, and the equipment is in need of repair. An addition is
needed for the kitchen to make room for electric refrigerators. To
reduce fire risk, the present kitchen and the proposed addition should
be remade of concrete blocks and tile. Also on the urgent list is a
larger building of concrete blocks to take care of the expanding library
and herbarium, as well as the species index and scientific equipment,
all of which must be in a fireproof building with provision for heaters
to reduce the humidity.
144 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

A new concrete water tank of 14,000-gallons capacity mentioned
above will be built this coming fiscal year. It will be located on the
Snyder-Molino trail, high enough so that there will be good gravity
flow with a strong enough head to it. The tank will be so built that
the height can be increased later on to provide for more storage.

The Chapman and the Barbour houses should be rebuilt with con-
crete blocks and tile, and increased in size.

FISCAL REPORT

During the fiscal year 1948, $12,934.25 in trust funds was available.
Of this amount $11,478.64 was spent, leaving on hand only $1,455.61
with which to face the new fiscal year. In addition to this amount,
$1,458.20 is still on deposit, representing local collections, and there
will be added a few table subscriptions, but, even with these, the
coming year will be a rather difficult one financially.

During this fiscal year only $1,907.75 was collected as fees from
scientists, as compared with $4,403.96 last year. This decline is
largely due to the high cost of ocean or air travel, and efforts should
be made to obtain concessions which will reduce materially this heavy
expense. The laboratory, despite the higher costs of food and other
items, has not increased its per diem charge to scientists.

The institutions listed below continued to aid materially in the
support of the laboratory through payment of table subscriptions.
These institutions, because of their support, are given a 25 percent
reduction in the per diem for such scientists as come to the laboratory.

Smighsonianes institut Lome ese ees ee eee eee ee ee $300
American Museum sore Natural SEliS tO Tyee ee ee 300
hastman: Wodak: Compan yas = see ees ee ee 1, 000
IN@ws YOrk Zoological So Cle t yas ee ee en ee ee 300
University:cof Chica gown sae eta set ES See oe ee 300

It is most gratifying to record that the Smithsonian Institution
increased its subscription by an additional $500.00 The Forest Prod-
ucts Laboratory of the United States Department of Agriculture
contributed $550.00 as service fees for facilities furnished by the lab-
oratory in connection with the termite and other tests on the island.

It is likewise most gratifying to record donations from Dr. Eugene
Eisenmann of New York City, an ornithologist of note, from Mrs.
G. S. Patton, Jr., and from Mrs. Laurie Randall.

The sum of $5,000 was made available by the Smithsonian Insti-
tution from appropriated funds, and of this amount $4,999.21 was
used for permanent improvements.

Respectfully submitted.

JAMES ZETER, Resident Manager.

Dr. ALEXANDER WETMORE,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 11
REPORT ON THE LIBRARY

Str: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activities
of the Smithsonian library for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1948:

The library received 53,129 publications during the year, 9,250 of
which were transmitted by the International Exchange Service. They
covered broadly the fields of astrophysics, botany, zoology, geology,
anthropology, engineering, the fine and useful arts, history, and many
related subjects. They came from all over the world, by purchase, by
gift, and in exchange, and were written in many different languages.

Friends of the Institution continued to make generous gifts of books,
pamphlets, and periodicals. Especially noteworthy among the 9,798
of the publications so received was the library of the late Charles B.
Chaney, of Laurel, Md., a very fine collection of 1,510 books and
periodicals on the history of railroads, presented for the special use of
the division of engineering. The American Association for the
Advancement of Science and the American Association of Museums
continued to make large donations of current books and periodicals.
The library is, as always, greatly indebted to these friends everywhere
throughout the world for their contributions.

Purchased publications included 1,485 volumes and pamphlets, and
271 periodical subscriptions.

The library is primarily a working reference collection, not a
museum of rare or fine books, but the interests and responsibilities of
the Smithsonian Institution touch so wide and timeless a range of
subjects that many old as well as new books are in daily use. A few
of the out-of-print works purchased to fill lacunae in various subject
fields were the following: A Natural History of Singing Birds, by
Eleazar Albin, Edinburgh, 1776; History of Karly Steamboat Naviga-
tion on the Missouri River, by H. M. Chittenden, New York, 1902, 2
volumes; Art Sales from early in the Eighteenth Century to early
in the Twentieth Century, by Algernon Graves, London, 1918-21,
3 volumes; Atlas der Baumgarten von Java, by S. H. Koorders,
Leiden, 1918-18, 4 volumes; Voyages made in the Years 1788 and 1789,
from China to the N. W. Coast of America, by John Meares, London,
1791, 2 volumes; Conchology, or Natural History of Shells, by E.
Mendes da Costa, London, 1770-72, numbers 1-6; Monograph of the
Snakes in Japan, by Moichiro Maki, with 85 colored plates and 158 text

145
146 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

figures, Tokyo, 1931, 2 volumes; The Printer’s Grammar, by Charles
Stower, London, 1808; Ceramic Literature: an Analytical Index to
the Works Published in All Languages on the History and Technology
of the Ceramic Art, by L. M. E. Solon, London, 1910; The Voyage of
the Challenger, a Personal Narrative of the Historic Circumnaviga-
tion of the Globe in the Years 1872-1876, by Herbert Swire, London,
1938, 2 volumes; Der Franzésische Kupferstich der Renaissance, by
Krika Tietze-Conrat, Munich, 1925; Zeitschrift fiir die Entomologie,
edited by E. Germar, Leipzig, 1839-44, 5 volumes.

Serial publications, which include not only regularly issued peri-
odicals, but the reports, bulletins, proceedings, monographs, and other
publications of learned societies and research institutions, of museums
and art galleries, of universities, libraries, and laboratories every-
where, form the largest and probably the most indispensable part of
the library’s holdings. Except for the periodical parts represented
by the 271 purchased subscriptions and a few received as gifts, all those
added to the library during the year came in exchange for the Institu-
tion’s own publications. Currently entered were 15,256 periodical
parts, and many annual volumes and irregularly issued serials were
cataloged. Many gaps in serial sets, some of them of long standing,
were filled by the 6,782 volumes and parts received in response to 719
special requests. New exchanges arranged were 314.

To the great Smithsonian Deposit in the Library of Congress, first
established in 1866, were sent 5,809 volumes and parts, many of them
in continuation of files of the scientific and technical proceedings of
learned societies. Also sent to the Library of Congress were 12,342
miscellaneous publications, including 1,023 dissertations on a great
variety of subjects from 14 foreign and 3 American universities, and
a large number of other books and periodicals on subjects not per-
tinent to the work of the Institution.

Most of the 2,339 publications transferred to government libraries
other than the Library of Congress had been received during the year.
Among them were 508 medical dissertations transferred to the Army
Medical Library.

The cataloging of 6,148 volumes and pamphlets was completed dur-
ing the year, and 35,357 cards were added to catalogs and shelflists.
Except for a small number of older publications in urgent need of
cataloging attention, the huge “backlog” of cataloging remained vir-
tually untouched and must continue to remain so until an adequate
staff for doing the work can be provided.

Funds were not giflicient to permit all the volumes of periodicals
completed during the year to be sent to the bindery, but the diligent
studies made by the Government Printing Office to reduce binding
costs permitted 1,052 volumes or 436 more than last year to be bound
SECRETARY’S REPORT 147

for approximately the same sum customarily allotted for binding.
Because of illness on the staff the volumes repaired in the Museum,
826, were somewhat fewer than last year.

Although there was no member of the staff who could be detailed
to work regularly with the library’s large collection of duplicates,
time was found to select 36,701 pieces for use in aid of destroyed
libraries overseas.

The 10,151 publications borrowed for use outside the library can
only hint at the actual use made of the library, which is the true test
of its value to the Institution. Certainly many times that number
of books and periodicals were consulted in the main reading rooms,
the stacks, and the divisional libraries kept immediately adjacent to
the offices and laboratories of the scientific staff in all the buildings
of the Institution. The library staff itself answered more than 15,000
reference questions, most of which required the consultation of more
than one, and some of them of many different publications.

The housing of the library continues to be its most serious unsolved
problem. In an institution charged with responsibility for adminis-
tering research in so many different highly specialized and technical
fields, a good many relatively small decentralized collections of books
and periodicals on special subjects are both necessary and desirable,
but such decentralization should always be made in the direct interest
of furthering the work of a given bureau or division, never merely as
a housing convenience, or at the expense of lowering the working ref-
erence efficiency of the central library collections and consequently
at the expense of the work of the institution as a whole. Our shelves
are now so badly overcrowded everywhere that it has become impos-
sible to avoid committing almost every sin in the library calendar,
both of giving good care to the books and of giving good lbrary
service.

SUMMARIZED STATISTICS

Accessions
Total record-
Volumes ed volumes

June 30, 1948

Astrophysical Observatory (including Radiation and Organisms) ------------ 344 12, 587
Wiresulor American Mthnologyeoss-2)--- 22-2. 222 seen eae ee ee 145 34, 607
NationaliCollectioniOfMin@rATtSs-9s22sene se aca ee ee ee 470 11, 444
Neb Orel BVI IS 6 Ur eee ce ee 2, 724 241, 891
INationaleZoologicalbPar kee sos se a oe hr eee eee ene ee eee wanes onan 14 4, 180
Smithsonian Deposit at the Library of Congress___..------------------------ 1, 800 578, 673
Gimithsonian) © Mice sas ene ne en en eee en ee eae 422 32, 607
TOG eae se a ne eee enn enna acess ene a ae ae ee ne 5, 919 915, 987

Neither incomplete volumes of periodicals nor separates and re-
prints from periodicals are included in these figures.
148 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

Eachanges

New Exchanges: ALTON Ge a= en = 314
93 of these were assigned to the Smithsonian Deposit in the Library
of Congress.
Specially requested publications received_-------------_-----—---------- 6, 782
1,022 of these were obtained to fill gaps in the Smithsonian Deposit
sets.

Cataloging
Volumes and pamphlets cataloged a= see ee ee eee 6, 148
@ards/ added to catalogs and shelilists=2 3s ee ee ee 35, 357
Periodicals
Periodical ares COtCTe Cee eee ee ee ee ee ee 15, 256

Of these 4,813 were sent to the Smithsonian Deposit at the Library
of Congress.

Circulation

oans oLebooks and periodicals-—2 === ee eee 10, 151
This figure does not include the intramural circulation of books and
periodicals filed in 31 sectional libraries, of which no count is kept.

Binding

Volumes: sentto: the: bindery 22 ee eee ee eee 1, 052
Volumes, repaired) in ithe Museum= 22" Ss ee ee eee 826

Respectfully submitted.
Lema F., Cuarn, Librarian.
Dr. A. WETMORE,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 12
REPORT ON PUBLICATIONS

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the publica-
tions of the Smithsonian Institution and its branches during the year
ended June 380, 1948.

The Institution published during the year 22 papers, 1 title page
and table of contents, and 1 reprint of a paper in the Smithsonian
Miscellaneous Collections, 1 Annual Report of the Board of Regents
and pamphlet copies of 17 articles in the Report appendix, 1 Annual
Report of the Secretary, and 2 special publications.

The United States National Museum issued 1 Annual Report, 17
Proceedings papers, 4 Bulletins, and 2 separate papers in the Bulletin
series, Contributions from the United States National Herbarium.

The Bureau of American Ethnology issued 1 Annual Report and
2 volumes of Bulletin 1438.

The Institute of Social Anthropology issued 4 publications.

Of the publications there were distributed 165,740 copies, which
included 15 volumes and separates of Smithsonian Contributions to
Knowledge, 44,338 volumes and separates of Smithsonian Miscellane-
ous Collections, 25,242 volumes and separates of Smithsonian Annual
Reports, 6,922 War Background Studies, 12,215 Smithsonian special
publications, 65 reports on the Harriman Alaska Expedition, 50,970
volumes and separates of National Museum publications, 14,208 publi-
cations of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 10,834 publications of
the Institute of Social Anthropology, 17 catalogs of the National
Collection of Fine Arts, 66 volumes and pamphlets of the Freer Gal-
lery of Art, 15 Annals of the Astrophysical Observatory, 760 reports
of the American Historical Association, and 78 miscellaneous publi-
cations not printed by the Smithsonian Institution (mostly Survival
Manuals).

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS

In this series there were issued title page and table of contents of
volume 91, 14 papers in volume 107, whole volumes 108 and 109, 6
papers in volume 110, and a reprint of 1 paper in volume 74, as follows:

VOLUME 91

Title page and table of contents. (Publ. 3903.) Aug. 29, 1947.
149
150 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

VOLUME 107

No. 7. The insect cranium and the “epicranial suture,’ by R. E. Snodgrass.
52 pp., 15 figs. (Publ. 3896.) July 30, 1947.

No. 8. Some implications of the ceramic complex of La Venta, by Philip Drucker.
9 pp., 6 pls. (Publ. 3897.) July 30, 1947.

No. 9. Precipitation affected by solar variation, by C. G. Abbot. 4 pp., 2 figs.
(Publ. 3901.) Aug. 11, 1947.

No. 10. A revised analysis of solar-constant values, by C. G. Abbot. 9 pp., 2
figs. (Publ. 3902.) Aug. 30, 1947.

No. 11. Notes on the neotropical Dictyopharidae and synonymy in two other
groups, by R.G. Fennah. 13 pp., 2 pls. (Publ. 3904.) Nov. 24, 1947.

No. 12. The Wineland voyages, by John R. Swanton. 81 pp. (Publ. 3906.)
Dec. 15, 1947.

No. 18. The Edmonton, Kentucky, meteorite, by E. P. Henderson and S. H.
Perry. 4pp.,4 pls. (Publ. 8907.) Oct. 31, 1947.

No. 14. A review of the races of the spotted babbling thrush, Pellorneum
ruficeps Swainson. 20 pp. (Publ. 3908.) Oct. 20, 1947.

No. 15. Report on collections of birds made by United States Naval Medical
Research Unit No. 2 in the Pacific war area, by Lt. Rollin H. Baker. 74 pp.,
6 pls., 9 figs. (Publ. 3909.) Mar. 22, 1948.

No. 16. Charles T. Simpson’s types in the molluscan genus Liguus, by Frederick
M. Bayer. 8 pp.,1 color pl. (Publ. 3910.) Apr. 8, 1948.

No. 17. Inhibition of plant growth by emanations from oils, varnishes, and
woods, by Robert L. Weintraub and Leonard Price. 13 pp., 8 pls. (Publ. 3912.)
Mar. 10, 1948.

No. 18. A review of the American menhaden, genus Brevoortia, with a descrip-
tion of a new species, by Samuel F. Hildebrand. 39 pp., 9 figs. (Publ. 3913.)
Mar. 22, 1948.

No. 19. Energy spectra of some of the brighter stars, by C. G. Abbot and L. 3.
Aldrich. 9 pp.,1 pl.,3 figs. (Publ. 3914.) Feb. 27, 1948.

No. 20. Influence of light on chemical inhibition of lettuce seed germination, by
Robert L. Weintraub. S8 pp. (Publ. 3915.) May 27, 1948.

VOLUME 108

Compendio y descripcion de las Indias Occidentales, por Antonio Vazquez de
Espinosa, transcribed by Charles Upson Clark. 801 pp. (Publ. 3898.) [May 10],
1948.

VOLUME 109

Smithsonian elliptic functions tables, by G. W. and R. M. Spenceley. iv+366
pp. (Publ. 3863.) Nov. 1, 1947.

VOLUME 110

No. 1. Solar variation attending West Indian hurricanes, by C. G. Abbot. 7 pp.,
1 fig. (Publ. 3916.) Apr. 20, 1948.

No. 2. Influence of illumination on reducing sugar content of etiolated barley
and oat seedlings, by Robert L. Weintraub and Leonard Price. 3 pp, (Publ.
3917.) Mar. 10, 1948.

No. 3. The amphipods of the Smithsonian-Roebling Expedition to Cuba in 1937,
by Clarence R. Shoemaker. 15 pp., 3 figs. (Publ. 3918.) Apr. 20, 1948.
SECRETARY'S REPORT Awol

No. 4. 1947-1948 report on the 27.0074-day cycle in Washington precipitation, by
C.G. Abbot. 2 pp. (Publ. 3919.) Mar. 10, 1948.

No. 5. Smithsonian pyrheliometry and the standard scale of solar radiation,
by L. B. Aldrich and C. G. Abbot. 4 pp. (Publ. 3920.) Apr. 15, 1948.

No. 6. Magnetic storms, solar radiation, and Washington temperature depar-
tures, by C. G. Abbot. 12 pp., 2 pls., 4 figs. (Publ. 3940.) June 25, 1948.

REPRINT: VOLUME 74

No. 1. Smithsonian mathematical formulae and tables of elliptic functions, by
Edwin P. Adams and Col. R. L. Hippisley. Second reprint. 314 pp. (Publ.
2672.) Jan. 15, 1948.

SMITHSONIAN ANNUAL REPORT

Report for 1946.—The complete volume of the Annual Report of the
Board of Regents for 1946 was received from the Public Printer Octo-
ber 138, 1947:

Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution showing
the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the year ended
June 30, 1946. ix-+440 pp., 53 pls., 24 figs. (Publ. 3871.)

The general appendix contained the following papers (Publs. 3872-
3888) :

On the astronomical dating of the earth’s crust, by Harlow Shapley.

Atomic power in the laboratory and in the stars, by Robert S. Richardson.

Atomic energy as a human asset, by Arthur H. Compton.

The scientific importance of X-rays, by L. Henry Garland.

Visible patterns of sound, by Ralph K. Potter.

Fluorine in United States water supplies—Pilot project for the Atlas of Diseases,
by Anastasia Van Burkalow.

The birth of Paricutin, by Jenaro Gonzalez R. and William F. Foshag.

The natural history of whalebone whales, by N. A. Mackintosh,

Life history of the quetzal, by Alexander F. Skutch.

The sun and the harvest of the sea, by Waldo L. Schmitt.

Anthropology and the melting pot, by T. D. Stewart.

Archeology of the Philippine Islands, by Olov R. T. Janse.

Palestinian pottery in Bible times by J. L. Kelso and J. Palin Thorley.

The march of medicine, by M. M. Wintrobe.

Technology and medicine, by Kurt S. Lion.

National responsibility for research, by J. E. Graf.

Toward a new generation of scientists, by L. A. Hawkins.

Report for 1947.—The Report of the Secretary, which included the
financial report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents,
and which will form part of the Annual Report of the Board of Re-
gents to Congress, was issued January 9, 1948:

Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution and financial report
of the executive committee of the Board of Regents for the year ended June 30,
1947. ix+169 pp.,4 pls. (Publ. 3911.) 1948.

The Report volume for 1947, containing the general appendix, was
in press at the close of the year.

8173694911
152 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS

The National Aircraft Collection, by Paul Edward Garber. Seventh edition.
43 pp., illus. (Publ. 3900.) [July 24], 1947.

Brief Guide to the Smithsonian Institution. Seventh edition. 80 pp., illus.
[Apr. 9], 1948.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

The editorial work of the National Museum has continued during
the year under the immediate direction of the editor, Paul H. Oehser.
There were issued 1 Annual Report, 17 Proceedings papers, 4 Bulletins,
and 2 separate papers in the Bulletin series, Contributions from the
United States National Herbarium.

REPORT

Report on the progress and condition of the United States National Museum
for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1947. iii+108 pp. Jan. 17, 1948.

PROCEEDINGS: VOLUME 96

No. 3206. A generic revision of the ichneumon-flies of the tribe Ophionini, by
R. A. Cushman. Pp. 417-482, pls. 49-56. July 17, 1947.

No. 3207. Review of the weevils of the tribe Ophryastini of America north of
Mexico, by Alonzo G. Davis. Pp. 483-551, figs. 49-77. July 8, 1947.

Title page, table of contents, list of illustrations, and index. Pp. i—vii, 558-572.
Mar. 18, 1948.

VOLUME 97

No. 3208. Mammals of northern Colombia. Preliminary report No.1: Squirrels
(Sciuridae), by Philip Hershkovitz. Pp. 1-46, fig. 1. Aug. 25, 1947.

No. 3210. Studies on the firefly. IV: Ten new lampyrids from Jamaica, by
John B. Buck. Pp. 59-79, pls. 1-3. Aug. 14, 1947.

No. 3211. A new genus and species of deep-sea fish of the family Myctophidae
from the Philippine Islands, by Robert R. Miller. Pp. 81-90, fig. 2. July 18, 1947.

No. 3212. A review of the larvaevorid flies of the tribe Leskiini with the setulose
first vein (R:), by Maurice T. James. Pp. 91-115, fig. 8. Aug. 29, 1947.

No. 3218. The staphylinid beetles of the Cayman Islands, by Richard H. Black-
welder. Pp. 117-123. Oct. 31, 1947.

No. 3214. Mammals of northern Colombia. Preliminary report No. 2: Spiny
rats (Echimyidae), with supplemental notes on related forms, by Philip Hersh-
kovitz. Pp. 125-140. Jan. 6, 1948.

No. 3215. A synopsis of the larvaevorid flies of the genus Hudejeania, by
Curtis W. Sabrosky. Pp. 141-156. Nov. 20, 1947.

No. 3216. The Pycnogonida of the western North Atlantic and the Caribbean,
by Joel W. Hedgpeth. Pp. 157-342, figs. 4-53, 3 charts. Mar. 8, 1948.

No. 3217. Notes on some assassin bugs of the genus Zelurus from the collec-
tions of the United States National Museum, by Herman Lent and Petr Wygod-
zinsky. Pp. 348-349, pls. 4-7. Dee. 4, 1947.
SECRETARY’S REPORT Le

No. 3218. New genera and species of echiuroid and sipunculoid worms, by
Walter Kenrick Fisher. Pp. 351-372, pls. 8-15, fig. 54. Dec. 19, 1947.

No. 3219. Birds collected by the National Geographic Society’s expeditions to
northern Brazil and southern Venezuela, by Herbert Friedmann. Pp. 373-570,
pls. 16-27. Apr. 9, 1948.

VOLUME 98

No. 3220. A revision of six subfamilies of atherine fishes, with descriptions
of new genera and species, by Leonard P. Schultz. Pp. 1-48, pls. 1 and 2, figs.
1-9. Mar. 24, 1948.

No. 3221. Mammals of northern Colombia. Preliminary report No. 3: Water
rats (genus Nectomys), with supplemental notes on related forms, by Philip
Hershkovitz. Pp. 49-56. June 30, 1948.

No. 3223. Status of the pyraustid moths of the genus Leucinodes in the New
World, with descriptions of new genera and species, by Hahn W. Capps. Pp. 69-
83, pls. 5-10. June 24, 1948.

BULLETINS

No. 82. A monograph of the existing crinoids. Vol. 1, The Comatulids. Pt.
4b—Superfamily Mariametrida (concluded—the family Colobometridae) and
superfamily Tropiometrida (except the families Thalassometridae and Chari-
tometridae), by Austin Hobart Clark. Pp. i-vii, 1-473, 43 pls. Oct. 9, 1947.

No. 185, part 5. Checklist of the coleopterous insects of Mexico, Central Amer-
ica, the West Indies, and South America, by Richard E. Blackwelder. Pp. i-iv,
765-925. Oct. 31, 1947.

No. 193. A list and index of the publications of the United States National
Museum (1875-1946). Pp. i-iv, 1-806. Dec. 19, 1947.

No. 194. An annotated checklist and key to the Amphibia of Mexico, by Hobart
M. Smith and Edward H. Taylor. Pp. i-iv, 1-118. June 17, 1948.

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL HERBARIUM
VOLUME 29

Part 4. The awnless annual species of Muhlenbergia, by Jason R. Swallen.
Pp. i-ii, 203-208. Nov. 24, 1947.

VOLUME 30

Part 2. Observations on the grass flora of certain Pacific Islands, by L. T.
Burcham. Pp. i-vii, 405-447, 4 figs., 7 pls. Mar. 10, 1948.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

The editorial work of the Bureau continued under the immediate
direction of the editor, M. Helen Palmer. During the year the follow-
ing publications were issued :

REPORT

Sixty-fourth Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 1946-1947.
30 pp.
154 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

BULLETINS

143. Handbook of South American Indians. Julian H. Steward, editor:
Vol. 8, The Tropical Forest tribes. 986 pp., 126 pls., 184 figs., 8 maps.
June 3, 1948.
Vol. 4, The Circum-Caribbean tribes. 609 pp., 98 pls., 79 figs., 11 maps.
June 380, 1948.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE INSTITUTE OF SOCIAL ANTHROPOLOGY

No. 4. Cultural and historical geography of Southwest Guatemala, by Felix
Webster McBryde. 184 pp., 48 pls., 2 figs., 25 maps.

No. 5. Highland communities of Central Peru: A regional survey, by Harry
Tschopik, Jr. 56 pp., 16 pls., 2 maps.

No. 6. Empire’s children: The people of Tzintzuntzan, by George M. Foster.
297 pp., 16 pls., 36 figs., 2 maps.

No. 7. Cultural geography of the modern Tarascan area, by Robert C. West.
77 pp., 14 pls., 6 figs., 21 maps.

REPORT OF THE AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION

The annual reports of the American Historical Association are trans-
mitted by the Association to the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion and are communicated by him to Congress, as provided by the
act of incorporation of the Association. The following report volume
was issued this year:

Annual Report of the American Historical Association for the year 1946.
Volume 1, Proceedings.

The following were in press at the close of the fiscal year: Annual
Report of the American Historical Association for 1948, vol. 2, Writ-
ings on American History. Annual Report of the American Histori-
cal Association for 1945, vol. 2, Spain in the Mississippi Valley, 1765-
1794, Pt. 1, The Revolutionary period, 1765-1781; vol. 3, Spain in the
Mississippi Valley, 1765-1794, Pt. 2, Postwar decade, 1782-1791; vol.
4, Spain in the Mississippi Valley, 1765-1794, Pt. 8, Problems of fron-
tier defense, 1792-1794. Annual Report of the American Historical
Association for 1947, vol. 1, Proceedings.

REPORT OF THE NATIONAL SOCIETY, DAUGHTERS OF THE AMERICAN
REVOLUTION

The manuscript of the Fiftieth Annual Report of the National
Society, Daughters of the American Revolution, was transmitted to
Congress, in accordance with law, November 18, 1947.

APPROPRIATION FOR PRINTING AND BINDING

The congressional appropriation for printing and binding for the
past year was entirely obligated at the close of the year. The appropri-
SECRETARY’S REPORT 155

ation for the coming fiscal year ending June 30, 1949, totals $103,000,
allotted as follows:

General administration (Annual Report of the Board of Re-

gents; Annual Reportiof the Secretary) =--=2 == $18, 500
IN eit OM a eee MIS GU Tne sere eres ene ee ee ea en ee ee a 41, 000
BuTeaueoLeAmericaneh thnolorysees 222s ae ee ee 15, 500
Nation aeAIre\TUSelIne= see ay LoS 0 Pee eee ene 3, 000
Service division (Annual Report of the American Historical

ASsociations plank forms binging). sss = ee 25, 000

1038, 000

Respectfully submitted.
W. P. Tron, Chief, Editorial Division.

Dr. A. WETmorg,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
ae
hia Pahiioy anomie ore

f

: a

my

ar) aa 7 ue aera’

~ Aa Pal [eeu 32 7 ° - a : es

rt <a Fiz nis aah Mule heauiel eae %;
DONTE Dall Baek apie nel weer reg veh a a
KY Ut otp) eae hes iee 1 fo pees ae Ua ee a eee
HY at Pe ue eo Magen ieee AL aon pone PND GUN ora
COS cael a ieee eens. ee a ttt
Lob pny beak St Voie sip) Opa er, lee Teer cringe: «|
OUP ree - pak Ea ays Guibas iting) sani a, aie
BRON, Pa er = : ‘<.. oo ; a -
Whe E -—~ oe
} an
ae paninnna Sia |
Gay SY vind aires OM ae Ai
: . on iter. eu
i hea mah | al Shiva aia
\
v 7
i Pe |
7 ay vi
a ate? ieee + wd
rr 1 tle ny. os ; uti
: 1 Bi: inte, ee sei a “ot
is Se,

PO bot

" au ‘1 ; a [cag ats ae. “be i
ne 24

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF
THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITH-
SONIAN INSTITUTION

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1948

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

Your executive committee respectfully submits the following report
in relation to the funds of the Smithsonian Institution, together with a
statement of the appropriations by Congress for the Government bu-
reaus in the administrative charge of the Institution.

SMITHSONIAN ENDOWMENT FUND

The original bequest of James Smithson was £104,960 8s 6d— $508,-
318.46. Refunds of money expended in prosecution of the claim,
freights, insurance, etc., together with payment into the fund of the
sum of £5,015, which had been withheld during the lifetime of Madame
de la Batut, brought the fund to the amount of $550,000.

Since the original bequest, the Institution has received gifts from
various sources, the income from which may be used for the general
work of the Institution. These, including the original bequest, plus
savings, are listed below, together with the income for the present

year.
ENDOWMENT FUNDS

(Income for unrestricted use of the Institution)

Partly deposited in United States Treasury at 6 percent and partly invested in
stocks, bonds, ete.

Investment Income pres-

ent year
Parent fund (original Smithson bequest, plus accumulated savings) -_------- $728, 879. 14 $43, 710. 60
Subsequent bequests, gifts, etc., partly deposited in the U. S. Treasury and
partly invested in the consolidated fund:
Avery, Robert)S:, and Lydia, bequest fund.=--=*----2--- 2-2-2232 22 2.2 54, 093. 08 2, 529. 83
MndowmentifGnd soso ee oe a ea 5 Sense ebb snanscawsseeesace= 333, 257. 58 13, 490. 84
Habel DraSssbequest funda -< 23 - 2+ 352s eo ee ee 500. 00 30. 00
Hachenherg, George P. and Caroline, bequest fund__---------_---------- 4, 082. 23 172. 02
Hamilton; James, bequest fundies 2 == Saas spent ee ee oe 2, 909. 75 167. 23
Ten. yet CAroline sDeG esti LT eee eee er en eee 1, 227.61 51.73
Hodgkins; ~chomasiGe,(eeneral)eift= sss sane ee See eee | 146, 433. 84 8, 242. 69
RorterpuenrysMirke mMemonialtund so. 2 2 28 a= eee ae Leet 290, 698. 96 12, 252. 25
bees; William) Jones ;bequestfund 2222 oe ee 1, 070. 20 55. 62
Santord George. Gsm omonial (und sess. soe ee eee 2, 003. 59 104. 04
Witherspoons-Lhomas Aj. memorialiftnds 2) re te eae es eee 130, 990. 25 5, 520. 92
Special fund, stock in reorganized closed banks-_----_--_-_---_------------- 2, 280. 00 132. 00
WO) to ae a Sat aes ace a N.S A ee ee ee eee eee 969, 547. 09 42, 749.17
Gran dito tal Sea eee eee eae oe ee ee eee oe 1, 698, 426. 23 86, 459. 77

157
158 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

The Institution holds also a number of endowment gifts, the in-
come of each being restricted to specific use. These, plus accretions to
date, are listed below, together with income for the present year.

Income pres-

Investment ent year
Abbott, William L., fund, for investigations in biology---------------------- $108, 103. 28 $4, 393. 18
Arthur, James, fund, for investigations and study of the sun and lecture on

SAIMNCL aa eee Ns AO BE EE De eat SU no ee ee eee sae eo ee eee 40, 594. 59 1, 710. 95
Bacon, Virginia Purdy, fund, for traveling scholarship to investigate fauna

of/countries other thansthe United :Statess=22= 2 ss ee es eee eee 50, 854. 02 2, 143. 37
Baird, Lucy H., fund for creating a memorial to Secretary Baird 24, 438. 78 1, 030. 00
Barstow, Frederick D., fund,.for purchase of animals for Zoological Park_-- 1, 014. 79 42.73
Canfield Collection fund, for increase and care of the Canfield collection of

THIN CL SP ee ee ee er eee ee re nee eer a 38, 822. 08 1, 636. 24
Casey. Thomas L., fund, for maintenance of the Casey collection, and pro-

motion of researches relating to Coleoptera.___.._.------.------------_---- 9, 310. 03 392. 36
Chamberlain, Francis Lea, fund, for increase and promotion of Isaac Lea

collectionioligemsandimolliskc ss ss= ar ae ae ee eee eee ene 28, 583. 86 1, 204. 75
Eickemeyer, Florence Brevoort, fund, for preservation and exhibition of the

photographie collection of Rudolph Eickemeyer, Jr__-.------------------- 514. 93 21. 66
Hillver, Virgil, fund, for increase and care of Virgil Hillyer collection of

VightineobicetSace a= se ee es en ee eee es eee 6, 671. 02 281. 13
Hitchcock, Dr. Albert S., library fund, for care of Hitchcock Agrostological

Ti DTA Tay ses oe a ee ne ee Ss eee eee eee ee 1, 601. 64 76. 27
Hodgkins fund, specific, for increase and diffusion of more exact knowledge

in regard to nature and properties of atmospheric air__...-.--------------- 100, 000. 00 6, 000. 00
Hrdli‘ka, Ale’ and Marie, fund, to further researches in physical anthro-

pology and publication in connection therewith_.-..__-------------------- 18, 667. 46 786. 79
irdligkaNspeclal aes eae shee eee eee nee eee eens ee a one 12, 500/00") 2 22e see ae
Huches Bruce; fund, to found Hughesalcove.--2- 24-22 22252-22282 es se 19, 429. 08 818. 88
Long, Annette and Edith C., fund, for upkeep and preservation of Long

collectionvofvembroideries, laces: cl@h- 2 sean eee ee ane eee eee 551. 16 23. 22
Maxwell, Mary E., fund, for care, ete., of Maxwell Collection._-..---------- 10, 006. 87 421. 74
Myer, Catherine Walden, fund, for purchase of first-class works of art for the

use and benefit of the National Collection of Fine Arts_..-.....-------.--- 19, 240. 71 810. 94
Strong, Julia D., bequest fund, for benefit of the National Collection of Fine

IAT ESM. 5 pew OR ee ee ens eae See we ee eee ce eee 10, 148. 79 427.74
Pell, Cornelia Livingston, fund, for maintenance of Alfred Duane Pell

Collect oneta 25-05) ete nee oe ee ae Soe eae ae ene en ee eae meee 7, 523. 90 317. 11
Poore, Lucy T. and George W.., fund, for general use of the Institution when

Drincipalvamountsstoih200; 000Re sa oe SS ee eee eee 114, 499. 01 5, 152. 24
Rathbun, Richard, memorial fund, for use of division of U. S. National

IMusenmicontaining Crustacthe. 6. 28s stec ss ee eee sete ee eee 10, 795. 86 454. 98
Reid, Addison T., fund, for founding chair in biology, in memory of Asher

CTT 1S eee ee ee ee ee en eee Seek Ch Teer Me ete 30, 271. 31 1, 507. 57
Roebling Collection fund, for care, improvement, and increase of Roebling

collection of minerals. ___----- Sie ees oO ae eee, Ce ee ee 122, 502. 71 5, 163. 18
Rollins, Miriam and William, fund, for investigations in physics and chem-

FSF pA one eee pee Se A Bae eS ie FE es ee ee 95, 312. 29 4,016. 45
Smithsonianiemployeessretirement fund 2222222 99> oe esas es oe 34, 382. 42 2, 903. 94
Springer, Frank, fund, for care, ete., of Springer collection and library -_-__.- 18, 202. 45 767.14
Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux, research fund, for development of

geological and paleontological :tudies and publishing results thereof___-_-- 381, 810. 92 16, 248. 55
Mounvers Helen Walcott, fund, lel dyin) trustees" eee eS ene oo oe ee 50, 126. 48 3, 298. 96
Zerbee, Frances Brincklé, fund, for endowment of aquaria-_-_--.-.------------ 962. 80 40.78

ETL § ee A aA ein ra ee tare eT ON oe rae 1 1,362, 443. 24 62, 092. 85

1 Decrease indicated from total listed for last year is due to adjustments in value of certain real estate
holdings and to the use of a part of the Smithsonian retirement fund to purchase pension rights due em-
ployees in their transfer to the Federal retirement system.

FREER GALLERY OF ART FUND

Early in 1906, by deed of gift, Charles L. Freer, of Detroit, gave to
the Institution his collection of Chinese and other Oriental objects of
art, as well as paintings, etchings, and other works of art by Whistler,
Thayer, Dewing, and other artists. Later he also gave funds for the
construction of a building to house the collection, and finally in his
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 159

will, probated November 6, 1919, he provided stock and securities to
the estimated value of $1,958,591.42, as an endowment fund for the
operation of the Gallery.

The above fund of Mr. Freer was almost entirely represented by
20,465 shares of stock in Parke, Davis & Co. As this stock advanced in
value, much of it was sold and the proceeds reinvested so that the fund
now amounts to $6,100,164.31 in a selected list of securities classified
later.

SUMMARY OF ENDOWMENTS

Invested endowment for general purposes______________________ $1, 698, 426. 23
Invested endowment for specific purposes other than Freer En-

Cl SUV) Cn Tee ne nd ey 8 a eee SE yen eile 1, 362, 448. 24

Total invested endowment other than Freer endowment____ 3, 060, 869. 47

Freer invested endowment for specific purposes__-______________ 6, 100, 164. 31

Total invested endowment for all purposes______-________ 29-1617 033: 18

CLASSIFICATION OF INVESTMENTS

Deposited in the U. S. Treasury at 6 percent per annum, as au-

thorized in the U. 8. Revised Statutes, see. 5591--_______-____ $1, 000, 000. 00
Investments other than Freer endowment (cost or market value

at date acquired) :

BON GS See sie kee ieele Ne ee ae eee Se $670, 887, 62
Stock sBeas Sassen tres ee Se Pa eee ee 1, 258, 220. 55
Real estate and first-mortgage noteS__________ 79, 220. 93

(Uninvested@capltale =o 2s ee ee ee 52, 540. 37
———————_ 2, 060, 869. 47

Total investments other than Freer endowment____________ 3, 060, 869. 47
Investment of Freer endowment (cost or market value at date
acquired) :

ES ONC Se oe Oe ek es tes ee $2, 861, 230. 60
SCO GK S Meet iene WE eA a ee eee Be 3, 123, 939. 71
Wininvested. Capital <=. jae 2 tare 114, 994. 00
6, 100, 164. 31
RotalBinvestments 22s eee eee ee ere ee 9, 161, 033. 78

2 Decrease indicated from total listed for last year is due to adjustments in value of
certain real estate holdings and to the use of a part of the Smithsonian retirement fund to
purchase pension rights due employees in their transfer to the Federal retirement system.
160 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

CASH BALANCES, RECEIPTS, AND DISBURSEMENTS DURING FISCAL

YEAR 1948 *
Cash’ balance on hand. June 30, 19472---==2> = eee ee $904, 356. 19
Receipts other than Freer endowment:
Incomertrom, investments == ee $154, 933. 36
GiftsTandceontri Dut! OMS se ae een eae eee 116, 450.18
Salesiofpublications==3332.——— ee 34, 407. 00
Miscellaneous? = 2-2 3-be 2On 2 Ree aD ea  e S ee 24, 377. 26
Sale and redemption of securities (net) -------__ 60, 104. TO
Total receipts other than Freer endowment____________~__ 390, 272. 45
Receipts from Freer endowment:
Income’ from: investments=_=22 5) = eae ee $262, 328. 65
Sale and redemption of securities (net) -_-__- 69, 627. 73
Total receipts from Freer endowment_______--_-_--______ 331, 956. 38
ol D0) 70 pee sine epee Ree RRS as ee ae aa ee ae ee a 1, 626, 585. 02
Disbursements other than Freer endowment:
Administrative 22 s223 Ss asso 8 es Sea $47, 553. 24
VU TC ea hl OT See cee a ee ee ee ere oe 49, 395. 85
ADTs eee Ae ee Pe ee I a oe 3, 596. 99
Buildings—care, repairs, alteration-____________ 2, 282. 76
Custodian--feess Cte eae Seed Ae eee 3, O79. TO
Miscellancousc2 ee ee ee eee ee 1, 093. 37
FR ECSGa Tr CHES MAES ieatt Bias » setwntneseas rin ree ni naaere ee ee ea ee 180, 491. 98
Smithsonian Retirement System _____-__________ 65, 665. 52
Total disbursements other than Freer disbursements_______ 303, 159. 41
Disbursements from Freer Endowment:
SATAN CGE ee Rs Se Se a eae ee $75, 745. 70
Purchases for*collections22 2.22 2a ees 149, 800. 00
Custodian, fees} ,ete e222 ss Sea ee Sih eee eee 11, 157. 07
Miscellaneous sco oe eee te eee 22, 638. 23
Total disbursements from Freer endowment__-----____-__ 259, 341. 00
Investment of current funds in U. S. Bonds___--________--_______ 500, 237. 24
TOtalidiSburse Men tsa koa ee ee eee 1, 062, 737. 65
Cash balance: June:30)-19482 2.2 2. a ee eee 563, 847. 37
Lt 10) 2 Vee Re ean eh tea neers Mane i tna Bhe aint eal aS eA) ae 1, 626, 585. 02

*This statement does not include Government appropriations under the administrative
charge of the Institution.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

ASSETS
Cash:
United States Treasury current
ACCOUNT = ee ee ene $418, 087.11
In banks and on hand__—______ 145, 760. 26
563, 847, 37
Less uninvested endowment funds___ 166, 613. 23
——————_ $397, 234. 14
Travel and other, advances __— = 7, 488. 61
Cash invested (U. S. Treasury note)__-_____ ES (D000; 237024
Investments—at book value:
Endowment funds:
Freer Gallery of Art:
Stocks and bonds______ $5, 986, 091. 45
Uninvested capital_____ 114, 072. 86
———_—————_- 6, 100, 164. 31
Smithsonian Institution:
Stocks and bonds__-_____ 1, 929, 108. 17
Real estate and mort-
garvernotes 79, 220. 93
Uninvested capital_____ 52, 540. 37
Special deposit in U. S.
Treasury. Interest at
G percent ee ae 1, 000, 000. 00
3, 060, 869. 47

161

$904, 909, 99

9, 161, 033. 78

10, 065, 943. 77

UNEXPENDED FUNDS AND ENDOWMENTS

Unexpended funds:
Income from Freer Gallery of Art endowment_______________
Income from other endowments:

Restricted ==acs ee sea = eee ae et nly plePalyey/
Genera (ee Seek yas Sear i Wes eee, 87, 474. 88

Endowment funds:

MreermGallerysoteA Tt =e $6, 100, 164. 31
Other:
Restricted ae. swe See ek $1, 362, 443. 24
Gener alyssa ae eee 1, 698, 426. 23
3, 060, 869. 47

$357, 129. 81

258, 685. 85
289, 094. 83

904, 909. 99

9, 161, 033. 78

10, 065, 943. 77
162 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

The practice of maintaining savings accounts in several of the
Washington banks and trust companies has been continued during
the past year, and interest on these deposits amounted to $600.42.

In many instances, deposits are made in banks for convenience in
collection of checks, etc., and later such funds are withdrawn and de-
posited in the United States Treasury.

Disbursement of funds is made by check signed by the Secretary of
the Institution and drawn on the United States Treasury.

The foregoing report relates only to the private funds of the
Institution.

The Institution gratefully acknowledges gifts from the following:
William G. Fargo.

John A. Roebling, as a further contribution for researches in radiation.
The Viking Fund, Inc., for Iroquois research.

American Philosophical Society, for Iroquois research.

E. R. Fenimore Johnson, for research in under-water photography.
National Geographie Society, expedition to Arnhem Land.

National Geographic Society, expedition to western Panama.

The following appropriations were made by Congress for the Gov-
ernment bureaus under the administrative charge of the Smithsonian
Institution for the fiscal year 1948:

Salariescand expenses! 22 a. SS sn a oe ee eee $1, 800, 312. 00
Nationals Zoological ppark= 42 2 sss Ses Rees ee eee eee 455, 400. 00

In addition, funds were transferred from other Departments of the
Government for expenditure under direction of the Smithsonian
Institution:

Cooperation with the American Republics (transfer from the State

EP Ar Gin Ornl)) eae ee ee ee ee a ee $94, 882. 00
Working Fund, transferred from the National Park Service, Interior

Department, for archeological investigations in River Basins

chrougchoutthe United States. =e a es eee ee ee ee 73, 800. 00
Working Fund, transferred from Navy Department for research

studies of radiation upon marine life as a result of atomic bomb
téstscateBikin iG Atoll 2: See See ae noe ee eee 11, 000. 00

The Institution also administers a trust fund for partial support
of the Canal Zone Biological Area, located on Barro Colorado Island
in the Canal Zone.

The report of the audit of the Smithsonian private funds follows.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTER 163

SEPTEMBER 14, 1948.
To THE Boarp or REGENTS,
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington 25, D. C.

We bave examined the accounts of the Smithsonian Institution relative to its
private endowment funds and gifts (but excluding the National Gallery of Art
and other departments, bureaus, or operations administered by the Institution
under Federal appropriations) for the year ended June 30, 1948, have reviewed
the system of internal control and the accounting procedures of the Institution
and, without making a detailed audit of the transactions, have examined or
tested accounting records of the Institution and other supporting evidence, by
methods and to the extent we deemed appropriate. Our examination was made
in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and included all
procedures which we considered necessary in the circumstances.

The Institution maintains its accounts on a cash basis and does not accrue
income and expenses. Land, buildings, furniture, equipment, works of art,
living and other specimens and certain sundry property are not included in the
accounts of the Institution.

In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements present fairly the posi-
tion of the private funds and the cash and investments thereof of the Smith-
sonian Institution at June 80, 1948 (excluding the National Gallery of Art and
other departments, bureaus or operations administered by the Institution under
Federal appropriations) and the cash receipts and disbursements for the year.

PEAT, MARWICK, MITCHELL & Co.

Respectfully submitted.
Rosert V. FLemine,
VANNEVAR Busy,
CLARENCE Cannon,
Executive Committee.
| ge cf yin
pt she ble oa ‘whan lo atts

— ay y
eal bbe Ra tog Ss Salva ie ay rite Acai heads Hoan sl
= , i 7 °
rea? 7 ease ve Ali : _ = _ .
hte ae aA?) n 7 rae her ie Ri & ieee - we ND (a AL
iii - - 7 7 -_ = hea
; ; = i - _
— 7 -
hed 7 i i 7 ‘s
- : 1G i 7
7 if : a 7 t 7 ;
: wo 1 - 7 ah 7 7 a
Sm AL 7 —_ = - ~
- i ii a :
; i - J - ;
¢ 5 = 7” 7 ae ;
meee, Oe TF
; 7 t {
vo 7

a 7 ie r 7 - = :
weak . aoe My iaare yr) om
gob POUR RET ae RRO
boda ie vee _ a ae a
- _ nee I . a: ae, 7 ;
aes fmt 7p ray DSi: or sit @.Aite
ale bee casino ye G or eG nots
be ik en yor 7 hing 7 i a 7 on gue pa
on  ™ a Pk BI ba ieie om oan Sahat
. ai A ret <ay ar 7 - ae ae a Boy ae ees
7 au Da snl We aa ae Ahn aol ibaa pa

Boe. Mong ef aay ai if 2) what
in i: ean Ls at vin “ee ey
Lhe ts Gi, - refuel?
tobe: pee 2 Ve ane ie nea) Oe it - ead mated vce
“ryollg aaa f 3 ae tout Buell ath oi) a ids Tip ee ee dp ty TD Brae a ut Sia
a cs Ais ett Gb i cs eh Ont reeset mile, ce ina i alfaialy e sana ai efit
¥ ot Liner pcg i ema nes Ly ses 3 sikh we Atlin
‘ tS yt, y Bivisg Ugh’ Paice spe te igh) oy iy (Tee
th Ete = AY. fe ah ie plied the 5 he
baer a an i, — ;

— as — venata gmt RCP OF 9: ie Su terol Died ney Ws Lik cs 7
Fes me Meal it nile brs yp ae " oh oN sign = Bele Ft Mi Jah ft m0 a
he :- € bee 7 i -
re, att, were cial : a! ate apa aN iaitedi i cs .f om 1a
eth Haig, ee Liyit, fone ie vil tt biped h ity (ately Lt tie

i
+
=, a a rity

7 thir Lis a 0) are y cone ov 4 tet | ;
‘ ae pis, Fues "a Ti, yar] cn ag ead iu Au Sa ee dh Fc
oft ea a y, ao i tap. aati a's tants ieee aha on
ite i ig 5 thous Ait ie ere atoll ig far ay a 2 dt ka ae SUL aehaet bs, fh
4 et va FS: sap iti! ae Pris ea aa rev) Litt. me “im 18

: ae
a sheath reilig ie: a Dyin ies Fest riya. See iy Ae eaye

7 = a
ath, H yee hte Maat vet ao ms
; 7 f 55) a Kt J
a Saas ae _ ome 9) MDs ih Wei sat,
An 7 wi ‘ : — anne
ook ~ ii + > _
cD are a -_ ae = ill oo
: ee Lee a cae er Mm a
Es pi alas BAL One. aver tee oes
y is Bot fins ae ai see ara
ey ie ee TRS yeaa ke Is
tie
; _ ‘
PV ay) 2? el ehh. ie is ay
7 : = a
ee _ ee
ee a2 ; ia ean a4 Pes ine py =
: ny ae a) 7 . “yi : joes. > ae | — “= Nast 7
C7 — eet ee ie in 7% Say eee ‘Pere a :
= - a 7
ha ee _ et ss - = ha) ie bg a8! -
: Fl) eee ase a at 7 7 5
= _ a < (<td! ; : a aie 7 =) es ange . 7) =e iat Ye - =
a. Th nj Fir te «@ 1. _ i im 7 a oe - _ pa
_ 7 ” “te

Pa mt ee a
me i) jis ge. ae . my, er edt Rates — iat

General

Appendix

TO THE SMITHSONIAN REPORT

FOR 1948
ADVERTISEMENT

The object of the Genera, Aprenprx to the Annual Report of the
Smithsonian Institution is to furnish brief accounts of scientific dis-
covery in particular directions; reports of investigations made by
collaborators of the Institution; and memoirs of a general character
or on special topics that are of interest or value to the numerous
correspondents of the Institution.

It has been a prominent object of the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution from a very early date to enrich the annual
report required of them by law with memoirs illustrating the more
remarkable and important developments in physical and biological
discovery, as well as showing the general character of the operations
of the Institution; and, during the greater part of its history, this
purpose has been carried out largely by the publication of such papers
as would possess an interest to all attracted by scientific progress.

In 1880, induced in part by the discontinuance of an annual sum-
mary of progress which for 30 years previously had been issued by
well-known private publishing firms, the Secretary had a series of
abstracts prepared by competent collaborators, showing concisely the
prominent features of recent scientific progress in astronomy, geology,
meteorology, physics, chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zoology, and
anthropology. ‘This latter plan was continued, though not altogether
satisfactorily, down to and including the year 1888.

In the report for 1889 a return was made to the earlier method of
presenting a miscellaneous selection of papers (some of them original)
embracing a considerable range of scientific investigation and discus-
sion. ‘This method has been continued in the present report for 1948.
The Astrophysical Observatory of the

Smithsonian Institution *

By C@. C. Assot, Research Associate, Smithsonian Institution

[With 6 plates}

The Astrophysical Observatory of
the Smithsonian Institution is the
child of S. P. Langley, third Secretary
of the Institution. Owing to his very
keen interest in the sun’s radiation, he
had invented the bolometer? about
1878, and about 1890 equipped it with
photographic registration. His studies
of the solar and lunar energy spectra
were made not only at the Allegheny
Observatory, but also at the summit
of Mount Whitney, Calif., where he
conducted an expedition to measure
the amount of solar radiation.

As Langley had been so exclusively
occupied with the distribution of
energy in spectra, it is a little strange
that in the first years of the Astro-
physical Observatory at Washington,
1890-1900, he turned aside to the
relatively less interesting subject of
mapping the positions of lines in the
infrared spectrum of the sun. Yet
that was the Observatory program
when I joined its staff in June 1895.

In order to observe infrared radia-
tion not transmitted by glass, we were
using large rock-salt prisms made from
clear blocks of salt obtained from the
Russian Government. Two noble
rock-salt prisms were in our equip-
ment, each about 7 inches tall and
about 5 inches on edge. With these,
after improving the bolometer so that

1 Reprinted by permission from Leaflet No.
216, Astronomical Society of the Pacific,
with revision and the addition of illustrations
by the author.

2 The bolometer is an exceedingly sensitive
instrument for measuring radiation by
recording changes in its electrical resistance,
produced by heating.

817869—49—12

drift and wiggle in the photographic
trace of its galvanometer were greatly
reduced, F. E. Fowle and I mapped
the solar spectrum to wave length 5.3
microns, 53,000 angstroms, observing
indications of more than 600 spectral
lines and bands of solar or terrestrial
origin. It was necessary to determine
more exactly the dispersion of rock
salt in order to fix the wave lengths.
Our photographic registration, with
the highly accurate mechanism fur-
nished by Warner and Swasey, enabled
us to give the values of the index of
refraction of rock salt to six places of
decimals. Because European observers
scoffed at such pretensions, and cut
our values down to four places, it
was a comfort to us when Paschen
repeated the determination and, find-
ing only small differences from us in
the sixth place, referred to our work
as “‘of wonderful precision.”

At the request of H. D. Babcock,
and with the aid of Hugh Freeman, I
repeated the bolometric mapping of
the infrared solar spectrum in 1928
on Mount Wilson. With higher dis-
persion, improved apparatus, and
long bolometric experience, we were
able to detect evidences of over 1,200
lines and bands, some of solar, others
of terrestrial origin, between wave
lengths 0.76 and 2.0 microns. It was
a great satisfaction, when I discussed
this work with Babcock in 1945, to
learn that he finds it still useful, and
that there is almost nothing in our
curves that is not confirmed by present
photographic spectra or by theoretical
physics.

167
168

The Solar Constant of Radiation, Its
Imperfect Constancy, and Its Relationship
to Meteorology

The main research of the Astro-
physical Observatory from 1902 to the
present time concerns what was
beautifully and emphatically expressed
by Langley in his report of the Mount
Whitney expedition ° as follows:

If the observation of the heat the sun sends
the earth is among the most important and
difficult in astronomical physics, it may
also be termed the fundamental problem of
meteorology, nearly all whose phenomena
would become predictable if we knew both
the original quantity and kind of this heat;
how much of it reaches the soil; how, through
the aid of the BuMmOspREre, it maintains the
surface temperature of the planet; and how,
in diminished quantity and altered kind,
it is finally returned to outer space.

In the same report, Langley also
said: ‘‘The difficulty of measuring sun
rays accurately at the ground is indeed
very great, but the difficulty of measur-
ing their loss in the atmosphere is
almost insuperable.”

It was a great satisfaction, in view
of these true statements of Langley,
based on his long experience, when
Turner, of Oxford, in a review of
volume 2 of the Annals of the Astro-
physical Observatory, wrote in 1908:
‘Mr. Abbot has shown that he is
measuring something definite, for he
has detected an annual diminution
of 3} percent from August to October,
due to our greater distance from the
sun.”

Since then great improvements in
accuracy, both in ground measures
and in estimates of atmospheric losses,
have been made. In a recent paper *
I was able to show that a periodic
change in the sun’s output of radia-
tion, averaging but 0.13 percent, can

3 Langley, S. P., A report of the Mount
Whitney expedition. Prof. Pap. Signal
Service, No. 15, p. 11, 1884.

4 The sun’s short regular variation and its
large effect on terrestrial temperatures.
Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 107, No. 4,
Apr. 4, 1947.

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

1948

be recognized in our measurements of
the last 25 years, and the form of its
curve of solar variation can be clearly
shown, though its whole average range
is only one twenty-seventh of that
which Turner referred to in 1908.

The steps taken which have led up to
the present condition of our research
will now be mentioned.

After an interlude of observing the
total solar eclipses of May 28, 1900,
and May 18, 1901, we returned to
Langley’s first interest, measurements
of the intensity in different parts of
the solar spectrum, as observed on the
earth’s surface at low and high eleva-
tions above sea level, and as it would
be observed at mean solar distance
outside the atmosphere altogether.
When we began these new studies,
the 1900 edition of Hann’s Lehrbuch
of meteorology gave without preference
values of the solar constant ® of radia-
tion, ranging from Pouillet’s 1.76
calories per, square centimeter per
minute to Angstrém’s suggestion of
4.0 calories. Various types of instru-
ments for measuring the total in-
tensity of solar heating were then in
use which disagreed widely. Only
one of them, the Angstrém electrical
compensation pyrheliometer,® has sur-
vived to the present time, and that
has been decidedly improved. But
even as of the year 1900, Angstrém’s
pyrheliometer was within 3 percent
of the truth.

However, being unfamiliar with the
merit of Angstrém’s pyrheliometer,
we developed our instrument from
Pouillet’s. After several years of im-
provements, we perfected the Abbot
silver-disk pyrheliometer about 1910.
Nearly a hundred copies of this in-

5 The “solar constant” is the number of
calories of radiant energy from the sun falling
each minute on 1 square centimeter of surface
at the earth’s mean distance from the sun.

6 The pyrheliometer is an instrument for
measuring fairly intense beams of radiation.
It is better adapted to absolute measures
than the bolometer.
THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY—ABBOT

strument have been made by our
instrument maker, Andrew Kramer,
which are in use in all parts of the
world. An Argentinian observer,
Enrique Chaudet, has confirmed our
own experience with them, for he
finds them highly stable in sensitive-
ness over a period of 30 years, and
capable of reading to an accuracy of
one-fourth of 1 percent. We also
devised the water-flow and the water-
stir standard pyrheliometers. ‘The

aaeeneonannananen

sense

aoakanes ccodecdeonnacws;

‘I
il
‘i bat
i
WAI (i

|

onsnsssanan
Ft

169

able and thereby modify weather,
came to us in 1903. Although the
atmosphere over Washington, even
45 years ago, was very unsuitable for
attempting solar-constant measure-
ments, we had been making them
occasionally in 1902 and 1903 on
cloudless days. Suddenly, in March
1903, our results fell about 10 percent
although carried on with the same
instruments and methods as before.
I made a statistical study of the

FicureE 1.—Compensation water-flow pyrheliometer for standardizing instruments for
measuring the intensity of the sun’s radiation.

former we improved, as proposed by
a Russian physicist, V. M. Shulgin,
by employing two electrically com-
pensated hollow chambers. With this
improved instrument, L. B. Aldrich
and I, in 1932, determined very
accurately the absolute scale of the
silver-disk instruments, used so gener-
ally the world over, and often referred
to as “‘the Smithsonian scale of 1913.”

Our first inkling that the sun’s out-
put of radiation, on which the earth’s
temperature depends, might be vari-

temperatures of all available parts of
the Northern Hemisphere and found
the exciting result that simultaneously
with the slump in solar-constant re-
sults there was a general fall of temper-
ature from the normal over the whole
North Temperate Zone. This work
we showed to Secretary Langley and
he published a paper on it.’

7On a possible variation of the solar
radiation and its probable effect on ter-
restrial temperatures. Astrophys. Journ.,

vol. 19, No. 5, pp. 305, 307, 315-138, 321,
June 1904.
170

With present knowledge we feel
sure that the supposed change of 10
percent in the solar constant in March
1903 was illusory. At that time we
had not perfected our methods to
avoid errors in estimating the at-
mospheric losses. About that time,
as in the eruption of Mount Katmai,
Alaska, in 1912, there were several
violent volcanic eruptions, including
Colima, Mexico, and Pelee, West
Indies. These, as in 1912, probably
caused a great change in the at-
mospheric transparency. This would
alter the temperature of the North
Temperate Zone, and at the same
time alter the error of our imperfect
solar-constant determinations. Never-
theless, erroneous as was our impres-
sion, it caused us to undertake the
long program of observing the varia-
tion of the sun which still goes on,
and which has produced important
results.

When the Mount Wilson Observ-
atory was established in 1904, by the
efforts of George E. Hale, Langley
was invited to use that station for
determinations of the solar constant of
radiation and the range of variation
of the sun’s output of radiation. In
1905 I went to Mount Wilson with a
large outfit, and was joined by L. R.
Ingersoll, now head of the department
of physics, University of Wisconsin.
From 1905 to 1922, with few excep-
tions, my colleagues and I spent
several months each year in solar-
constant measurements on Mount
Wilson. In more recent years I have
occasionally revisited Mount Wilson
for special observations.

Thus I have been priviledged to
watch, as with a bird’s-eye view, those
great advances in astronomy which
have justly given Mount Wilson
Observatory a shining place in the
world. I like to recall from time to
time some of them. Hale’s discovery
of magnetism in sunspots; Adams’
and St. John’s spectroscopic measures
of rotation of the sun; St. John’s
exact spectrum places; Adams’ and

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

1948

Kohlschutter’s spectroscopic paral-
laxes; Nicholson’s and Pettit’s meas-
ures of stellar and planetary radiation;
Hubble’s and Humason’s work on
the distant nebulae; Seares’ photo-
metric studies; and many more fine
pieces of work that it is invidious not
to mention. I saw the mountain
transformed by George Jones’ years
of effort; the building of the road;
the erection of the two solar tower
telescopes and of the 60-inch and the
100-inch reflectors. I saw G. W.
Ritchey’s beautiful direct photographs
with the 60-inch; the long spectro-
scopic programs which have revealed
so much about the stars; especially
the great detailed stellar spectra by
the coudé spectroscope of the 100-
inch. All these wonderful opportuni-
ties of seeing astronomy in the making,
and of knowing the fine men and
women of the staff of Mouat Wilson
Observatory, have indeed been a
profound satisfaction in my life.

In the many years during which
my colleagues and I regularly re-
turned to Mount Wilson, we made
many observations, in addition to
those of the solar constant. As our
measurements seemed to indicate a
variability in the sun’s output of
radiation, we sought to check this
important possibility in several ways.
We erected a tower telescope on our
observatory, and every day, after
observing for the solar constant, we
drifted an 8-inch image of the sun
over the spectrobolometer, selecting
a number of different wave lengths
These drifts gave U-shaped curve.
for the sun is less bright near the
limbs than at the center. The con-
trast is much greater for violet than
for infrared rays. It was our object to
detect whether variations of the solar
constant were associated with varia-
tions of the contrast of brightness
between the edge and center of the
sun. Some indications of such a cor-
relation were indeed found. Another
test of our supposed solar variation
we made by expeditions to the summit
THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY—ABBOT

yg

BricutNess DistrisuTION ALonc Sun's DIAMETER
For DIFFERENT CoLors

INFRA-RED
As -98Eu

Inrra- AED
Ar 1, 5 Su

Buve-crcen
ae. SO3u

UctRa-vi0OLeT
eT Ip

FIGURE 2.

of Mount Whitney in 1909 and 1910,
and to Bassour, Algeria, in 1911 and
1912. Solar-constant measurements
were made at these stations on the
same days that they were being made
on Mount Wilson. In later years, as
I shall tell, we have amplified such
tests by occupying mountain summits
in other parts of the world.

Criticism of our solar-constant work,
based on the supposed impossibility
of correctly estimating atmospheric
transparency, led us to special observ-
ations in 1913. On a very perfect
September day we observed the sun
with pyrheliometer and bolometer
from the instant it rose until midday.
From these observations, extending
from air mass 20 to air mass 1.2, we
computed a series of solar-constant
values, instead of the usual one de-
pending only on air mass change
from 4 to 1.2. They agreed excel-
lently. Also, at A. K. Angstrom’s
suggestion, I designed an automatic
recording pyrheliometer, to be carried
by sounding balloons very high in
the atmosphere. This was flown by
L. B. Aldrich, in cooperation with the
U. S. Weather Bureau, from Omaha,
Nebr., and recovered in Iowa. It
gave excellent records at 15 miles
elevation, where the air pressure was
only one twenty-fifth as great as at sea
level. ‘These records gave a value of
solar radiation about 1 percent lower
than those derived from solar-constant
observing at Mount Wilson.

Both on Mount Wilson and on
Mount Whitney I made many meas-
urements of the intensity of sky light
at all parts of the sky, both by day

and by night. We also confirmed
Lord Rayleigh’s theoretical and obser-
vational studies of the blue of the sky.
Applying Rayleigh’s theory to our
observations, F. E. Fowle found very
close agreement with R. A. Millikan’s
determination of the number of mole-
cules per square centimeter in air.
He also made classical researches
which gave a method for measuring
precipitable water in the atmosphere.

Another thing which attracted wide
attention and afforded amusement to
ourselves and our visitors was the
solar cooker I devised and installed
close beside our cottage on Mount
Wilson. It has a concave cylindric
mirror which follows the sun by rotat-
ing about a pipe at the focus of the
mirror, mounted parallel to the earth’s
axis. Cylinder oil in the pipe when
heated by solar radiation circulates
about ovens in a reservoir some 10
feet above the mirror. Mrs. Abbot
used to cook food for ourselves and
our visitors there for many years.
She baked bread, cooked meat and
vegetables, made jam, and, in short,
did all kinds of cooking by solar heat
except frying and roasting. The ovens
remained hot enough to bake with,
by night as well as by day, for months
each year.

Several times in later years I
attempted to measure the distribution
of radiation in the spectra of the
brighter stars, using a spectroscope at
the coudé focus of the 100-inch
reflector and a radiometer as my
measuring instrument. I made in-
teresting spectral-energy curves for
yellow and red stars, but hope still
172

to improve my results for blue and
white ones.

Establishment of Distant Mountain
Solar Stations

Our program of day-to-day obser-
vation of the solar constant to detect
possible variations in the sun’s output
of radiation, which might be of im-
portance for weather forecasting, re-
ceived a great impetus in 1916.
H. H. Clayton, then chief forecaster
of Argentina, sent us a paper® in
which he showed that if our Mount
Wilson solar-constant values were
used in large groups, graded with
respect to size, temperatures in all
parts of the world seemed to be cor-
related with them. I reported on this
paper to Dr. Walcott, then Secretary
of the Smithsonian Institution, and
he was also impressed.

Excellent as Mount Wilson at-
mospheric conditions are for photo-
graphic stellar work, the variable
haziness, associated with nearby cities
and the ocean, make it difficult to
determine there the variations of the
solar constant of radiation. After
much inquiry it appeared that the
region of Calama in northern Chile
might prove more suitable. Dr.
Walcott authorized an expedition to
Calama, and in 1918 the Smithsonian
established a solar observing station
there, directed by Alfred F. Moore.
In 1920, by the generous assistance of
John A. Roebling, the Chilean sta-
tion was removed to the summit of
Mount Montezuma. This _ station,
about 10 miles from Calama, lies in a
nearly rainless desert at about 9,000
feet altitude. We have occupied many
solar observing stations in far-away
desert lands, but Mount Montezuma
has proved the best, and is still giving
us nearly daily determinations of the
solar constant of radiation. Another
station on Burro Mountain, N. Mex.,
was occupied until late in 1946; a

8 Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 68, No. 3,
May 1917.

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

third, on Table Mountain, Calif., is
still in daily operation.

The variation of the sun’s output of
radiation, though small in percentage,
appears to be a factor of importance
in weather. By extensive statistical
studies of the quarter-century of
nearly daily solar-constant values now
available from Montezuma and the
other Smithsonian stations, I have
shown that the short-interval solar
fluctuations of 3 to 5 days in length
strongly affect temperatures. The
temperature changes are large.

In a recent paper ° I show that there
is a regular periodic variation of solar
radiation of 6.6456 days. Its ampli-
tude, not yet thoroughly determined,
seems to vary from zero to over 1
percent of the sun’s output of radia-
tion. The average magnitude of the
variations seems to be about 0.13
percent. Though perfectly regularly
periodic as a solar variation, its effects
on terrestrial temperature show what,
by mechanical analogy, we might
call “‘backlash.”? That is, they some-
times are 1, 2, or, rarely, even 3 days
early or late compared to the average,
but rarely change in phase much in
the four or five recurrences of each
single month. The magnitude of the
temperature changes is also variable,
but surprisingly large. It ranges from
2° F. to 20° F. Thus these short solar
changes are major influences on the
weather, hitherto unrecognized be-
cause irregular in recurrence to the
extent just described. In a test fore-
cast of 36 days, based on the assump-
tion that there would be no change
in “backlash” or in amplitude during
that interval, the ups and downs of
temperature at Washington were cor-
rectly predicted as to times, and the
average daily difference, observed
minus predicted temperature, for 27
days, until a change of amplitude did
occur, contrary to the preliminary
assumption on which the forecast was
based, was 6.6° F. If the causes of

® Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 7, No. 4,
Apr. 4, 1947.
THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY—ABBOT 173

‘ELE se et oie sae
De SAE CN arr

Nhe ie
TCR al WN
CON WA i enema
(mii os Gens | vin

ceaure Heh |_| | |.
scare teers Sane eee
JS ROE ease hee ee Nee
TIME ERS Shaan a Dea aes ee
JENS a 2S eae 22 Oe eee ee
VAR EERE S AE MenN Aan Ree
Ue Bae Rae SSe aera
HN AGT ee ae a a eA SE
9m Re 8 Ae IN SAIS EN ES Nae |
TREES SiS see sea Ne
ST Se AE AAT
ATO EN OS ENE a SS ee
yt ttt AA

EG Ea a a
és _

FIGURE 3.—Effect of solar variation of the Defias iod on Washington temperatures,
Ilm

MP eee ea bi N
aie
| Se es ae ee
Seer id
CONC

aol

ae :
ee ay eee ediction of Washington tem s based on the 6.6456-day period
(dotted line), and the seakie ties olid line).
ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

174

*(SUBIUT 9AT}NOISUOD YJUOUI-¢) SonN[VA pay,OOUIS 0} 9}e[dI
sydeiz ay], *(9AInd pljos) uolj}ZoyIIOA s}I pue (9AIND po}Op) ‘[[[ ‘elosg 3e uor}ezIdIOVII1d Jo s1eak CG] OJ UOIpeid sejos y—'¢ aAUNoIY

eee rc ihe

ei
Vil f Wctke
cit

VV

SSS
a10ydsoulye prumny Joy el B ‘FZ6T “E YOUR], ‘otoydsourye Arp AOA B ‘CZSqT ‘2 ATE
SNOILVLS NOILVIOVY-YV1OS NVINOSHLIWS LV AVG AYSA SQVW SV WNYLOAdDS YV1IOS AHL SO SAAYND ADSAENA DIHdVYHSDO10gG

- : é F soe 2 = eyes -wsuy as 1
<— ppen-94310 m* = eG eet ae eS ee ee ee, PS Swenlos SS
poeta gae si = = ae ars a ieee as ron mais, no? «CD “et 5 7 mm oh

<= t = Opt ai me a s- = = —_- SP Se ee ee Sc yiet peat == == => dh pad = are

ee ae = : —
oor git ye ori <: mi ev yeaa aoe = ee = ane Smee Sine TEN a ee Screen
i De PAS ono Bl pe eee ail ewe Ny nee = wea nn ple n= es = pe MN = bet ly nt

ne Vie t , \" aoe oD . ; ay F ‘ \n, “\\ * H \ a

M\OM T= Z BIS prs”

ee
Sass SS =
Deere
Ge
Cee
CG

a ee TS ieee i ie

Seas J2TOIA-P4I1N a as DTI é eee SS me a = oe pat ~vaful :
ree eS aaa te ee | aes BO a Ae = D3 PV see 6 © i a

jb eu sae| J0qqy— 9} 6| ‘j40dey uerUOsyaIWG
ASISNVI ‘d ‘'S Ad ‘SNOILVAYSRSEO DIdODSSATAL SIH WOYS ‘dNOYD LOdSNNS V AO ONIMVYEC

r0qqY—Shol ‘HoOdey uetuosyAWS
Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Abbot

TOTAL SOLAR ECLIPSE, MAY 28, 1900

Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Abbot PLATE 4

ScaaiaInadlLaaaREEREEEEEEREREEEREE

1. THE 60-INCH TELESCOPE DOME AND THE 150-FOOT SOLAR TOWER, MOUNT
WILSON OBSERVATORY

SUN AND SKY RADIATION
PLATE 5

Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Abbot

2. THE SMITHSONIAN OBSERVATORY WITH 40-FOOT SOLAR

1. ABBOT’S SOLAR COOKER ON MOUNT WILSON, CALIFORNIA

TOWER, MOUNT WILSON
Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Abbot

1. SELF-RECORDING BALLOON PYRHELIOMETER, FLOWN TO AN ALTITUDE OF
25 MILES IN 1914

2. SOLAR-CONSTANT OBSERVATORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION AT
MOUNT ST. KATHERINE, EGYPT

This is at an altitude of 8,500 feet. Spectrobolometer is within the tunnel, and sunlight is reflected in to it.
THE ASTRAPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY—ABBOT

*‘backlash”’ and changes of amplitude
can be discovered, the periodicity
may prove valuable for long-range
forecasting. At least it is an important
weather element hitherto unrecognized.

We have shown also that the sun
varies simultaneously in no less than
16 periods, ranging from 7 months
to about 23 years in length, all nearly
integral fractions of 273 months.
The 23-year period may be related
to the magnetic cycle on the sun
indicated by the reversal of magnetic
conditions in sunspots during alternate
11-year sunspot cycles. These solar-
radiation periodicities are associated
with fluctuations of temperature and
rainfall. The correlation at some
stations is close enough to serve as a

817869—49——_13

175

basis for long-range weather
predictions.

In recent time, L. B. Aldrich, who
has succeeded me as Director of the
Astrophysical Observatory, has been
engaged, in cooperation with the
Quartermaster Corps of the Army,
in a program of measurements of the
intensity of sunlight and of skylight
in different parts of the spectrum as it
reaches the earth. This is of im-
portance not only to the military, but
from the medical point of view. It
is hoped to carry on these studies at
different stations so as to yield better
information as to the influence of
latitude, altitude, humidity, and clouds
on the sun’s rays which affect all life
interests.
_
4 nee — an
‘ere ea ak

. 7
wind aH egal af ete
naliicn any
sal Abeta: te i Seesitiited Ge ae i
mip Ae nt melas ‘one, Dabayrastye: tal
“teal et ris Seas Ets satan ro. aa :
‘ot nthe ny digenion « ie?
ws: ce 35, eee iar: ;
intl ep er “a
34 “asi Miva a Ban ue |
1 re ebattir hee AD erin Bt) RY. 7
a seth WY oh ALL aoe Ss v2 Aes hee ae at hh :
nid Seailuii Suir cH, is jon tantaog Baas 2 “aoe wife

: ee sae eile a Cesits ig Cait moar esti pares Uh lgpedcar aes
“ oa iba wrndis mies Pa (> Math Re ANTAL ashe EC ‘Dake sind
ee Bit Ay ety BE As Cees tain: Jeg 7 Vata ode ers Iii
» ee pate ace) ta Hiab? or LOE eGR ae a 31K “aitoitnk
| es naa ih i ITS, ‘slohittol ‘Bag et Hay fs wat ACG ser
et ee hay ties ®, ra : Taina ily ae jane ae huonaly’ + r

a - ar qn cAneicestt a 7 aa a Brat Nyeane 2 r s
; ; | : : " 7 ~ ny
7 _ is Yr - _ ar ne : ae a
a whe a Ay nee UK a See 2 DID AE mit
Atomic Energy in Industry’

By H. A. Winne, Fellow AIEE, Vice President in Charge of Engineering Policy,
General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y.

In the production of special ma-
terials, engineering, scientific, and
industrial groups already have con-
tributed much to the start of the
atomic age. The transformation of
the basic uranium to a degree of purity
and form suitable for plutonium
production in the Hanford Engineer
Works is just one example. The
production of graphite for the Hanford
piles, sufficiently free of neutron-ab-
sorbing impurities to allow a chain
reaction with natural uranium, was a
signal achievement. However, all that
has been accomplished thus far repre-
sents just a beginning.

The use of materials in a nuclear
chain reactor or “‘pile” involves con-
sideration of their “nuclear proper-
ties.” 2. Previous uses of engineering
and construction materials have been
based only on external physical and
chemical properties. The addition of
suitable nuclear properties to the list of
requirements portends many changes
from the engineering materials which
have become common. ‘The periodic
table contains many elements whose
possibilities as useful engineering ma-
terials never have been explored
thoroughly because of such factors as
scarcity, cost, and difficulty of process-

1 Reprinted by permission from Electrical
Engineering, vol. 66, No. 7, July 1947.

2 “Nuclear properties” refer to properties
such as those which make materials good for
slowing down neutrons (moderator) or low
in absorption of neutrons or suitable to
withstand radiation of neutrons in a pile
(radiation stability).

ing. Many of these have attractive
nuclear properties, but production
methods for refining, reduction, alloy-
ing, and working, have not been
developed. Beryllium is an example
mentioned by Smyth (1)? which is
valuable as a moderator because of its
low atomic weight. The production
of metallic beryllium essentially free
of neutron-absorbing impurities is still
almost a laboratory process.

The potential uses of atomic power
plants for various special purposes such
as ship propulsion, or for the provision
of a source of power where none now
exists, that is, supplementing present
power sources, have been mentioned
by many writers. However, atomic
power development as a whole will be
a long and difficult process.

The use of radioactivity and radia-
tion in chemical and metallurgical
fields has been possible on a very
limited scale for a good many years.
It has not been exploited widely,
largely, no doubt, because of the
scarcity and cost of radioactive ele-
ments. The development of atomic
energy makes possible the production
of radioactive isotopes of great variety
and on a considerable scale. This,
together with widespread interest and
education in the fields of radio chem-
istry, radiation chemistry, and nuclear
physics, should stimulate activity in
using these unique and potent tools.

3 Numbers in parentheses refer to references
at end of article.

177
178

PRIMARY
CHARGE

FERTILE
MATERIAL

FISSIONABLE
MATERIAL
(FUEL)

Yi
ey-propuct [/
CHARGE Yi]

. 5 yy, Y Yi
zaoe, U
SY
raoiosctive V///777 Mf} é
YW,

DISCHARGE
PARTLY NEW
BURNED FISSIONABLE

FUEL MATERIAL
CHEMICAL SEPARATION

FUEL FISSION PRODUCT WASTES

CONTROLS

RADIATION |
SHI

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

STEAM

GENERATOR .

ELECTRIG
POWER

Ficure 1.—Diagram of atomic power plant.

Atomic Power

As a preface to a discussion of the
problems entailed by the use of
atomic power, the following broadly
reviews the operation of an atomic
power plant.

Figure 1 shows schematically a pos-
sible atomic power plant. The heart
of the plant is the nuclear reactor
which generates heat by the conversion
of mass to energy. The heat is con-
verted to electric energy by extracting
it from the nuclear reactor with a heat-
transfer fluid which boils water in a
heat exchanger to make steam for a
conventional turbine-generator.

The nuclear reactor must be sur-
rounded by an adequate radiation
shield to protect power-plant per-
sonnel from lethal neutron, gamma,
and other radiation. The heat ex-
changer and primary heat-transfer
fluid probably will need a moderate
amount of shielding.

Into the nuclear reactor goes the
atomic fuel, one of the known fission-
able materials such as U235, and if it
is desired to generate new fuel at the
same time that the charged fissionable
material is being consumed, a fertile
material, such as U238, also may be
charged. A material is called fertile
when it can be transmuted to a

fissionable material by the capture of
neutrons.

Discharged from the pile are the
partly burned fuel and the irradiated
fertile material which contains some
new fissionable material. Later use of
the unburned fuel and the new fuel
both require chemical separation from
any other structural materials, con-
tainers, and from the fission product
wastes.

An optional phase of operation of an
atomic power plant is the production
of radioactive isotopes. This is shown
in figure 1 as the adding to the pile of
a byproduct charge of some “parent”
material such as nitrogen, from which
a radioactive isotope such as carbon
(C14) is produced by the capture of

neutrons.
PRINCIPLES OF THE NUCLEAR REACTOR

Occasion frequently may arise for
reference to some of the nuclear prin-
ciples of the chain reaction in the
nuclear reactor. They are reviewed
briefly in the following.

Energy is released by the fission of
the nucleus of a fissionable atom,
U235 for example. The two nuclear
fragments vary in the number of
protons and neutrons contained in
each. In general, each fragment is the
ATOMIC ENERGY IN

nucleus of a radioactive isotope of
some element ranging from atomic
number 35 to 65.

The two fragments fly apart with
tremendous velocities. Their kinetic
energy constitutes most of the energy
released at the expense of a loss in
mass of one-thousandth of the original
mass. The fragments will collide
with adjacent atoms, giving up energy
by increasing the vibration, amplitude,
and velocity of the surrounding atoms.
Such atomic agitation is recognized
as the temperature of the material.
Thus the energy appears almost im-
mediately as sensible heat in the fuel
itself and within a few thousandths
of an inch from where the fission
occurred.

Fission was caused by the capture
of one neutron by the U235 nucleus.
This neutron, when added to the 92
protons and 143 neutrons present,
caused the group of particles to become
violently unstable and to break im-
mediately into the two unequal frag-
ments.

The entering neutron was the trig-
ger. It has been absorbed and now is
lost to the process. If the reaction is
to proceed at a constant rate, another
neutron must trigger another U235
nucleus, and so on, at equal intervals
of time in a continuous chain. The
characteristic of U235 (and also
plutonium Pu239 and U233) which
makes it suitable for such a chain of
fissions is that two to three free neu-
trons are released as part of the debris
at fission in addition to the two main
fragments. Thus there are available
more than enough triggers for the
next fission.

The fact that more than one neutron
is released per fission permits some
losses or nonprofitable absorptions of
neutrons without killing the chain
reaction (an obvious necessity in prac-
tice). The fact that on the average
more than two neutrons are released
per fission permits several choices in
the use of the extra neutrons which are
available in addition to the one re-
quired for a continuous constant-rate

INDUSTRY—WINNE 179
chain reaction. Of course, some of
these extra neutrons escape from the
reactor and are wasted in the shield
or otherwise, but some can be put to
useful purpose.

The extra neutrons can be used to
expand the reaction, essentially doub-
ling it at each generation. This may
result in a bomb. They can be ab-
sorbed in a suitable material to pro-
duce radioactive isotopes for chemical,
biological, or therapeutic use. Of
most significance to power, however,
is the use of these neutrons to make
new fissionable atoms, for example, to
transmute U238 to U239 which
changes spontaneously to neptunium
(N239) which, in turn, changes spon-
taneously to Pu239. Pu239 is a suit-
able atomic fuel. Every neutron
which can be used in this way replaces
the U235 atom burned with a new
Pu239 atom and so helps to replenish
the atomic fuel supply. Another ex-
ample of fuel replacement is the pro-
duction of U233 from thorium.

The neutrons in any nuclear reactor
are valuable. Their loss or waste on
reactions extraneous to the purpose of
the pile is a permanent economic loss.
Therefore, pile design for high neutron
economy is important.

By controlling the neutron flux, the
power output of the pile is regulated.
To hold constant power level in a slow
neutron pile, rods containing an ex-
cellent neutron absorber such as boron
or cadmium may be inserted to absorb
some neutrons so that equal numbers
are available to produce fission at each
generation. To increase power, the
rods are withdrawn so that a small
fraction of the excess neutrons is avail-
able at each generation to produce
fission. The power then accelerates
exponentially. It will continue to
accelerate, except for variations in re-
activity produced by temperature, ex-
pansion of materials, or change of their
nuclear properties, until the control
rods again are pushed in to absorb the
excess neutrons. After the control
rods are returned to an equilibrium
position the reaction continues at a
180

constant but higher rate. Power is
reduced by the reverse of this pro-
cedure.

The time between one generation of
the neutrons emitted instantaneously
at fission (prompt neutrons) and the
next generation is extremely short.
This is true even in slow-neutron piles
where each neutron is forced to lose
almost all of its energy by a multitude
of collisions with the light nuclei of
the moderator before the next fission.
The time is so short that acceleration,
even with small changes in reactivity,
would be too fast for the control
mechanism to be effective were it not
that about 1 percent of the neutrons
is not emitted promptly at fission, but
is delayed from 0.01 second to a min-
ute or more. The delayed neutrons
provide a time constant of expo-
nential acceleration long enough to
permit control, provided the excess
reactivity never is allowed to exceed
the margin of delayed neutrons.

The fission products include many
radioactive isotopes which give off
quantities of very intense radiation,
and some of them continue to do so
for thousands of years. Provision may
be made to contain them within the
fuel. If some are allowed to emigrate
from the fuel they must be prevented
from entering the heat-transfer fluid,
or else the fluid system must be de-
signed to handle the accumulated
radioactive isotopes.

All the materials in the pile are sub-
ject to high neutron and gamma or
X-rays which may affect chemical and
physical properties. Furthermore, al-
most all pile materials will become
radioactive in greater or lesser degree
after extended operation.

DEVELOPMENT OF AN ATOMIC POWER
PILE

A scientist or engineer, observing the
principles and associated properties of
a nuclear reactor, is forced to recognize
a number of fields in which extensive
research and development work must
be done to facilitate the design and

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

construction of a high-performance
atomic power system.

First, perhaps, a high-performance
system should be defined. Consider-
ing land-based plants, proposed _pri-
marily for power, a prime consider-
ation is economic use of fissionable
materials, including replacement of
burned fuel by transmutation. Sec-
ond, losses in the transformation of
heat to electric energy, for instance,
should be as low as the current
knowledge of materials and processes
will allow. This requires temperatures
as high as practicable.

Considering how the energy is re-
leased, one recognizes that the heat
first must be removed from the body
of the fuel to its surface. This may
entail thermal stresses. It certainly in-
volves a knowledge of the thermal
conductivity of the material, and its
stability and strength after a reason-
able percentage of the atoms have
disintegrated into a wide variety of
pairs of new atoms. The percentage
of the fuel which can be consumed
before it must be removed and re-
processed will depend on these factors
and also on the neutron physics of the
pile because, in general, as the fuel
undergoes fission, and the fission
products accumulate, the pile reactiv-
ity will decrease. The frequency of
reprocessing, including its cost and the
accompanying losses, may have a
profound effect on the economic use of
fissionable material.

Such fuel problems cannot be solved
by simply consulting a handbook.
The metallurgy of fissionable ma-
terials is a new and only partially
investigated field. Possible alloys and
mixtures include many metallic ele-
ments which may be valuable because
of low absorption of neutrons but
which are comparatively new to the
metal-processing industries. | Con-
versely, many well-known alloy or
mixture components have high neu-
tron absorption and are not suitable.
The fuel designer may wish to consider
ceramics to obtain very high temper-
ature. If he decides to prevent fission
ATOMIC ENERGY IN

products from contaminating the heat-
transfer fluid, he also must develop a
suitable barrier between the fuel and
the fluid. This barrier cannot be a
heat barrier, so bonding or joining
techniques, again using materials
which are stable under radiation and
which do not absorb*too many
neutrons, will need investigation. As
emphasized by the Smyth Report,
this barrier or ‘“‘canning” problem
turned out to be one of the®* most
difficult to solve for the Hanford piles.

Just to develop a fuel which will func-
tion in the pile is not enough. The
effect of fuel-assembly materials on the
cost and efficiency of the chemical-re-
processing plant must be considered.
As the whole pattern of atomic power
plants, fuel-supply facilities, and fuel-
processing facilities develops, national
and international security may require
centralized reprocessing plants. Stand-
ardization of fuel elements also may
be a factor. The mechanical form of
the fuel preferably should permit
charging to and discharging from an
active pile, storage and transportation
of the radioactive fuel packages with
suitable protection for personnel, and
so forth.

INDUSTRY—WINNE 181

The purpose of discussing the prob-
lems of fuel design so extensively has
been to emphasize the many detailed
but important research and engineer-
ing problems which must be solved
on just one component of a high-per-
formance pile. Related problems
must be solved on almost all compo-
nents. The fact that achievement of
the probable vast benefits of atomic
power entails an integrated and
orderly solution of a multitude of
problems hardly can be overempha-
sized. Furthermore, these problems
include factors new to design engi-
neers, only recently introduced in
scientific research, such as:

1. Material stability under radiation, in-
cluding physical, chemical, electrical, and
thermal properties.

2. Neutron-absorption characteristics
materials.

3. Effect of contamination within the body
of the materials by transmutation and fission.

of

Finally, the experimental techniques
for determining many of these nuclear
properties of materials are relatively
new, some are difficult, some approxi-
mate, and in most cases the experi-
mental facilities currently are very
limited.

«= Fission of U299
© Production of Plutonium

Ficure 2.—Schematic structure of uranium pile.
817369—49——18
182

It is important to remember too that
in the design of the fuel package, and
in fact in the design of all parts ofa
pile, reliability must be achieved toa
degree which transcends most of our
experience. This is the result of
possible radiation hazards from fail-
ures, and the extreme difficulty of
inspection and repair of a “‘hot’’ (in
the radioactive sense) pile.

In addition to the problem of fuel
design, there are many other features
of a nuclear reactor for power pur-
poses which pose some nice questions
for engineers and scientists. ‘These
are not necessarily less important or
difficult than the fuel problems, and
involve many of the general con-
siderations and details mentioned in
the foregoing. Some of these are
reviewed briefly in the following
paragraphs.

Heat transfer fluid—The selection of a
fluid to carry the heat from the nuclear
reactor to the heat exchanger in which
it may be converted to steam or a hot
gas is a vital matter. Gases, liquids,
and liquid metals all must be con-
sidered. The medium must have
low neutron absorption. It must be
reasonably stable under intense radia-
tion. It must have, of course, good
heat-transfer characteristics, must be
noncorrosive, preferably nontoxic and
nonexplosive. Availability and cost
also are important.

If the medium is to be allowed to
boil in the reactor, then the neutron-
absorption characteristics of the vapor
must be approximately the same as
those of the liquid. Otherwise a sud-
den flashing to vapor of a part of the
liquid might result in such a sudden
change of nuclear characteristics in
the pile that the control mechanism
could not compensate for it.

Radiation shield ——The shield for pro-
tection of personnel from the lethal
neutron and other radiations is an
absolutely necessary part of any power
pile. If research and development
can reduce considerably the volume
and weight of shield required, it will
be very helpful in facilitating the ap-

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

plication of atomic power plants to
ships, and elsewhere where weight and
size are of great importance.
Control—The reliability of the con-
trol system must be absolute, so that
any failure must result in safety rather
than permit a runaway. It must be
able to handle all possible variations
in reactivity of the pile, either normal
or accidental, gradual or fast, such as
result from the slow consumption of
the fuel, or the sudden loss of part or
all of the heat-transfer fluid. It must
be effective at all times, under any
possible set of conditions. It must
make it impossible for the “nuclear
boiler” ever to explode. These re-
quirements are rigid, and must be met.

AN ATOMIC POWER SYSTEM

Of what factors might the land-
based atomic power system of the
future be comprised? In all the dis-
cussion on the subject the fact is
implicit that at present no possibility
is foreseen for obtaining usable electric
power directly from an atomic pile.
The atomic energy will appear as heat
which, when converted into steam or
hot gas, will feed conventional turbo-
generators. In other words, from the
steam-supply pipe on to the consumer
the system will be similar to present
systems using coal or oil. The nuclear
reactor and heat exchanger, however,
will replace the boiler. ‘There will be
involved components comparable in
function to present fuel and ash trans-
portation, storage, preparation, and
disposal installations, but vastly more
important from economic and security
points of view.

The system may inculde both “‘pri-
mary” and “‘secondary”’ reactors. By
a primary reactor is meant one which
produces not only power, but fission-
able material as well. The reactors
currently operating at Hanford, in-
asmuch as they produce heat (at
present dissipated in the Columbia
River) and plutonium, are by this
definition primary reactors. Under
the international control plan proposed
ATOMIC ENERGY IN INDUSTRY—WINNE

by the United States to the United
Nations such reactors would be under
the control of an international author-
ity.

By a secondary reactor is meant one
which consumes but which does not
produce fissionable material. If the
fuel charged into such a reactor is
“denatured” so that it could not be
converted easily to bomb use, the
international control plan would per-
mit such a reactor to be under national
or private authority.

The system would include a chemi-
cal-reprocessing, or fuel-reclamation,
plant. When the fuel in the reactor
has reached a certain state of depletion,
it will have to be removed and passed
through a remote-controlled shielded
process for removal of the fission prod-
ucts, and put into suitable form for
further use. Here again the interna-
tional control plan would require
operation by the international author-
ity because of the possibility of
diversion of atomic fuel.

It is obvious that consideration of
national and international security
will have a large bearing on how such
operations will be conducted, how fuel
will be stored and transported, even on
geographical location of plants.

Here again there are many factors
which will have a profound effect on
future developments, factors which
today cannot be evaluated with any
degree of accuracy.

ECONOMICS OF ATOMIC POWER

Treatment of the subject of the
economics of atomic power has been
placed after the preceding discussion
purposefully. Estimates of economy
and cost of atomic power sufficiently
accurate to predict where or when or
if atomic power will be in competition
with other fuels do not appear feasible
in view of the multitude of unknown
technical and economic factors which
will be established only as research and
engineering produce results. How-
ever, the long-term future prospects
for competitive and economic atomic

183

power look bright. The magnitude of
the potential ultimate gains to society
are so great that research and develop-
ment must proceed vigorously on a
wide front.

The following quantitative state-
ments can be made with a consider-
able degree of accuracy.

As an atomic power station or
system will be similar to a coal- or
oil-fired station in all parts from the
turbine steam pipe on to the consumer,
the investment and operating costs for
this part of the station will be essenti-
ally the same as for coal or oil.

The nuclear reactor and heat ex-
changer in an atomic plant probably
will have a somewhat higher first cost
than the boiler installation in an
ordinary steam plant. Thus it is
probable that an atomic plant’s oppor-
tunity for reducing cost of power to
the consumer lies in the cost of fuel
only. In modern public utilities, cost
of fuel represents, on the average, only
about 20 percent of the total cost of
power to consumers, so atomic power
can affect only this percentage of the
total cost to the consumer.

Some of the significant unknowns,
or unavailable data, which make it
impossible to estimate accurately the
over-all cost of atomic fuel today are
first cost of atomic fuel in suitable
concentration and form; cost and
efficiency and frequency of chemical
extraction, reprocessing, and _ final
preparation; plus waste disposal; all of
which are ultimately chargeable to the
consumer. Also included, but on the
credit side, are the gains from sale
of radioactive tracers, byproducts for
research, and use of facilities for test
and research. These latter gains are
estimated by the Carnegie Endow-
ment Committee on Atomic Energy
(2) to be small compared with revenue
from power. Another unknown factor
is the extent to which national or
world interest may require the produc-
tion of fissionable material by national
or international authority for any
reason, and perhaps regardless of cost
In this event, atomic power is a by-
184 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948
TYPE OF FACILITY POSSIBLE INTER-CONNECTIONS PRODUCTS
MINE Sse
Sea aaa
METAL REFINING AND
FABRICATION
POSSIBLE ISOTOPE
Fe rao a URL
A chaan ove Mea
Y 77 Rae XCHANGER TURBIN pia
PRIMARY PILE = Es ieeeaa | POWER
TW,

PARTLY

CHEMICAL SEPARATION
AND
METAL FABRICATION

SECONDARY PILE

SOURCE
MATERIAL
AND NEW FUEL

DENATURED FUEL

RECHARGE
SOURCE
MATERIALS

RECHARGE
SOME FUELS
SOME USEFUL
RADIO ISOTOPES
waste WASTE FISSION
PRODUCTS

HEAT TURBO-
EXCHANGER TURBINE GENERATOR

POWER

RADIO ISOTOPES
FOR CHEMISTRY,
BIOLOGY AND MEDI-
CINE

FicurE 3.—Atomic power facilities.

product and its production and sale at
competitive rates simply replaces ex-
pense for cooling otherwise required
by such installations and pays for
some, perhaps all, of the cost of the
plant and its operation.

APPLICATIONS OF ATOMIC POWER PLANTS

There has been much speculation,
some of it unwarranted, as to possible
uses of atomic power.

The heavy protective shielding re-
quired on any such plant precludes its
use where extremely light weight is
required. ‘The shield would crush an
automobile or a truck. Atomic power
on inhabited aircraft is extremely
unlikely, at least for a long time.

It ultimately may prove possible to
design an atomic plant for a locomo-
tive, although it does not look feasible
at present.

Atomic piants for naval and large
commercial ocean vessels appear defi-
nitely possible, and also attractive
from the standpoint of making refuel-
ing extremely infrequent. This well
may be the first real commercial
application.

Atomic power plants for land use
certainly are feasible technically, and
probably will be attractive first where
fuel is scarce and high in cost.

Thus far this article has been devoted
to a discussion of power as distinct
from industrial uses and benefits of
other aspects of atomic energy, tracer
chemistry, radiation chemistry, and so
forth. ‘These are reviewed more brief-
ly in the following. Such emphasis
should not be construed as an opinion
that power is any more important to
industry. Other benefits may prove
more important in the generations
yet to come; current estimations of the
time that must elapse before any
authoritative evaluations can be made
range all the way from 10 to 40 years.

Radioactivity and Radiation

In discussing the following phases,
the authors have drawn much upon
published material (2-4), particularly
the predictions of future possibilities
in these fields by such authorities as
Doctors Arthur H. Compton, Zay
Jeffries, James Franck, and Milton
Burton.
ATOMIC ENERGY IN INDUSTRY—WINNE

INDUSTRIAL USE OF RADIOACTIVITY

The prime characteristics of radio-
active tracers which make them of
value are two. First, extremely small
quantities can be detected by register-
ing the particles or radiations emitted
at each disintegration on a suitable
radiation-detection instrument. Sec-
ond, by the same means it is possible
to detect and to measure the amount
of tracer present quite accurately
without removing it from the com-
pound by chemical separation or even
without removing or sampling the
compound from its process container.

Perhaps the surest widespread in-
dustrial uses are in the chemical
laboratories. Because chemically and
physically the radioactive isotope of
an element acts exactly the same as the
stable isotope of the same element,
analytical techniques can determine
the amount of a given element in the
final product or at an intermediate
stage if a known amount of radio-
active isotope of that element is added
to the bulk at the start. This can be
of value when quantitative analysis or
spectrographic methods cannot be
used.

Some of the scientific advice given
to the United Nations Atomic Energy
Commission by the Office of the
United States Representative, which
has not received wide national circu-
lation, is quoted (3):

The availability of a variety of radioactive
tracer elements will afford possibilities for
answering questions hitherto difficult to
answer. By the use of instruments sensitive
to radioactivity, the radioactive atoms of a
given element, which always travel with
their nonradioactive brothers, may be used
as indicators of the travel of the latter, a
phenomenon often difficult to follow by ordi-
nary methods. Particularly important are
questions as to how, and how fast, atoms
transfer from one molecule to another or
from one place to another in the course of a
chemical process, including such processes as
corrosion, diffusion, absorption of molecules
on surfaces, and formation and destruction
of colloids.

The use of radioactive tracer atoms holds
much promise for the study of the composi-
tion of liquids and vapors in equilibrium
with each other, and for studying the per-

185

formance of distillation columns and other
equipment used in chemical engineering, for
example, in the oil industry. Particularly
important as a tracer in the oil industry and
wherever carbon compounds are concerned
will be the carbon isotope C14.

The radiations from the fission chain re-
action are capable of inducing chemical
reactions which cannot ordinarily be carried
out, since one effect of radiation is a sort of
catalysis of thermodynamically possible
reactions.

METALLURGY

In metallurgy, the use of radioactive tracers
has many possible applications. Some of
these are as follows:

1. Diffusion of an element into itself and
into alloys in which it is a component could
be followed if the diffusing atoms are radio-
active.

2. Inclusions could be identified by adding
a radioactive form of a suspected component
to the melt and photographing by micro-
radiographic techniques.

3. Positive identification and location of
minor constituents, which often markedly
affect the properties of metals and alloys,
could be made by microradiographic meth-
ods; such information is usually very difficult
to obtain by microscopic methods.

The previous discussion has envis-
aged adding the radioactive tracer to
the material. A very different analyt-
ical technique is based on producing
radioactivity in all susceptible ele-
ments of a sample by subjecting the
sample to a known amount of radia-
tion in the neutron flux of a pile.
Then the presence of minute traces of
impurities can be identified by observ-
ing the half-lives and type of radio-
active emanations after removal from
the pile. The amount of impurity
also can be estimated.

Tracers may find widespread use in
production processes. Here, however,
additional limitations enter. Cost in
repetitive use becomes more signifi-
cant. The Carnegie Endowment Com-
mittee on Atomic Energy (2) esti-
mated that for radioactive carbon
(C14) to be attractive to industry, it
should be produced at about $500
per gram to reach mass use in petro-
leum, coal tar, and similar large-
volume production. This assumed
that a milligram (50 cents) could tag
a ton of material at an additional cost
of 50 cents for incorporating the tracer
186

in the process, making the total cost
$1 per ton. The 1946 price of C14
from the Manhattan District was
about $400,000 per gram.

The committee estimated that the
market might pay about $10,000 per
gram for C14 used in bulk organic
chemicals, and $100,000 per gram for
use in pharmaceuticals.

Actual use, however, may develop
unexpected advantages, and of course
cost is bound to decrease as production
increases.

Another critical problem in produc-
tion as distinct from laboratory use is
the question of widespread distribution
of all types of products and materials
containing traces of radioactivity and
the effect on sensitive materials such
as photographic film, and on living
things as a result of continual intimate
exposure or possible ingestion by un-
warned people or animals. Some
believe that this problem will limit
production uses to those isotopes with
short half-lives of perhaps a few days.
Then a period of storage of products
before shipment could eliminate vir-
tually all radioactivity. Such consid-
erations may limit the list of possible
tracers. For example, C14 has a
half-life estimated at 6,000 years. Two
other carbon isotopes, C10 and C11,
have impractically short half-lives
of 8 seconds and 20 minutes respec-
tively. Thus no carbon radioactive
isotope is known which could be used
if radioactivity of the product is
objectionable. Such questions can be
settled only as experience and knowl-
edge is gained and when proposed
uses are specific rather than hypo-
thetical. The need for elements with
short half-lives either in production
process or laboratory well may require
a wide distribution of isotope-produc-
tion facilities near industrial and
population centers.

It is also possible that experience
will show that the amount of radio-
activity required for tracer purposes
in many products is so small that
long-half-life tracers can be used
widely in metallic, organic, and other

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

materials. Then industry may be
faced with radioactivity in materials
purchased for further processing, in
scrap for remelting, and so forth. Such
background radioactivity, if not con-
trolled, might interfere with the further
use of tracers. Thus in years to come
materials specifications may be found
containing minimum tolerances for
radioactivity.

The number of industrially impor-
tant elements for which potentially
useful radioactive isotopes, those with
half-lives longer than a half day, are
not known is quite limited but in-
cludes oxygen, nitrogen, magnesium,
aluminum, and silicon.

There are some production uses
which do not require presence ofthe
radioactive isotope in the product.
Included are separation processes
where the radioactive isotope is one
of the elements rejected, also processes
involving catalysts.

For example, in some oil-refining
processes, a catalyst is diffused through
a reaction vessel. Certain malfunc-
tions may Cause it to segregate or to
emigrate from the vessel. If the cata-
lyst were tagged with a radioactive
isotope, its concentration and location
could be registered continuously
through the walls of the tank.

RADIATION CHEMISTRY

The infant field of radiation chem-
istry relating to the use of radiation
to produce or catalyze chemical re-
actions is perhaps too new to warrant
extending speculation very far. How-
ever, the use of ultraviolet radiation
to produce vitamin D in ergosterol is
a well-known and related reaction.

Doctors Franck and Burton (4) have
examined the possibilities and re-
ported to the United Nations the fol-
lowing ‘“‘groups of processes where
application of radiation chemistry
appears promising”’:

We may anticipate economic advantages
in the vast field of polymerization processes
which are now so successfully applied in the

manufacture of plastics, rubber, and so
forth; in this field, in fact, initial successes
ATOMIC ENERGY IN

already have been obtained. In a similar
connection, studies even prior to the war on
the effects of radiation on some of the constit-
uents of natural gas indicate that they may
be converted, via the medium of radiation
chemistry, into industrially important prod-
ucts. Their present uses (for example, in
the production of carbon black or for fuel)
are economically unsound. Related to such
processes in a certain sense is the low-tem-
perature cracking of oils, which should be
intensively studied. Radiation chemistry
here presents the opportunity of a new tech-
nique which may produce new and very
interesting products.

A host of rare but medically important
drugs, until now synthesized only by plants
but not in vitro (in the test tube) probably
will be by-products of the utilization of radia-
tion chemical processes. Very interesting
preliminary photochemical effects on viruses
have been reported; viruses may be made to
lose their virulence while still retaining their
ability to produce antibodies. Progress in
this important field is limited by the lack of
penetration and the specificity of the rays
which must be used; radiation chemistry
should promote such work at an accelerated
pace. ‘The chemical aspect of the large field
of biologicals is a portion of the field of
radiation chemistry which we are now just
beginning to tap. Some notion of the vistas
which lie before us, when we begin to under-
stand primary effects a little better, is indi-
cated by the suggestions of the medical use
of specifically absorbed radioactive dyes and
of the possible large scale production of
vaccines.

In the fields of inorganic chemistry and
physics the production of new phosphors and
of inorganic polymers should be studied.
Possible hardening of metals by radiation
and a host of new enterprises made possible
by the interesting process of dislocation of
atoms in solids may become important.

In this field, chemists point out that
often, when a reaction is discovered by
the use of radiation, continued investi-
gation leads to thermal or catalytic
means to make the reaction “‘go.” In
general the latter are much cheaper
for production. Such progress does
not, however, minimize the signifi-
cance of an original discovery using
radiation to produce the reaction.

In the field of such ultracomplex
molecules as antibiotics such as peni-
cillin and streptomycin new and im-
proved strains often are cultivated
from mutations. Radiation may be a
tool which can produce a variety and
extent of mutations in such molecules

187

INDUSTRY—WINNE

of many times the diversity and rate at
which they occur in normal evolution.

Chemists may learn much about the
stability of chemical bonds by breaking
them with alpha, beta, gamma, or
neutron radiations. While such radi-
ations have been known for many
years, they have been available only
in the form of a few rare natural
radioactive materials or in connection
with the limited output of ‘“‘atom-
smashing” accelerators. The vast
spectrum of radiation intensities now
beginning to become available makes
widespread research in these fields
possible.

Future Possibilities

A great many of the statements in
this article of necessity are hedged
with “if,” “but,” “‘possibly,” or “‘prob-
ably.” This fact merely emphasizes
the newness of the field under consider-
ation and the tremendous possibilities
ahead.

Atomic energy is not producing
commercially useful power as yet,
although such production is  tech-
nically possible. It is probable that
one or more experimental or demon-
stration plants will be in operation
within the next 2 to 4 years.

Such production appears economi-
cally feasible, at least for many special
applications. However, the develop-
ment of economically competitive
atomic power promises to be a long-
term project, possibly requiring dec-
ades. And its advent will be gradual.
It is the author’s belief that atomic
power will supplement, but not sup-
plant, present power sources.

What may be termed the by-
products of atomic energy—radio-
active isotopes, radiation chemistry
and metallurgy, fission products—
well may prove of more importance to
society than atomic power itself, and
many of their benefits probably will
be realized more quickly.

It is quite evident that in order to
reap all the potential benefits, a tre-
mendous amount of research and
188

development must be carried on.
There is no doubt but that it will
be done.

REFERENCES

1. Smytu, H. D.

1945. Atomic energy for military
purposes. Princeton Uni-
versity Press.

2. CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT COMMITTEE ON
Atomic ENERGY.

1946. Atomic energy, its future in
power production. Chem.
Eng., October.

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

3. Compton, A. H., and Jerrries, ZAy.
1946. Future of atomic energy.
Scientific Information
Transmitted to the United
Nations Atomic Energy
Commission by the United
States Representative, vol. 2,
July 10.
4. FRANCK, JAMEs, and Burton, MILTon.
1946. Practical applications of radi-
ation chemistry. Scientific
Information Transmitted to
the United Nations Atomic
Energy Commission by the
United States Representa-
tive, vol. 2, July 10.
High-Altitude Research with V—2 Rockets’

By Ernst H. Krause, Naval Research Laboratory

[With 6 plates]

The study of the heavens is an an-
cient science. It began with specula-
tion about the movement and consti-
tution of the sun; later it moved into
the greater universe of the stars (1);?
and more recently it expanded into
that small but very interesting region
of space represented by the earth’s
atmosphere (2). It seems fitting that
a review of the more modern aspects
of this subject should be made here
since Franklin himself, the founder of
the American Philosophical Society,
made some of his more important
contributions to science in this field (3).

The atmosphere of the earth is a very
complex affair. Many things are
known about it and yet the over-all
picture is beclouded by lack of
sufficient information of the various
mechanisms involved to tie all the
observed phenomena into one unified
picture. The presence of the lower
atmosphere makes the study of phe-
nomena in the upper atmosphere very
difficult and in many cases impossible.
Similarly, the existence of the atmos-
phere sets very definite limitations on
studies in such fields as astrophysics
and cosmic rays, while on the other
hand the atmosphere provides us with
many new phenomena to study, such
as the ionosphere, the aurora, etc.

The answer to many of these diffi-
culties is to study the phenomena with-

1Read April 25, 1947. Reprinted by
permission from Proceedings of the American
Philosophical Society, vol. 91, No. 5, De-
cember 1947.

2 Numbers in parentheses refer to literature
cited at end of article.

in the atmosphere at those points
where they occur and to make astro-
physical and other studies from above
the atmosphere. A step in this direc-
tion was the exploitation of the balloon
as a vehicle. The balloon, however,
has two serious shortcomings. First,
it has a maximum ceiling between 30
and 40 km. Many observations have
been made up to these altitudes by
means of balloons, but a great deal
of data is desired above these altitudes.
Second, the payload capabilities of
balloons are limited to the order of
100 pounds, unless one makes use of
complicated balloon formations or of
very large balloons such as were used
in the Explorer flights (4, 5). Both of
these difficulties can be solved by the
use of rockets which are not limited
in ceiling, and, although there are
payload limitations, the problem of
carrying 1,000 pounds to altitudes of
200 km. or more is perfectly feasible.

Although rockets themselves date
back many centuries, the utilization of
one which would carry sufficient
weight to conduct an experiment did
not seem practical up to the beginning
of the last war. However, with the
advent of the war, a tremendous im-
petus was given to rocketry because of
its usefulness as a military device, so
that several rocket-powered vehicles
emerged from the war which could
reach altitudes greatly in excess of
any that had been reached before.
Of these devices, the V—2, designed
and built by the Germans, was well
out in front. Not only did it reach
altitudes much greater than any

189
190

previously attained by rockets or by
other means, but it also was sufficiently
large that it could carry a payload
much greater than any research work-
er had hoped for.

The work on the upper atmosphere
utilizing the German V-2’s in this
country has been going on for a little
more than 1 year. Even in so short
a time it can be stated that the V-2
has already made important contribu-
tions to such fields as solar spectros-
copy, cosmic rays, and the measure-
ment of atmosphere pressures and
temperatures (6, 7, 8, 9). To those
of us in the field, it is somewhat
surprising, but nevertheless gratifying
that the early experiments have proved
so successful. We had anticipated
that the complexities involved in
perfecting the necessary new tech-
niques could easily have consumed the
first year’s work.

First, I would like to say a few words
about the organization of a project as
large as this. There is no one organi-
zation that encompasses the entire
project. ‘The V—2’s themselves are as-
sembled, made ready to fire, and fired
by the Army Ordnance Department
with the aid of the General Electric Co.
under a special contract for this pur-
pose. Once the V-2 has been fired, it
is of course very important to know
where it is at all times in its trajectory,
so that data taken can be correlated
against altitude, range, etc. The bal-
listics and the problem of tracking in
general, involving many types of radio,
radar, and optical methods, are the
responsibility of the Ballistic Research
Laboratories of the Aberdeen Proving
Ground.

The actual upper-atmosphere work
is conducted by various institutions
including the Air Matériel Command,
the University of Michigan, Watson
Laboratories, the Applied Physics Lab-
oratory of the Johns Hopkins Univer-
sity, the Signal Corps, and the Naval
Research Laboratory. In addition,
there are numerous other contributing
agencies, including Princeton Univer-
sity, the National Bureau of Standards,

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

Harvard University, and the California
Institute of Technology. All the work
is coordinated through a V-—2 Panel
which consists of members from most
of the above-named institutions and
agencies.

The V-2

Just to refresh your memories |
might point out a few of the charac-
teristics of the V-2 (10). Plate 1,
figure 1 shows the V—2 on its launching
patform. It stands about 46 feet high,
has a total weight of 28,000 pounds
when fueled and 9,000 pounds empty.
The total weight of payload carried is
about 2,000 pounds. Its diameter is
65 inches. Stabilization is accom-
plished by a set of carbon vanes placed
in the jet, aided by a set of air vanes
in the fins. Fixed gyroscope stabili-
zation is maintained in azimuth, and
a gyroscope program control feeds a
predetermined tilt program to the
fins. When the rocket motor is started,
the rocket begins to rise slowly as soon
as the acceleration due to the thrust
exceeds 1 g. Since a rocket motor of
this type is a constant-thrust device
and since the mass is constantly de-
creasing owing to fuel consumption,
the acceleration gradually increases
until after about 60 seconds it reaches
a value of 6 g. At this point the fuel is
completely consumed, the missile is
out of the denser atmosphere and it
proceeds on a trajectory which is a
function only of its position and veloc-
ity at the time of fuel burn-out. Up
until the time of burn-out it is, as pre-
viously pointed out, completely sta-
bilized. Thereafter, since it is out of
the atmosphere and since no more jet
power is available, no further stabili-
zation is obtained. The result is that
any accidental angular momentum
imparted during the fuel burn-out
period produces a roll, pitch, or yaw
during the remainder of the free-space
flight. Here we encounter the first
objectionable feature of the V-2
rocket as a research vehicle. We find
that, in general, there is a very definite
roll about the rocket’s longitudinal axis
*Soqn} OIN{RIUIUIGNS JO 9sN dAISNJOXY JSOM][S 94} VON = “YYSIp Ul oyIyM
SOBEI[OA SUMVIGI[VO SUIIUISURIY AT[VOIpOtIed IOJ pasn 91e doj 9} YB S10JOUL OMY
ey, “SULDIAtes JOJ passnydun ATyoInb oq ued sfauuBY EZ 9} JO YOR OJ AIYMOIAIO YJ,

“AIDAOIAI OVI] 07 PROG
MSNIVLNOD GaziINnssadd -I8M 94} UO SuTQuIed [eeds oy} Os[R PUB UOTPoSprIUT oY} UT SuTUNdO BIOUILI BY O1ON

SLI WOYS GSAOWSY YSLLINSNVYL ONIYSLAWSATAL °2 WYHOALV Id ONIHONNWT] SLI NO Z-A ‘1

“4

rs)
7)

:® 7@ 3
é\éé

oO

*

‘6

aN

a

Ll 3LV1Id asnelyj—"gp6| ‘J4oday ueluosyyIWIG
Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Krause PLATE 2

1. V-2 AFTER IMPACT
The chances of recovery of film cartridges and other recorded data from the missile after impact are very

good.

PRESSURE GAUGES

COSMIC RAY TELESCOPE —
COSMIC RAY ELECTRONICS
BATTERIES

FUEL TANKS =

PRIMER CORD FOR MISSILE BREAKUP —) /
oS

PRESSURE GAUGES

COSMIC RAY RECORDER

EMERGENCY CUT-OFF ANTENNAS
TELEMETERING ANTENNAS
JONOSPHERE ANTENNAS
CARBON VANES

K-25 CAMERA
TELEMETERING TRANSMITTER

CONTROL & ASPECT GYROSCOPES |

CONTROL PANEL

TNT FOR MISSILE BREAKUP

COMMUTATOR

IONOSPHERE TRANSMITTER

Instrumentation of the V-2 fer 7 March 1947

COMBUSTION CHAMBER
TURBINE & FUEL PUMP w ne

SPECTROGRAPH

bo

2. CUTAWAY SKETCH OF THE V-2 AS IT IS USED FOR UPPER ATMOSPHERE
RESEARCH
‘adoosala} ABI-OTUISOD
‘quaurdmbe snoourljeosram pue pue ‘sesnes ainyeiedure} urys ‘sasnevs oinssoid urel sopnpouy
‘ DQ ¢ 24 S79 aT]p a, rd es V1 Be eqn
sasnes dInsseid SNONeA ‘19}{TUISUBIY V1aYdsOUOT ‘soTUOIDE[9 ABI-OTUISOD SapNpoUT OVAHYVM AHL 4O

OVAHYVM AO AIWH WOLLOG SONIMOHS HOL]EMS °Z NOILOSAS GYVYMYOAN AHL ONIMOHS HOLAMS ‘|

Asayjog aboyoA
ybiyy Aoy o1wso9

ee Gn-¥id uoIO1qiA
2e6n09 \ h
uO |
a6n09 A 4
Sd @

‘JOJDINWWOD Ve
"7 J@u0d adoosejay
UOIINg!4ySIG Aoy ojwso5

i Saleyj0g
JaMOd UID

wosboid 1% Asayjog
a6o4j0A yb: ;
es ; _ eae dinjposedwa) Uys
} ete
~~ | He
$91U01}93)3 See flew ¢ 4 : JOppiwmsudsy
Apy o1wso9 if lj t +} } + asaydsouo}

sebnod aunssesd SON

aanssaidg WOY
Bujansoay, 40} a0}

i , \ i i ace

€ ALV1dd asnelyy—'9p6| ‘J4oday uetuosYy WIC
ATISSIW ‘261 ‘L HOUVW ‘joued UONNAIUISIpP pus 19}{TUISUBI} ZULLOJOULITA} SOPNpPOUT

NI 3dOOS3ST1SL AVY-SINSOD AO HdVHSDOLOHd “2 GQVAHYVM MOTE YSAEWVHD ONIMOHS HOLAMS °}

aAlsojdxz
> 5 $40 MOIG

py ALV1d asneIyy— Qp6| ‘Woday uetuosyqUICG
Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Krause PEATLE.5S

SOLAR ULTRAVIOLET SPECTRUM
3200-2300 ANGSTROMS

in > ie = , ype
ee « ee
Ts . as ;

—

3100

i; cana

2600 ; 2500 2400 2300

1. FRAUNHOFER SPECTRUM OBTAINED IN THE MARCH 7, 1947, MISSILE

This is the first time the region below 2900 A. has been photographed with such high resolution.

2 A
8 B
=
< iv C
uJ
S 25 D
=
F 34 E
a
55 F
88 G

3400 3200 3000 2800 2600 2400 2200
ANGSTROM UNITS

2. COMPOSITE SPECTRA SHOWING OZONE ABSORPTION BAND

The spectrum at 88 km. actually extends as low in wave length as does that at 55 km., but because of lower
intensity it did not reproduce in the print.
“So[sUR BIOUIBO SUIAIVA 9} 0} BSUIMO ATJOVXO
yoieul jou op sydeiszojoyd oy “OolxeTA, UJOY AOU PUB SoyYBIS PHU) UloJsSomYNOS JO So[lUL arenbs 900‘00¢ ATeyeutxo1dde siaA0d ainjord styy,

(SSATIW LOL) SYSLAW
-O1IM Z9| 4O 3GNLILIY NV LY NA3MVL SHdVHYSOLOHd ALVYWdaS FSYHL JO dN FQVW SYeNLOld ALISOGWOD V

9 31V1d asneisJ—'Qp6 | *‘qaoday UPIUOSYy IWS
V—2 ROCKETS—KRAUSE

over most of the trajectory. In addi-
tion there have been cases where a
definite yaw and pitch have been ob-
served. The exact knowledge of the
missile’s attitude after burn-out is not
complete at present but is the subject
of an intensive study.

Figure 1 shows the trajectory of the
V-2 as it was plotted for a firing on
March 7, 1947. A study of this tra-

TRAJECTORY

ALTITUDE ABOVE SEALEVEL IN KILOMETERS

0 bs ad 0
HOR 12, 20u90, 4P,n5 69 2

IN KILOMETERS

191

ing and adjusting the equipment. It
is not a standard device but usually
undergoes special modification for each
flight, depending on the particular ex-
periments involved.

Data Recovery

Two general methods of data re-
covery are used. One involves tele-
metering (radio transmissions of data

ALTITUDE AND VELOCITY VS. TIME

"50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400
TIME AFTER LAUNCHING IN SECONDS

7 MARCH TRAJECTORY INFORMATION
Ficure 1. Trajectory curves for March 7, 1947, flight.

jectory brings out a second shortcom-
ing of the rocket in general, that is
the short time that it spends in free
space. It can be seen, for example,
that the time the rocket spends above
50 km. is about 5 minutes. It is there-
fore necessary to complete all experi-
ments in this limited time.

To conduct work in the V—2 it was
necessary to design and build a special
warhead with access doors for install-

817369—49——14

from the missile to the ground); the
other involves direct recording of in-
formation on film or other recorders,
followed by physical recovery of the
equipment after impact.

Of these two general methods by far
the more successful has been that of
telemetering. The telemetering sys-
tem which has been employed in all
V-2 firings is a 23-channel pulse time
modulated system designed at the
192

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

ELAPSED FLIGHT TIME

exey
cates onl a

4d
iS Wed vd ids edbhid Cidivdl bid bial Ua
SUB-COMMUTATED PRESSURE & TEMPERATORE

Say ioe

1ONOSPHERE

IONOSPHERE

<&— CAMERA
ENE RT ARENT SALON,

_ GOSMIC RAY COUNTS

—
a ay
=
An ce

5
my nel melon ie

PEED, wee,
‘

ADVANCE
ACRE ERAS EN AEA UA SETS ECAC Hy
pm ——— SPECTROGRAPH ADVANCE

-
= ccm Say
cre my A CE omy ion”

ahd) wa reig Wig eat a Gee

GAUGES

ena eee ee
ons a
s A ome e @. d load oe. Oe eons ed aoe
ey eae - TE, Asay Ce, SoS ee, a Gees, —om
mee ‘ ——
oa od cues oe ¢
1\ONOSPHERE

Ee amealid ‘pene NCEA,
Ct

EEE
. 2 2,
oe ee ec
. ee

ce em cc

ee reer
” «

CHRONOMETER TIMER

AT 6, Sy Ey Sy EIS
-

Se

FicurE 2.—Typical section of telemetering record. Top and bottom of the record are timing
signals. The subcommutated channels at the top of the record represent different types of
pressure and temperature information, each individual deflection corresponding to a differ-
ent gauge. The ionosphere channels at this time in the record present essentially direct
current information. ‘The roll gyroscope shows no roll since the missile is still in its stabilized
period. The rest of the record is self explanatory.

Naval Research Laboratory (11).
The information is transmitted by
means of a group of pulses such that
the intelligence on any given channel
is contained in the spacing between
two adjacent pulses. Twenty-four
such pulses constitute one group for a
23-channel system. ‘The group re-

peats at a rate of approximately 200
cycles per second; hence each channel
is sampled at this rate. Plate 1,
figure 2 shows the complete telemeter-
ing unit in its pressurized container.
Pressurization is, of course, necessary
to avoid arc-over and corona at the
lower pressures which the missle
V—2 ROCKETS—KRAUSE

passes through. The system uses sub-
miniature tubes, operates at a fre-
quency of approximately 1,000 mc.,
and has a peak power output between
1 and 2 kw. The entire record of a
flight is recorded on the ground by
several different methods, the most
important of which is a string oscillo-
graph. A picture of a typical record-
ing is shown in figure 2.

We have under development and
should have in use within the next
6 months a 30-channel telemetering
system using a 300-cycle sampling
rate (12). By means of a subcommu-
tator we will be able to extend the
number of channels to 450 using a
sampling rate of approximately 1 per
second.

The recovery of data by telemetering
is not completely satisfactory in all
cases. For example, the telemetering
of spectrographic data, although pos-
sible, is not very satisfactory. Further-
more, in all cases when the missile
begins to gyrate severely, as it does
occasionally, the telemetered data is
not continuous because the antenna is
at times completely shadowed by the
missile. For these reasons other
methods of data recovery are being
studied. One of these methods is the
use of drag mechanisms, including
parachutes.

The use of drag mechanisms for
recovery is probably feasible, but
considerable development work still
needs to be done. The present method
of recovery involves breaking up the
missile during its downward flight in
such a way that each individual piece
coming down has a high drag coeffi-
cient and very poor stability, the result
being that the piece in question will
tumble or float down. It has been
found by this method that equipment
even after very high flights will arrive
at the earth in fair condition, and
occasionally will be found completely
intact. ‘Thus, for example, on our
October 10 flight, the spectrograph
which was installed in a tail fin was
recovered in such a good condition
that further calibration runs were

193

made on it in the laboratory without
readjustment. The induced break-up
had torn the fin loose and it had
apparently floated back to the earth.
Eight pounds of TNT tied to the
beams supporting the warhead are
usually used to produce blow-off.
The correct time of detonation is
obtained by means of a timer mecha-
nism and also by means of radio such
that the TNT is detonated by the
appropriate one of these two methods
at an altitude of about 60 km. above
the earth on the downward flight.
A photograph of a V-—2 after a 170-
km. high flight is shown in plate 2,
figure 1. By this means we have to
date recovered 4 spectrographs (2 in
usable condition), 3 photographic
recorders, 4 still-picture cameras and
10 motion-picture cameras, most of
which went to an altitude of 170 km.
In all cases the films were in excellent
condition, even though in some cases
no precautions were taken to protect
them on impact.

Our present program is concerned
with four fields of high-altitude re-
search, namely, cosmic rays; the
ionosphere; pressure, temperature, and
composition measurements; and astro-
physics involving primarily the spec-
trum of the sun. A typical lay-out
of these various experiments in a
V-2 is shown in the sketch, plate 2,
figure 2. A more detailed view of
the installations in the warhead and
control chamber is shown in plate 3,
figures 1 and 2, and plate 4, figure 1.
Beginning at the extreme nose tip
of the missile we have an installation
for measuring ram _ pressures. Im-
mediately behind this in the war-
head is the cosmic-ray telescope with
the necessary electronics below the
telescope. The ionosphere transmit-
ter is directly below the cosmic-ray
electronics. Also in the warhead are a
timer, remote-control switching panel,
accelerometers, telemetering commu-
tator, batteries, and miscellaneous
equipment. In the control chamber
immediately behind the warhead are
the telemetering transmitter, several
194

distribution and testing panels, and
the TNT for blowing off the warhead.
In the midsection between the alcohol
and oxygen tanks, two cameras are
mounted for taking pictures at inter-
vals on the way up. The cosmic-ray
film-recording camera is mounted on
one of the motor supports immediately
below the oxygen tank. The spectro-
graph is mounted in one of the fins and
is provided with a fairing to maintain
the necessary streamlining of the fin.
At the extreme tail end of the missile
are mounted the various antennas for
telemetering, ionosphere, and emer-
gency cut-off equipment. I should
now like to discuss each of the various
experiments at greater length.

Cosmic Rays

There are many cosmic-ray experi-
ments that one can perform even in
a rocket which spends only 4 or 5
minutes above the atmosphere. Of
all the possibilities we felt that two
stood out above all others, namely:
1, a determination of the nature of the
primary radiation (heretofore the
nature of the primaries could be
inferred only from studies of the
secondary or tertiary radiation within
the atmosphere), and 2, a study of the
fundamental reactions taking place
as the primaries pass through the
atmosphere.

Until the advent of the rocket, cos-
mic-ray experiments had been con-
ducted in balloons up to an altitude
of about 24 km., corresponding to an
atmospheric pressure of 2 cm. of
mercury. These experiments (13, 14)
had determined the distribution of the
total as well as the ‘“‘hard’’ cosmic
radiation through the atmosphere, and
they indicated that even at pressures
as low as 2 cm. of mercury the primary
radiation had already reacted with air
nuclei to produce a secondary radia-
tion generally considered to be mesons.
The V-—2 was capable of reaching the
region of the primaries (up to this
time generally considered to be pro-

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

tons by most workers in the field (14,
15) and also of passing through the
very interesting region in which the
ultranucleonic transformations, which
result in meson production, take place.
One of the latter was assumed to be
the very important and fundamental
proton-meson reaction about which
very little is known, since it apparently
occurs on earth only in the cosmic
radiation at the top of the atmosphere.

Four different cosmic-ray experi-
ments have been successfully per-
formed to date in four different flights
(16, 17, 18; 20, 21) At thejpresent
time three more experiments are in
preparation for incorporation in flights
during May and July 1947. The
results of these experiments have given
more insight into the nature of the
cosmic radiation. The first two ex-
periments established the fact that the
greater portion of the primary radia-
tion consists of “hard” particles (i. e.,
particles which will penetrate at least
12-15 cm. of lead) and that about one
out of every five such particles will
produce a shower in 12 cm. of lead.
In addition it was found that large
showers were produced by the pri-
maries in the rather considerable mass
of material in the warhead which sur-
rounded the counter telescope. On
the basis of this information the third
and fourth experiments were per-
formed, which I should like to discuss
in greater detail.

The third experiment (18) consisted
of two parts. In the first part a cosmic-
ray telescope was arranged to test the
penetrating properties of the incoming
ionizing radiation. It was found that
(at a zenith angle of 45°) about 60
percent of the radiation was absorb-
able in a large thickness of lead (14
cm.). The other properties of the
high-altitude radiation were again
verified, i. e., the large numbers of
warhead showers, and the showers
under 14 cm. of lead (28 percent in
this measurement). The second part
of the experiment, conducted in the
same flight, tested for penetration
V—2 ROCKETS—KRAUSE

through two successive lead plates each
only 2 cm. thick. It was then found
that about 35 percent of the high-
altitude rays were stopped in either
the first plate or penetrated it and
stopped in the second. This indicated
that at least this component was not
primary (if the improbable case is ex-
cluded that it consisted of nuclei of
high atomic number). It has been
suggested (19) that these are electrons
which arise from the atmosphere
below and are due to meson decay.
The ones observed presumably orig-
inated above South America and
spiraled around the earth’s magnetic
field lines to reach the point of obser-
vation. The remainder of the radia-
tion (i. e., 65 percent) was observed
to penetrate the 4 cm. of lead, some
of it producing showers in either the
first plate, the second plate, or both.
An upper limit to the relative number
of primary electrons is obtainable from
these data. First, it cannot be greater
than 65 percent minus 40 percent or
25 percent of the total radiation (in-
cluding the nonprimary electrons).
Second, it must be less than the rela-
tive number of events in which showers
were produced below 2 and 4 cm.,
since some of these are ascribed to
particles of high penetrating power.
This reduces the possible number of
primary electrons to 9 percent of the
total or 18 percent of the primary
radiation.

The fourth experiment (20) con-
sisted of a counter tube telescope
arranged so that the percentage of
particles penetrating 2 cm., 6 cm.,
and 12 cm. of lead could be deter-
mined. The number of threefold
showers under these same thicknesses
was also measured. The telescope
was mounted vertically in a specially
designed warhead so that it looked
directly through the warhead nose as
shown in figure 3, and in plate 3,
figure 1, and plate 4, figure 2. The
heavy lead shielding around the lower
half of the telescope was introduced in
an attempt to reduce the number of

195

rocket showers found in previous ex-
periments. This shielding, in con-
junction with the absorbing lead plates,
was sufficient to eliminate most of the
registered rocket showers of primary
or nonprimary electronic origin. It
was found that the number of rocket
showers actually doubled over that of
previous unshielded experiments. ‘This
would indicate that these showers must
be of nonelectronic origin. It was
found that, above the atmosphere, 25
percent of the total radiation present
was absorbed in 6 cm. of lead. Al-
though this is somewhat less than
that found in the first experiment, it
is assumed to be the same type of non-
primary electron component discussed
above. The different percentages in
the two experiments are attributed to
the variation of this component with
zenith angle. A total of 59 percent of
the particles penetrated 12 cm. of lead.
The remaining 16 percent was ab-
sorbed in 12 cm. In all ‘cases, ‘the
large portion did not produce showers
under the lead. Thus, primary elec-
trons would be ruled out since these
would produce large showers under
2and4cm. Asa matter of fact it is
difficult to understand how any of this
component could be due to primary
particles since the large energies
associated with the primaries should
produce some type of reaction below
12 cm. of lead unless, of course,
neutral particles are involved. If we
assume that all the radiation except
that absorbed in 6 cm. is primary,
then we find that the electron com-
ponent determined on the basis of
shower production could not be more
that a maximum of 14 percent of the
primary; the nonelectronic component
absorbed in 12 cm. is 18 percent of the
primary and the nonelectronic com-
ponent penetrating 12 cm. is 68 per-
cent of the primary. The ratio of the
total radiation in free space to that at
sea level was 11.5. The ratio of the
hard component (that which pene-
trated 6 cm. of lead) in free space to
that at sea level was 9.0.
196

40
ALL DIMENSIONS
IN CENTIMETERS,
30
wn
= STEEL
0.26 THICK
z
Li
a
20-] +
ep)
Te)
0

Y
Vs; 4] Wi
Ah

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

ALUMINUM
\ 0.23 THICK

’

YL,

USGS AI LENG
Va pgs

Ficure 3.—Schematic diagram of counter telescope arrangement in warhead for the
March 7, 1947, missile.

Astrophysics and Composition

Because the earth’s atmosphere had
limited spectroscopic observations of
the sun to a lower wave-length limit
of 2863 A. (22), astronomers have long
been looking forward to the time when
the unknown far-ultraviolet region
could be observed. Even though
balloons could reach altitudes of 30
km. they were not quite able to pierce
the ozone layer and, because of the
ozone absorption band which lies just
below 2900 A., the lower wave-length

limit observed at 30 km. was about the
same as it was at sea level (23).

A rocket which reached altitudes of
170 km. and higher should prove very
valuable in further solar spectral
studies. To get such a spectrum and
at the same time to get more construc-
tive information on composition of the
atmosphere, a special vacuum grating
spectrograph, shown in figure 4, was
designed to fit into the V—2 (6). Two
small lithium fluoride beads are used
for obtaining a wide angle of view so
V—2 ROCKETS—KRAUSE

GRATING

BEAD

FILM

197

BEAD

“SECTOR SHUTTER
~==PLANE MIRROR

RECOVERABLE
FILM CONTAINER

SPECTROGRAPH
Ficure 4.—Sketch of spectrograph"designed forgusezin the V—2.

as to minimize the effect of roll and
other movements of the missile. ‘The
image from this little bead is reflected
to a grating and in turn to a 35-mm.
film on which the images from the
two beads are recorded separately.
The spectrograph was originally de-
signed to fit in the nose of the war-

head but, because of greater ease of
recovery, it has been, in more recent
flights, mounted in one of the tail fins.
As pointed out previously, spectro-
graphs have on several occasions been
recovered in such good condition that
they were capable of being used
again (24).
198

INTENSITY

RELATIVE

PRELIMINARY SOLAR

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

2800
WAVELENGTH A.

2600 2400 2200

INTENSITY DISTRIBUTION

10 OCTOBER, 1946

Ficure 5.—Solar intensity distribution obtained from spectra of October 10, 1946.
(These data are preliminary since the analysis of all spectra is not yet complete.)

Two successful experiments have
been conducted to date in solar spec-
troscopy with the result that nearly 100
spectra have been obtained at vari-
ous altitudes up to 160 km. (24, 25).
The spectrograph (similar ones were
used in the two flights) was arranged
to record only the wave lengths below
3400 A.; in some of the spectra ob-
tained at higher altitudes radiation
was recorded down to 2100 A. Anal-
ysis of these spectra has produced the
following results.

1. Solar spectral-energy distribution. —
The curve of average radiant energy
as a function of wave length—the so-
called black-body curve of the sun—
was extended from the previous limit
of 2900 A. to 2200 A. shown in figure 5.
The ultraviolet intensities are much
less than had been predicted (26).

2. Fraunhofer line analysis—A large
number of fully and partly resolved
absorption minima were observed in
the region between 2950 and 2300 A.,
as shown in plate 5, figure 1. Nearly
V—2 ROCKETS—KRAUSE

all observed minima are blends from
two or more closely spaced lines, but
the principal contributors have, in
many cases, been identified. Of par-
ticular interest was the appearance of
the Mg II doublet at 2795 and 2802 A.
as bright emission lines in the center of
a broad absorption region created by
the same pair (25).

EXPLORER IL
INDIRECT

ALTITUDE (KM)

VERTICAL OZONE DISTRIBUTION
WHITE SANDS, N.M. OCT.10,1946
TOTAL 03 2.7MM_ S.T.P.

199

The effect of the absorption of ozone
can be clearly seen by noting the
absorption band in the region of
2300 to 2800 A. below 55 km. The
vertical distribution of ozone on this
flight is shown in figure 6 (27). The
results of the 1936 Explorer II balloon
flight (5) are shown for comparison.
The balloon data above 22 km. are

PRELIMINARY

NRL
DIRECT
a

02 03 04

CM Os /KM

Figure 6.—Vertical ozone distribution.

The double layer is rather unusual but has been

reported previously.

3. Line shapes—Line widths and
intensities are important in determin-
ing excitation conditions in the sun,
and necessary to an understanding of
the fundamental processes occurring
there. Considerable information on
this subject is contained in the spectra.
Full analysis and evaluation of condi-
tions in the sun will require another
year or more of intensive work.

4. Ozone-—The variations of the
spectra with altitude for the October
10 flight are shown in plate 5, figure 2.

817369—49—_15

based on an indirect method and lack
the inherent accuracy of the direct
method employed from the rocket.
Further data are required to determine
whether the disagreement at high
altitudes is due to a real variation in
the ozone or to experimental error.
The lower maximum is known to be
present on days when the total ozone
content of the atmosphere is abnor-
mally high (28).

5. Sky brightness—Some data in the
ultraviolet are available. The experi-
200

ments were not, however, designed
particularly for this problem.

Future experiments in this field will
aim at still lower wave lengths and
greater resolution.

AMBIENT
aN

oa

icy

Le

re)

=

=

= 01

Ww

ae

=)

wn

"nn

uj

4 ° V-2 DATA
0.01 BALLOON DATA
0.00!

0.0001

30

ALTITUDE — KM

RON EET
Ones

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

Although we have a vehicle which
will carry us to an undreamed-of
altitude, the problem of measuring
such basic quantities as pressure and
temperature from a missile which is

“20
ABOVE SEA LEVEL

Figure 7.—Variation of pressure with altitude.

Pressure and Temperature Experiments

Actual measurements of pressure and
temperature in the upper atmosphere
have been made for many years by
various methods. Balloons regularly
obtain this information up to 30 km.
Above this altitude various indirect
methods have been used, including
measurements on meteors (29), sound-

range measurements of large explo-
sions (30), and others (2).

moving at a velocity of 1 mile a second
is far from easy. This becomes clear
when one calculates the adiabatic
temperature rise on a thin piece of
material placed on the nose of the
V-2. For the velocities involved this
temperature is higher than 1000° C.

Our attack on the problem to date
has been to measure the so-called ram
pressure at the nose of the missile and
the pressure at a point on the side of
the missile at which, according to
V—2 ROCKETS—KRAUSE

wind-tunnel tests, the pressure is
within a very small percentage of
ambient. Since a pressure range of
108 is covered in a normal flight, it is
necessary to use various types of
gages. The range from atmospheric
pressure down to about 1 cm. of
mercury is covered with a bellows
gage; the range of 2 cm. mercury
to 10-* mm. mercury is measured with
Pirani gages (31) while the region of
10-% to 10-5 mm. mercury is studied by
means of Philips gages (32) and
ionization gages (33). The most com-
plete measurements to date were
obtained on flights in October 1946
and March 1947 (34, 35).

I would like to discuss briefly the
March flight in which a total of 15
pressure and 2 skin-temperature gages
were installed. Ambient pressures
were measured up to about 80 km.
with gages mounted on the side of the
V-2, just forward of the tail section.
Pirani gages mounted in similar posi-
tions on opposite sides of the rocket
gave readings which agree within ex-
perimental errors, indicating that no
appreciable error was introduced by
yaw of the missile up to this altitude.
A single Philips gage was mounted on
the 15° cone of the warhead. The
readings of this gage, when reduced
to ambient pressures by use of the
theories of Taylor and Maccoll (36),
gave values up to 120 km. altitude.
Pressure measurements obtained by
these two methods are shown in
figure 7.

Temperature measurements are of
two types: 1, measurement of ambient
temperatures; and 2, measurement of
skin temperatures and temperatures
within the missile. The direct meas-
urement of ambient temperatures from
a rocket has not yet been successfully
accomplished. The temperature of
the atmosphere was calculated from
the slope of the pressure vs. altitude
curve and from the ratio of ram to
ambient pressures. Pitot tube theory
was used to obtain Mach number from
the ratio of ram pressure to ambient
pressure. The velocity of the rocket

201

divided by Mach number gave the
velocity of sound, from which tem-
perature was calculated. Figure 8 is
a plot of the temperatures derived by
these methods. Shown also are the
temperatures measured by means of
a weather balloon released within an
hour of the time of the rocket’s flight.
For comparison, the NACA estimated
mean temperature (37) is included on
the curve. Probable error is +25°
from 50 to 60 km., +15° at 65 to 70
km., and +20° at 72.5 km. The
probable error above 100 km. is+ 40°.
Temperatures calculated from ram
pressures for altitudes between 10 and
20 km. are 5 to 20° lower than the
expected temperature. This discrep-
ancy is possibly caused by errors in
the velocities calculated from the poor
radar data obtained during the first
20 km. of the flight.

Two platinum resistance tempera-
ture gages were installed to measure
the temperature of sections of the 15°
nose cone. The temperature rise on
the 0.1-inch-thick aluminum forward
section of the nose was 120+5° C.
On the 0.1-inch steel section immedi-
ately behind the aluminum, the tem-
perature rise was 85-+5° C.

Ionosphere

It is now possible to extend further
our knowledge of the ionosphere (38)
by utilizing rockets to make measure-
ments within the ionized region of the
upper atmosphere.

The value of experimental methods
utilizing rockets may be shown by a
consideration of the parameters in-
volved in the simple approximate ex-
pression for the index of refraction in
an ionized medium, neglecting the
earth’s magnetic field.

/ 4nrN?
(1) tes t= wm

: Index of refraction.

: Ion density.

: Charge on the ion.

: Mass of ion.

: Angular frequency of radia-
tion.

Fa Ss
202

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

DATA CALCULATED FROM SLOPE OF PRESSURE

CURVE.

DATA CALCULATED FROM RAM PRESSURE.
BALLOON DATA.

ALTITUDE - KM. ABOVE SEA LEVEL

TEMPERATURE DEGREES
KELVIN

Ficure 8.—Variation of temperature with altitude.

Radio pulse ionosphere height-find-
ing methods in wide use today (39)
can at most measure directly the index
of refraction at certain points, whereas
rocket-borne experiments may be
designed to measure directly both the
index of refraction and the ion density
N at all points reached by the rocket.
The V-2 reaches altitudes correspond-
ing to the top of the E layer. Since in
the E layer there is at present am-

biguity as to the ratio of free electrons
to ions, rocket-borne experiments are
the most direct way to determine
whether the parameter on the right-
hand side of the expression should be
in terms of electrons, ions, or both.
A determination of data such as these
will permit more accurate knowledge
of many of the factors affecting long-
distance radio propagation, such as
delay times, velocities of propagation,
V—2 ROCKETS—KRAUSE

phase shifts, intensities and numbers of
modes, direction of arrival of wave
fronts, ducting, multipath phenomena,
and the actual rapidity of variations
of these quantities.

The method we are using for meas-
uring the index of refraction consists
of the transmission of two or more
harmonically related crystal-controlled
continuous-wave radio-frequency sig-
nals from the rocket to special receiv-
ing and recording equipment at
suitable locations on the ground.
These frequencies of transmission are
so chosen that one is sufficiently high
that its velocity of propagation is
essentially unaffected by the iono-
sphere; that is, in the above equation,
the index of refraction remains essen-
tially unity. The other frequency is
chosen to be slightly above the maxi-
mum critical frequency predicted for
the regions which the rocket will
penetrate. For the latter frequency,
as may be seen from the equation, the
index of refraction will approach zero,
and as a result the velocity of propa-
gation will be greatly affected. If
one considers the phase relation be-
tween the two radio-frequency signals
as received on the ground, it may be
shown that for transmission from any
point in the ionosphere, the rate of
change of phase between the two sig-
nals as received on the ground is a
function of the missile velocity and the
index of refraction for the particular
frequency at that point (40). This
allows the determination of the index
of refraction for the low frequency as
a function of altitude, with a suitable
choice of the higher frequency.

The phase beat frequency experi-
ment has successfully recorded con-
tinuous data up to an altitude of
approximately 110 km. and at several
points above that up to 128 km. (41).
Although the analysis of these data is
very complex and although only a
preliminary analysis has been made,
I would like to point out a few of the
interesting results of this experiment.
Figure 9 shows a series of curves of the
received signal strength on the ground

203

at one of the receiver stations versus
the altitude of the missile. A similar
set of curves was obtained at a second
receiving station located about 30
miles from the first. The theoretical
free-space signal strength at the re-
ceiver station should be a continuously
decreasing function with altitude.
The fluctuations in the curves are
primarily due to ionospheric attenu-
ation and the missile antenna patterns.
The latter are being obtained from
models, and the curves will be cor-
rected accordingly. ‘There is some
reason to believe at this time that the
sudden drop at 65 km. is due to the
presence of the D layer.

Figure 10 shows representative sec-
tions of the continuous-film records
obtained at one receiving station, and
illustrates very clearly the different
types of complex beats obtained. The
phase beat frequency first became ap-
parent at about 43-km. altitude and
remained at a low value up to about
84 km. This would imply that if a D
layer exists in this region its effect on
the 4.274-mc. signal was small below
84 km. The phase beat frequency in-
creased rapidly at 84km. At 111 km.
the beat frequency is lost owing to
loss of the 4.274-mce. signal. Intensive
analysis of the phase beat frequency
data is continuing and it is hoped that
a more definite report will be available
in about 6 months.

Many experimental problems associ-
ated with the ionosphere work have
been encountered and solved, and a
great deal of invaluable experience as
to a suitable instrumentation for
rocket investigation has been acquired.
It was soon found that the problem of
developing suitable antennas for trans-
mitting at low frequencies from the
rocket was a major problem. Con-
siderable theoretical and laboratory
research has been carried out to
establish a fundamental basis for the
direct measurement of the electron
and ion densities as a function of alti-
tude. An experiment is virtually com-
plete for inclusion in a July flight,
which involves primarily a determin-
204 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

KILOMETERS

KY A- 4.274 MCS
DURING ASCENT

oy a
e
—

ao
—- |p Eoees sy

[eae ae ona ess |

3. 5 10 30 5070100 300 5007001000
MIGROVOLTS
RECEIVED SIGNAL STRENGTH vs ALTITUDE
AS RECORDED AT STATION ONE, WHITE SANDS,
BETWEEN 11:23 AND II:30 A.M. M.S.T. ON
MARCH 7, 1947

Ficure 9.

V—2 ROCKETS—KRAUSE

ation of the saturation current for
electrons and positive ions.

Miscellaneous

Cameras have been included in
several flights and pictures obtained to
altitudes of 160 km. (42). A com-
posite of several such pictures is shown
in plate 6. The Gulf of California and
surrounding territory are clearly evi-
dent in the picture. Photographs of
this type are very useful for meteoro-
logical cloud studies as well as for
cartographic purposes.

On the night of December 17, 1946,
the first night V—2 launching in this
country was made for the purpose of
conducting an experiment with arti-
ficial meteorites. This experiment,
conducted jointly by the Applied
Physics Laboratory, the California
Institute of Technology, and Harvard
University, consisted of dropping out
special charges, at intervals of about
20,000 feet, above 60,000 feet. The
charges were to explode 1 or 2 seconds
after leaving the missile. High-
velocity particles should then appear
as artificial meteors and as a matter of
fact in a few cases some of the particles
might have enough velocity to escape
the earth. This experiment was un-
successful because ofejection difficulties
but will be repeated sometime this fall.

On various flights special strains of
rye seeds, corn seeds, and fruit flies
have been taken to altitudes of 170
km. to determine whether radiation
above the atmosphere might produce
mutations. The order of magnitude of
cosmic radiation was, of course, known
and because of its low intensity very
little or no effect was anticipated.
However other less energetic radiation
might exist at these altitudes which
could possibly produce an effect.
Analysis made by Harvard on re-
covered seeds and flies has shown that
no detectable changes are produced by
the radiation. These results are not
yet conclusive because in most cases
the seeds were shielded by metal (in
order to facilitate recovery) so that
only the higher energy radiation would

205

have been effective. If recovery
methods are improved, containers hav-
ing very thin walls will be used to
study the effects of the lower energy
radiation.

In general the various laboratories
involved are approaching the above

A. ALTITUDE 12 Km.,43 SECONDS AFTER
TAKEOFF

hao ne eat Sn t

B. ALTITUDE 79Km.,94 SECONDS AFTER
TAKEOFF.

Miia WG

GC. ALTITUDE 90Km., 103 SECONDS AFTER
TAKEOFF.

AAA AYN
i)

D. ALTITUDE l0OKm., 1I3 SECONDS AFTER
TAKEOFF.

PAARAAN LAWN

Wives?
@

E. ALTITUDE Ill Km., 123 SECONDS AFTER
TAKEOFF

FicurE 10.—Representative sections of the
continuous-film record showing beats of
harmonically related frequencies. (a) Rec-
ord obtained below the ionosphere (up to
43km.). (b) Slowly varying beat recorded
at an altitude of 79 km. (c) Record at
approximately 90 km. showing a well-
defined wave form. (d) The beat above
100 km. showing a more complex wave
form. (e) The sudden cessation of the
phase beat frequency at 111 km. at which
point the 4.274 mc. signal disappeared
completely.

problems in different ways. Nu-
merous other experiments are being
planned for the future, of which a few
might be mentioned. The Applied
Physics Laboratory and the Watson
Laboratories are both planning differ-
206

ent types of experiments to measure
the intensity of the earth’s magnetic
field at different points in space.
Three very interesting experiments—
one to measure temperature, a second
to take samples of the atmosphere, and
a third to measure wind direction and
velocity at various altitudes are to be
conducted by the Signal Corps in a
July firing. The measurement of
temperature is to be accomplished by
measuring the velocity of the sound
generated by explosive charges deto-
nated at various altitudes up to 60 km.
between the rocket and the ground.
Samples of the atmosphere are to be
obtained at various altitudes up to
80 km. by opening and sealing sample
bottles at various altitudes. Wind
velocities will be measured between
the altitudes of 30 and 60 km. by
releasing smoke from a specially in-
stalled smoke generator after the
rocket has reached approximately
30 km. altitude. The smoke will then
be tracked by optical instruments on
the ground.

The next several years should see
very interesting developments in the
field of upper-atmosphere research,
now that the techniques and ground
work therefor have been laid. At the
present rate of firings there is a sufhi-
cient number of V—2’s on hand to last
for another 2 years. Because of this,
numerous long-range experiments are
planned which are more complex
than any that have been performed
sofar. The rocket has opened the door
to vast regions of space which at
present are known to us primarily
through the astronomer’s telescope.
When one considers the large amount
of work that has been done by the
astronomers and the greater under-
standing of the universe that this work
has given us, one cannot help being
impressed by the research potentialities
of this new field.

LITERATURE CITED

1. SHaptey, H., and Howarrn, H. E.
1929. A source book in astronomy.
McGraw-Hill, New York.

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

2. Huvpsurt, E. O.

1947. Upper atmosphere of the
earth. Journ. Opt. Soc.
Amer., vol. 37, p. 405.

3. FLeminc, J. A.

1939. Terrestrial magnetism and
electricity, p. 148. Mc-
Graw-Hill, New York.

4. O'BRIEN, BRIAN.

1936. Vertical distribution of ozone
in the atmosphere. Pt. 1,
Spectrographic results of
the 1934 flight. Nat.
Geogr. Soc. Contr. Techn.
Pap., Stratosphere Ser., vol.
2, p. 49

5. O’Brien, Brian, Monier, Frep L.,
and Stewart, H. S.

1936. Vertical distribution of ozone
in the atmosphere. Pt. 2,
Spectrographic results of
the 1935 flight. Nat. Geogr.
Soc. Contr. Techn. Pap.,
Stratosphere Ser., vol. 2, p.
Al:

6. NAVAL REsEARCH LABORATORY.

1946. Upper atmosphere research
report No. 1. Naval Res.
Lab. Rep. R-2955.

7. NAVAL REsEARCH LABORATORY.

1946. Upper atmosphere research
report No. 2. Naval Res.
Lab. Rep. R-3030.

8. Navat ResEARCH LABORATORY.

1947. Upper atmosphere research
report No. 3. Naval Res.
Lab. Rep. R-3120.

9. NAavAL RESEARCH LABORATORY.

1947. Upper atmosphere research
report No. 4. Naval Res.
Lab. Rep. R-3171.

10. Smaru, C. H., Jr.

1946. Upper atmosphere research
report No. 1, chap. 1,
General description of V—2
and the firing program of
the Army Ordnance De-
partment. Naval Res. Lab.
Rep. R-2955, p. 7.

11. HeEREN, V. L., HorEppner, C. H.,
Kauke, J. R., Licutman, S. W., and
SHIFFLETT, P. R.

1947. Telemetering from V-—2 rock-
ets. Electronics, vol. 20,
pp. 100-105.

12. Licutmwan, S. W., MENGEL, J. T., and
Smiru, C. R.

1947. Upper atmosphere research
report No. 4, chap. 11, The
telemetering system. Naval
Res. Lab. Rep. R-3171.

13. Bowen, I. S., Mizuman, R. A., and
NeuHER, H. Victor.

1938. New light on the nature and
origin of the incoming cos-
mic rays. Phys. Rev., vol.
53, pp. 855-861.
14,

15:

16.

ilzfe

18.

19:

20.

Zin

Des

23%

24.

25:

V—2 ROCKETS—KRAUSE

Scuetrn, Marcer, Jesse, WiILuiaM P.,
and Wo tan, E. D.

1941. The nature of the primary
cosmic radiation and the
origin of the mesotron.
Phys. Rev., vol. 56, p. 615.

Jounson, T. H.

1939. Composition of cosmic rays.
Evidence that protons are
the primary particles of the
hard component. Rev.
Mod. Phys., vol. 11, p. 208.

Goutan, S. E., Krause, E. H., and
PeRLow, G. J.
1946. Cosmic radiation above forty

miles. Phys. Rev., vol. 70,
pa225-
Gotan, S. E., Krause, E. H., and
PERLOow, G. J.
1946. Additional cosmic-ray meas-
urements with the V-2
rocket. Phys. Rev., vol.

70, pp. 776-777.

PERLow, G. J., and SuipMan, J. D., JR.
1947. Nonprimary cosmic ray elec-
trons above the earth’s at-

mosphere. Phys. Rev., vol.
lS yps925-
WHEELER, J. A.
1946. (Private communication of

August 26.)

Gotan, S. E., and Krauss, E. H.
1947. Further cosmic-ray  experi-
ments above the atmosphere.
Phys. Rev., vol. 71, No. 12,
p. 918.

How tanp, B., SCHROEDER, C. A., and
SHIPMAN, J. D., JR.
1947. Electronics for cosmic-ray ex-
periments. Rev. Sci. Instr.,
vol. 18, p. 551.

Pettit, EpIson.

1932. Measurements of ultra-violet
solar radiations. Astrophys.
Journ., vol. 75, pp. 185-221.

REGENER, Von ERIcH, and REGENER,
Victor H.

1934. Aurnahmen des ultravioletten
Sonnenspektrums in der
Stratosphaére und _ vertikale
Ozonverteilung. Phys. Zeit-
schr., vol. 35, pp. 788-793,

Baum, W. A., Jounson, F. S., OBERLY,
J-J-, Rockwoon, C. C., Strat, C. V.,
and Tousey, R.

1946. Solar ultraviolet spectrum to
88 kilometers. Phys. Rev.,
vol. 70, p. 781.

DuranbD, E., OBERLY, J. J., and Tousry,
R

1947. Solar absorption lines _be-
tween 2950 and 2200 ang-
stroms. Phys. Rev., vol. 71,
pp. 827-828.

26

Dia
28.

208

30.

31.

52!

33:

34.

35.

36.

Jif.

38.

39.

40.

207

. Duranp, E., and Tousgy, R.
1947. Upper atmosphere research

report _No. 3% chap. 2.
Naval Res. Lab. Rep. R-
3120, p. 10.

Duranp, E., and Tousey, R.

1947. Ibid. posit:

Gorz) Es Wee:

1944. Der Stand des Ozonproblems.
Viert. Naturf. Ges. Zurich,
vol. 89, p. 250.

WHIPPLE, FRED L.

1943. Meteors and the earth’s upper
atmosphere. Rev. Mod.
Phys., vol. 15, pp. 246-264.

GUTENBERG, B.

1939. The velocity of sound waves
and the temperature in the
stratosphere in Southern
California. Bull. Amer.
Meteor. Soc., vol. 20, p. 192.

STRONG, J.

1944. Procedures in experimental
physics, p. 145. Prentice-
Hall, New York.

YARWOOD, J.

1945. High vacuum technique, p.
29. Chapman and Hall,
London.

STRONG, J.
1944. Op. cit. (see 31), p. 143.

Best, NoLan R., DurAnp, Eric, GALE,
Donatp I., and HAvENs, RALPH J.
1946. Pressure and temperature
measurements in the upper
atmosphere. Phys. Rev.,
vol. 70, p. 985.

Best, N., Havens, R., and LaGow, H.
1947. Pressure and temperature of
the atmosphere to 120 km.
Phys. Rev., vol. 71, p. 915.
Taytor, G. I., and Maccott, J. W.
1933. The air pressure on a cone
moving at high speeds.—1.
Proc. Roy. Soc. London,
Ser. A, vol. 139, p. 278.
WarFIELD, CALVIN N.
1947. Tentative tables for the prop-
erties of the upper atmos-

phere. Nat. Advisory
Comm. for Aeronautics,
Techn. Note 1200.

Mimno, H. R.

1937. The physics of the ionosphere.
Rev. Mod. Phys., vol. 9,
INO. 15 pit.

FLEMING, J. A.
1939. Op. cit. (see 3), chap. 9.
SEeppon, J. C., and Sry, J. W.

1946. Upper atmosphere research
report No. 1, chap. 3,
Theoretical discussions of
the ionosphere experiment.
Naval Res. Lab. Rep. R-
2955, p. 49.
208 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

41. Burnricut, T. R., Crark, J. F., and 42. Brecstraun, T. A.

Seppon, J. C. 1947. Photography from the V-2
1947. Upper atmosphere research rocket at altitudes ranging
report No. 4, chap. 6, Iono- up to 160 kilometers. Naval

sphere research with the Res. Lab. Rep. R-3083.

V-2. Naval Res. Lab. Rep.
R-3171.
Roentgen Rays Against Cancer’

By Joun G. Trump, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology

[With 6 plates}

The disease to which Hippocrates
in the fourth century B. C. applied the
enigmatic and disquieting name of
“cancer” is now for the first time
marked for open battle by the com-
bined forces of science, medicine, and
enlightened public opinion. Cancer
has made a vivid and fearful impres-
sion upon the human mind since
antiquity. The earliest account of
some of its clinical symptoms is re-
corded in an Egyptian papyrus of the
fifteenth century B. C. Many ob-
servations of its nature had been made
by the end of the Hippocratian era,
and further accurate classification of
the disease was accomplished in A. D.
150 by Galen, whose principles per-
sisted until the nineteenth ceatury.
Today the ultimate nature and causes
of cancer are still largely a riddle, but
knowledge of its almost infinite mani-
festations and factors affecting them is
steadily advancing. While cancer the
disease is growing in social importance,
the successes in cancer research and
therapy have been many and can now
occasionally offer hope of complete
clinical cure. In this battle against
the most mysterious and baffling of
human diseases, the armamentarium
of humanity includes the techniques
of the physicist, chemist, geneticist,
biologist, bacteriologist, as well as the

internist, surgeon, and_ radiologist.

1 Reprinted by permission from The
Technology Review, vol. 50, No. 2, Decem-

ber 1947, edited at the Massachusetts Insti-
tute of Technology. ;

Most recently, because of the critical
need for early diagnosis and enlightened
response, the general public is being
awakened to its necessary role in this
developing conflict.

Among the civilized countries of the
world, cancer is now definitely second
only to the diseases of the heart as a
cause of death. In the United States
about 175,000 people die annually of
this disease. More than 1 in 10,
about equally divided between men
and women, are destined to die of
cancer. The apparent rise through
the years in the incidence of this
disease is undoubtedly due to im-
proved diagnosis and to the increasing
age of populations, for cancer pre-
ferentially strikes those of middle and
advanced age, although certain types,
such as embryonal tumors, are more
common in early life. Several hundred
varieties of malignant tumors are now
recognized, and their characteristic
development has been the subject of
clinical observation for many years.
More important, fundamental proc-
esses In the origin of cancer and its
control are the subject of intensive
research. The genetic factor in the
incidence of cancer has been studied in
both men and animals, as well as the
carcinogenic effect of mechanical irri-
tation, of certain chemical compounds,
of bacteria, of viruses, and of exposure
to radiation. The study of transplant-
able tumors and the factors contribut-
ing to the development of the graft or
the maintenance of immunity, the

209
210

possibilities of ionizing radiation to
inhibit the growth of, or to destroy,
malignant tissue, the use of hormone
and certain chemical inhibitors, and a
host of other types of fundamental
biologic, physical, and clinical research
are throwing light on the basic prob-
lem of cancer.

Two Accepted Forms of Cancer Therapy

Even with this long background of
intensive investigation, the only two
accepted methods of treatment for
cancer are surgery and radiation
therapy. With few scattered excep-
tions, it is only by completely exorcis-
ing the malignant tumor or by remov-
ing it in situ with cell-destroying
radiations that this disease can now be
controlled or eliminated. Both these
techniques, often used in combination,
have resulted in thousands of clinical
cures, particularly in the case of super-
ficial malignancies or in deep tumors
detected in their early stages. Both
these techniques have improved stead-
ily with time. The former has pro-
gressed because of the increasing skill of
the surgeon and the anesthetist and
their techniques now permit the re-
moval of new growths from nearly any
organ or tissue of the body. The
latter has depended upon the develop-
ment of new and more effective forms
of radiation intelligently employed by
the radiologist. Cancer of the lip,
mouth, larynx, uterus, and bladder is
often treated by radiation alone.
In addition, radiation plays an indis-
pensable role in combination with
surgery for the control of many other
types of malignant tumors. It is in
the field of radiation therapy that
significant contributions have been
made by the research groups at
the Massachusetts Institute of Tech-
nology, where engineering, physical,
and clinical research on cancer has
been in progress for more than a
decade.

Supervoltage Roentgen-Ray Treatment

The problem of the radiologist is to
deliver to the malignant tumor such a

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

quantity of ionizing radiation as to
effect its gradual, but complete,
destruction while causing only a
tolerable injury to surrounding healthy
tissue. Particularly in the treatment
of deep tumors and those concerned
with vital organs has the use of
penetrating and ionizing radiation
been indispensable. Within a few
months of Roentgen’s discovery the
therapeutic, as well as the diagnostic,
value of X-rays had been noted, and
X-rays were being employed for the
treatment of superficial lesions. A few
years later, Madame Curie’s brilliant
isolation of radium, whose products
emit a similar but far more penetrating
radiation, added another powerful
tool for therapy. During the next
50 years the relatively low-voltage and
easily absorbed roentgen rays available
to Roentgen’s medical confreres have
been gradually increased to about
250-kilovolt radiation for the deep-
therapy application. The limited
amount of radium is used to an in-
creasing extent only in direct applica-
tion to accessible tumors—those on
the surface or accessible through the
body orifices. In interstitial therapy
the gamma-ray emitting needles or
seeds are inserted into the tumor mass.
Deep tumors, the most serious clinical
problem, are now universally irradi-
ated with roentgen rays in the 250-
kilovolt energy range, assisted in
certain cases by gamma-ray irradi-
ation.

That higher voltages would produce
a superior quality of radiation for deep
therapy has been appreciated for many
years. During the last decade, how-
ever, less than a dozen clinical institu-
tions in the world have had available
X-ray sources operating in the vicinity
of 1 million volts. Dr. Robert S.
Stone of the University Hospital in
San Francisco has treated patients
since 1935 with million-volt radiation
produced by the ingenious high-
frequency Sloan generator now
obsolete because of its complexity.
In’ 1937 Dr. Richard).Dresserggor
Harvard’s Huntington Memorial Hos-
ROENTGEN RAYS AGAINST CANCER—TRUMP

pital in Boston began the first constant-
potential X-ray treatments with the
M. I. T. air-insulated electrostatic
generator operating at slightly more
than 1 million volts. This was
followed by the Massachusetts General
Hospital program in 1940, under Dr.
George W. Holmes and now Dr.
Laurence L. Robbins, using M. I. T.’s
1¥%-million-volt pressure-insulated gen-
erator. At the St. Bartholomew’s
Hospital in London clinical treatments
were begun by Dr. Ralph Phillips in
1937 at 700 kilovolts and the large
transformer-rectifier apparatus was
gradually improved to million-volt
operation. The Memorial Hospital in
New York has used General Electric’s
million-volt resonance transformer for
X-ray therapy for about 10 years. In
Norway, Dr. S. N. Bakke of the
Municipal Hospital, Haukeland, Ber-
gen, began treatments in 1942 with a
1%-million-volt air-insulated electro-
static generator designed by Odd
Dahl, formerly of the Carnegie Institu-
tion of Washington. A number of
other programs at intermediate volt-
ages could be mentioned. All have
reported with varying degrees of
enthusiasm the observation that cer-
tain more favorable therapeutic re-
actions could definitely be ascribed to
the higher voltages at which the
X-rays were generated.

Radiation Therapy at 2 and 3
Million Volts

Since January 1946, in a clinical
therapy program under the medical
direction of Dr. Richard Dresser,
patients have been treated on the
grounds of M. I. T. with roentgen
radiation produced by an electrostatic
research generator which can operate
at well over 3 million volts. In the
ensuing 18 months, complete treat-
ment series were given to more than
150 selected patients. After interrup-
tion during the summer of 1947 this
clinical program will be resumed with
a larger clinic and improved, higher-
voltage apparatus. Roentgen radi-
ation produced by 3 million volts

211

exceeds in quality the gamma rays
from radium in equilibrium with its
decay products. The output intensity
of this therapeutic generator is several
times greater than the combined
radiation output of the entire world
supply of this precious material. This
roentgen-ray source operates at the
highest voltages thus far clinically used
in cancer therapy. The preliminary
observations made in the course of the
work have generally confirmed the
physical evidence that roentgen rays of
several million volts of energy are
superior in certain important respects
to the relatively low-energy radiation
now in common use and even con-
siderably better than the 1-million-volt
radiation investigated over the last
decade. ‘That extensive clinical re-
search by many investigators will be
required to exploit fully the thera-
peutic qualities of these high-energy
radiations is also evident; several years
of physical and clinical research will
be needed to consolidate the benefits
derived from higher voltages.

The supervoltage X-ray source lo-
cated in a small building on Institute
property near Vassar Street in Cam-
bridge is a pressure-insulated electro-
static generator of the type first
developed by Robert J. Van de
Graaff. Designed by the electrical
engineering group in 1940 for physical
and medical research, it was applied
during World War II to the irradiation
of atomic-pile materials with intense
ionizing radiations and also served as
a prototype for the electrostatic gener-
ators developed ‘at’ Ms I.) Totor
military radiography. Now, reapplied
to peaceful pursuits, high priority is
given to the daily medical program,
but the unusual quality and quantity
of ionizing radiation produced by this
equipment is also of interest in other
investigations. In a cooperative study
with the Department of Food Tech-
nology, the biological and photo-
chemical effects of both X-rays and
cathode rays on micro-organisms and
on food and drug products are being
studied. In another aspect of this
212 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

Charge Removing Points . High Voltage Terminat

Generating Voltmeter Steel Pressure Tank
n

Tungsten Filament
X-Ray Tube
Accelerating Diaphragms

Insulating Rings

Equipotential Planes Resistance Potential Divider
Electron Beam
Charge Conveyer Belt

Driving Motor Ground Plane

Charge Sprayer Points

Transformer Rectifier
for Charge Spraying

Water-Cooled Gold Anode
Lead Diaphragm System

lonization Chamber for
Measuring X-Ray Dosage

ete X-Ray Beam
\
ON

Ficure 1.—Diagram of an electrostatic X-ray generator. Following the original suggestion
of R. J. Van de Graaff, electric charge is transferred to the high-voltage terminal at a
continuous rate by a belt of insulating material. This charge maintains the terminal at a
steady negative potential with respect to ground, and supplies the electrons required by
the acceleration tube. Both tube and belt are mounted within the insulating column
which is especially designed to insure a uniform voltage distribution between terminal and
the ground plane. Electrons emitted from the hot tungsten filament at the high-potential
end of the tube are progressively accelerated and focused as they pass along the acceleration
tube and thus acquire the full potential of the terminal. On impact with the water-cooled
god anode, the kinetic energy of the electrons is transferred into penetrating radiant energy.

ince this radiation is emitted in all directions, a lead diaphragm system is used to absorb
the unwanted radiation and to define the beam of ionizing radiation used in therapy.
Except for the interior of the highly evacuated X-ray tube, the entire apparatus is insulated
by compressed gas at a pressure of 27 atmospheres. It is this feature which permits these
instruments to be built with unusual compactness.

program the physical properties of
these radiations and their action on
nonliving matter are actively followed.

An important therapeutic property
of these supervoltage roentgen rays is
the unusually high skin tolerance
which almost completely eliminates
skin damage in the treatment of deep
tumors. In the past, X-ray therapy

has suffered from the limitation that
the radiation must enter through the
relatively radiosensitive skin and
undergo very considerable attenuation
and misdirection by the absorption
and scattering processes before it
reaches the site of a deep tumor.
Many of these difficulties are reduced
by the skill of the radiologist in the
ROENTGEN RAYS AGAINST CANCER—TRUMP

choice of treatment distance, field size,
number of portals through which the
radiation is directed, and fractiona-
tion technique by which he distributes
the total dose over a period of days or
weeks. More often than not, how-
ever, in the present treatment of deep-
seated malignancies, the tumor dose
is established not by the optimum
amount required to destroy the tumor,
but rather by the tolerance of the
surrounding normal tissue and skin
through which the radiation must
pass. Most deep tumors treated with
200-kilovolt radiation can be reduced,
if at all, only by doses which produce
a violent skin reaction and the ab-
sorption of sufficient ionizing energy
by the patient to produce nausea and
other physiological disturbances. In
the clinical program at M. I. T. it
was found that both of these difficul-
ties have almost entirely disappeared.
Doses have been delivered to the site
of a deep tumor sufficient to cause its
regression with only mild skin ery-
thema or no skin reaction at all.
Patients have been treated for ab-
dominal tumors with little or no
systemic reaction. Clearly the possi-
bility has been developed for the first
time of delivering to a deep tumor a
dose defined primarily by the require-
ments at the tumor site rather than
the tolerance of intervening tissue.

A second advantageous property for
deep therapy of supervoltage roentgen
rays is the substantial increase in
penetration of the radiation beam.
For a given dose sustained in the
region of the skin, 3-million-volt rays
will deliver twice as much ionization
energy to a tumor at a depth of 10
centimeters as will 200-kilovolt rays.
As a result, deep tumors can be much
more efficiently irradiated with less
damage to surrounding healthy struc-
tures and less total ionizing energy
absorbed within the body of the
patient.

Radiologists have often employed
the “‘cross-firing”’ technique as a means
of delivering a high tumor dose with
a minimum of external skin damage.

213

In such procedure the tumor is irradi-
ated from several directions so that
the dose is cumulative in the tumor,
but distributed in the surrounding
healthy tissue and skin. When this
technique is likewise applied with
supervoltages, unusual selectivity of
radiation dose is accomplished. Cross-
firing from three directions results in
a deep tumor dose which is greater
than the highest dose sustained else-
where in the tissue. Using a continu-
ous cross-firing technique with super-
voltage rays, it becomes possible to
deliver to a localized deep tumor
dosages which are six times higher
than those absorbed by even nearby
healthy tissue. Thus the dream of the
radiologist of delivering to arbitrarily
selected regions deep within the body
cell-destroying ionization far greater
than that sustained in other regions
becomes attainable.

Unfortunately the clinical problem
is often more complicated. Deep-
seated malignancies may not be well
defined. Tumors of the bladder, uter-
us, larynx, and thorax are often
localized, whereas other common can-
cer types are likely to have nearby or
distant extensions from the primary
tumor site. Metastasis from the pri-
mary tumor along the lymph nodes is
a common characteristic which re-
quires that these distributed regions of
possible malignancy must be found
and destroyed. The probable areas
where metastasis might occur are often
fairly definitely known from clinical
experience so that preventive radia-
tion therapy may be initiated even
before symptoms appear. It is per-
haps even more important to treat
effectively the periphery of malignant
regions and their actual or anticipated
metastases than to concentrate on the
primary tumor. Although this clinical
problem is more complicated, the use
of more penetrating, less scattering,
and more skin-favoring supervoltage
radiation, combined with real diag-
nostic and radiologic skill, should pay
dividends in increased comfort and
life of the patient.
214

High-voltage Research at M. I. T.

The present medical work with sup-
ervoltage X-rays is an outgrowth of a
development program for nuclear
research which began at M. I. T. in
1932. At that time Robert J. Van de
Graaff, then just removed from Prince-
ton where he had developed the
electrostatic principle of voltage gener-

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

Today the original Round Hill gen-
erator, moved to a steel building on
the Institute’s property in Cambridge,
is In continuous use in nuclear studies
with electrons or positive ions of 2-
million-volts energy. The steady
stream of charged particles produced
by the electrostatic accelerator is hom-
ogeneous and accurately controllable

EQUIVALENT VOLTAGE IN MILLIONS

Sore -9

ce

22 3 MILUON VOLT
X-RAY SPECTRUM

: |

RELATIVE INTENSITY
o

0 Q004 adi2 a0oz0
WAVELENGTH

0.028
IN ANGSTROM UNITS

2 MILUON VOLT
X-RAY SPECTRUM

500,000_ VOLT
X-RAY SPECTRUM

0036 Q044) 052

Figure 2.—When high-energy electrons are stopped on impact with a gold target, their

kinetic energy is converted into penetrating electromagnetic radiation.

The effect of

increasing the voltage is to move the continuous X-ray spectrum in the direction of shorter

wave lengths and to increase efficiency of X-ray production.

The curves show that the

spectrum of 3-million-volt X-rays includes wave lengths shorter than those emitted by
radium in equilibrium with its products, as shown by the line spectrum. Such radiation is,
therefore, superior to radium in its penetrating, nonscattering properties.

ation for which he is acclaimed, was
constructing the large air-insulated
electrostatic generators at Round Hill,
New Bedford, for nuclear research.
Within the Department of Electrical
Engineering investigations were begin-
ning on the insulation of electrostatic
generators in high vacuum and on the
possibility of developing more com-
pact sources of high constant potentials.

in energy and free from extraneous
background radiation. These char-
acteristics are virtually indispensable
in certain important precision studies
of nuclear structure and are not at-
tained in the cyclotron, betatron,
synchrotron, or other indirect par-
ticle-accelerators which are inherently
capable of producing far greater ener-
gies. A new compressed-gas insulated
Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Trump PLATE 1

Pioneering work in radiation with X-rays produced by over 1 million volts was
made possible by the M. I. T.-designed air-insulated electrostatic generator at
the Huntington Memorial Hospital. More than 1,000 patients have been
treated with this unusual equipment which established many of the advantages
of supervoltage radiation for deep cancer therapy.
Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Trump PEATE:

Exterior of the Hyams Building which houses the 3-million-volt X-ray and cath-
ode-ray generator used in clinical research at M. I. T.
Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Trump PEATE SS

The column and terminal structure of the 3-million-volt generator at M. I. T.
with its tank removed. This generator produces voltages over 10 times higher
than the standard voltage for deep X-ray therapy. Its radiation output,
more penetrating than gamma rays of radium, is equivalent to several times
the total world supply of that precious material.
Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Trump PLATE 4

This circular radiograph and the two shown on plate 5 illustrate the technique
of cross-firing with one- three- and continuous-portal radiation, as described
under each of the separate illustrations.

A 2-million-volt beam of X-rays passing through a 20-centimeter cylinder of
Masonite representing a phantom patient. In deep X-ray therapy the beam
of radiation must enter through the skin and pass through the intervening
healthy tissue before it reaches the tumor itself. Supervoltage X-rays pro-
duce relatively little reaction on the radiation-sensitive skin, and, because of
the higher penetration and lower scattering, are capable of delivering a higher
dose to a deep tumor than can be achieved with lower-voltage X-rays.
‘s1oumn} deep pozl[Boo] Surjwer} ur Aoustoyya ysry afqrssod
seyvut ‘onbruyoe, SuMYy-Sssolo YIM poulquios ‘uOTyRBIpPRs
aseqoAdodng “1oun} ey} 0} Jusoefpe onssy AyQRey Aq
POUIBISNS JYVYI SOUIT} [BIOAOS PUB UTYS DATISUOS-UOT}BIPBI
ey} Aq poureysns yey} sour) AuBUT ssop JOWIN} WIOJTUN &B UT
sqynsod “Quoryed oY} 0} OATJBIoI UIBE PoJoodIp-LouINy ay} Sur

f ¢ y- ‘ Q ¢ Y .
-yejyor AyTsnonuruos Aq poonpord ‘Surry-sso1oa snonuyuoy °z

G ALV1d

‘UOTSaL IOUINY poJo9Jos OY} OpIs}no poureysns osop qsoysry
oy} UBYT ToysIy Juso1ed QQ St osop IoUIN} oY} osBo ST} UT
‘o1oY UMOYS SB Sa[suR JUoIoYIp sary} Woy IoUIN, oY} 4B
pepodllp st UOTBIped oy} onbruyoo} Surry-ssodo [ey10d-sa1yy
oy} Ul ‘sdiyjs yrep oy} Aq UMOYS SB suOTDoIIP [BIOAOS
ULOTF LOVIN} OY} 4B popoIIp SI UOTJRIPRI OY YOM ul onbru
Yo} BULIQ-ssodd AG pojueUTSNR oq UBd Sesop JOUINy dosq ‘T

duini L— 861 “‘juoday ueruosYy {IMG
Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Trump PLATE 6

This supervoltage X-ray generator, the most compact machine thus far developed
for cancer therapy, is comparable in size and flexibility of use to lower-voltage
equipment now generally available. It was developed at M. I. T. under a
grant by the American Oncologic Hospital which will use it in its program of
deep therapy.
ROENTGEN RAYS AGAINST CANCER—TRUMP

generator which has been designed
since the war in Dr. Van de Graaff’s
laboratory is being reproduced in
several of the world’s principal nuclear
research laboratories, among them
Cockcroft’s National Nuclear Labora-
tory at Harwell, England, Joliot’s
laboratory in the College de France in
Paris, and the National Research
Council’s Chalk River Laboratory in
Canada. Several dozen electrostatic
accelerators scattered about the world,
notably including those designed by
Prof. R. G. Herb at the University of
Wisconsin, have been used in research
which has made important contribu-
tions to the knowledge of nuclear
processes.

Back in 1934 the realization that
electrostatically generated voltages
could also be used in the production
of unusually penetrating X-rays for
deep therapy led to the opportunity to
build the 1-million volt air-insulated
generator for the Huntington Memo-
rial Hospital. This machine and its
building were financed by the Godfrey
M. Hyams Trust, a Boston philan-
thropy which has continued loyally to
support the high-voltage medical work
at M. I. T. On March 1, 1937, the
first patient was treated at the Hunt-
ington, and during the subsequent 4%
years well over 1,000 patients were
given complete treatment series. ‘This
pioneering effort in radiology disclosed
at an early date the great benefits that
could be derived in avoiding skin
damage and increasing the depth dose
by use of roentgen rays produced by
several times the standard voltage.
In 1939 development of a compact 1,-
million-volt gas-insulated X-ray source
was undertaken for the Massachusetts
General Hospital. This generator was
placed in use in April 1940, and has
since been in continuous clinical use.
Between 15 and 25 patients are treated
daily with the equipment developed
and built at M. I. T., and the voltages
now generally used with this apparatus
lie in the range between 1% and 1%
million volts. This work has further
confirmed the desirability of super-

817369—49——_16

215

voltages in the treatment of certain
types of malignancies and has empha-
sized the need to investigate the effi-
cacy of roentgen rays produced at still
higher energy levels. The electrical
engineering group at M. I. T. extended
its efforts to the development of a
higher-voltage X-ray source for Phila-
delphia’s American Oncologic Hos-
pital. ‘The first generator for Onco-
logic, completed during the war, was
requisitioned by the United States
Army for nuclear research at Chicago.
Its successor, a tiltable 2-million-volt
unit now nearly ready for delivery, is
the most compact supervoltage X-ray
source yet seen. Meanwhile, the
supervoltage X-ray generator at Tech-
nology has made possible the extension
of pioneering clinical researches to 3
million volts and is now being modified
to bring the voltage to 5 million volts.

Present Therapy Spectrum

At no time in medical history have
sO many types of ionizing radiation
been available for therapy and re-
search. Artificially radioactive sub-
stances produced within the nuclear
pile or by the cyclotron, roentgen rays
produced by betatrons with energies
up to 100 million volts, high-energy
cathode rays, and _ well-collimated
beams of neutrons and protons are all
under investigation or proposed for
use on the deep-tumor problem.
Artificially radioactive substances are
of unique and fundamental impor-
tance as tracers in biological and clini-
cal research, but only a few materials
such as radio-iodine and radio-phos-
phorus have thus far found limited
therapeutic use. Roentgen rays with
energies much higher than a few
million volts may actually become less
desirable for therapy because of the
increasing narrowness of the radiation
beam at the very high energies and
the seriously high exit dose which once
again produces skin damage. High-
energy cathode rays, which behave
like bullets in the sense that they pro-
duce no damage in the body beyond
their maximum range, are still too new
216

to be fully evaluated, but may find an
important place in the future. Cyclo-
tron-produced neutroa beams have
been investigated for about 10 years at
the University of California with
interesting but inconclusive results to
date. While all this spectrum of
ionizing radiations will need to be
thoroughly studied, it is already clear
that roentgen rays produced by a few
million volts have the most direct con-
nection with the extensive roentgen-
therapy experience of the past and
offer very significantly improved prop-
erties for the treatment of deep
malignant tumors.

Electrostatics in Production

Only a few supervoltage equipments
constructed by skillful experimenters
have thus far been available for re-
search and medicine. With increasing
recognition of the unique capabilities
of electrostatic accelerators, there de-
veloped a corresponding need for a
reliable commercial source of such
devices. Toward the end of 1946,
after efforts to utilize existing com-
panies, the High Voltage Engineering
Corp. was organized in response to
this urgent requirement. Located in
a plant near Harvard University,
staffed in part by men who partici-
pated in the wartime electrostatic
program of the Institute and with
consultants from M. I. T., the Uni-
versity of Wisconsin, and Rice Insti-
tute, this company has gathered the
best scientific experience in this im-
portant and difficult technique for the
benefit of science and medicine.
The new enterprise was financed by
the American Research and Develop-
ment Corp., recently organized by
leading New England citizens, in-
cluding Senator Ralph E. Flanders of
Vermont and Harvard’s_ General
Georges F. Doriot, who is its president.
Advised by Technology’s president,
Karl T. Compton, Prof. Edwin R.
Gilliland, °33, of the Department of

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

Chemical Engineering, Jerome C.
Hunsaker, °12, head of the Depart-
ments of Aeronautical and Mechanical
Engineering, and others, the American
Research and Development Corp.
has the purpose of encouraging the
development of new industries with
strong roots in science. No organiza-
tional or financial connection exists
between Technology and the High
Voltage Engineering Corp., but a
mutual appreciation of the need for
adequate commercial development
of the products of scientific research
has created an atmosphere of common
endeavor. The High Voltage En-
gineering Corp. is headed by Dr.
Denis M. Robinson, who was Com-
monwealth fellow at M. I. T. in 1929,
scientific representative of the Tele-
communications Research Establish-
ment (Britain’s radar development
laboratory) assigned to the Radiation
Laboratory at M. I. T. during the
war, and in the first postwar year
chairman of the Department of Elec-
trical Engineering at the University of
Birmingham in England.

Typically a product of modern
times, the High Voltage Engineering
Corp. is building the latest tool for
medical science against cancer—a
compact 2-million-volt X-ray source
fully as flexible as conventional lower-
voltage equipments. Such 2-million-
volt generators, engineered for therapy
and science, are already scheduled
for shipment to leading medical and
research institutions in England,
France, and the United States. At
the same time, recognizing that it
possesses the knowledge and _ ability
for creating one of the most powerful
tools for nuclear research, this com-
pany is undertaking the production of
electrostatic positive-ion accelerators
of still higher energy rating. It is
hoped that by this means not a few of
the products of fundamental science
and engineering may become available
for the full use and benefit of all
mankind.
The Optical Glass Industry, Past and Present’

By Franois W. Giaze, Technologist, National Bureau of Standards

[With 4 plates]

The earliest lenses known to have
been employed were probably hand
magnifiers, as both Seneca and Aris-
tophanes mention them. Quartz and
glass lenses have been unearthed from
the ruins of Nineveh, Pompeii, and
Herculaneum. Ptolemy, A. D. 100,
wrote a whole book on optics.

A portrait, painted in 1352, shows
two mounted lenses with handles
riveted together, in front of the eyes
of the subject. The invention of
printing by Gutenberg, in the middle
of the fifteenth century, stimulated
the use of such spectacles; but, even so,
it was not until 1760 that Benjamin
Franklin invented the first pair of
bifocal spectacle lenses.

It seems likely that the increasing
use of spectacles furnished the impetus,
directly or indirectly, for the develop-
ment of both the microscope and the
telescope. Some authorities credit the
invention of both instruments to
Johann and Zacharius Jansen in 1590,
while others give credit to Hans
Lippershey or James Metius of Alk-
maar for the creation of the telescope
about 1608. In any case, between
1590 and 1620, interest in the telescope
developed rapidly. This early work
on the telescope was with the refractor
type of instrument. It was not until
1670 that Sir Isaac Newton described
to the Royal Society the first reflecting
telescope and also demonstrated its use.

1 Reprinted by permission from Sky and
Telescope, vol. 6, No. 3, January, and No. 4,
February, 1947.

However, a similar type of instrument
had been described by James Gregory
in his Optica Promota in 1663.
Another type of reflecting telescope
was invented in 1672 by Cassegrain.

During the next 200 years many im-
provements were made in optical
instruments, thereby giving great im-
petus to the search for better optical
glass. Its quality was greatly im-
proved by the discovery, in 1790, of a
method of producing a glass chemically
homogeneous and substantially free
from imperfections such as “‘stones’’
and bubbles. This invention and
much of its subsequent development
must be credited to Pierre-Louis
Guinand, a Swiss watchmaker, and
his descendants and their associates.
They found that chemical homogene-
ity could be obtained by stirring the
molten glass and also discovered
means of annealing the resultant
product. Later Guinand worked with
J. Fraunhofer in Bavaria. The latter
ultimately attained considerable suc-
cess and produced telescope disks up
to 28 centimeters (11 inches) in diam-
eter. He further initiated the specifi-
cation of refraction and dispersion in
terms of certain lines of the spectrum
and he even attempted an investiga-
tion of the effect of chemical composi-
tion on the relative dispersion
produced by glasses in different parts
of the spectrum.

One of the associates of the Guinand
family, Bonteps, was forced to flee to
England in 1848 because of political

217
218

troubles. There he became connected
with Chance Bros., still one of the
better-known manufacturers of optical
glass. E. and C. Feil, great-grandsons
of Guinand, worked with E. Mantois;
this association later developed into
the famous French optical glass com-
pany of Parra-Mantois. In 1887,
Edmond Feil, ason of C. Feil, went to
Eneland where he offered his knowl-
edge to Chance Bros.

Although much work was done by
Faraday and Harcourt in England
more than a hundred years ago, the
outstanding study of the relationship
between composition and optical con-
stants was carried out by O. Schott in
an effort to develop glasses having the
optical properties desired by Professor
Abbe of the University of Jena, who
was trying principally to develop bet-
ter microscope objectives. Except for
a limited number of coloring agents,
the compounds of only five or six
elements were in general use prior to
1880. Only two types of optical glass
were known: crown, a lime glass, and
flint, a lead glass. There were many
shortcomings in lenses which simple
combinations of these two types of
glass could not overcome. Through
the work of Schott and his collabo-
rators at Jena, about 25 new elements
or their compounds became available
to the glass industry. Also, from this
work developed the famous optical
glass plant of Schott and Genossen.
Schott discovered that the glasses com-
pounded with these new materials
possessed a wide range of optical
properties, and this discovery made it
possible to build up optical systems
free from the defects previously ex-
hibited.

As nearly as can be determined, the
first successful manufacture of optical
glass in the United States was by
Macbeth & Co. of Pittsburgh, Pa.,
about the year 1893 (possibly earlier).
It is in this connection that we next
hear of Edmond Feil, as superin-
tendent of the firm’s optical glass
factory. This plant, according to
Chance, finally managed to make

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

“some beautiful glass of great purity
and reasonably fine quality of anneal-
ing.”

Evidently Feil did not remain with
Macbeth & Co. long, for in 1897 he
was working with the Manhattan
Optical Co. and operating a small
glass plant at Cresskill, N. J. Their
specialty was lenses for photographic
purposes. Production started about
1896 and continued for approximately
6 years, after which the Manhattan
Optical Co. combined with the Gund-
lach Manufacturing Co. of Fairport,
N. Y., and the glass plant ceased
operation. Thus it seems that the
manufacture of optical glass in this
country was undertaken with the
assistance of a direct descendant (the
great-great-grandson) of Pierre-Louis
Guinand, one of the earliest workers in
the field.

The National Bureau of Standards
entered the field, in a preliminary
way, at its Pittsburgh laboratory in
July 1914, under the direction of
P. H. Bates, who retired from the
Bureau shortly after WVJ-day. Just
prior to this (about 1912), the Bausch
& Lomb Optical Co. started work in
the same field. Both of these organi-
zations have been producing glass
ever since.

It is evident from the foregoing
that the manufacture of optical glass
in the United States is a modern
industry. Also, it is only an industry
of moderate size except in wartime, as
can be seen from the accompanying
table.

TasLe 1.—Production of optical glass in the
United States during World Wars I and II,

in pounds
Wortp War I Worvp War II

1917:

Aprile co st 27850) s193Se sree 61, 000

pyutlyeperssie: 4,800 19395... 1453000

October... 15,645 1940.... 260,000

1941. 8012000

1918: 1942.... 2,851, 000

January... 35,955 1943.... 3, 688, 000

April. .... 24, 363

ulyceeeee 55.355

October... 79, 275
OPTICAL GLASS INDUSTRY—GLAZE

There are no accurate figures for
the production of optical glass for the
years 1917-37 inclusive. However, it
is safe to say that it did not appreciably
exceed 61,000 pounds (1938 produc-
tion) for any year during that period.

Optical glass, as used in lenses,
functions as a medium to refract the
rays of light from any distant object
so that they will converge to a single
corresponding point in the image.
This requirement is extremely difficult
to meet and demands that the glass
in each lens (or prism) element be of
uniform quality throughout and that
its optical constants agree very closely
with those of certain standard types of
glass. ‘To manufacture on a large
scale a series of different types of glass
of this degree of perfection requires
close attention to details.

The characteristics of good optical
glass are:

1. Homogeneity.

a. Uniformity of chemical composition,
including freedom from streaks of
different compositions within the
glass mass (striae).

b. Freedom from seeds, or bubbles.

c. Freedom from included fragments of
undissolved material or crystal-
lites within the glass mass (stones).

d. Freedom from cloudiness.

2. Definite refractive indices for different
wave lengths of light.

3. Freedom from color.

4. High degree of transparency.

5. High degree of chemical and physical
stability.

a. Resistance to action of weather and
certain chemical agents.

b. Toughness and hardness.

The art of making optical glass of the
above characteristics is the subject of
the following necessarily general ac-
count.

Practically all optical glass in the
United States is made in pots which
are used only once. Hence, the first
requisite is a pot of the necessary
refractoriness. And here we run into
one of the main compromises necessary
in connection with optical glass pro-
duction. The denser or less porous a
pot body is, the less it is attacked by
the glass or its batch. But, the denser
the pot body is, the more sensitive it

219

is to thermal shock (sudden tempera-
ture change). So the type of body
finally selected is somewhat less than
the ideal both as to corrosion resistance
and resistance to thermal shock.

The pots are made up essentially of
four constituents: feldspar, ball or
bonding clay, kaolin, and grog (old
pot body). The porosity of the pot
body is controlled by the particle sizes
of the grog used. In this country all
pots are cast in a mold made of plaster
of Paris. For the more corrosive
glasses, pots are made more resistant
by means of a dense lining. This pro-
vides the resistance to shock of a porous
body and the resistance to corrosion
of a dense body. After the pot has
dried sufficiently so that it can be
handled, it is removed from the mold
and air-dried for 3 weeks or more.
It is then ready to set in the pot arch
for burning (pl. 1, 1). This burning
takes anywhere from 48 to 100 hours,
depending on the density of the pot
body, for pots of approximately 7
cubic feet capacity such as are used
at the National Bureau of Standards.
Of course, the denser the pot body,
the more slowly it should be burned.
The pot can be fired completely in
the pot arch or it can be partially
fired in the pot arch and the firing
completed in the melting furnace.

The transfer of the pot from the pot
arch to the melting furnace is accom-
plished by means of a pot carriage.
This is equipped with a pair of massive
tongs operated from the rear of the
carriage, and with a counterweight
which can be moved along the carriage
to balance the weight of the pot of
glass. The melting furnace is gener-
ally regenerative—that is, built over
two chambers of checkerwork which
are alternately heated by the gases of
combustion and then used to heat the
incoming air necessary for combus-
tion. The fuel usually used is gas,
preferably natural gas.

After the pot has been completely
fired at the melting temperature of
the particular glass it is designed to
hold, it is ready to receive the batch
220

and cullet (waste glass from previous
melts) (pl. 1, 2, right). The time
necessary to fill a pot with batch
varies from 5 to 10 hours. The
temperature of the melting furnace
during this operation may be as low
as 1350° C. or as high as 1450° C.,
depending on the difficulty with which
the batch melts. After the batch has
melted down and foaming has ceased,
the stirring of the molten glass can be
started. This is accomplished by
means of a thimble made of the same
materials as the pot, actuated by
means of a water-cooled rod driven
by a horizontal rotating drum and
working over a pulley or a guide asa
fulcrum (pl. 1, 2, left).

As soon as the molten glass is reason-
ably free of seeds or bubbles of gas, it
is gradually cooled to the temperature
at which the pot of glass should be
removed from the furnace. As the
molten glass cools down, the rate of
stirring must be decreased so that air
will not be sucked into the glass in the
wake of the stirring rod. Here is
another example of compromise. If
the rate of stirring is too fast, a seedy
but homogeneous or striae-free glass
is generally obtained; if it is too slow, a
seed-free but striated glass results.
The pot of glass is allowed to cool in
the melting furnace until the viscosity
increases to such an extent that any
further stirring might ruin the glass.
This temperature is the most critical
and may vary from 950° to 1100° C.,
depending on the type of glass. The
time required to produce a pot of glass
at the National Bureau of Standards
varies from 19 to 28 hours.

After the pot of finished glass is
removed from the melting furnace
(pl. 2, 1), the bottom of the pot is
cooled by means of a blower until the
glass is stiff enough so that there will
be no movement of the contents due
to convection currents. ‘The pot is
then covered with a thermally insu-
lated can so that the glass will cool
slowly enough to crack into fairly
large chunks. The pot is then broken
open, the pot body processed for grog,

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

and the chunks of glass saved for
further processing. Any imperfections
present are trimmed from the chunks
of glass by means of steel hammers or
diamond saws (pl. 2, 2). These
chunks are then broken or sawed to a
convenient size for molding into the
blanks on order.

These pieces of glass are now put
into a preheating furnace where they
are gradually heated up to a tempera-
ture just below the softening point of
the glass. They are picked up by the
molder on the end of a steel rod (punty
rod) and then heated well above their
softening point in a molding furnace
and worked into the proper shape for
molding. When properly shaped and
at the proper temperature, each gob
of glass is held over the steel mold and
the proper amount of glass is cut
off by a pair of shears and pressed into
shape. Upon removal from the mold,
each blank is placed in a cooling lehr
and cooled slowly to prevent cracking.

The above molding procedure is the
best for medium-size and large blanks.
In the case of small blanks it is best to
mold slabs of proper thickness, break
each slab into cubes weighing a little
more than the desired blank, and then
adjust to correct weight on a grinding
wheel, especially rounding off all
corners and sharp edges. The pieces
of glass are fed into a small paddling
furnace, gradually brought up to
molding temperature, worked into
approximate shape by means of pad-
dles, and pulled into the steel mold and
pressed. To keep them from cracking
the blanks are then placed in an oven
attached to the paddling furnace.

In the case of blanks too large to
work by hand, the glass pieces are
placed in a ceramic mold and gradu-
ally brought up to a sufficiently high
temperature so that they will soften
and flow into the shape of the mold.
They are then slowly cooled so they
will not crack (a rough annealing).

In any case, the blanks are then in-
spected. They are immersed in a
liquid of index of refraction similar to
that of the glass. In such a liquid the
OPTICAL GLASS INDUSTRY—GLAZE

glass surfaces disappear and the imper-
fections in the interior become evi-
dent under proper illumination. The
blanks are also gaged for conformity
with specifications, those undersize
being marked for salvage into smaller
blanks and those oversize for grinding
to’ “size: ‘The rest are ‘ready for
annealing.

The annealing of optical glass is a
critical process. Blanks of widely
different weight require a different
annealing schedule even though they
are both made of the same glass.
Also, each type of glass has its own
annealing schedule except where two
glasses are similar in composition.
The blanks are loaded into an iron
box on perforated iron trays with an
air space between the layers. The use
of the box and trays gives much better
temperature distribution throughout
the annealing furnace. The furnace
is gradually raised to the annealing
temperature and held at that tempera-
ture until, from experience, it is known
that the glass in the furnace is free of
strain. Now it becomes necessary to
cool the furnace at such a rate that no
strain will be introduced because of
temperature gradients within the glass.
The cooling rate is very slow at first
and is gradually increased as the
temperature drops. If properly an-
nealed, an optical element should
show no distortion throughout its life.

The final process before shipment or
grinding and polishing is the inspection
for strain. The blanks are again im-
mersed in a liquid of index of refrac-
tion similar to the glass and examined
with polarized light. If the glass is
perfectly annealed, the area of the
glass appears the same as the adjoining
background. Otherwise, an interfer-
ence figure is obtained. This inter-
ference figure is compared with that
for standard strain samples to deter-
mine if the annealing is satisfactory
for optical purposes. If not, the blank
must be reannealed.

And so, after about 1 month, the
batch that was put into the pot appears
as a satisfactory finished blank, ready

221

for grinding and polishing into an
optical element. In other words,
there is present in a plant producing
optical glass a month’s production of
glass. Also, only about 15 to 18 per-
cent of the glass melted is satisfactory
for grinding and polishing; hence the
high cost of good quality optical glass.

At the National Bureau of Standards
28 different types of optical glass have
been produced with indices of refrac-
tion ranging from 1.511 to 1.754 and
with nu-values from 64.5 to 27.7 (see
fig. 1). The nu-value is the reciprocal
of the dispersive power of the glass.
There are three wave lengths that are
especially important in the measure-
ment of refractive index, i. e., the
sodium D line, 5893 angstroms, in the
central region of the visible spectrum,
the hydrogen C line (H-alpha), 6563
angstroms, in the red, and the hydro-
gen F line, 4862 angstroms, in the blue.
When the mean refractive index is
given, that for the sodium D line is
meant. For each type of glass there is
a definite relationship between the
indices of refraction for the three
spectral lines mentioned. The recip-
rocal of the’ dispersive power instead
of the dispersive power itself is used in
order to avoid fractional values.
A high nu-value represents a low-
dispersive power and a low nu-value a
high dispersive power.

For glasses of index of refraction
less than about 1.555, the allowable
tolerance is 0.001 of index either way;
for those above 1.555 it is 0.0015.
The allowable tolerances for the
nu-value vary somewhat. For nu-
values above approximately 50.0, it
is 0.4 to 0.5 either way, depending on
the type of glass. Below 50.0 it is 0.3.
The light absorption of all types of
optical glass except dense and extra
dense flints and dense barium crowns
must not exceed 1 percent per centi-
meter of light path measured in white
light (generally it is only half of that
value). For dense and extra dense
flints and dense barium crowns, 2
percent is allowed, although it prac-
tically never exceeds 0.8 percent.
222 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

Freedom from seeds or bubbles is Europe, the most famous being the
desirable for the sake of appearance, 40-inch refractor of the Yerkes Observ-
but it is not necessary except in reticles atory at Williams Bay, Wis., the larger
or windows and other elements in a __ telescopes are all of the reflecting type.
tocal plane. Appearance, therefore, The manufacture of a large lens
poses quite a problem for the glass- necessitates a single large chunk of
maker because the barium glasses so perfect optical glass which must then
necessary in photographic objectives be brought to the required shape by
today are especially difficult to make heating and softening it in a ceramic
seed-free. mold of proper size. Such large

As can be seen from the foregoing, chunks of glass are extremely difficult
the production of glass for the ordi- to obtain, usually requiring many

15 70 65 80 35 so as 40 33 30 25 60
79
78
U a
ito 16
175
74
yet 73
H 72
TI FOUN ”
170
4 68
F

yest t i) 66
AISI 67
| iB 26
| 165
= ED BIC DIBIF on
DIBICI | C ez
a—t BIF ss 81
| 9 cial 160

5 f
a) o al T my 59
| BFL TT f =
on | ui {FI c eS Ail 37
Lisic 1 ‘ie
— 2S | EILIF 54
ints eae As
a + $2
2 iC! a stot 51
| saa 1.50
eal = en a J od 4d
a =H a = at 48
shee th Fas a [aD pale oe
1 ee 46

oo $3 50 AS 40 35 30 25

<_— VY VALVE ————p

Ficure 1.—Chart showing relation of index and reciprocal dispersion of the common types
of glass. Most glasses lie near a curve in which dispersion increases with index; glasses far
off this curve are especially useful to the designers of optical systems. Diagram courtesy
Bausch & Lomb Optical Co.

nary types of optical instruments is melts of glass. Upon examination of
fraught with many difficulties. And the resultant lens, it may be found to
when the glassmaker is called upon to _ be unsatisfactory, and all the work has
produce lenses or mirrors for astro- to be done again. Nor are the diffi-
nomical telescopes, his problems are culties over even then. To complete
increased manyfold. It will be the _ the lens requires the accurate grinding
purpose of the remainder of this paper and polishing of two faces. For a
to show how these difficulties were mirror for a reflecting telescope, only
overcome, first at the National Bureau one face of the disk has to be ground
of Standards and, later, at the Corning and polished. Also, the glass for the
Glass Works. disk may contain considerable seed

Although there have been some and striae unless they are on the sur-
notable large lens blanks made in face and interfere with the figuring
Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Glaze PLATE 1

~
p
' Wy i

1. AN OPTICAL GLASS POT, AND ITS STIRRING THIMBLE, SET IN A POT
ARCH PREPARATORY TO BURNING

2. TWO MELTING FURNACES AT THE NATIONAL BUREAU OF STANDARDS

The pot of glass in furnace 5 is being stirred and its temperature is being determined by the furnaceman
by means of an optical pyrometer. The pot in furnace 6 is being filled with batch. Photographs courtesy
National Bureau of Standards.
Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Glaze PLATE 2

1. REMOVAL OF A POT OF FINISHED OPTICAL GLASS FROM THE MELTING
FURNACE

2. CUTTING OPTICAL GLASS BY MEANS OF A 24-INCH DIAMOND SAW
Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Glaze PLATE 3

CASTING THE 70-INCH DISK OF OPTICAL GLASS

The molten glass is flowing down the metal trough from the pot into the combined mold and annealing
furnace.

Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Glaze PLATE 4

1. THE 70-INCH DISK BEING EXAMINED, PRIOR TO SHIPMENT, BY DR. G. K. BUR-
GESS, THEN DIRECTOR OF THE BUREAU OF STANDARDS, AND PROF. C.C. CRUMP,
FORMER DIRECTOR OF THE PERKINS OBSERVATORY

The &-inch core is resting on the surface of the disk.

*

inepni

2. THE EXTERIOR OF THE ANNEALING KILN FOR THE 200-INCH DISK
Photograph courtesy Corning Glass Works.
OPTICAL GLASS INDUSTRY—GLAZE

of the mirror. Because of this simpli-
fication the largest telescopes are
reflectors.

Except for two disks, one 23 inches
in diameter made in 1889 and one
60 inches in diameter made in 1895,
the manufacture of telescope mirror
blanks was also considered a European
monopoly until 1926. In that year,
Ohio Wesleyan University asked the
National Bureau of Standards to make
a blank 70 inches in diameter. Sucha
disk, assuming the thickness to be one-

223

When arrangements were completed
for tapping the pot, the water-cooled
plug was removed and the glass flowed
by means of a trough into the mold-
annealing furnace (fig. 2 and pl. 3).
After practically all the glass was in
the mold, the trough was removed
and the top of the annealing furnace
placed in position.

Thirty-three hours after pouring,
the insulation over the top of the
annealing furnace had been built up
to the 12 inches that covered the rest

|

r— 26+ 1-9

Melting Furnace

and Pot

ASS CEC ‘\Y
WWW ESS

Annealing Furnace Cover

boy

rls

cress Saas

Mould ana
Annealing Furnace

Ficure 2.—The essential features of the equipment for the 70-inch disk, shown in use in
plate 3.

sixth the diameter, would be 11 inches
thick and weigh about 4,000 pounds.
The type of glass decided on was
an ordinary borosilicate crown. The
batch was melted in a pot holding
approximately 5,000 pounds of glass,
near the bottom of which was a hole
stoppered with a water-cooled metal
plug. After the batch had com-
pletely melted, stirring was started
_and continued for 6 hours, after which
the temperature was reduced from
1400° to 1350° C. While the pot
was filled, current was applied to the
heating elements of the combination
mold-annealing furnace.

817369—49—_17

of the furnace. The loss of heat be-
came so slow then that no current
was necessary for 4 days; it was not
until 8 days after casting that the
average temperature of the furnace
reached 600° C. During the next 2
months, the temperature of the furnace
was gradually reduced to the anneal-
ing temperature of 461° C., which was
then maintained for 41 days.
Assuming now that the disk was free
from strain, it was still necessary to cool
it so slowly that no great amount of
strain would be present at the end of
the process. Although the data of L.
H. Adams and E. W. Williamson indi-
224

cated that an initial cooling rate of
2.33° C. per day and a maximum rate
of 60° C. per day would be permissible,
it was decided to use an initial rate of
about 1° C. per day and a maximum
rate of not over 10° C. (preferably 6°
C.). The reason for such conserva-
tism was that Adams and Williamson’s
findings were based on the annealing
of much smaller pieces of glass, and
that the validity of extrapolations
from data obtained on small pieces to
the case of a much larger piece was
questionable.

The cooled disk was removed from
the mold and the insulating bricks
stripped off. Before examining it for
strain, the bottom surface was ground
with carborundum and water to re-
move the adherent particles of brick.
Placed on edge, with the ground
surface coated with mineral oil, the
disk was examined for residual strain
by projecting a divergent beam of
polarized light against one surface
and examining it through a Nicol
prism from the opposite side. The
interference figure was found to be
very symmetrical, with its intersection
in the center of the disk. The maxi-
mum strain detected produced a
retardation equivalent to about 6
millimicrons per centimeter of thick-
ness, well within the maximum strain
permissible at that time in optical
glass used for optical instruments of
highest precision.

All that remained was to cut the 8-
inch hole for the Cassegrainian mount-
ing (see pl. 4, 1). This was accom-
plished in about 70 working hours and
without any unforeseen difficulties.
So ended an operation that took over
15 months: 6 months and better for
making and air-drying the pot; about
15 days for burning the pot, melting,
and pouring; 7}, months for annealing
and cooling; and for strain inspection
and cutting the hole, spare time as it
became available. And this does not
include the time necessary for making
and drying the mold for the pot.

The task presented to the Corning
Glass Works by the California Institute

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

of Technology in 1931 was to make a
mirror blank of low-expansion boro-
silicate glass and of sufficient size to
produce a telescope disk 201 inches in
diameter of materially less weight than
the 40 tons which would result from
the customary thickness of one-sixth
the diameter. As an aid to proving
the feasibility of whatever program
might be adopted for manufacture, the
Observatory Council of the California
Institute of Technology ordered two
small disks of 30 and 60 inches in
diameter, respectively. The design of
these was to be similar to that of the
large blank to demonstrate the prac-
ticability of reducing the weight with-
out sacrificing rigidity and precision
of the figure in the finished mirror.
Also, a disk 120 inches in diameter, of
similar design, was desired for use as
an optical flat with which the 200-inch
disk could be tested by the opticians
during the figuring process. Thus,
along with the task of making the large
disk, there were furnished stepping-
stones by which fulfillment could be
reached.

For this purpose, tank melting was
the logical choice. It was felt that the
composition from one pot to another
would be subject to more variation
than would be found in glass from a
single filling of a large day tank. The
glass employed required a higher melt-
ing temperature (1580° C.) than was
obtainable with available pot furnaces.
Also, ladling equipment was less costly
than installing means for pouring the
glass from pots. Ladling permits one
to rake the surface of the bath when
necessary to free it of objectionable
scum or floating stones before filling
the ladle. It also affords an opportu-
nity to inspect the quality of the glass
prior to pouring it into the mold.

The mold was complicated because
of the ribbed structure required in the
lower portion of the finished disk.
The cores were made of high-tempera-
ture insulating brick of standard size
laid with high-temperature cement,
and they were anchored to the iron
bedplate of the mold by means of a
OPTICAL GLASS INDUSTRY—GLAZE

heat-resisting alloy. The anchors
were provided with adequate air
cooling. This maintained the tem-
perature safely below that at which
the tensile strength of the anchors
could not withstand the buoyant force
of about 300 pounds on the largest
cores for the 7 hours necessary for the
casting operation.

The pouring oven over the mold had
three ladling holes and was heated
with natural gas to keep the glass
sufficiently fluid to flow to all parts of
the mold. The three ladles used in
casting had a capacity of 750 pounds
each and the ladle skins were returned
to the tank in order to conserve glass.

After pouring was completed on
December 2, 1934, the mold was
moved on rails to the annealing
position by means of a hand-operated
drum and cable. The entire upper
portion of the annealing furnace, in-
cluding top and side walls, was sus-
pended like the pouring oven and was
electrically heated (pl. 4, 2.) The
lower portion of the annealing furnace
was built on the screw hoist beneath
the mold. The two portions tele-
scoped for some distance as the disk
was raised into the annealing position.

During the soaking, or constant-
temperature period of annealing,
which required about 50 days, con-
trollers automatically maintained the
temperature at the desired value.
For the 200-inch disk, 26 inches in
thickness, the cooling rate was main-
tained at 0.72° C. per day from the
initial temperature of 500° C. until
300° C. was reached. Below the latter
value, a more rapid cooling rate was
possible. About 10 months were re-
quired to reach room temperature.

To some extent, the task of making
these disks was lessened by the choice
of a Pyrex-type of glass. Its co-
efficient of expansion, only 2.5 x
10-* cm. per °C. per 1 cm. length
against 8.5 x 10-® cm. per °C. for
ordinary borosilicate crown, greatly

225

reduced cooling stresses and shortened
annealing times. On the other hand,
it added materially to the difficulty of
melting and working. The successful
fabrication of large disks cannot be
ascribed wholly to the use of low-
expansion glass, The same methods
of manufacture outlined here would
produce disks of ordinary crown glass
with greater ease of melting and
casting. The time required to anneal
such glass, however, would be in-
creased nearly fourfold, and greater
demands would be made on the
temperature-control equipment to
maintain the corresponding slower
rate of cooling. Mirror blanks of
ordinary crown would be heavier and,
because of the higher coefficient of
expansion, would require a much
longer time for grinding and polishing.
This took a total of 3 years for the
200-inch disk.

From the foregoing it can be seen
that there is no need for astronomers
of the United States to go to Europe
to fill their needs for optical glass.
There is in this country the “know
how” to fill their wants, fantastic
though they may seem. The field
has been thoroughly explored. Prac-
tically no money or time need be
spent in experimental work to develop
a satisfactory method of procedure.

REFERENCES

Adams and Williamson, Journ. Franklin
Inst., vol. 190, pp. 597, 835, 1920.

Chance, Journ. Soc. Glass Techn., vol. 27,
p: 113i, 1943:

Encyclopaedia Britannica.

Finn, Ind. and Eng. Chem., vol. 21, p. 744
1929) Journ. |©Optscoc; Amer.,, vol; 28,
pls 1958:

Heindl, Massengale, and Cossette, Glass Ind.,
VOI 2/5 praliis 1946.

Joint Army-Navy Specification, Glass, Opti-
cal, Jan. 30, 1945.

McCauley, Journ. Soc. Glass Techn., vol. 19,
p. 1562, 1935:

Ordnance Department Document No. 2037,
The manufacture of optical glass and of
optical systems.
=)
7 m7 7
Ray hy ee a | vain fees alain nl Nee Pade ‘ores ui :
w7~ UW ; 7 7 a
Mj a " " iy _ ir
§ a pe be = uy ates baie fret! ree seat af ie od pital
a ay we ALOT my ‘ics ib pya! nite? bd ah mis ba) tty

a vores 7
hon ; | in avy ‘webbanetail fi METS | ia i ou woe and iy
aes ath RN SSR VG loryrAn Ae ALIA rally WODSS. ie
Pel Pink ie a Stas Par nar cts | as Sie iF ul Sa TL sae ty i8 ‘
Sauget So anh aha yi "Peatise nae Saran | svsad) sorters lv.
Ve * * = 1 ’
ther a0 Sac picad Ss ; anile Mien vie iy > itt ean ote en ie iT
Ce Bee Sedervbaweat %, itd Hi Cub is ry tErstea) in ADO waar’. 8 ait a |

ee

-

eS

‘ ve bk : yh alta ity ye n rity AUF = 5 7 os EAs SO

Saat ipriglhase, ag oye Bate yes ies es ene Soh, ASE RR

iter wd hs ea tere ®) ips a4 ei ee.
Os oe iy fe Bilge Pi pune ae j ay Wie oO sie ae a :

show iehledt np) ‘Sy as Te eno ae) 3 a. yA gaat ec aw Cinae

ba Gay Sayre hinvee

-
«

a - ae “i ble 7 A - ;
seams pranooh circ an sitew Weer your.) Oe
: 7) i: cr ain it veh) fro" dota ride {et 2 ay te ee aaig ull Lee Bey .

_ or) Ww? Ff "a = es =

1p isk cite iiowiy Asie ve a ; i olin eee abe. nee TON tpt alt eee ba
r it fotnerh ane ‘ ara ps

airabe rh re al ah a ous Petey ve Ag sheet j ah pul? vai Mia é

; a ey Ey ee

be Ai aati Hie Ge iin) ot: “ine ‘Sa Miesioey DELVES

—ovten| bgpaitl li Sig. iy aie Leia o¢ dba abac ee nie
aa Saal} yi ie ‘li re uy q eV “aifaesit Sic Dive a. cag eh . a
dope ty an se er Zi su UN r OD ne Ae 7 be) k Tine oe ifs a an ae a
ae ee ere : wea phate i ial} ai iy 64 : ale “a biorack Pate pene
Sel, ie ean * ese a mine nih: > carga (Caen tah

oan iy rs > irr aye be oiial in a ‘Si ened fe palin aN
ite

FVe, a Selly Ut, bi Ge tol yal rr a wie u Dilawea it f

eo irorir.t alta han yolyal mish Mule at waite tonne uch: en ne

4 " 1 a an sty Seirus r Lat Fh: ee 7 ie ‘t ees vii

car tui! as uh Gy eal! if bout! ; ay ae J “Ee ves 3 poih aa al py abel
yy wa ; i ti, cas Anat nive bt» iy RnR iF Ww ror: — ani
‘pica. Laks tia iy fad sane il eit Dahli ea! ae ures ve ong a  %

hae a a3 . Mees pe ¥. - ig Ue ahparet dd ‘f, Ar af pire a 7: ents:
eat fale: 5 aot alee a lili rites Past a p.enale e inblpat nm pohetankie sie
Ome es nea corr ar Wilaorsee * + penne Cea Pee
aay ei 4 bane ares ert ait adh my Pa mew Mh 2 feabsesp
avo hoa Tenth i mis Bh ws is hae MRE pie ea ggoss
ae) <r » WO hiesLapaeiere! its
2 saya uy BAD ann es he ea dil ab; taal
’ “? vy A #7) ; ’
© Ay inal: bam - Aah alte Th a” he qa nitty
in! 9 plein ys Aa arin! J ieavere a
a : rr Aaa! Ve ore i =| a ++ hs eat
pat Pan aL eu ua » joc pili be

coe sat ae ain ithe cael Ran j is 7 | at

7 i
uJ

Powis ie oR = ith pa rerelihe th : i tenl)
Po phe MN Sari Ee ORT BONE get: liga Bare? 2)
ey Pi ape sy "1 Serie @. coher J Keiiials | RE ate
ace —) = Ll » ff" s~ “hy i © ee y a, ' : oo ee
a > > ; 7 * a ;

: . yr , = 7 i
# Tae HL 4 eee Ue 7 Seem pail
} is ow RAG me Meare a ane ea wae r: Fin 7 ye a P

=
me Ct Cig SY eens
a ate - tA i oh ast - vi 4 oa Pai 7 _ 1a {¢, ¢ of ; Pt ae i
“4 ee Ps f vr 7 Pe
Chom oles eel aie, cao ae aaa
i? aa a Wi ay ie i re : r a — Riat hs tls i “i 7 Hy Ai) i? Pond ate
= | ee — at i 4 Liat eee ' : 7 7 : 7

7 vs sat eae! cA ES aan a Ly sup * my a Ave - ivy ag

2 I . = oS a = 2 ay : uy Aaa
7 : Warde es - 4: az a i ee, ae a " mS san ind? . i
7 ya win ry ee «ae SES

noes : oo) . a ATi f
ve vs ,:1te f) re . 7
hens — 7 = : is var a ee _ ; Pr
a4 7 : a _ .
/€> at : 2 a 19,5 | oe " 7 ye is
: an
The Age of the Earth’

By ARTHUR Ho.mes, Regius Professor of Geology, University of Edinburgh

[With 2 plates]

Long before it became a scientific
aspiration to estimate the age of the
earth, many elaborate systems of
world chronology had been devised
by the sages of antiquity. The most
remarkable of these occult time scales
is that of the ancient Hindus, whose
astonishing concept of the earth’s
duration has been traced back to the
Manusmitri, a sacred book that was
probably completed in its present
form about 150-120 B. C. According
to this venerable compilation of law
and wisdom, the whole past and future
of the world is but a “day” in the
eternal life of Brahma—a Day of 4,320
million years, throughout which finite
things are being created out of the
infinite. The Day of Brahma is di-
vided into 14 great cycles, each lasting
308,448,000 years, together with a final
“twilight”? period of 1,728,000 years,
at the close of which, when Brahma’s
Night begins, the finite is destined once
more to merge into the Infinite. At
present the world is in the seventh of
these cycles and, according to the
Hindu calendar recorded in the
Vishnu Purana, it is now (A. D. 1947)
1,972,949,048 years since the earth
came into existence. By a curious
coincidence this characteristically pre-
cise assessment is of the same order as
the 2,000 million years which has
recently been the most widely favored

1 Reprinted by permission from Endeavour,
vol. 6, No. 23, July 1947. In this reprinting,
several passages in the manuscript as origi-
nally written, which were omitted in Endeav-
our, have been restored.

estimate for the age of the expanding
universe.

If geological concepts had developed
in a community endowed in advance
with so generous a concept of the
past, much confusion and bitter con-
troversy might have been avoided.
But in western Europe the age of the
earth had long been identified—to
within a few days—with the few
thousand years of mankind’s history
as recorded in the narratives of the
Old Testament. On the interpretation
of Archbishop Ussher (1581-1656)
the creation of the world took place in
the year 4004 B. C., and pioneer geolo-
gists whose observations suggested
that the Mosaic traditions might not
be scientifically reliable were branded
as dangerous heretics.

A mild though significant instance
of the prejudicial influence of this
cramping limitation of time is afforded
by a remark made by the celebrated
astronomer Edmund Halley (1656-
1742), in the course of a communica-
tion to the Royal Society of a ‘‘Pro-
posal . . . to Discover the Age of the
World” (1715). Halley realized that
the sea had become salt because of the
accumulation of saline material con-
tributed by inflowing rivers, and he
suggested that the total amount of salt
in the sea might therefore provide a
measure of the age of the oceans.
At that time the necessary data for
making the calculation were not avail-
able, and Halley lamented that the
ancient Greek and Latin authors had
not ‘“‘delivered down to us the degree

227
228

of the saltness of the sea, as it was about
2,000 years ago; for then”, he con-
tinued, “it cannot be doubted but
that the difference between what is
now found and what was then, would
become very sensible.”” Now cb-
viously, if Halley had been thinking
in millions of years instead of thou-
sands, he must have realized that the
increase of salinity since Roman times
would be quite undetectable. Never-
theless, he did not fail to slip in his
suspicion that “‘the world may be
found much older than many have
hitherto imagined.”

It was James Hutton (1726-1797)
who first clearly grasped the full
significance and immensity of geolog-
ical time. In his famous ‘“Theory
of the Earth,’? communicated to the
Royal Society of Edinburgh in 1785,
he presented an irrefutable body of
evidence to prove that the hills and
mountains of the present day, so far
from being everlasting, have them-
selves been carved and are still being
modified by slow but inexorable proc-
esses of erosion such as those now in
operation; and that the sand and mud
continually removed by rivers are
being slowly deposited on the sea floor
as sedimentary rocks in the making.
Realizing that “the past history of our
globe must be explained by what can
be seen to be happening now,” and
observing that the sedimentary strata
of the earth’s crust bear all the hall-
marks of having accumulated exactly
like those now being deposited, he
saw that the vast thicknesses of these
older strata implied the operation of
erosion and sedimentation throughout
a period that could only be described
as inconceivably long. But Hutton
went further. He recognized not only
that the earth is a thermally and dy-
namically active planet, internally
as well as externally; he was also the
first to demonstrate that the internal
activity is of a cyclic character. He
saw that the present cycle of erosion—
given only time enough—would even-
tually reduce the most vigorous land-
scape to sea level, and he deduced

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

from the very existence of landscapes,
carved for the most part out of marine
sediments, that these sediments must
have been upheaved from the sea floor
in some former age. In unconformi-
ties, such as the classic example illus-
trated by plate 1, figure 1, he found
the “‘ruins of an earlier world” which
had already passed through a similar
cycle of upheaval and erosion long
before the present one began. The
story revealed by the structure and
sequence of the rocks at Siccar Point
is clear. The lower rocks, now stand-
ing nearly vertical, are sediments,
which, originally deposited on the sea
floor, were subsequently folded by
powerful lateral compression. The
region of folded and therefore greatly
thickened rocks then rose to form a
land mass which was attacked by
denudation as soon as it appeared
above sea level, to be gradually dis-
sected into mountains and valleys and
eventually reduced to a plain. As a
result of later subsidence, the worn-
down surface became an area of de-
position, and successive layers of
sediment then slowly accumulated
over the truncated edges of the older
rocks. The plane of unconformity
separating the up-tilted rocks beneath
from the flat-lying rocks above evi-
dently represents an immensely long
interval of time.

Today we know that the earth’s his-
tory has included a succession of at
least 10 of these major cycles, each
involving (1) thick accumulations of
sediments and volcanic rocks in a
subsiding belt of the crust; (2) intense
compression of the belt, resulting in
folding and crumpling, and accom-
panied by metamorphism of the deeper
rocks and the formation of great masses
of granite; and (3) general uplift of the
belt and the wearing away of its ex-
posed portions by denudation. The
Alps and Himalayas are examples of
mountain systems now in stage (3) of
the latest of these mountain-building
or orogenic cycles, as they are called.
The rocks of Cornwall and Devon are
relics of the immediately preceding
AGE OF THE
a re)
xv
28 28
Ss sf
Se S8
33 ss
D $3 Cc Ss
‘ 4
Dy Ae
LZ TNE

EARTH—HOLMES

229

Unconformity
between AandB

Figure 1.—Diagrammatic section to illustrate the rocks and structures of a series of orogenic

belts (A, B, C, and D), such as make up the continental crust of the earth.

greatly exaggerated.)

cycle, and those of the Lake District
and most of Scotland and Wales and
Norway belong to the next earlier one.
From beneath the North West High-
lands of Scotland and the mountains
of Scandinavia the rocks of even older
cycles appear (pl. 2, fig. 1). So, going
further afield than Hutton, we can
travel back through a long series of
these contorted records of earth his-
tory. But however far we penetrate
into the past we still, like Hutton, find
“no vestige of a beginning.” How
this comes about can readily be
grasped by reference to figure 1. In
every continent the oldest known rocks
are found to be metamorphosed sedi-
mentary types which gradually merge
into completely reorganized rocks
such as granite. The granite, how-
ever, instead of being older than the
rocks in which it is emplaced, is actu-
ally younger, since it crystallized in its
present form during or after the folding
of the pile of sediments with which it
is associated. Everywhere the oldest
visible rocks pass sideways or down-
wards into walls and foundations that
are younger than themselves. But
since the oldest visible rocks are of
sedimentary origin, they must have
been derived from rocks of still greater
age; from rocks that were reincarnated
as granite long ago and of which no
other recognizable trace can now be
found. Hutton’s experience covered
only a small proportion of the earth
history now known to us, and he was
therefore recording no more than the
sober truth when he declared he could
find “no vestige of a beginning.”
Unfortunately this conclusion was in-

(Vertical scale

terpreted by most of Hutton’s con-
temporaries to mean that, according
to him, the earth never had a begin-
ning, and so was never created. Thus,
far from being welcomed, Hutton’s
discoveries were generally regarded
with righteous horror as being con-
trary to the Scriptures, while he him-
self was accused of having ‘‘deposed
the Almighty Creator of the Universe
from his Office.”” But Hutton was not
without a circle of loyal friends and
admirers in Edinburgh; the modest
fame in which he died 150 years ago
soon developed into a_ world-wide
appreciation of his genius.

Hutton himself, in the absence of
guiding data, made no attempt to
estimate the rates of geological proc-
esses. Many of his successors, how-
ever, exhilarated by their newly found
freedom, became unduly reckless in
their extravagant demands for time.
In 1859, for example, Darwin esti-
mated from the supposed rate of chalk
erosion in Kent that the time required
for the denudation of the Weald and
the recession of the bordering escarp-
ments of the North and South Downs
to their present positions was probably
about 300 million years. We now
know that this estimate was at least
five times too long; but Jukes, com-
menting on it at the time, thought it
quite as likely that the period required
might have been a hundred times as
long. Evidently 30,000 million years
was not considered absurdly excessive
for a small fraction of geological time.

Kelvin, one of the great pioneers of
geophysics, then entered the field with
a dramatic counterblast against such
230

facile assumptions of unlimited time.
He argued that since there is a heat-
flow through the earth’s crust, meas-
urable in terms of the downward
increase of temperature and_ the
thermal conductivities of rocks, the
earth could be regarded as a cooling
globe which must have been progres-
sively hotter in the past. Beyond the
dim horizon of the oldest rocks he
envisaged a “‘beginning”’ correspond-
ing to the time when the earth was
molten and newly born from the sun.
In 1862 he set himself the problem of
calculating the time that had elapsed
since the earth’s consolidation. Be-
cause of uncertainty in much of the
data, he allowed wide limits to his
solution, concluding that the observed
temperature gradients would have
been notably lower than they are if
the crust had solidified more than 400
million years ago, and notably higher
than if solidification had been com-
pleted less than 20 million years ago.

Kelvin’s challenge initiated one of
the many scientific controversies that
enlivened Victorian times. Despite
many protests, however, he finally
narrowed his limits to 20 and 40
million years (1897). Archibald Gei-
kie pointed out in 1899 that the testi-
mony of the rocks clearly denied
Kelvin’s thermodynamic inference
that geological activities must have
been more vigorous in the past than
they are today; and that the known
sequence of sedimentary strata could
not have accumulated within the
limits set by Kelvin’s solution of the
problem. Moreover, James Geikie
(1900) showed very convincingly that
the crustal compression set up by even
100 million years of cooling would be
confined to an outer shell far too thin
to accommodate the immense thick-
nesses of folded rocks involved in the
Alps and other great mountain ranges.
Evidently some factor—if not more
than one—had been _ overlooked,
though few physicists were then willing
to admit the possibility of any funda-
mental mistake. Perry, however, had
ilready heartened the geologists by
»ointing out that it was allowable to

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

assume a relatively high thermal con-
ductivity for the deep interior of the
globe, in which case the cooling of the
crust would have been correspondingly
slowed down. He saw no reason for
denying the geologists anything up to
4,000 million years, an estimate of an
order that has been confirmed by
Wasiutynski in the course of a recent
discussion of the earth’s thermal his-
tory (1946). Nevertheless, Kelvin’s
great authority compelled a sort of
compromise, and at the turn of the
century geologists who claimed more
than about 100 million years were
thought to be unduly rash. A few,
indeed, reluctantly satisfied them-
selves with a more meager allowance
of time, but the majority steadfastly
refused to accept Kelvin’s results as
final. The real flaw in Kelvin’s as-
sumptions was disclosed shortly after
the discovery of radioactivity, when
Strutt (Lord Rayleigh) detected the
presence of radium in common rocks
from all parts of the world. With the
demonstration that the crustal rocks
contain radioactive elements and are
therefore endowed with an unfailing
source of heat, it became obvious that
the earth is not living merely on its
ancestral capital of internal heat, as
Kelvin had confidently believed, but
that it has an independent and regular
source of income of its own. The
abundance of the radioactive elements
in the crustal rocks is such that the
net loss of heat is extremely low; age
estimates based on the rate of cooling
are therefore greatly increased. If,
for example, nine-tenths of the heat-
flow through the crustal rocks is of
radioactive origin—and something of
this order is consistent with the avail-
able evidence—then the alleged 20-40
million years of cooling has to be
multiplied by 100 or more.

By this time the minds of the older
geologists were no longer attuned to
thinking in terms of thousands of
millions of years and few of them were
prepared to take advantage of the
new discoveries. This reluctance was
largely due to the fact that in 1898
Joly had resuscitated Halley’s sugges-
AGE OF THE EARTH—HOLMES

tion for determining the age of the
oceans. Adopting the simple hypoth-
esis that, on average, the annual
amount of dissolved sodium removed
by rivers from the land has remained
constant throughout geological time,
he found that about 80-90 million
years would be required to furnish the
total amount of sodium now present
in the oceans. This estimate he
shortly afterward increased to 100
million years. A few years later Sollas
concluded that the probable limits
were 80-150 million years. In 1910
Becker, thinking it likely that the
annual increments had been progres-
sively greater in the past, reduced the
probable age to about 60 or 65
million years. Indeed, Becker was
sufficiently convinced of the validity of
these ‘‘short’’ estimates to declare
that ‘“‘radioactive minerals cannot
have the great ages which have been
attributed to them.”

It is therefore of some importance to
consider the present status of the
sodium method. It appears from
recent discussion of the relevant geo-
chemical statistics (see especially Con-
way, 1942 and 1943) that practically
all the ‘‘chloridized”’ sodium in river
water represents oceanic salt, either
blown inland and washed down by
rain, or derived from saline deposits
or the pore spaces of sediments.
Allowing for such “‘second-hand”’ salt,
the present annual addition of new
sodium is about 6 X 107 tons. Even
this figure may be misleadingly high
because, as Lane has pointed out,
analyses are rarely made of the
water from rivers when they are in
flood, i. €.,. when the content of
dissolved material is at its minimum,
The total accumulation of marine
sodium in ocean water and sediments
is estimated at about 15 X 10 tons,
less the amount initially present, which
may or may not be negligible. Thus,
on the assumption of past uniformity,
all we can conclude is that the appar-
ent age of the oceans is something of
the order of 250 million years. But
past uniformity can by no means be
assumed. Present rates of weathering

817369—49—_18

231

and eorsion are far too abnormally
high to be representative of the
geological past. Mountain ranges and
land areas in general are now much
more elevated and extensive than has
usually been the case. Rivers and
groundwaters are therefore unusually
active, and, moreover, many of them
drain regions that are thickly strewn
with easily weathered glacial deposits.
Finally, human activities of all kinds—
agricultural, engineering and chemi-
cal—have still further speeded up the
rates of weathering and erosion over
widespread areas.

Only a crude attempt can be made
to assess the effects of these considera-
tions on the “apparent? age of the
oceans. Fig. 1 illustrates the observed
fact that the continents are made up
of belts of rocks that have suffered in-
tense compression, folding and thick-
ening. If we imagine, going back-
wards in time, all the folds to be
straightened out, then the crustal layer
responsible for the continents becomes
increasingly attenuated and extensive;
so much so that in the early days or
geological history this continental layer
must have been spread so thinly that
its surface would be below sea level
and the only lands would be a few
volcanic islands. Since then, the con-
tinental lands exposed to erosion have
on the whole, and despite wide fluctua-
tions, progressively increased in height
and area. According to this concep-
tion, the quantitative effects of de-
nudation must have gradually in-
creased from almost zero at the begin-
ning to the all-time maximum of the
present epoch. Roughly we may
reckon that the time-average rate was
probably between one-half and one-
third of the present rate in respect
(separately) of area, height, and relief.
That is, it was probably between (1)?
and (44)? of the present rate. The age
of the oceans may therefore be any-
thing between 8 and 27 times the ap-
parent age of 250 million years which
may itself be a minimum. Obviously
the hourglass of sodium accumulation
is a hopelessly variable timekeeper.
The most that can be said is that its
232

present reading is not inconsistent with
an oceanic age of a few thousands of
millions of years.

What we need for the accurate meas-
urement of such immense periods is a
natural process that has operated
throughout geological time and has
produced measurable results at a
known rate, of which the law of varia-
tion with time is also known. The
decay of the radioactive elements is
the only known process that fulfills
these stringent conditions. The radio-
active methods depend on the trans-
formation of uranium and thorium
into helium and lead, and on the ac-
cumulation of these stable end products
in minerals and rocks that contain the
parental elements. Helium, being a
gas, is liable to escape, but the lead is
much more likely to be retained and so
to serve as an index of age. Provided
a radioactive mineral such as pitch-
blende or uraninite has remained un-
altered by weathering or other changes,
then the amount of radiogenic lead
now found within it is a function of
(a) the amounts of uranium and/or
thorium now present and (b) of the
time elapsed since the mineral first
crystallized. Fortunately it is possible
to discriminate between the radiogenic
lead and any ordinary lead that may
have been present as an initial impur-
ity in the mineral. The parental ura-
nium contains two chemically insep-
arable isotopes, UI (or U*8) and AcU
(or U**), in atomic proportions hav-
ing the present value: ACU/UI=1/139.
Since AcU decays much more rapidly
than UI, this ratio was progressively
higher in the past. The material re-
sults of the atomic transformations can
be summarized as follows:

U8_sPb”*-+8 He
U®5_>Pb”?-L7 He
Th#->Pb*8- 6 He

It will be noticed that in each case a
specific isotope of lead is generated.
Ordinary lead is a mixture of the same
three istopoes, together with a fourth,
Pb24, which is not known to be an
end product of radioactive decay.
Thus, if the lead separated from a

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

radioactive mineral is_ isotopically
analyzed (e. g., by means of the mass
spectrograph) and found to contain
Pb24, the proportion of the latter
provides an index of the amount of
ordinary lead that was initially present.

The present rates of production of
radiogenic lead are known with a
remarkable degree of accuracy, but
the question naturally arises, can we
be reasonably sure that these rates
have remained constant throughout
geological time? apart, of course,
from the inevitable slowing down due
to the wearing-out of the parents. In
other words, can we be sure that the
physical constants concerned have
not varied with time? Fortunately,
pleochroic haloes provide us with an
unambiguous’ affirmative. Certain
granites contain flakes of brown mica
which, under the microscope, can be
seen to be sprinkled with dark circular
spots (pl. 2, fig. 2, right). These are
known as pleochroic haloes and some
of them, when highly magnified, re-
veal a beautifully developed pattern
of concentric rings (pl. 2, fig. 2, left).
A minute radioactive crystal lies at
the center of each halo and the dark-
ening of the surrounding mica is pro-
duced by the helium ions (e-par-
ticles) that are shot out in all direc-
tions. The radius of each ring corre-
sponds to the range of the a-particles
from one particular radioactive ele-
ment. Careful measurements by Prof.
G. H. Henderson show that the rings
in Pre-Cambrian haloes over 1,000
million years old are just as sharply
defined as those in younger rocks, and
that the corresponding radii and
ranges are identical. Since the range,
in turn, depends on the rate of dis-
integration of the radioactive element
concerned, it follows that the radio-
active constants have not varied ap-
preciably for at least 1,000 million
years.

At any given time the rate of produc-
tion of a particular lead isotope de-
pends only on the disintegration con-
stant and amount of the parental ele-
ment then present. Thus the age of
a mineral, tm, can be readily calcu-
AGE OF THE EARTH—HOLMES

lated from each of the three ratios
Pb°S/U, Pb?°7/U and Pb?8/Th, where
these symbols here represent the per-
centages of the parent elements and of
the isotopes of radiogenic lead now
present in the mineral under investiga-
tion. The respective equations for
tm, are:

£,= 15.1510" “logig’ (1-F1.158
Pb?°°/U) years
tn=2.37X10® logio (1-+159.6
Pb?°7/U) years
t= 46.2010" “logiy5_ 1.116

Pb”8/Th) years

A fourth value for ¢,, can be found
from the ratio Pb”’/Pb?°®.

If a mineral has remained unaltered,
then all four values for ¢,, should be in
close agreement. In practice this
rarely happens, because even in the
freshest-looking mineral migrations of
the critical elements are likely to have
occurred. Fortunately, even if the
three values for tm based on Pb?°4/U,
Pb?"’/U and Pb*’/Pb®S are widely dif-
ferent, the relations between them pro-
vide criteria for assessing the true age
(fig. 2). If there has been leakage of
radon (the gaseous member of the UI
family), then the mineral is necessarily
deficient in Pb®®*; in this case the most
probable age is given by Pb?°’/U (see
Wickman, 1942, and Holmes, 1947).
If there has been loss of Pb or U or

Percentages

(R. C. Wells)

oe’ (o} ele 'e? 0, 0) 6: \0: e/e s1(s\ supe (ele 16. @ ee 6 16. 6/06

Isotopic proportions
(Nier et altter)
In total lead

© La ereitul is) ele teiteve eo o1's1.6. 0! (ea wre" ete!) ore ee

In radiogenic lead
Percentages

0,80) .0) @ #).¢\e| w)ells)'s sfc) 6 6 0) \0,[e} 6.0) es) ©) 6 26's) 6 6)|\s

|

Age ratios

616 10 sie « le 1c: o © oie 1s! 0 0 ¢ sie «0 ole e' s ele 0.6 0 «©

233

both, or gain of either or both, then
the true age, or a close approximation
to it, is given by Pb??’/Pb?°%,

Although a great many radioactive
minerals have been chemically anal-
yzed, relatively few isotopic analyses
of the lead have been made as yet.
Prof. A. O. Nier, following up Aston’s
pioneer work, has been the most active
and successful worker in this field. As
an example of a fully investigated
mineral, samarskite from Spinelli
Quarry, Portland, Conn., may be
taken. The mineral occurs in a peg-
matite the geological age of which is
not far from the end of the Devonian
period.

Loss of Loss of U
Radon ;
x e
Loss of Pb |

En “EEE

ro

FicurE 2.—Diagram to illustrate the effects
of various types of alteration on the ap-
parent ages of a radioactive mineral cal-
culated from Pb 2%/U (open circles),
Pb 207/U (solid circles), and Pb 27/Pb 206
(crosses). The horizontal line represents
the true age of the mineral, points above
and below being respectively too high and
too low.

** Apparent age”
Pb U Th | from total Pb
(million years)
0. 314 6:91 3.05 295
Pb204 Pb208 Pb207 Pb208
0.167 100. 00 7. 60 214730
. 167 3. 04 2. 61 6:35
sayeidtepa’s 96. 96 4.99 14.95
SE STRN 7290 .012 . 036
Pb207 Ph208 Pb207 Ph208
Pb206 U U Th
305115 . 03415 . 00174 . 0118
256 255 254 266

@).0..6 6)\610\6 010 0's 6 01¢/ 610 «| ©

Values of t, (million years)
234

Here the agreement is unusually good
and it can be concluded that about
255 million years have elapsed since

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

the close of the Devonian period.
In the following table some of the
better-established dates are listed:

Probable

. . . age
Mineral Locality Geological Age (alias
of years)
Pitchblende Colorado Beginning of Tertiary 58
Pitchblende Bohemia Late Carboniferous 215
Samarskite Connecticut End of Devonian 255
Cyrtolite New York End of Ordovician 350
Kolm Sweden Upper Cambrian 440
Pitchblende Katanga, Belgian Congo Pre-Cambrian 580
Uraninite Morogoro, ‘Tanganyika Pre-Cambrian 590
Uraninite Besner, Ontario Pre-Cambrian 760
Bréggerite Moss, S. Norway Pre-Cambrian 860
Uraninite Wilberforce, Ontario Pre-Cambrian 1,035
Cleveite Aust Agder, S. Norway Pre-Cambrian 1,075
Pitchblende Great Bear Lake, Canada Pre-Cambrian 1,330
Uraninite N. E. Karelia, U.S. S. R. Pre-Cambrian 1,765
Uraninite Huron Claim, Manitoba Pre-Cambrian 1,985

The uraninite from Manitoba is
the oldest mineral so far investigated
and its great age is roughly confirmed
by analyses of another uraninite and
of two monazites, all from the same
pegmatite. The “apparent ages” of
these, calculated from the total lead,
are 1,950, 1,955, and 1,990 million
years respectively. The pegmatite rep-
resents the closing phase of the plu-
tonic activity of a typically Archaean
orogenic belt. It followed a long
series of granitic and other plutonic
rocks which, in turn, are emplaced
within a thick sequence of metamor-
phosed volcanic and sedimentary
rocks. The latter include still recog-
nizable conglomerates, containing
pebbles of preexisting granites and
quartzites, which must therefore be
well over 2,000 million years old.
Since the earth must be older still,
this figure can be regarded as a con-
servative minimum for its age.

To find a maximum for the age of
the earth we may assume that when
the earth began it was free from the
lead isotope Pb’, and that all the
Pb”’ now present in the common
granitic rocks of the continental crust
has since been generated from U”>.
Granitic rocks contain on average
about 20 p. p. m. of lead and 3.5

p. p. m. of U. The isotopic constitu-
tion of granitic lead has not yet been
determined directly, but isotopic an-
alyses of several samples of lead from
galena and other lead ores of ‘Tertiary
age have been made by Nier and his
coworkers. ‘These ores represent con-
centrations of the granitic lead of
some 25 million years ago, which is
near enough to the present for our
purpose. The average isotopic am-
bundances of Tertiary lead are

Pb204 | Pph208 Pb207 Pb208

Total
UN etS54 4 15255 alesse2S Tes oi

corresponding in p. p. m. very nearly
to

yu Bal 4,2 10.4 | 20 p. p.
m.

in the average granitic rocks of today.
Inserting the values Pb®’/U=4.2/3.5
in the appropriate formula given on
page 233, the time required for the
generation of all the Pb*’ is found to
be 5,400 million years. The age of
the earth is therefore somewhere
between 2,000 and 5,400 million years.

Can we arrive at a closer estimate?
I think we can, again by making use

AGE OF THE EARTH—HOLMES 235

42 TH

Otpechac
Sum of Isotopic Abundances (Pb**=1)

64 66 68 70 72

74 76 78 80 82

Ficure 3.—To illustrate the relationships between the ‘abundances of Pb206, Pb%7, and Pb208
(relative to Pb204=1) in lead samples prepared, from common ores ‘of lead.

of the invaluable data provided by
Nier. He and his coworkers have
determined the relative abundances
of the isotopes in 25 samples of lead

from common lead minerals of various
geological ages. The results, graphi-
cally summarized in figure se reveal
that the relationships between Bb?s,
ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

Millions of Years
2000

0 1000

3000 4000

Ficure 4.—The curve AB indicates the variation of x (primeval Pb) with assigned values
of ¢ for the pair of lead samples 25 and 18. CD represents the corresponding variation for
the pair 19 and 1. The intersection at P gives a solution for x, and ¢,. The lines joining
P to the points representing the lead samples (a and ¢,, in each case) show the gradual
increase of Pb2, relative to Pb2°*=1, from x, to a during the period ¢, to t,.

Pb’, and Pb*8 are almost exactly
what they would be if the lead original-
ly present in the material of the outer
earth had been slowly modified by
additions of radiogenic lead. A few
of the samples have a more or less
abnormal constitution, but apart from
these the evidence is clear that ore-
lead represents a concentration of the
lead that was dispersed through the
crustal rocks of the region concerned,
at the time when the ore deposition
took place.

The problem, then, is this: knowing
the isotopic constitution of rock-lead
as it was at various periods ranging
from 1,330 million years ago (the
Great Bear Lake sample) to 25 million
years ago (the Tertiary samples), to
find the relative abundances of Pb
and Pb” in the earth’s primeval
lead, and the time that has elapsed
since that primeval lead began to be
modified by radiogenic additions.

This time, ¢,, is the required age of
the earth.

Using the following symbols, with
tm for the age of the lead ore:

Pb2o4! Ph206] PpH207| Pp208

Ore-lead (=rock-

Lead) nec. distant: 1 a b c
Primeval lead.... 1 x y Zz
Radiogenic lead

(romiyt; tolt)ae ese a—x | b—y | c—z

we can write:

No. of atoms of Pb?97 generated
from ¢, to tm

No. of atoms of Pb? generated
from t, (tole

From the expression on the right, 7

can be calculated (for each appropri-

ate value of ¢,,) for various assigned

values of t, from 2,000 to 5,000 million

AGE OF THE EARTH—HOLMES

19

6
2000

Oy
14\;/1 18

237

#17 15

t in Millions of Year

4000

Ficure 5.—Each of the curves numbered on the left corresponds (like AB in figure 4) to a
pair of lead samples, of which No. 25 is one. The curves similarly based on No. 19 are
numbered along the top. The numbers are those of Nier’s lead samples as listed in Holmes
(1946). Each intersection, marked by a dot, provides a solution for x, and ¢,.

years. For each assigned value of
t, we have:

ar—xr=b—y for a sample of lead of age tm
and

a'r! —xr'=b'’ —y for a sample of lead of age

whence
b—6b’-+-a’r!’—ar
2S
te 7,
and

y=b+rx—ar.
Taking samples 25 and 18 (fig. 4) the
following results are obtained:

No. 25 No. 18

Galena, Great Bear Galena, North Caro-
Lake Pre-Cambrian lina Late Carbonif-

erous
a =15.93 18.43=a
6 =15.30 15:61 —0
tm= 1,330 million years 220 million years=t,
ie .23305 when t=2500 .16999=r’
x=14.11; y=14.87
r=.30156 when t=3000 .22794=r1'
x=12.40; y=14.24

r=.39685 when t=3500 .30985=r’
x=10.59; y=13.18

—_ ee

Plotting x against ¢, a curve AB is
drawn; a point representing a solution
for x and ft, lies somewhere on this
curve or its continuation. Dealing in
the same way with another pair of lead
samples, such as No. 1 (Galena, Peru,
Tertiary, 25 million years) and No. 19
(Galena, Ivigtut, Greenland, Late
Pre-Cambrian, 600 million years), a
curve CD is similarly constructed.
Where the two curves intersect at
P, x=11.22 and t,=3,330 million years.

In the same way we can plot y
against ¢ and construct two curves
that intersect at y= 13.71 and ¢,=3,330
million years. ‘The two pairs of curves
based on the data for two pairs of lead
samples thus yield a solution of the
problem.

Obviously a great many solutions
can be obtained by this method. Fig-
ure 5 illustrates the xt curves for pairs
made up of No. 25 with each in turn
of 14 younger lead samples, and for
pairs made up of No. 19 with 11
238 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

200

180

Mode,3350 my.

160

Frequency

120
100
sot ——— Average,3200 my.
60
40

20

2000 2500 3000

Average(without J),3290 my:

£o in Millions of yéars
3500 4000

Ficure 6.—Histogram representing the frequency distribution of 1,419 solutions for ¢,
within ranges of 100 million years. The frequencies of 162 solutions involving the ab-
normal Joplin lead samples (Nos. 9 and 11) are indicated by the dotted areas. The
histogram for the 1,257 solutions (without the aberrant Joplin results) is outlined boldly.

younger lead samples. ‘The intersec-
tions provide over 200 solutions, with
a marked concentration about 3,300—
3,400 million years. Although there
are naturally a few aberrant results,
these are distributed more or less
evenly about the mean, suggesting that
no systematic or cumulative error is
involved in the data.

Additional sets of curves can be con-
structed for pairs based on No. 23
(Cerussite, Broken Hill, N. 8S. W.,
1,200 million years), No. 22 (Galena,
same locality and age), and No. 21
(Galena, Quebec, 800 million years).
From the intersections of all five sets
of curves and of the corresponding yt

curves, 1,257 solutions have been ob-
tained for ¢., x, and y. The average
value of t, is 3,290 million years, but a
histogram of the ¢, values (fig. 6) re-
veals a well-marked mode at 3,350
million years, which is found to be
somewhat better than the average
value when tested by a least-squares
method (Holmes, 1947a, p. 127). The
spread of the results is comparable with
that of figure 5, and is not surprising
in view of the many possibilities of
error. Careful consideration of the
latter suggests that on the whole they
tend to counterbalance rather than to
become cumulative. The dotted fre-
quencies on the left of figure 6 ilus-

AGE OF THE EARTH—HOLMES

trate the lopsided effect of including
results involving the data for two
samples of lead of abnormal constitu-
tion. Certain other abnormal leads,
however, would give a concentration
of results on the right. The fact that
the modal solution remains independ-
ent of these aberrant results favors the
hope that an estimate of 3,350 million
years for the age of the earth is unlikely
to be seriously wrong.

SELECTED REFERENCES

Conway, E, J.
1942. Proc. Roy. Irish Acad., vol. 48,
B8, pp. 119-159.
1943. Ibid., vol. 48, B9, pp. 161-212.
HeEnperson, G. H., and Bateson, S.
1934. Proc. Roy.Soc., vol. 145A, pp. 563-
581.
Henperson, G. H., and Turnsu.t, L. G.
1934. Proc. Roy. Soc., vol. 145A, pp.
382-391.

239

Homes, A.
1946. Nature, vol. 157, pp. 680-684.
1947a. Ibid., vol. 159, pp. 127-128.
1947b. Trans. Geol. Soc. Glasgow, vol.
21, pp. 117-152.
1947c. Geol. Mag., vol. 134, pp. 123-
126.
Keevi., N. B.
1939. Amer. Journ. Sci., vol. 237, pp.
195-214.
Niger, A. O.
1938. Journ. Amer. Chem. Soc., vol. 60,
pp. 1571-1576.
1939. Phys. Rev., vol. 55, pp. 153-163.
Nirr, A. O., THompson, R. W., and Mur-
PHEY, B. F.
1941. Phys. Rev., vol. 60, pp. 112-116.
WASIUTYNSKI, J.
1946. Astrophys. Norvegica, vol. 4, p.
2253
WIcKMAN, F. E.
1939. Sveriges Geol. Undersékning, C,
No: 427, pp. 1-8.
1942. Geol. Féren. Férh., vol. 64, pp.
465-476.
1944. Sveriges Geol. Undersékning, C,
No. 458, pp. 1-6.
ot pill

SOLA H

Sea Fi

Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Holmes PLATE 1

1. Upper old red sandstone strata (age about 280 million years) resting un-
conformably on vertical Silurian rocks (about 320 million years) at Siccar
Point, Cockburnspath, Berwickshire.

Photograph courtesy H. M. Geological Survey, by permission of the Director.

2. Carboniferous limestone (about 240 million years) resting unconformably on
inclined Silurian slates (about 320 million years) at Arco Wood Quarry, 4 miles
north of Settle, Yorkshire.

Photograph by Prof. S. H. Reynolds.
Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Holmes PLATE 2

1. Wave-swept surface of folded rocks, metamorphosed and partly granitized,
representing the worn-down roots of a pre-Cambrian orogenic belt (about
1,060 million years), at Borga, south coast of Finland.

Photograph by Prof. C. E. Wegmann.

2. Left, pleochroic halo in mica from Murray Bay, Quebec, showing well-devel-
oped rings due to a-particles shot out from a uranium-bearing crystal at the
center; right, pleochroic halos in a flake of brown mica from a Pre-Cambrian
granite (about 1,030 million years) from Ontario, Canada.

Photomicrographs by Prof. G. H. Henderson.
Petroleum Resources of North America’

By A. I. Levorsen, School of Mineral Sciences, Stanford University

This evening I would like to talk to
you about our petroleum resources.
By “our” I mean North American, and
by ‘“‘petroleum” I mean oil and gas
occurring naturally. Petroleum is
only one of the mineral substances in
which the public is vitally concerned
as to supply, but it is the one which
probably uses the most geology and
geologists, and it happens to be the one
in which my experience lies.

To begin with, petroleum is im-
portant. It is necessary in peace and
essential in war. The often repeated
statement of Lord Curzon of the Brit-
ish War Cabinet that in War I ““The
allies were floated to victory on a flood
oil” applied equally well to World War
II when over 60 percent of the total
tonnage—men, munitions, food, and
supplies—which was shipped overseas
consisted of petroleum products. It is
no wonder that a committee of the
United States Senate, after a thorough
study and many hearings on the prob-
lems of the petroleum industry, made
a report containing the following sig-
nificant statement: “It is now clear
that no nation which lacks a sure
supply of liquid fuel can hope to main-
tain a position of leadership among the
peoples of the world.”” This same com-
mittee also stated, in regard to the role
American oil played in the recent war,
“In the final analysis, the reserves

1 Presidential address of retiring president
of The Geological Society of America, orig-
inally entitled ““Our Petroleum Resources.”
Reprinted, with change of title, by permis-
sion from the Bulletin of The Geological
Society of America, vol. 59, April 1948.

within our borders can more likely
than not constitute the citadel of our
defense.”

Our current use of oil is the greatest
in our history—even greater than at
any time during the recent war—and
much greater than that of any other
people. Americans have an annual
per capita consumption of 420 gallons
as compared with 42 gallons for Great
Britain and 14 for all other nations
combined. The rate of our use has
been accelerating, and all information
indicates that it will continue to do so
indefinitely. On the other hand, our
rate of production already is running
so close to capacity that it gives legiti-
mate alarm about our ability to con-
tinue to supply adequate amounts of
petroleum during the decades ahead.
Not only is it necessary to produce
enough for our normal expanding
peacetime needs, but we must likewise
be prepared constantly for any emer-
gency which would again require a
sudden expansion of our production.
Our future supplies of petroleum are
consequently of great national con-
cern.

We often hear the statement made
that the discovery of each new oil field
means one less in the ultimate finite
number of fields. This is correct but
rather meaningless. We do our na-
tional planning on what we think the
ultimate quantity is in terms of our
needs rather than on any fixed and
finite number. Ideas about the future
discoveries are constantly changing,
depending on developments and view-
points, and varying from extreme pes-

241
242

simism to extreme optimism. For
example, a representative of the State
Department recently testifying before
a committee of the United States
Senate stated with somewhat of a
psychic finality that the reason why we
have not found more new oil is
“Because the oil is not there to be
found.” Far more to the point, it
seems to me, would be to reason that
because of the recent discovery at the
Leduc, or South Edmonton field, in
Alberta, for example, we have opened
our minds to vast new possibilities in
western Canada. Not one pool less,
but rather many pools more will result
from this one discovery.

The great question facing us now is
how long can we continue to replace
our annual consumption of petroleum
through discoveries of new oil and gas
fields? When must we look to other
sources—either substitutes or imports
from other continents? If we have no
more oil to discover, then it is not too
soon to start working on some alternate
solution. Our needs are great and are
constantly increasing. The answer to
this problem of adequate supply of
petroleum may well become critical
to our very existence.

What help can geology give on this
problem? Because petroleum is found
in the rocks and the earth, and be-
cause we, as geologists, represent the
science which is concerned with rocks
and the earth, we are, whether we
wish it or not, faced with a great public
responsibility. We are expected to
keep the people of North America ad-
vised on the prospects of adequate
future discoveries of petroleum on this
continent. Geology, of all the sci-
ences, offers the key to the evaluation
of the ultimate extent of our mineral
resources. It is my contention that,
as geologists, the problem is squarely
in our laps, and that our highest social
purpose—the finding of new mineral
deposits—is being put to a test as
never before.

During times of world peace, the
petroleum resources of the world are
ample to take care of all requirements

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

for generations to come. Petroleum
can be moved readily from one con-
tinent to another, and the importing
of petroleum is a very simple and obvi-
ous answer to the lack of it in any
part of the world. However, as ten-
sions multiply and international rela-
tions become strained, each nation
must be prepared to depend entirely
on its own resources—that is, those
resources which it can protect. In our
case, once we on this continent become
dependent on a foreign or an ocean-
borne supply, not only of petroleum
but of every other mineral substance
as well, our world position is weakened
and our defense and self-preservation
become proportionately vulnerable.

If we cannot import petroleum with
safety to our future, what are the alter-
natives? The first is to manufacture
substitute fuels from our great reserves
of coal, oil shales, and tar sands. This
seems to offer a solution which is safe,
ample in quantity of raw material, and
which is technically possible now. The
cost is great, however, compared to
naturally occurring liquid fuels, and
there are many problems which re-
main to be worked out if such methods
are called upon to supply anything
more than nominal amounts of petro-
leum products. But, because there is
such a vast amount of hydrocarbon
material contained in these deposits,
nothing should be left undone which
would help make it available for use.

The second alternative is very simple
to state but is difficult to achieve. It is
to increase oil-field discovery within
the continental borders of North Anier-
ica to keep pace with the rising needs.
It is this solution that I would like to
discuss with you more fully.

If we are to expand our discovery
rate, the problem naturally falls into
two parts. First, is there enough new
oil to be discovered? and second, How
is it to be found? ‘The finding of it is
readily answered—more drilling. Oil
and gas are found in only one way,
that is by the drilling of wells. The
number of dry holes in some of the
productive regions of the United States

PETROLEUM RESOURCES—LEVORSEN

Oo) Oil or gas field
r 6 Miles ;

Ficure 1.—Drilling density of an area in Oklahoma typical of many counties in the mid-
continent region.

is rather amazing. Figure 1 shows an
area of around 320 square miles in
Oklahoma which is typical of many
counties. ‘The dry holes or salt-water
wells—each representing a geologic
column—average less than a mile
apart. One might conclude from this,
no wonder they find oil! When we
think of the plains region of Canada
with test wells 50 miles or more apart,
the immensity of the drilling program
necessary to locate all the oil fields
becomes apparent.

We then come back to the first part,
which is the crux of the problem—

t Dry hole — av. 2800'- 3800’

is there enough oil which remains to
be discovered? If there is not, then
there is not much need of more drilling.
But if there is oil—in terms of our
national needs—remaining to be found
then we should be on with the business
of locating it. The presently known
recoverable oil reserves of 21 billion
barrels or more—about 12 times the
annual consumption—is merely a
working stock. Much of the oil we
are using today was unknown 20
years ago, and likewise the oil we will
use 20 years hence is in a large part
still undiscovered. The really impor-
244

tant petroleum resource, then, for the
people of North America is that which
at present is both undrilled and un-
discovered.

A geologist does not physically “see”’
an oil or gas field any more than a
meteorologist, for example, sees a low-
or high-pressure area even though both
commonly use contour lines to describe
the ideas they intend to convey. Both
are presenting mental concepts of the
conditions as they are thought to exist.
Until a discovery well has been
drilled, any undiscovered oil or gas
field at best exists only as an idea in
the mind of the geologist. In a like
manner, the basis for any undiscovered
petroleum province—a petroleum pro-
vince being a region in which there
are a number of oil and gas pools
having related geological conditions—
the basis for such an undiscovered
province exists only in_ geologic
thought. It is rather sobering to
remember that the future of this great
natural resource—upon which many
national and continental policies are
based, industries planned, and de-
defenses built—should rest in the
mind and in the imagination of the
geologist. Our petroleum resources
will not be exhausted until after our
imaginative powers have been ex-
hausted. Our job is cut out for us!

There has been a great deal written
about petroleum geology—what it is,
how it is applied and what it can
accomplish. A crude idea of the phil-
losophy underlying the search for an
oil pool, may be stated in three words:
“Find a trap.” Some would add the
word ‘“‘first,”? to cover the competitive
element. As might be expected, such
a definition suffers from over-simpli-
fication, but it does contain the under-
lying objective of nearly all petro-
leum-exploration geology and geophys-
ics. Prejudices against fresh water,
red sediments, continental beds, high-
carbon ratios, lack of source rocks,
closeness to the mountains, and lack
of sands fade rapidly in the face of a
good trap.

It so happens, however, that traps

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

are neither simple nor easy to find.
They vary from wholly stratigraphic
to wholly structural in character and
from Ordovician to Pleistocene in
geologic age. ‘They are not the same
at depths of 10,000 and 15,000 feet
and below several unconformities as
they are near the surface; nor are they
the same in the centers of the basins
as they appear on the outcropping
flanks. Seldom is a prospective trap
found with more favorable character-
istics than unfavorable. As a matter
of fact, the final decision as to whether
to lease and drill a prospect often
depends on extremely tenous and hazy
geologic data, and drilling can be
justified only on the basis of experience,
imagination, and daring.

Moreover, the average trap is merely
the container of one oil field, which in
the continental picture is insignificant
in terms of the over-all requirements.
Some oil fields, it is true, are large
enough to supply substantial amounts
of oil—up to 1 or 2 years’ needs—but
they are rare. Of the 400 to 500 oil,
gas, and condensate fields discovered
each year, most are relatively small—
half a million to several million total
barrels—or only enough to take care
of the needs of days or even a fraction
ofaday. Ofthe more than 3,000 pro-
ducing oil fields found so far in North
America, only slightly more than 100
originally contained more than 100
million barrels of oil, an amount which
it should be remembered is only 20
days’ consumption. The trend during
recent years has been in the direction
of more annual discoveries but with
smaller-size pools, and it is this trend
of small discoveries which gives alarm
to many persons. To solve the prob-
lem effectively, our thinking must be
in terms of provinces.

The presently active provinces such
as the Gulf Coast, West Texas, the San
Joaquin Valley, the mid-continent
States, and the Rocky Mountain re-
gion can all be expected to continue
to provide new oil and gas fields for
many years to come. The prospects
for further discovery in these areas are
PETROLEUM RESOURCES—LEVORSEN

by no means exhausted, but to meet
the ever-increasing demands new areas
must be added to them.

When in geologic thought we pro-
ceed outward from these established
areas of production, however, we come
into more and more speculative regions
which require increasing amounts of
geologic imagination to visualize their
potentialities in terms of important
future supplies. Some examples of
these areas or prospective provinces
are the Anadarko Basin; the Conti-
nental Shelf; the coastal plains of Mex-
ico; the interior plains of western Can-
ada; Florida and the Southeastern
States; New Brunswick and other Mari-
time Provinces; the Atlantic Coastal
Plain; the Great Basin region; the over-
thrust fault belts and the sediments of
Cambrian age. Valid objections, both
geologic and economic, can be found
to each of these areas which either
overbalance the favorable factors or
are overbalanced by them depending
on who makes the appraisal, for what
purpose, and when. There is nothing
new in such a statement as every in-
dividual prospect, even in the old es-
tablished provinces, goes through the
same sort of reasoning in the normal
competitive operation of the petroleum
industry. The test well is finally
drilled when, in the mind of someone,
the favorable factors overbalance the
unfavorable. Countless pools have
been discovered when the majority,
orthodox geologic opinion rated the
prospects low, or even negligible and
the discovery well had but a small
minority support.

The characteristics of provinces par-
allel those of individual oil fields in
many respects, and the single oil or
gas pool is often a “Shand specimen”
of the province insofar as its geologic
history is concerned. Experience has
shown that every oil field is unique in
that it has its own stratigraphic and
structural development, and the same
uniqueness is true of a_ province.
Therefore, in a new province, we
should not expect to duplicate the geo-
logic history found in the proven prov-

245

inces. Any evaluation of prospective
producing regions should depend
rather on the objective application of
principles to the observed geologic
conditions of the area being considered.

Reduced to their simplest terms, the
geologic factors which favor a region
as a potential petroleum province are:
(1) sediments, preferably but not nec-
essarily marine, variable, and unmet-
amorphosed—generally the more the
better; (2) evidences of oil and gas,
either from surface seepages or show-
ings in wells; (3) unconformities—also
the more the better; and (4) up-dip
wedge belts of permeability resulting
from any cause. These factors may be
termed common denominators of
known petroleum provinces, and,
while their presence does not assure
commercial production in a new re-
gion, yet the better and stronger these
factors are developed, the better the
chances for such production. Once a
petroleum province has been estab-
lished, there remains only the problem
of finding the local traps.

The geologic merit of a prospective
region is often tempered by the exces-
sive drilling depths necessary to reach
the productive formations. During
recent years, the average depth of ex-
ploratory drilling has steadily in-
creased, and today wells 12,000 to
15,000 feet in depth are common.
The deepest hole to date was drilled
last summer in western Oklahoma to
a depth of 17,823 feet. It is therefore
assumed that test wells as much as
20,000 feet in depth may be considered
as practical in the petroleum explora-
tion of the future.

Another important factor which
enters into the consideration of a pro-
spective region is its distance from the
market. Our petroleum demand is
strong enough that it can be expected
to reach for supply anywhere on this
continent either through pipe lines or
ocean transport, provided the supply
is large enough to justify the expense.
While distance from market is com-
monly thought of in terms of miles,
equally significant are the hurdles
246

which are placed at national bound-
aries. Our geographic position as a
compact continent and the geologic
boundaries which determine where
our petroleum resources are to be
found antedate national boundaries
and are far more fundamental to our

300 MILES

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

together, and there should be no place
for trade barriers between our peoples.
It is for these reasons that, in apprais-
ing our petroleum resources, the
prospective areas should be considered
throughout all North America, irre-
spective of the country within which

LEGEND

D>, | LC.—JUR. WEDGE
(> SOUTHEASTERN STATES

£27

? GAS @ Tar

Ficure 2.—Reference map of North America showing the three prospective types of areas
selected for analysis.

future welfare than are any man-made
rules as to traffic between our coun-
tries. It seems to me that we in North
America are extremely short-sighted
in thinking of ourselves as separate
and independent countries when we
are so interdependent in terms of all
of our natural resources. We on this
continent are going to stand or fall

they happen to occur or the distance
in miles from the market.

Three of the prospective areas have
been selected as typical of the kind
and scale of geologic thought and im-
agination which it seems is necessary
to analyze intelligently our undis-
covered petroleum resources. They
are presented in the discussion which
PETROLEUM RESOURCES—LEVORSEN

follows. The data used are all taken
from geologic articles and publications
available to everyone, much of it in
the publications of our Geological
Society. It is the purpose here to
give some indication of the enormous
volumes of rocks favorable to petrol-
eum production but which are as yet
essentially unexplored. Some of these
areas and ideas are highly speculative
at this time, but experience has shown
over and over again that every produc-
ing area, whether an individual field
or a great province, was at one time in
a similar speculative position.

The areas selected are shown on the
North American base map, figure 2.
They are: (1) the overthrust fault
belts; (2) the plains regions of western
Canada and Alaska and of eastern
Mexico and Guatemala; and (3) the
wedge out of Lower Cretaceous and
Jurassic sediments in the Southeastern
States.

(1) Overthrust fault belts—More than
2,500 linear miles from 5 to 100 miles
wide are shown on the base map in
which older rocks are thrust over
younger rocks and in which the geo-
logy is so complicated as to make it
extremely difficult to map and under-
stand. Interpretation of geophysical
measurements in these fault areas is
generally impossible. The correct
knowledge of the geology appears to
lie in better and more accurate surface
mapping coupled with careful records
of deep wells. Probably of equal im-
portance is the need for geologists to
learn more of the nature and mechan-
ics of faulting.

Yet, within these overthrust belts,
evidence of petroleum has been found
at many places, and several oil fields
discovered. One of these belts ex-
tends from British Columbia and
Alberta south across western Mon-
tana and Wyoming and into Utah
and Nevada. The Turner Valley
pool of Alberta (fig. 3) is located in it.
Another belt is located in the western
Ouachita Mountains of Oklahoma
and probably extends southwest across
Texas. The South Mountain pool

817369—49——19

247

(fig. 4) is one of several examples of
oil pools in the Ventura region of
California characterized by thrust
faulting. The third belt is in the
Appalachian Mountains extending
from New York into Alabama where
it passes under the overlapping Cre-
taceous and Tertiary rocks. The re-
cently discovered Rose Hill pool (fig.
5) in Virginia occurs in this belt.
Apparently thrust faulting and the
sort of deformation which occurs in
these belts are not detrimental to the
occurrence of petroleum.

One factor which makes these belts
favorable for petroleum accumulation
is the fact that they are generally
located over areas in which the sedi-
ments increase rapidly in thickness,
often thickening at a rate of hundreds
of feet to the mile. Wherever sedi-
ments thicken, we may expect to find
wedge belts of porosity and permea-
bility, a phenomenon common to
many proven oil-bearing provinces.
Since the belts of expanding sediments
antedate the faulting, they thus pro-
vide a regional trap before the faulting
occurred. In fact, they may have also
localized the thrusting over the initial
dips which prevailed.

The Choctaw and related over-
thrust faults in the western part of the
Ouachita Mountains of Oklahoma
(fig. 6) deserve special attention as one
example of the scale of trap we may
expect to find in these overthrust belts.
Here the Ouachita facies of Paleozoic
age are thrust northwest out and over
the buried Arbuckle rock facies along
a front 50 to 100 miles in length. The
surface maps of this part of Oklahoma
show the faulted area as separating the
Lehigh Basin to the northwest from
the Prairie Hollow syncline to the
southeast, in each of which the rocks
are dropped down nearly 2 miles.
The map and cross sections recently
published by Hendricks of the United
States Geological Survey are the basis
of the section (fig. 7). Below the
Choctaw overthrust fault, a large anti-
cline is shown in the older Paleozoic
formations of the Arbuckle facies,
248

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

fi at A ae i

2
ig ft
z 3
$3 39
2

a EA
[2 Silo

= Ses eee

eres Jy RE

VERTICAL AND HORIZONTAL SCALE THE Same

Ficure 3.—Section through the Turner Valley field in Alberta, Canada. (After Link.)
PETROLEUM RESOURCES—LEVORSEN

including the Hunton limestone, the
Viola limestone, the Simpson sands,
and the Arbuckle limestone, all of
which are richly productive in the
important Oklahoma oil fields 25 to
75 miles to the west and northwest.
Moreover, above the area of this fold
and within the faulted overthrust
rocks are found a large number of oil

S SOUTH MOUNTAIN

249

belief that, if productive, it will be
large—in other words, here is one
area possibly containing an unex-
plored trap a dozen times as large as
the Oklahoma City field!

The recent discovery of oil at Rose
Hill in Virginia (fig. 5) located in the
overthrust Appalachian region directs
attention to a large area of complex

Eocene Miles
Ficure 4.—Section through the South Mountain oil field in Ventura County, Calif. (After
Bailey.)
ROSE HILL

OIL FIELD

—_—-

12 MILES

Wallen Valley
Foult

FicureE 5.—Section through the Rose Hill oil field in western Virginia. Production is
found in sediments of Trenton (Ordovician) age below the Pine Mountain overthrust

fault. (After Miller and Fuller.)

and gas seepages, asphalt deposits,
and other evidences of petroleum.
The anticline perhaps differs some-
what from that shown in the section
due to the rapid thickening of the
Pennsylvanian sediments toward the
southeast, but even so there is un-
doubtedly a fold of some sort in the
early rocks at this locality. It is of a
size and proportion to justify the

geology which has heretofore been
greatly discounted because of the high
carbon ratios expected. The oil pool
is found in dolomites of Trenton age
where overridden by early Ordovician
and Cambrian rocks. In addition to
the oil at Rose Hill, gas has been
found in the overthrust belt at Early
and Bristol, both in Virginia. Source
rocks consequently have been demon-
250 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

lO I I2 IS:E

Okla. (After Hendricks.)
NW SE

Ordovicion

Cambrian

Cambrian ~

Ficure 7.—Section across western end of Ouachita Mountains overthrust fault belt extending
from Lehigh Basin to Round Prairie syncline. (After Hendricks.)
PETROLEUM RESOURCES—LEVORSEN

strated. Folds of all degrees of inten-
sity, coupled with unconformities,
facies changes, rapid eastward thick-
ening of all rocks in the geologic
column from Cambrian to Pennsyl-

vanian in age, and all sliced with great

numbers of low-angle faults assure an
almost unlimited number of traps

ore

Cleveland ¥

a Indianapolis

/

al Pa
of 4
7s Atlanta
7

251

lineation is more nearly north and
south and passes under the southwest-
northeast trend of the later over-
thrusting. Moreover, the number of
faults and their intensity increase from
northeast to southwest until the belt
passes under the Cretaceous and Ter-
tiary overlap in Alabama. The pat-

ene

APPALACHIAN -OVERTHRUST

v7, REGION

Regional

Dipcetrike y Anticlinal xis.

100 MILES

Ficure 8.—Reference map of the eastern United States showing the Appalachian overthrust
belt crossing obliquely an older regional pattern of folding.

extending from Alabama to Penn-
sylvania.

An interesting speculation may be
be made on the basis of the evidence
indicated on the geologic map, shown
in figure 8. It is rather evident from
this map that the fault belt crosses
obliquely an older pattern of folding
shown by the anticlinal trends and the
regional strike of the rocks. ‘This older

tern suggests a sort of pendulum fault
movement from AB to AC, the rocks
from the east overriding the western
rocks a progressively increasing dis-
tance from north to south.

The underlying western rocks are
known oil and gas producers and may
extend far to the east below the soles
of the overthrust series. Isopach and
paleogeologic maps offer the means of
252

proving the extent of the overthrusting.
Pressure for more oil and gas discovery
will provide the incentive for the
drilling of the deep holes necessary
to test the formations below the faults.

(2) Plains of Alaska and western
Canada, and eastern Mexico and Guate-
mala.—These two areas, which appear
to be the northern and southern ex-
tremities of the western plains regions
of the United States, much of which
has been so productive of oil and gas,
cover an area of over a million square
miles in Alaska, Canada, and northern
United States, and 300,000 square
miles in Mexico and Guatemala.

They are considered together be-
cause they have many common char-
acteristics significant in the geology of
petroleum. Both contain large vol-
umes of sediments, Both also contain
numerous and widespread evidences
of petroleum in the form of seepages,
asphalt and tar deposits, as well as
proven oil and gas fields. There can
be no question as to abundant source
rocks.

The geologic section in the western
Canadian plains contains five regional
unconformities, and the Mexican sec-
tion contains as many or more. One
of the important functions of uncon-
formities is to mark the truncation of
porous formations below the uncon-
formity. Likewise, the overlapping
formations above the plane of the un-
conformity often contain porous mem-
bers or lenses. Such stratigraphic
phenomena close to unconformites
account for a substantial percentage of
the world’s oil fields. Probably of
equal importance to the petroleum
geologist is the masking effect of un-
conformities—they conceal the under-
lying geology. ‘The presence of an
unconformity in the geologic section is
notice to the exploration geologist that
a new and unknown set of conditions,
structural as well as stratigraphic, may
be expected to exist below. In many
provinces, drilling through unconform-
ities has revealed new and unsuspected
deeper formations which caused both
geological and geophysical upsets.

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

In addition to the unconformities,
sections of rocks in both areas show
numerous changes in facies; lateral
variations in porosity, limestone reefs,
and interbedded continental and ma-
rine sediments. The combination of
the unconformities and changes in
facies gives to both areas innumerable
possibilities for stratigraphic traps of
every conceivable variety. Local
deformation in an area characterized
by such stratigraphic variations need
not be strong. Gentle folds, structural
terraces, and other minor structures
can easily become effective traps for
large oil pools especially when com-
bined with lateral changes in porosity
and permeability.

The average thickness of sediments
in these two areas which might carry
petroleum is on the order of 2 miles,
which means a total volume of sedi-
ments of over 2% million cubic miles—
a truly large volume of prospective
material which is today essentially
unexplored! It is inconceivable that
such a large volume of rocks, in which
every prerequisite of a petroleum prov-
ince is richly developed, should not
be the site of hundreds upon hundreds
of oil fields yet to be discovered.
Deposits such as the Athabaska oil
sands of Canada or the Golden Lane
and Poza Rica fields in Mexico give a
measure of the possible size of some of
these undiscovered fields. Not until
thousands of additional test wells have
been drilled throughout both regions
can we say that the exploration of these
areas has been completed.

(3) Southeastern United States.—The
dome structure in contours might be
called the symbol of the petroleum
geologist of the 1920’s—it was prac-
tically the sole objective in his search
for traps. While a dome structure is
still as desirable a guide to an oil pool
as ever, it is gradually being learned
that stratigraphic variations are prob-
ably equally as important as folding
and faulting in the formation of traps.
One of the greatest oil fields in the
world, the East Texas field, has a cross
section which is symbolic of the chang-
PETROLEUM RESOURCES—-LEVORSEN

ing emphasis (fig. 9) and which is
repeated in many forms in countless
oil and gas fields. Whether it is an oil
filed in the small sand lens in Kansas
or Alberta, the porous limestone reefs
of West Texas or Mexico, the dolo-
mite grading into limestone in Indiana
and Ohio, the rapid lateral change of
a sand to shale in California, or the
wedges bounded by unconformities as
East Texas, the principle is the same—
an up-dip wedging out of porosity and
permeability in the reservoir rock.
This principle applies not only to indi-
vidual fields, but also to many prov-
inces. Such a province may be

SURFACE

253

ena, which as yet has not been tested,
occurs in the southeastern States of
Mississippi, Alabama, and Florida
where the wedge edge of the Lower
Cretaceous and Jurassic rocks crosses
first the southwest-plunging Appa-
lachian arch and again the Florida
uplift (fig. 10). These two rock series
occur below the Upper Cretaceous in
East Texas, southern Arkansas, and
northern Louisiana and contain the
reservoir rocks of more than 125 oil
and gas fields (fig. 11). This wedge is
expanding at a rate of 100 feet per mile
down the dip and somewhere in
Mississippi and Alabama it crosses

Tert. | |
we

U. Cret.

— After W.S.Morris

|

Ficure 9.—Generalized west-east cross section of the East Texas oil field. The wedge shape
of the producing formation is repeated in various ways in many oil and gas fields.

looked upon as a large-scale version of
the up-dip wedge of permeability in
which the oil and gas are first accum-
ulated in the regional trap and later
localized into pools by minor deforma-
tions and local stratigraphic variations.
Whether the stratigraphic variation is
on the scale of either a single pool or a
province, it has the advantage of being
the earliest trap in the geologic life of
the reservoir rock, and consequently
having had more time in which to
accumulate oil and gas. As a conse-
quence, any up-dip wedge edge of
permeability in a potentially produc-
ing formation is significant.

One of the largest of these phenom-

the southwestern extension of the
Appalachian arch setting up a poten-
tial trap area of thousands of square
miles. Farther southeast in Florida
it crosses the southern extension of the
Florida arch where production has
already been found in Cretaceous rocks
(fig. 12). Here again there is a poten-
tial trap area of thousands of square
miles in a group of rocks which have
produced fields like Smackover, Ro-
dessa, and Schuler along the same
trend. Drilling will be deep, it is true,
probably beyond 15,000 feet and even
as deep as 20,000 feet. No one can
even guess in advance of drilling what
structure, stratigraphic sequences, or
ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

254

‘uONE;NUINIIe UINIOI}0d 0} V[GeIOAR} seoIE den jenusjod o81y] om Sutemsz0; Aqos0y) ‘YIU, BPUOopy sy} ssor9e

ureSe pue yory ueryoejeddy sursunjd-ussysamyinos oy} sso1oR dip-dn yno o8pam syuourtpes o1ssein{’ pue snosdeje1) IaMo'T—‘O] AAAS

(Abju} 42450)S4904 ISsDanp paling 4o ebpa yyJON

pang
dos9j3no

SNOBIDj91D JBMO7]

snoeopjes9 4seddn ‘do19jno

Syd0J OISsOuNp 4O SNOVIDjOID “J WO1 Huldnpoud spja!; |!0

“salliW OO

Se

PETROLEUM RESOURCES—LEVORSEN

100 MILES

— After Imlay-Halbouty

Ficure 11.—Wedge-shaped Lower Cretaceous and Jurassic sediments of southern Arkansas
and northern Louisiana which provide the regional location for more than 125 oil and

gas pools.

N
SEA- LEVEL: —
S000 FT

10,000 FT

15,000 FT —

= | 480 MILES:

SUNNILAND

OIL FIELD S

gee
(“~T__LIU. Cretaceous
heat

— After Pressler

Ficure 12.—Same wedge-shaped cross section of lower Cretaceous and Jurassic sediments
(see fig. 11) extends into Florida where it has been found productive at Sunniland.

changes in facies will occur in these
rocks, but their past history in
Louisiana and Arkansas gives some
indication of the possibilities. The
scale, both lateral and vertical, is so
great that here, again, if production
is found, we can expect it to be sub-
stantial in terms of national needs.

Ideas on where to drill come from
many sources. he farther away from
present production we search, the
more we depend on sources outside the
petroleum industry for our basic data.
One such source is the great wealth of
geologic data in the publications of our
science and particularly in the publi-
256

cations of The Geological Society and
the State and National Geological
Surveys. These can, with the proper
interpretation, point the way to new
oil fields and provinces. As a matter
of fact, there are probably innumera-
ble oil fields lying buried in our geo-
logical libraries—that is, if we knew
how to interpret the geology. A recent
example of this is the discovery of oil
in the Salinas Valley of California af-
ter 50 years of exploration and nearly
90 dry test wells, many of which were
drilled on the best geological advice
current at that time. The present dis-
covery was the result of drilling a
sandy facies which was accurately des-
cribed by our past fellow member,
Bruce L. Clark, in an article in our
Bulletin of 1930. It was covered in
two significant sentences:

The other alternative would be that they

(the sediments composing the Monterey
deposits) were laid down against the King
City fault, which marked the shoreline, and
did not extend over the block. If this were
true we would expect to find a coarser, more
clastic and lenticular series of sediments
composing the Monterey along the margin
of the King City block.
I do not know if Mr. Dorrance, who
was responsible for the location of the
well which the Texas Co. drilled, ever
saw this statement by Clark, but his
reasoning in making the location was
the same. ‘This idea lay in libraries
all over the world for 17 years without
a taker!

Adding up all the prospective areas
which have been both mentioned and
described, we find enormous volumes
of rocks which have geological condi-
tions more or less favorable to the
occurrence of petroleum, yet which
have had relatively little exploration.
The reasonable conclusion is that they
contain proportionately large petro-
leum deposits, and that our explora-
tion job is still far from complete. It
is extremely doubtful if the geology of
any of these areas will ultimately prove
to be exactly as it is now envisioned.
As long, however, as favorable geologic
factors remain, there is reason for
drilling and, if drilling, then hope for

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

additional discovery. Our responsi-
bility is to maintain the best scientific
guidance for the drilling.

Petroleum geology is geology applied
to the problems of the petroleum in-
dustry which in turn is devoted to the
service of man. The industry is pre-
pared to spend unlimited amounts of
money and effort to maintain discov-
ery, and the foundation of discovery is
geology. ‘There is scarcely a phase of
the science of geology that does not
find an application. What began on
the part of the oil industry as a half-
hearted use of surface structural map-
ping has now developed into great geo-
logical organizations, equipped with
enormous research facilities and utiliz-
ing a wide variety of principles of geol-
ogy, physics, chemistry, and engineer-
ing. ‘The broad front on which petro-
leum geology has developed is signifi-
cant, for it adds powerful support to
fundamental research—that phase of
geology to which we in The Geological
Society are especially committed.

Finally, I like the idea expressed by
Doctor Conant,” president of Harvard
University, when, after defining a
“scholar” as ‘“‘including all those who
are endeavoring to be original thinkers
in any field of learning,”’ he states that
“‘a scholar’s activities should have rel-
evance to the immediate future of our
civilization.” ‘The problem of an ade-
quate supply of mineral resources—not
only petroleum but other mineral sub-
stances as well—is surely a part of the
immediate future of our civilization.
You and I, who may be called scholars
attempting to do original thinking in
the field of geology, might well heed
his admonition. Such thinking is, in-
deed, high-level geology. It is a field
in which the scholars of The Geological
Society of America have played a vital
part in the past and are needed more
than ever in the future.

2 Conant, James B., The American com-
munity of scholars. Address delivered at the
inauguration of Arthur Holly Compton as
Chancellor of Washington University, St.
Louis, Mo., February 22, 1946.
American Meteorites and the National Collection

By Epwarp P. HENDERSON, Associate Curator of Mineralogy and Petrology, U.S.
National Museum

[With 6 plates]

Nearly everyone has seen “shooting
stars’? or meteors and has been im-
pressed by the display. They appear
without warning and are best seen at
night. They do enter the earth’s at-
mosphere during the daytime but are
less likely to be seen then because the
bright sky makes a poor background
for the trails of glowing particles fol-
lowing the meteor and because the low-
hanging clouds, frequently abundant
during the day, obscure the view.
These “‘falling stars,” which vary in
size from small dust particles to bodies
weighing many tons, are usually so
high above the earth that they make
only a silent display of fireworks; but
now and then one penetrates the lower
atmosphere far enough to give out a
strange roaring sound audible over a
very wide area. ‘The average observer
of such a display usually errs in esti-
mating the distance of the falling meteor
from him. When no sound effects are
heard within a short interval of time,
he may be assured that the falling ob-
ject was a long way off.

Particles are torn from this rapidly
moving object and are sent whirling
in its wake. By day only a streak of
gray smoke resembling a cloud is vis-
ible, but at night a luminous trail may
be seen. These trails look small and
unimportant compared with our low-
hanging cumulus clouds, but their ap-
parent size is deceptive. Floating 30
to 40 miles above the earth, they are,
in fact, very large, containing vast
quantities of finely divided meteoric

particles. This dust from ‘‘shooting
stars” settles unnoticed upon the earth.

The display of falling meteors can
best be seen during certain seasons of
the year. There are two well-known
streams of meteors, Perseids and
Leonids, which have furnished splen-
did shows on various occasions during
the past century. The Perseids are
visible in August, usually between the
tenth and the twentieth of the month.
Their display is remarkably constant
in number of meteors seen per hour,
and also in the recurrence of the event
year after year. The Leonids make
their appearance less faithfully, but
their showers have furnished the most
spectacular displays. The phenom-
enal Leonid shower of 1833 is still
frequently referred to. The Leonids
are visible toward the end of October
and during the first few days in
November.

Meteors are defined as small astro-
nomical bodies that flash across the
sky. When these masses reach the
earth from outer space, they are called
meteorites. It is calculated that mil-
lions of meteors enter our atmosphere
each day, but records made of observed
falls over the past 100 years show that
a very limited number fall to the
earth and are found. Since these
meteors enter the earth’s atmosphere
from all directions as the earth rotates
on its axis, every land area has a
chance of being struck.

Some meteorites are large and are
capable of doing considerable damage

257
258

when they fall. Fortunately, no fall
has to date injured or killed anybody
as far as authenticated records go.
Buildings have been struck, and some
day one may fall in a thickly populated
zone and take its toll, but that day
may be in the far distant future.
W. J. Fisher | made a study showing
that out of a total of 528 witnessed
falls for the world, 18, or only 3.4
percent, had struck buildings, and 12,
or 2.27 percent, had landed on roads.
Hence it will be seen that the risk to
an individual is negligible.

The finding of a meteorite depends
largely upon natural conditions, such
as the abundance of rocks scattered
about, and the frequency and com-
pleteness with which a district is
covered by man. In rugged terrain
or in heavily forested areas few finds
have been recorded. In areas of our
country that have been covered by
glaciers, meteorite hunting is very
discouraging, as_ preglacial mete-
orites are now buried under glacial
drift.

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

Meteorites that fall into the water
sink to the bottom and become buried
in the sediments forming there. It
is not likely that many of these will
ever be found, but quite by accident
J. O. Neill, who was fishing some
three-quarters of a mile from the shore
of Lake Okeechobee, Fla., had the
rare fortune to recover a small meteor-
ite in his net.

The number of meteorites that
reach the earth each year far exceeds
the number actually witnessed. The
British Museum ” published a table
listing 1,251 different meteorites from
the entire world, and of this number
602 were seen to fall and 649 were
finds of old falls. The proportion of
observed falls to finds in the United
States is 97 to 441, or about 1 to 5,
whereas in the table referred to it is
nearer 1 to 1.

About 10 years ago Smead reported
on the frequency of witnessed falls
within the various countries of the
world, and the figures are given in
the last column of the following table.

TABLE 1.—Area, population, and reported falls of meteorites in five countries*

Area square

Country Ape
Anidliac cre, oes eys ents waa 1, 802, 629
WnitediStatess)..5 221.2 lane 3, 026, 789
Rrances tacts teh tester ee 212, 681
German yiriceia ie etter: 181, 662
Spain wa Msc O rane sce 195, 010

: Population Witnessed
Population dene falls
VA ol Aas) 195 102
124, 693, 606 41 79
41, 834, 923 196 54
64, 600, 000 355 24
22, 760, 854 116 23

* Figures for area and population are from Rand McNally Atlas, 1934. The number of
witnessed falls is from J. L. Smead’s article in Pop. Astron., vol. 46, p. 331, 1938.

This table, although out of date as
to the number of witnessed falls, is of
interest in giving the relative propor-
tion of observed falls for these coun-
tries. The United States, with its
lower population density, has done ex-
ceptionally well in recovering freshly
fallen meteorites. From the following
17 States no witnessed falls have been
reported: Alabama, Arizona, Colo-

1 Pop. Astron., vol. 41, pp. 246-254. 1933.

rado, Delaware, Florida, Idaho, Lou-
isiana, Massachusetts, Montana, Ne-
vada, New Hampshire, North Dakota,
Rhode Island, Utah, Vermont, West
Virginia, Wyoming.

Meteorites in the United States

There have been 524 different mete-
orites found within the limits of the

2 Second appendix to Catalogue of Me-
teorites, by Max H. Hey. 1940.
AMERICAN METEORITES—HENDERSON

United States up to July 1948, but this
figure is only relatively accurate be-
cause some of the early discoveries are
so closely spaced geographically that
in some instances the same meteorite
may be listed more than once. New
finds are made from time to time, and
often considerable time elapses before
their existence is reported. Specimens
of these meteorites have been identified
and preserved in various collections.
The vast majority of them are discov-
eries of old falls; only 97 have been
seen to fall. The land area of the
United States must have been hit by
falling meteorites many more than 535
times, but it is useless to make any
estimate of the possible number.

Between 1807 and 1850, 14 falls oc-
curred, and between 1850 and 1900,
28 falls were reported. Since 1900
only 55 falls have been reported. Be-
tween 1900 and 1948 there were 14
years in which no meteorites were ob-
served to fall, and in only 4 different
years were as many as three or more
meteorites seen to fall. In 1933 four
different falls were observed in this
country, and this is the maximum
number ever to be reported in a single
year.

Of the 97 witnessed falls in this
country, 28 have occurred in the morn-
ing, including those reported as occur-
ring at noon, and 61 have fallen in the
afternoon. The hour of fall of the
others was not recorded, but it is a
well-recognized fact that more meteor-
ites reach the earth between noon and
midnight than during the morning
hours.

There is wide variation in the num-
ber of meteorites found in different
States. Texas leads the list with 83;
Kansas has 54; Colorado, 40; Ne-
braska, New Mexico, and North Caro-
lina, 29 each; Tennessee, 21; Alabama
and Kentucky, 20 each. Only 20
meteorites have been reported from
the three States of Ohio (8), Indiana
(9), and Illinois (3), doubtless because
those States were well covered with
glacial drift. In five States—Dela-
ware, Massachusetts, New Hampshire,

259

Rhode Island, and Vermont ’—no
meteorites have been found.

The first of the 97 witnessed Ameri-
can falls occurred on December 14,
1807, when a stone of 150 kg. fell about
6:30 a. m. at Weston, Conn. The
next witnessed fall was on Jan. 30,
1810, at 2 p. m., when a 1.3 kg.-stone
fell in Caswell County, N. C.* At
4:30 p.m. on August 7, 1823, a fall
occurred near Nobleboro, Maine, and
about noon on February 10, 1825, a
stone weighing 7.5 kg. fell at Nanje-
moy, Md. These were all stony
meteorites. The first known iron
meteorite fell in 1835, but the date is
not definitely known; it has been
reported as July 31 or August 1.
This iron, weighing 4.5 kg., struck
near Charlotte, Tenn. The largest of
the witnessed iron meteorite falls in
this country is the Cabin Creek, Ark.,
meteorite, weighing 48.7 kg., which
fell on March 27, 1886.

Table 2 lists the largest individual
iron meteorites found in the United
States. All these are old and unwit-
nessed falls. The Sardis iron is the
only large meteorite found in the
eastern part of the United States.

The largest individual stony mete-
orite ever found in America is the
Norton County, Kans.—Furnas Coun-
ty, Nebr., stone. This was a witnessed
fall.

Table 3 lists the largest of our wit-
nessed falls and old falls which have
been discovered in the United States.

Kansas and Texas lead the other
States in number of large stony
meteorites, and it is interesting to note
that most of the large stones have been
found in the West.

Perhaps the oldest known meteorite,
from the standpoint of the time of its
fall to our earth, is the 1,760-pound
Sardis, Ga., iron (pl. 3, a). Accord-

3 One meteorite was reported from Ver-
mont in Science, vol. 96, p. 494, 1942; later
proved by author to be manufactured iron.

4 No specimens of this fall have been pre-
served; hence some authorities do not list
this. However, the evidence seems to justify
including it as a witnessed fall.
260

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

TABLE 2.—Largest individual iron meteorites found in the United States

Name State
Willamette. ©... 0.5. Oregon ’.c asi
INaVajOniin. ci.-tisae Nevada‘ -j.% 2. -
Quinn Canyon....... INevadasaeiayctie
Goose Lake.......... Californias). su.
SAPS of. ete a shotaietay opetare Georgians) aeec
Ried! Riverst% 2. ote WL EXAS 45 Lis aot.
HRucsonin ae ee ee Arizonaieran ieee
Drum Mountains..... Wtaltaeoecesceceor

Weight Location of specimen
(kg.) P
14,175 | American Museum of Natural His-
tory.
1,503 | Chicago Natural History Museum.
1,450 | Chicago Natural History Museum.
1,169 | United States National Museum.
800 | United States National Museum.
743 | Yale University.
688 | United States National Museum.
529

United States National Museum.

TaBLe 3.—Largest stony meteorites found in the United States

Name

Witnessed

known Weight

weight of largest | Date of fall Remarks

in ke piece
Norton County, Kans.-Furnas | 1, 038.5 966.0 | 2-18-1948 | 1,000 fragments.

County, Nebr.

Paragould, ~Arkter. (its. seein it 409.0 372.7 | 2-17-1930
Estherville, Iowa... .....:..... 337.0 198.0 | 2-10-1879
New Concord, Ohio........... 227.0 46.8 | 5— 1-1860
FLO brooks AMZ veyercte- os cere AUB AOIM | texeteree never: 7-19-1912 | 14,000 individuals.
Homestead, Iowa. .......5...: 210.0 33.6 | 2-12-1875
Wrestons Conn iqsniasiyisese eee 150. 0
Tong Island, Kans 5.2/2.5). =. 57930
Plainview sphexrpss.ccscls lee eee 520.0
Estacado, dhex o7icryae cea tactenctoncgo 412.0
Flug oto) y Cans gees. per eine 340. 0
Morland Wisans=sh yer renee 283.0
Boise @ity, ‘Okla ws «SH. M ais, «.: 181.9
Kimble County;wlexe. oe sna 2 153.8
IMeKanneys gl excise. mueictots fcrenar L5250

91.0 |12-14-1807

Unwitnessed

ESP tates tetecees 4,000 individuals.
ME ee SOR eae tan 500 individuals.

PAST NSS alae pales Se ie

B25 scence cai

Lisssesss[eccesseees-| Many fragments.

* This meteorite was found in 4 principal pieces, all of which were in contact and evidently
were lying in place. The 4 fit together to form an almost complete stone. The second-
largest fragment weighed 160 pounds. Trans. Kansas Acad. Sci., vol. 39, pp. 169-183, 1936.

ing to the available evidence, this iron
probably fell in the beds from which
it was dug in 1940 at the time these
sediments were being deposited on the
Atlantic Coastal Plain in Miocene
times, estimated to be about 30,000,-
000 years ago. The specimen, when

recovered, scarcely resembled a me-
teorite, its surface being so weathered
and sand grains being so mixed with
the alteration products that it looked
more like an iron-stained sandstone.
The excessive weight of the small
pieces broken off led the finders to
AMERICAN METEORITES—HENDERSON

become interested in learning what
made this “‘rock” too heavy.

The origin of meteorites is a con-
troversial subject and has been pur-
posely omitted from this discussion,
but their composition brings to mind
the material believed by geologists to
occur in the interior of large planets
like our earth. In what manner the
planet or planets were broken up and
how long these individual objects have
existed as fragments in outer space
before falling upon our earth is a
problem for the astronomer. Me-
teorites, before falling to the earth,
existed in an environment very differ-
ent from that here. They were never
exposed to much oxygen or water;
hence, in their new terrestrial environ-
ment they become subjected to new
chemical conditions, and alteration
starts rather quickly. The metallic
iron in some meteorites soon combines
with oxygen and water, and a rust
develops on the metal which is similar
in appearance to ordinary iron rust.

No simple method has been devel-
oped to determine how long a weath-
ered or rusted meteorite may have
been on this earth when it is found.
Weathering conditions and the nature
of the soil in which the meteorite fell
differ from place to place, and also
some meteorites are less stable or less
resistant to weathering than others.

Meteorite Craters

The most spectacular feature con-
nected with any meteorite in the world
is the large meteorite crater in Arizona.
This is the site where the largest known
meteorite crashed into the earth in
prehistoric times. The crater is nearly
circular in shape, with a diameter of
about 1,200 meters and a depth from
the rim to the crater floor of 175
meters. This great depression, made
by the impact of a falling meteorite,
still represents the greatest explosion
ever to have taken place on the earth
other than some of volcanic origin.

Around the rim of the crater many
large masses of meteoric iron have
been found. Over 5,000 kg. of me-

261

teoric material has been reported, and
in addition countless small fragments
have been carried away. Canyon
Diablo is the name given the meteoric
iron from this crater, and it is perhaps
the best-known meteorite in the world.
The literature on it and on the crater
is so extensive that it is not feasible to
cite it:

Within the lifetime of many now
living, our earth was struck another
terrific blow by a falling meteorite.
In 1908 a large one fell in Siberia and
leveled the forest for miles around.
Although no fragments of this have
been found to date, there is no ques-
tion but that this explosion was caused
by a meteorite.

There are some other well-known
craters in our country from which
meteoric material has been obtained.
The second largest is the Odessa, Tex.,
crater, which has a diameter of about
170 meters but a depth of only 5
meters. ‘The third largest is the
Brenham, Kans., crater which is about
17 meters in diameter and about 3
meters deep.

The National Collection of Meteorites

The collection of meteorites in the
United States National Museum con-
tains representative samples of 379 o1
the 524 different meteoritic falls which
have occurred in this country. This
is slightly more than 70 percent of all
known American meteorites, and con-
stitutes an adequate representation of
the different varieties and peculiarities
of meteorites.

Meteorites may fall anywhere on
earth, and it is now known through
specimens which have been identified
and preserved in collections that there
have been about 1,450 different falls
and finds of meteorites. There are
specimens of 388 different falls from
outside the limits of our country in the
National collection; these are sizable
samples that adequately represent the
meteorites. ‘The collection thus con-
tains representative samples of 52 per-
cent of the known meteoritic falls in
the world and hence is an important
262

source for research material. This col-
lection is important not only because
of its size and completeness, but also
because all the meteorites in it have
been studied and the information thus
obtained has been classified. Over 100
different publications have been issued
describing meteoritic material on de-
posit in the Museum.

The first publication of the National
Museum relating to meteorites ap-
peared in 1888, when Dr. George P.
Merrill published a description of the
stone from Bluff, Tex. The next to be
issued, in 1894, was the description of
the stone from Beaver Creek, British
Columbia. The growth and import-
ance of the collection are largely due
to the lifetime work of Dr. Merrill. He
described 65 different falls and also
published several general papers on
the structure and composition of
meteorites.

The Museum also maintains a
catalog of all known metoritic mate-
rial of the world. The foreign meteor-
ites are listed under the countries in
which they have been found; those
from the United States are listed under
their respective States and also by the
latitude and longitude of the place of
their discovery, so that when new
material comes in, it can be proved to
be either a new fall or part of an old,
well-known one.

An extensive metallographic study
has been made of the iron meteorites,
and 1,933 microphotographs, each
with its metallographic description,
have been made of 144 different
meteorites. This represents the work
of Stuart H. Perry, associate in min-
eralogy, who has carried on this study
for many years.

How To Recognize a Meteorite

The physical features of a meteorite-
are sufficiently constant so that after
one has seen several or carefully exame
ined good illustrations of them, thc
identification of a possible meteoritie
specimen should be reasonably simpls
and accurate. The specific test
needed to determine the meteoritic

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

nature of either a stone or an iron
should be performed by someone who
is familiar with them, as now and then
unusual specimens are found, the
analysis of which requires a trained
worker.

The external portions of both stony
and iron meteorites show evidence of
their struggle to penetrate our at-
mosphere. The outer portion of a
fallen meteorite is covered with a thin
crust of fused material (pl. 1, 5).
Sometimes stones and irons are frag-
mented before the end of their flight
and then their surfaces are not entirely
covered with fused material. Stony
meteorites are sometimes so friable,
or loosely bonded together, that they
may break apart on striking the earth.
Iron meteorites have been found with
small areas of their surface broken off
toward the end of the flight. It has
already been noted that our largest
meteorites are metallic, apparently for
the reason that they are less likely to
break apart on falling than the stony
varieties.

During the few seconds in which a
falling meteorite has a high velocity,
the frictional heat generated by the air
resistance causes the outermost crust
to fuse. This film of fused material
can never become very thick (pl. 1,
b), because the air friction erodes the
material away as it forms. ‘Thus the
crust found on a meteorite is the
material that fused probably not very
far above the surface of the earth.

It is a surprise to many people to
learn that meteorites are not masses of
fused molten material. The centers of
these objects show no indication of
having been very hot during their fall.
In fact most of the heat noticed on
collecting a freshly fallen meteorite is
believed to be heat that results from
the impact of the object with the
ground. Some of the freshly fallen
American meteorites have been notice-
ably cold to the touch when recovered
immediately after their fall. The 62)-
pound stone which fell near Allegan,
Mich., was recovered within a few
moments after its fall, and the sand
PLATE 1

Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Henderson

8.)

(

ates, p. 2

‘
«

f pl

e explanation o

>

(Se
(g9z ‘d ‘soqyeid jo uoreue[dxo 90g)

(Mn. i

i

RRR:

RU a i aa RS: i

pape Miresiie © ie!

jems ene

ee RAEI

@ iva uosiapus}{—"Qgp6] ‘Woday ueruosyz,WIG
PLATE 3

Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Henderson

faa ee 8

(See explanation of plates, p. 268.)
PLATE 4

Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Henderson

(See explanation of plates, p. 268.)
Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Henderson PLATE 5

(See explanation of plates, p. 268.)
Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Henderson

(See explanation of plates, p. 268.)

PLATE 6

AMERICAN METEORITES—HENDERSON

was hot for about 2 feet from the place
of impact. This stone fell upon dry
grass, and grass was welded into the
fractures of the mass by the impact
but was not charred. Hence the
meteorite itself was not very hot when
it fell. The Colby, Wis., stone was
recovered a few minutes after falling
and when dug up and exposed to the
air was so cold that frost immediately
formed on the surface. Another such
example of a cold meteorite is the
Tilden, Ill., fall, parts of which were
recovered at several different places
along a path of about 3 miles, and
each specimen was reported by dif-
ferent finders as being cold when first
touched. These various meteoritic
falls all had fusion crusts over the
outer surface, but the main mass was
cold inside as there was not time enough
during the flight for the interior of the
mass to become even warm.

The crust on freshly fallen meteorites
may have delicate lines formed by the
air dragging the softened material away
from its foreward face (pl. 1, a). ‘These
lines, or flight markings, reveal the ori-
entation of the mass during the last mo-
ments of its flight. Usually the crust
is thin on the front face and shows
some accumulation on the side and
rear faces. No part of the crust is ever
very thick, and since there are usually
some silicate minerals containing iron,
the crust on freshly fallen stones is
generally black. Some of the rarer
types of stony meteorites are made up
of minerals so free of iron that the
fused crust is cream-colored to gray.
Freshly fallen iron meteorites are cov-
ered with a black crust which has a
submetallic luster.

If the specimen is an old fall the
crust probably has been altered to a
brownish color on both the stony and
iron meteorites. Prolonged weather-
ing may further modify the crust until
most of the flight markings are obliter-
ated. In the case of stony meteorites
prolonged weathering penetrates the
mass and the entire stone becomes
rather evenly discolored with brown
hydrous iron oxide. Iron meteorites,

817369—49—20

263

being less porous, weather more gradu-
ally than stones. Although weather-
ing may be so extensive that the sur-
face retains none of the original flight
features, the interior of the iron may be
bright, fresh metal (pl. 3, a). Iron
meteorites have been found in which
the entire mass has been altered to a
brown oxide, but these are unusual
examples.

Another rather characteristic feature
of a meteorite is the presence of shallow
depressions on the surface, called
‘thumb marks” because of the re-
semblance to the imprint of the thumb
on a plastic medium (pl. 2). These
originate during the flight of a meteor
through the atmosphere and are
caused by the scouring action of the
air; since they are rather deep, they
are not readily lost by weathering.
These “thumb marks” are very dif-
ferent in appearance from the rounded
holes found in slags and furnace prod-
ucts so frequently mistaken for meteor-
ites. In fact, meteorites will not, on
first inspection, appear to have been
affected by heating.

Meteorites are heavy, weighing more
than the average terrestrial rock of
equivalent size. Hence any unusually
heavy specimen showing ‘thumb
marks” and what appears to be a fu-
sion crust over the surface should be
investigated. The finder of such a
specimen should spend several minutes
looking around to become familiar
with the variety of terrestrial rocks
existing in that area. If by chance a
meteorite has been discovered, it will
become evident at once that the speci-
men is noticeably different from the
rocks in the vicinity. If there are nu-
merous boulder or rock fragments scat-
tered about, a genuine meteorite will
differ in weight, shape, and crust from
the average rock. If the area contains
very few rocks, then any single unusu-
ally heavy specimen whose occurrence
cannot be readily explained as being
natural to the place should be looked
upon as a possible meteorite.

Many meteorites are made entirely
of metal and hence are much heavier
264

than the stony varieties. An iron me-
teorite is readily attracted to a magnet,
but of course so is ordinary cast iron,
as well as some varieties of iron ore.
If the specimen has the characteristic
external features of a meteorite referred
to above, it should be investigated.

Hit the sample with a hammer to
see if small pieces can be broken off.
If the fragments removed have a
brownish or black color, test it further
by pounding it upon a rock or anvil.
Iron ores are brittle, and hence easily
reduced to a powder, which may be
brown, red, or black depending upon
which of the iron minerals has been
found. Both meteoric iron and manu-
factured iron are very tough, and
pounding with a hammer does not
affect them much. Samples not af-
fected by pounding should be tested
with a file or whetstone, either of
which will develop a silvery-colored
spot if the sample is a metal.

The finding of any metallic object
suspected of being a meteorite should
be checked by someone familiar with
the identification of meteorites. Cut
a small protruding portion from the
mass with a hacksaw and send it to
some institution engaged in the study
of meteorites, together with informa-
tion concerning the locality where the
specimen was found.

If the person finding the iron is
experienced and equipped to make
certain specific tests, the metal can be
ground down until a polished surface
is obtained and this etched with dilute
nitric acid. Repeated etchings are
made until the structural pattern is
developed on the polished surface.
If the specimen being tested is a
meteorite, it will probably have struc-
tures similar to those shown in the
illustrations in this paper (pls. 3, 4, 5).
Another chemical test which it is
worth while to make is that for nickel,
as all metallic meteorites contain
nickel. Persons making the etch test
should have their results checked, as
the etch structures of meteorites are
variable, and some of the rarer types
of meteoritic irons could easily be

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

overlooked if only etch tests are made.

There are several kinds of iron
meteorites, the various types being
identified by the different etch pat-
terns displayed. The simplest type is
the hexahedrite, which consists of only
one phase of iron and nickel and is
usually characterized by a well-devel-
oped series of Neumann lines (pl. 3,
b). This group contains about 5.5
percent nickel, and when the percent-
age of nickel is no greater, the iron is
capable of retaining the nickel in
solution; hence, hexahedrites consist
of a single alloy of iron and nickel.

Meteorites with higher percentages
of nickel have two alloys present, one
of which has the same composition as
the hexahedrite and is called kamacite,
and the second, richer in nickel, is
known as taenite. These alloys sepa-
rate out into platy structures resem-
bling the habit shown in plate 4. This
structure is known as a Widmanstat-
ten pattern, and a meteorite with this
habit is classified as an octahedrite
(pl. 4). Meteorites having higher per-
centages of nickel usually have nar-
rower bands of kamacite; hence octa-
hedrites may be subdivided into
coarse, medium, and fine, depending
upon the width of the kamacite bands.

Some metallic meteorites, when
etched, lack a well-developed struc-
ture; these are called ataxites (pl. 5,
a). They have an etch pattern which
those inexperienced in meteorites
might fail to recognize.

There are meteorites which contain
almost equal quantities of stony and
metallic constituents. One such ex-
ample is a pallasite (pl. 5, 6) consisting
of a silicate mineral, olivine, which is
enclosed in a network of metal.

Stony meteorites are heavy because
the principal component minerals,
pyroxene and olivine, have specific
gravities slightly over 3, and also
because most of them contain an ap-
preciable percentage of metallic in-
clusions. Beneath the outer crust of
a stony meteorite is usually founda
fine-grained aggregate of minerals.
These may or may not be firmly bound
AMERICAN METEORITES—HENDERSON

together. Many stony meteorites are
relatively friable.

By far the greatest number of stony
meteorites contain rounded silicate
bodies called chondrules (pl. 6, a, 5, c).
These, as a rule, are small and are not
glassy like the quartz grains in a sand-
stone but are composed of bladed or
needlelike crystalline aggregates usu-
ally of a single type of mineral, al-
though sometimes two minerals will
be enclosed in the rounded body.
Nothing closely resembling chondrules
has been found in our terrestrial rocks.
The finder of a suspected stony
meteorite should, if possible, grind
down a small area by holding the mass
against a grindstone. Structures such
as those shown in plate 6, 6, can then be
more easily seen, especially if the sur-
face is dampened with water and ex-
amined with a magnifying glass.

Some of the rarer types of stony
meteorites do not have these chon-
drules, and an even more limited num-
ber lack metallic inclusions. Hence
the finder of a specimen believed to
be a meteorite and having some of the

265

features mentioned above should sub-
mit the specimen to someone experi-
enced in the identification of these
objects.

The most abundant mineral in the
rocks of our earth is quartz, a sub-
stance that very rarely occurs in
meteorites. The few minerals that
are common to both terrestrial rocks
and stony meteorites have identical
compositions in each, but the habit or
physical structure of the meteoritic
minerals is very distinct from that of
the same minerals occurring in ordi-
nary rocks. As yet, no definite reason
is known for this difference in struc-
ture, but the fact that there is such a
difference is fortunate in that it per-
mits the definite identification of
meteoritic stones.

Meteorites have been found to con-
tain minute traces of precious metals,
as well as diamonds (not gem quality),
but never in commercial quantities.
Meteorites have no intrinsic value, but
are important because scientific in-
formation can be obtained from their
study.

TABLE 4.— Witnessed falls of stony meteorites in the United States

Year | Month| Day | A.M. | P.M..|. Weight
in kg.

ALABAMA:

PNT ENSH teat per aererene ot aeeier eae 1933 7 11 9793 OM inser ters 0. 265

Dariville ere ce sweet roe Wor NK 1868 11 Dilimalivacareotne 5:00 2. 04

1 eX) Db Sa! Sas Ania ec tei hake Mla os cn deena Ni 1900 5 DSi TS OMe eercect 3.2

rankfonte:. scvsrt cc cients aN aera 1868 12 SE liakian: 3:00 122

BCI STON soe acid Tne ede ferent wie 1907 1 5 WA lea Boat oo 8:00 Atos
IAARIZONA:| HHO brookdanr. = 3 «cierto ee 1912 7 TOE Ree erere AAS 218. 0
ARKANSAS:

iHayettevillesmuy as erties ein oe 1934 12 PAS | US ETeY ls Ser BG PEST)

Nit erage ras Sree ee ta cette rorayehe are 1930 7 13 DOOR Reser 16.7

iBaragoulditne em ones: 1930 2 7, 4808" | Aece estes 409.0
Cotorapo: Johnstown............. 1924 (Wes Sa Sages oe 4:20 40. 3
Connecticut: Weston..:.........:. 1807 12 14 OS08 here 150. 0
GEORGIA:

Rorsythtscscscrreienete occa oe rarererd oe 1929 5 Sule 3330 16.0

MENACE eons. ste siete aot ere he iegeraiay Sig oe 1869 10 (| a UR. Eo einer oD,
ILLINOIs:

Berl dette tase are Soe ei tree retake bass 1938 9 29 DOOM ere nrevers 177,

MI Ger, oes o cae e met tacen coe e ol 1O27 if 1 yal latent 1:00 74. 8
INDIANA:

EVarrisomryets ech tee ee ean 1859 & PAN les aeieiorae 4:00 . 70

MVOCHEStEN aa oectosc-c eran eer er nee 1876 12 De letetevr rere 8:45 . 34
266 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

TABLE 4.—Witnessed falls of stony meteorites in the United States—Continued

Year | Month} Day | A.M. | P.M. Weight
in kg.
Iowa:
Eisthenvilleties srecisnrcve.c croscis a crereusen 1879 5 OM eer 5:00 337.0
orest Gityactvce <ecine secre 1890 5 Da Rieerer cer: Byeits 122.0
Homestead ts. 842): artnet 1875 2 DAD aR ees 10:15 22750
MPA rION bs ale hos ou ots biel oes he eee 1847 2 25% | ea ecschers 2:45 28. 3
KANSAS:
Beardsley stcrcstine sciatic eer 1929 10 OM tcteeetoe 11:30 12955
ldety seb NG Gooch oMoodobmoomouT 1890 6 PAB) NN 6 orcaione 1:00 89.2
IModoceys thistle cect on lene 1905 9 Pads See a Sete 9:30 32.8
INoxton County). a iyeie pei oct are he 1948 2 INGE I5r5 chore ore 4:45 | 1,038.5
Ottawa Se nie ae ce irs eta 1896 4 el ieciaa ee (SQI15) . 84
Salin@eor ceonysere rie a este ee eee 1898 11 Sl enceraretert 9:30 31.0
KENTUCKY:
BathiPurnacet Sire ates cote tine 1902 11 Mop ets eens 6:45 86.6
@umberland( Balls2i5 5 che ats cece 1919 4 Delete OOo teeie 24.12
Gynthiani 274.8 o:tac Sas otes fe sae 1877 1 DoE oe cps eres 4:00 6.0
NE
IANGOVER so arcuiee os ei ee ee 1898 8 5) The Ue eras Bi 3. 40
C@astinesteano eR ioeoeeee 1848 5 20 A 00) | s-eee 093
INobleboros 71 6 eercisie is abi sien 1823 8 Hallizeeieras 4:30 2 or 3
S€arsmOntl esc sr bic ssniciewe cents 1871 5 21 Salone ccree 5.4
MARYLAND:
INAIIEMMOY SAS ets estelvccis caso siee 1825 2 TO MI 220ON rece ae ies
StiMary’s Countyet 22AG Is 1919 6 20) Tw, 00 024
MICHIGAN:
Pe PAM a teas cra ic eet cela, dura opaler Dey. 1899 7 10 Si Oey aeer 30. 45
NOS@1 Giityn pete csn ore rniere tec oreneteiees 1921 10 LiFe W ehercie syne 11:00 LA OF
IMINNESODA® HaSher? ee cic ce lee 1894 4 | Fara 4:00 5.6
MississIPPi:
Bald wry iaicrorcteaktorrit rath acta acy: 1922 2, 2 (Dayal seer 345
time)
iPelahatchee:ne aici ere ere oe 1910 10 1 hy ae Perr riper so yak c
Missouri:
IAT CHIE fc toene tote, J otter cleo beret emer 1932 8 LOM eea ec 4:30 5305
Baxter erect troleie scrote herve: serceete 1916 1 18 SO00R| eres 611
CanerGirardealiersreserstr setae te stars 1846 8 (bs pe omoce 3:00 2535
RattleyPineynn «hee os scistels cee 1839 2 USO tee oer 3:30 22a
Warrenton. 2. sites aco 1877 1 3 Wha aye es Peres 45.0
INEBRASKAs SIOUX) Len ceria oe 1933 8 Sel LO SSOR coer 4.1
INEWe PERSE Vico Deal oan seri ciate als or 1829 8 IG ARAY lconetce . 014
New Mexico:
AZ(CC OE Sere reine Cre ere hree 1938 2 1 eae Nieeter he 5:00 2. 83
Pasamonte em ee ee oe ae 1933 3 24 5iS04 o|eperae che 4.0
NEW YORK: Bethlehem.\. 5-5... 000- 1859 8 17 PESO cere O11
NortH CAROLINA:
Baldi Mountain vere «1s yoke ele 1929 i. Olas avexene ssi p-m. Sha
@astaliaviwe sie ore cae ee 1874 5 A eset eee 2:30 Us&
Caswell’ County aecee cece ae 1810 1 DO epioaec 2:00 1. 36
Grosstlkoadsmrsicereieevciteter caer 1892 Sy 24 B00) |janaeee 167
EFarmvilles cre aero erection 1934 12 Aa ites suche 1:00 56.1
Here USOnbessray-tot-yoyerrcine el orstonsl tees 1889 w does Iicrrueten ote 6:00 226
RIOWS at ee aco ee otic 1849 10 Zi le le ee a 3:00 8.8
Moore) County {a5 2.515285 50-0 1913 4 Qe | Sosy ehscx 5:00 1. 86
RichyMiguntain 4 yo cetoterereenios 1903 6 2100) ae oper 2:00 668
Nortu Dakota: Richardton........ 1918 6, BOM Ae essqstehs 10:00 91.0

1 Norton County, Kans.—Furnas County, Nebr.
AMERICAN METEORITES—HENDERSON

267

TABLE 4.—Witnessed falls of stony meteorites in the United States—Continued

Year |Month| Day | A.M. | P.M. | Weight
in kg.

Onto:

News @oncord ins ste cece cre one 1860 5 Talseieetes 12:45 22750

IPricctowner mci coe oe eae 1893 2 ES iel(c OA Aleoneek 9
OKLAHOMA: ee

INtO KAM ar temtiey rarech terre ere 1945 9 IAS be cae rete 6 or 7 2.85

Be lackwellisc re cpciewd vecaeerncn teenie te 1906 5 Pose eee 9:00 2. 38

G@rescente ee ne rerninoiisisi then 1936 8 1 DY Al aeaeeeen 7:00 . 08

WEE Mey Ei spats this citherstere ok te heen 1943 11 PASH | edi Sebo 7:00 50.0

Wialtersepsocma sana dean 1946 7 Dh Feel IE a tea 345 28.3
PENNSYLVANIA:

Ghiconalyawen fis evini tio: 1938 6 Aral eewe teas 6:05 303

Black Moshannons,.. ..- «2 «2 1941 7 10 69508 eacaee 523

BradforgyVViOOUdSi. css acts dalek ce 1 lake oe hep ceetereeatl | Rana pel Se ea Ut lena - 762
SoutH CaROLIna:

BISHOP VIN oiegcuatay «poh acts ssttarecie steht 1843 S) Pie al Re at ger | aes ceca 6.0

@herokee SPrines. ces as<cyec es 1933 4 1 TSS J ke Se 8. 4
NOUTHUDAKOTAS Bath. 2.0.51 «cles oe oe 1892 8 PALE entre a ie 4:00 Zin 2
TENNESSEE:

Wrakei@reekiee cies esters ace 1827 5 od ree ree a 4:00 a4:

IPELEES DUTT ors exci: heiiei ese sseiviayg aise @ 1855 8 Saleciaeas « 3:30 17
TEXAS:

Blanketecters me coe ee oe noe 1909 5 BOF rere cnteg st 10:30 Beal

I ORENGeme nt Weer crer nner eearerteree 1922 1 7 Vin Witte Peer 8:00 3. 64

endletone reine con noe oe 1939 5 Dt lars 1225 6. 93

Iirbyvillew nasties scien too 1906 11 1 AR eats Ree 3:30 . 097

Rena blanca Springs. <..2.. - 36. - 1946 8 Digslegevers aes 1:20 70. 0

Blantersvillesee serine eee ote 1930 9 Avid. Cie iorat. 4:00 2. 08

UROL Oh eror rec Sie eRe CS cece RG 1917 4 26 8330 Hiker 1.13
VIRGINIA:

Honksyill emetn cee rarer: 1924 7 16H aaa: 5:45 6. 06

IRachmonGerse eran en eee 1828 6 4 S230 N aie. 2:10

PS] AZT SS ae a a RPA RN Ab 1921 +f a eketisaciliocis oa 1. 26
Wasuincton: Washougal........... 1939 7 Pow lis 4 tele tervarese 322,
WISCONSIN:

Colby ere a ne ete terete 1917 7 A le, eecatee 6:20 104.5

Kei bournteryin tere eerie te 1911 6 TG ye2 RSet 5:00 SP

Wernon Countyescnecaae eo oee 1865 3 26 SOOM eects toe nes)
Wyvomine:? Torrington’ 2. os: sss s-.« 1944 9 Zoi sactecnceks 12:30 259

TABLE 5.—Witnessed falls of iron meteorites in the United States
Year | Month} Day | A.M. | P.M. ede

ARKANSAS:

INontolkeeer ce error ac cic ts sack 1918 MOB er aerras tl rt rareected, | Meat er hata: P05

@abinvGreekscherieioecsee 1886 3 Dia ae 3:00 48.7
Connecticut: Newton.............. 1925 12 PAU Saisie 5:00 SAA
(GEORGTACERILLS aaa ee ee 1921 4 20 SOON scene oh
Micuican: Seneca Township........ 1903 Guile ciuevsl eve suse p. m. 15
WENNESSEES Gharlotte. . 2.0.60. 0< 1835 { a \ ieee 2 or 3 4.5

268

EXPLANATION OF PLATES

PLATE 1

a, Pima County, Ariz. During the fall of
this iron through the air the surface was
heated by air friction until the metal flowed.
Such structures are known as flight markings.

b, Allegan, Mich. The crust on this freshly
fallen stony meteorite is black, checked, and
smooth because the stone is friable, hence
easily eroded away by the air during fight.

Pram

A portion of the meteorite exhibit in the
U. S. National Museum. ‘The three large
iron meteorites in the foreground are, from
left to right: Drum Mountains, Utah; Can-
yon Diablo, Ariz.; Owens Valley, Calif.
‘These show characteristic surfaces of iron
meteorites. The pittings are frequently re-
ferred to as thumb marks.

PLATE 3

a, Sardis, Ga. The dark area at the left
shows the weathered surface with no char-
acteristic meteoric features. The dark
border surrounding the metal and the net-
work of veins extending into the unaltered
metal show how alteration attacks an iron.
The surface of this fragment resembles a
sandstone, because sand grains from the
beds from which it was recovered have been
bonded together by the iron oxide (rust) from
the buried meteorite.

b, Bennett County, S. Dak. A remarkably
large single crystal of kamacite. The delicate
series of parallel bands are known as Neumann
lines. This type of meteorite is a hexahedrite.
The dark inclusions are troilite (iron sulfide).
This iron contains 5.25 percent Ni.

PLATE 4

a, Aggie Creek, Alaska. A medium octa-
hedrite. The narrow lathlike bands are
kamacite and each is bordered by delicate
lines of another alloy of iron and nickel,

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

taenite (not discernible in this picture). This
iron contains 8.54 percent Ni.

b, Edmonton, Ky. A fine octahedrite.
The kamacite bands are narrow. The dark
angular areas enclosed within the kamacite
bands are plessite, which is an unresolved
mixture of kamacite and taenite. The large
dark inclusion, left, is troilite. There are
several large, irregular, elongated kamacite
areas, light-colored in the picture, which are
unconformable to the fine octahedral pattern
of this meteorite. This iron contains 12.57
percent Ni.

PLATE 5

a, Wiley, Colo. Iron meteorites lacking a
well-developed etch pattern are classified as
ataxites. [The small spindles are kamacite.
This iron contains 11.71 percent Ni.

6, Mt. Vernon, Ky. The dark mineral is
olivine and the light-colored areas are metal.
This type of a meteorite is known as a
pallasite.

PLATE 6

a, Roy, N. Mex. Stony meteorites con-
taining these rounded bodies are classified as
chondrites. The large chondrule consists of
bands of olivine separated with a black glass.

b, Elm Creek, Kans. Several different
kinds of chondrules may occur in the same
meteorite. One of these chondrules contains
a euhedral crystal of olivine surrounded by
the same mineral but with a different struc-
ture. The other chondrule consists of sep-
arate fragments of olivine. The ground mass
is composed of broken fragments of minerals
in a black glass.

c, Tennaselm, Esthonia. A chondrule sur-
rounded by a rim of metal. Many colorless
areas in the ground mass are metallic inclu-
sions. Metal rarely occurs within a chondrule.

d, Moore County, N. C. A thin section of
a meteorite containing no _ chondrules.
Meteorites of this type are called acondrites.
They have structures more comparable to
terrestrial rocks than any other group of
meteorite. The dark areas are pyroxene
minerals and the light areas are feldspars.

Glacial Varved Clay Concretions of New England

By Ray S. BassLer, Head Curator, Department of Geology, U. S. National Museum

(With 12 plates]

A strange but wholly natural phe-
nomenon startled the people of the
southern tip of Maine one morning in
1670. A hillside about 130 feet back
from the Kennebunk River bank let
loose, jumped over the intervening
woods turning upside down on the
way, and landed in the river channel,
thereby damming it for a spell. The
occurrence was recorded by William
Hubbard in his “History of New
England” (1815), as follows:

At a place called Kennebunk at the north-
east side of Wells in the Province of Maine,
not far from the river side, a piece of clay
ground was thrown up by a mineral] vapour
over the top of high oaks that grew between
it and the river. ‘The said ground so thrown
up fell in the channel of the river, stopping
the course thereof, and leaving an hole forty
yards square in the place whence it was
thrown, in which were found thousands of
round pellets of clay, like musket bullets.
All the whole town of Wells are witnesses of
the truth of this relation; and many others
have seen sundry of these clay pellets which
the inhabitants have shewn to their neigh-
bours of other towns.

Later in the same year, John Win-
throp, Governor of Connecticut, in
the Winthrop Papers of the Massa-
chusetts Historical Collection, de-
scribed “‘the strage and prodigious
wonder” in more detail:

The relation we? I have fré credible per-
sons concerning the manner of it is this:
That the hill being about 8 rods fr6 Kenne-
bunke rivers side, on the west side of the
river about 4 miles fré6 the sea, was removed
over the drye land about 8 rods, and over
the trees also we® grew betweene the hill &
y' river, leaping over them into yt river,
where it was seene placed, wt» the upper
part downward, & dammed up y* river for a

tyme till the water did worke it selfe a pas-
sage thorow it. The length of the hill was
about 250 foote, the breadth of it about 80
foote, the depth of it about 20 foote. The
situation of the hill as to the length of it was
norwest & southeast. The earth of it isa blew
clay wthout stones, many round bullets of
clay were wt!in it we seem to be of the same
clay hardned * * * I had from them
(Major William Philips and Mr. Herlaken-
dine Symonds) some few of those round
bullets, & small pieces of the earth in other
forms, we were found vpon that now vpper
part wc was before the lower, or inward
bowells of y® hill, as also a small shell or 2 of
a kind of shellfish vsuell in many places of the
sea, but how they should be w'*in y* hill is
strage to cosider. I have sent all y' I had of
thé amongst other things to y® Royall Society
for their repository.

Governor Winthrop’s specimens,
upon receipt by the Royal Society,
were cataloged in their Journal Book
for 1734 as “‘clay generated in the
form of horseshoes, from the bottom
of the Connecticut River.” The error
of locality did not matter since these
claystones, as they were then named,
occurred in equal abundance along
both the Connecticut and Kennebunk
Rivers.

More than two centuries after the
Kennebunk slide, Edward E. Bourne
in his ‘‘History of Wells and Kenne-
bunk” (1875) wrote:

Concerning the overturned hill, it is wished
that a more certain and punctual relation
might be procured of all the circumstances
of the accident. * * * No intelligent
person of the present day can hesitate a
moment as to the explanation of this strange
event. The same thing has occurred several
times within the last fifty years. Oak trees
then stood all along the banks of the rivers,
and this wonder was one of those avalanches

269
270

from the banks which have been of so fre-
quent occurrence. * * * The little pel-
lets, which were spoken of as seen after the
slide, were rolled up by the avalanche as it
passed over the solid ground beneath.

Mr. Bourne undoubtedly recognized
the phenomenon as one of the land-
slides of common occurrence with
accompanying clouds of dust in any
area where outcropping strata, espe-
cially moistened clay beds, slip to lower
levels by weathering and gravity. His
explanation of the origin of the little
pellets, claystones or concretions as
now generally designated, was not
such a happy one.

From time to time there were other
references, particularly to the Connec-
ticut Valley concretions, wherein quite
different views were expressed as to
their origin. Many people honestly
believed they were fossil animals of
prehistoric time and called them clay
dogs. The regularity of the discoidal
forms seemed to prove that they had
been turned out on a lathe and had
been used for money. A few persons
surmised that running water had worn
them into their present shapes. Still
others thought they were sports of
nature or were of supernatural origin.
The doll-like forms found in clay banks
of the South were explained thus by
the old colored mammies: ‘‘When the
good Lord formed these little children
out of clay He forgot to breathe the
spirit of life into some of them.”

In time, chemical analyses gave a
clue to the source of these curiosities.
The hard claystones revealed 40 to 50
percent calcium carbonate in their
composition, while the soft clay layers
in which they were embedded showed
only 2 to 3 percent. It seemed there-
fore probable that the original clay
beds had been robbed of their car-
bonate content by circulating ground
waters which in turn had deposited
this lime around centers of attraction,
thereby building up the claystones.
Accordingly, they must have been
formed after the deposition of their
containing beds; in other words, they
were of secondary origin. Various

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

other types of concretions indicate
their formation at the same time as the
enclosing beds, wherefore they are
classified as primary in origin and
must be explained differently.

Collecting concretions as a hobby
has been a lifelong pleasure of many
persons occupied otherwise in quite
different pursuits. Among the several
publications on New England concre-
tions, was a little-known memoir
“Concretions from the Champlain
Clays of the Connecticut River Val-
ley,” published privately by Mrs.
Jennie M. Arms Sheldon in Boston,
1900. Mrs. Sheldon’s work was based
upon a series of 1,400 specimens, but
the present writer had the advan-
tage of studying a collection of more
than 3,000 selected examples, the gen-
erous gift of the late H. N. Pringle
of Washington, D. C., to the United
States National Museum. Mr. Pringle,
while occupied professionally in Wash-
ington, spent many summer vacations
near Ryegate, Vt., on the Connecticut
River, a locality long noted for its
abundant well-preserved concretions.
Here, as shown on plate 1, they are
found in outcrops of the thin-bedded
glacial clays exposed on Clay Island,
a mound about 75 feet high nearly
encircled by the Connecticut River
and Sly Brook. Choice specimens
from Mr. Pringle’s collection illus-
trating the origin and _ progressive
growth of these objects now adorn an
exhibition case in the Museum’s hall of
physical geology (pl. 12), while the
examples figured on the other accom-
panying plates are preserved as type
specimens with many others in the
study series of the department of
geology. From the types figured it
would appear that all the Ryegate
specimens were exceptionally perfect.
This, however, is not true, because
these types are only examples selected
from thousands of bullet and pebble-
shaped, spherical, flattened, and all
sorts of irregular forms which had not
attained complete development.

To understand the formation and

(‘¢2z *d ‘saqerd jo uoleur[dxa 909)

“LA “SALVOSAY LV ALITVWDO7 NOILSYHYONOD

|
|
i

1 3LV1d Ja[sseq—'gp6| ‘oday ueruosyzIWig
Smithsonian Report , 1948.—Bassler PLATE 2

DEVELOPMENT OF LOESSPUPPCHEN TYPE OF CONCRETIONS
(See explanation of plates, p. 275.)
Smithsonian Report , 1948.—Bassler

PLATE 3

DISKLIKE CONCRETIONS
(See explanation of plates, p. 275.)
Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Bassler PLATE 4

DUMBBELL CONCRETIONS AND MODIFICATIONS
(See explanation of plates, p. 276.)
Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Bassler PLATE 5

BOTRYOIDAL CONCRETIONS AND ANIMAL-LIKE IMITATIONS

(See explanation of plates, p. 276.)
PLATE 6

Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Bassler

CONCRETIONS IMITATING INSIGNIA, EnG:

(See explanation of plates, p. 276.)
Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Bassler PLATE 7

MISCELLANEOUS GROWTH FORMS
(See explanation of plates, p. 276.)
PLATE 8

Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Bassler

WATCH. HORSESHOE, GLOBULAR, AND OTHER TYPES OF CONCRETIONS

(See explanation of plates, p. 270.)
Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Bassler PLATE 9

INSIGNIALIKE CONCRETIONS

(See explanation of plates, p. 276.)
Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Bassler PLATE 10

UNUSUAL FORMS
(See explanation of plates, p. 276.)
Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Bassler PLATE 11

sire

_
f
4

SAND AND CLAY CONCRETIONS

97,

(See explanation of plates, p. 276.)
(giz ‘d ‘soqetd Jo uoljeurldxe 90s)

WNASAW AVNOILVYN “°S °N ‘LIGIHKA NOILSYONOD AVTID GQAaAYVA

uoj posi uay

el aALW'd Jajsseq—'Qrél ‘qaoday uetuosy WIS
GLACIAL VARVED CLAY CONCRETIONS—BASSLER

distribution of the glacial clay con-
cretions of the northern United
States, one must turn back to about
the year 23000 B. C., as reckoned by
the geologist. At that time the last
of the four great ice sheets, marking
the Nebraskan, Kansan, I]linoisan, and
Wisconsin stages of glacial time which
in turn had passed over northern
North America, had reached its
southernmost limit, roughly indicated
today by Long Island and the Ohio
and Missouri Rivers. The broken
rocks, boulders, mud, and sand pushed
up in front of the ice formed the ter-
minal moraine, the conspicuous ridge
today marking this southern border.
The climate, slowly becoming milder,
caused increased melting and a grad-
ual withdrawal northward of the
glacial front. The mixture of sand,
clay, gravel, and boulders ground up
under the ice cap, now becoming ex-
posed, formed the surface deposit
known as till or boulder clay.

Water flowing from beneath the ice
sheet removed the finer clay material
spreading it out on the plains to the
south, where evaporation soon dried
it ready for distribution by the winds
as dust. The result was the loess, a
rock term originally applied to the
fine, yellowish-gray loam of the Rhine
Valley but now recognized in many
other parts of the world. Everywhere
the loess is characterized by its fertility
and by the vertical exposure of the
outcrops when cut into because roots
of vegetation hold the deposits to-
gether. The loess of China, the most
extensive deposits in the world, orig-
inated in the dust carried by the winds
from the Gobi Desert eastward and
deposited as soils of such high fertility
that thousands of years of cultivation
have failed to exhaust them. In north-
ern Europe similar deposits have
accumulated in which special forms of
doll-like concretions, known in Ger-
many as loesspiippchen, loesskindel,
loessmannchen, etc., were developed.
Similar concretionary bodies charac-
terize the loess in the United States
and China.

817369—49——21

271

Returning to North America, several
lobes of the ice-cap front now slowly
melted, leaving bodies of water in
their wake which ultimately became
the Great Lakes of today. South and
east of this lobed area, smaller tempo-
rary fresh and brackish bodies of
standing water formed from time to
time owing to the damming of the
melting glacial waters against the ter-
minal moraine and other obstructions.
In these lakes and ponds another type
of glacial deposit, laminated clays,
formed under the following condi-
tions, giving rise in time to the par-
ticular kind of clay concretions de-
scribed in this paper. In the summer,
the time of active melting, abundant
waters emerging from the glacier
carried sand, silt, and mud particles,
usually light-colored, to these lake
bottoms where they settled in a single
layer. With the coming of winter,
when melting ceased, there was no
further deposition except a thin layer
of minute clay particles normally
dark-colored, which had been held in
suspension in the lake water through-
out the previous summer by breezes
and currents. Thus, as described by
the Swedish geologist DeGeer, every
year was marked by two distinct layers,
a summer one of light-colored, coarse
material, and a winter one of finer
consistency and darker color. These
two together, often less than a centi-
meter in thickness, form a distinct
band, technically called a varve, from
the Swedish word meaning “‘layer.”
Since each varve registers a single
year’s accumulation, the entire num-
ber developed in all these lake deposits,
if duplication is avoided, will approxi-
mate the sum total of years occupied
by the latest retreat of the ice cap. In
other words, varves, like the growth
rings in trees, give a record of geolog-
ical time in actual years. Hitherto
this figure, the time required for the
last glacial retreat, had been judged
by the amount of recession by water-
falls, like the classic example of the
Falls of St. Anthony in the Mississippi
River and also Niagara Falls, but varve
272

counting furnishes more accurate
results.

Had a single lake existed throughout
this period the total number of its
varves would have indicated the exact
time figure, but instead there were
many such lakes with some overlap-
ping each other and lasting quite
different lengths of time. However,
by matching the number and thick-
nesses of the successive bands in each
lake basin one after another, the
varves can be correlated from lake to
lake and the records be pieced to-
gether to give a fairly complete time
measurement. Such a study of these
laminated varved clays indicates that
the retreat of the ice from New Eng-
land to its present position required
about 25,000 years or, in other words,
this area was covered by glaciers prior
to that time. For example, the single
ancient Hackensack Lake, one of
several glacial lakes developed in the
vicinity of New York City, shows 2,500
varves in its present-day clay expo-
sures, thus giving a clue not only to the
age of the lake but also the rate of
retreat of the glacier, namely, about
100 feet per year. Varved clays,
however, are not restricted to North
America. They are common in gla-
ciated areas in such widely scattered
regions as Europe, Cape Colony, and
Australia, where, as in New England,
they bear the characteristic clay-
stones. In Scandinavia similar con-
cretions are known under the special
names of marlekor or fairy stones, and
Imatra stones.

Postglacial uplift elevated these
varved clay lake basins and drained
the lands, after which stream erosion
in the course of succeeding years
exposed the strata. Since then also
subsurface waters percolating through
the clay beds have been active in
depositing their lime content, forming
their present-day occupants—the clay-
stone concretions.

The explanation for this concretion
formation, or “concreting” mentioned
on a previous page, is based upon the
fact that molecules of certain substances

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

held in solution tend to flock together
or segregate around some nucleus. In
crystallization, should a tiny particle
of calcium carbonate be precipitated
from solution, it will act as a center of
attraction and draw more of the same
material to itself until a symmetrical
crystal is formed. If, however, a for-
eign substance such as clay be present
which cannot be pushed aside by the
calcium carbonate particles in their
endeavor to crystallize, then the min-
eral is deposited between and around
the clay particles. The result is a
claystone concretion modified in shape
according to the nature of its environ-
ment. The lime in these glacial clays
of New England originated through
the decomposition of old lime-bearing
feldspathic rocks brought down by the
glaciers from higher latitudes. This
lime passed into solution upon contact
with percolating surface waters
charged with carbon dioxide derived
from decomposed organic material.
Then the subtle force, be it chemical
attraction, affinity or otherwise, that
draws the particles of inorganic sub-
stances together, came into play and
concretion growth was inaugurated.
Prof. Edward Hitchcock in his
“Geology of Massachusetts” (1841),
after first noting that the subject was
very imperfectly understood, published
important remarks upon the formation
of the Connecticut Valley concretions.
He explained their origin as an at-
tempt, as indicated above, at crystal-
lization of calcite in clay in which
lateral accretion predominates be-
cause of the easier movement in the
clay particles among the bedding
planes. His studies led him to the
supposition that concretions passed
through a preliminary or soft stage
before hardening, that they had a
tendency to segregate or concrete
toward the center from all sides
equally, unless there was a deficiency
of material on one side in which case
their form varied correspondingly.
He divided these claystones according
to their predominating forms into
spheres, oblate spheroid, prolate spher-
GLACIAL VARVED CLAY CONCRETIONS—BASSLER

oid, annulated, lenticular, and cy-
lindrical. He noted further that the
concretions lie parallel to the bedding,
are flattened vertically, are wider than
high, that the upper surfaces are
variously ornamented and in relief,
often built upward by the superimpo-
sition of many films, while the bottoms
are apt to be flat and little ornamented.
The lines of stratification were often
noted to run unbroken through the
concretion and its surrounding clay,
indicating, first, its formation subse-
quently to the deposition of the clay
and, second, such quiet growth that
the stratified layers were not disturbed.

An important factor in explaining
the concretion shapes has been found
to be the varying amount of dissolved
calcium carbonate in the different clay
layers. Similar forms from the same
bed are essentially alike in composition
but symmetrical forms differ from un-
symmetrical ones; furthermore, sec-
ondary modifications in shape may be
produced by mechanical pressure as
shown by bent concretions, especially
since some specimens have been re-
corded as found in still plastic condi-
dition. Long, narrow concretions
probably arise from the coalescence of
several examples resting in a straight
line in the same layer. Weathered or
broken specimens of the Ryegate con-
cretions seldom reveal a visible nu-
cleus, a few cases only being known
where a pebble was found at the cen-
ter. Many examples show that the
concretionary process may be inter-
rupted during its course and after-
ward begin again, as shown by the
changes in color of the component
parts and also by the fact that such
specimens often fall apart when
weathered.

It must be remembered that concre-
tions, like other inanimate objects,
grow by external additions, layer by
layer. It is thus that they assume such
curious and often fantastic forms.
The shape and ornamentation of spec-
imens in bedded deposits, especially
thin-layered clays, are influenced by
their position in the layers and the dif-

273

ferent porosities of the clay beds. Thin
disks without ornament thus originate
in the thin, porous layers bounded
above and below by impervious layers.
Thicker porous layers allow the forma-
tion of more rotund specimens but
smooth and flat on the bottom if
growth starts next to a lower impervi-
ous layer.

The writer had no opportunity for
field work in the study of these con-
cretions, so that he welcomed the help
of Harold M. Davis, of North Calais,
Vt., in kindly collecting several dozen
samples of Ryegate varved clay show-
ing specimens still in place. Edge
views of three of these samples are
illustrated in plate 1, where the con-
cretions are seen in the white porous,
silty layers only, usually occupying
their full thickness. All these samples
show the same phenomenon, which
suggests that this is their normal place
of formation in this outcrop of the clay,
at least. This white layer today
quickly dissolves into a fine noncal-
careous silty mud, while the dark lay-
ers do so with difficulty. It would
seem, therefore, that the remarks on a
previous page, derived from views of
various students on the formation of
these varved clay concretions, are es-
sentially correct.

Concretions from other New Eng-
land localities are described by Dr.
W. A. Tarr in his excellent article
*‘Concretions in the Champlain For-
mation of the Connecticut River Val-
ley,” published in volume 46, Bulletin
Geological Society of America, 1935.
Almost all of them also are restricted
to the sandy or silt layers’: and none
occur in the dark clay beds. The stu-
dent is referred to Dr. Tarr’s work for
accounts of the detailed chemistry of
concretion origin and the factors con-
trolling their form.

The white and dark layers of the
varves in ancient lakes of nonglaciated
regions are explained by the changes
of seasons as follows. The white layer
is usually highly calcareous and the
dark one charged with organic matter.
In summertime, higher temperature of
274

the lake water caused abundant cal-
cium carbonate precipitation and an
increased quantity of floating micro-
scopic organisms. The heavy carbon-
ate sank to the bottom, forming the
white layer. Later subsidence of the
dark organic material, usually in the
wintertime, resulted in the dark band
of the varve.

Most concretions are collected more
for their unique shapes than for their
geologic interest. It is rare to find
specimens in collectors’ cabinets la-
beled with any information other than
their geographic locality, if even that
be given. The exact geologic forma-
tion and other information of occur-
rence in the field must accompany all
examples if they are to be useful in
scientific study. The variety of forms
they assume, their different composi-
tions, their occurrence in most all
types of rocks, and the conditions of
origin whether primary or secondary,
are all factors which, if carefully
studied, may lead to important scien-
tific results. To the economic geolo-
gist concretions should be of interest
as a source of minerals or ores brought
together through their segregation
properties. Many of them in certain
sedimentary rocks have formed about
well-preserved fossils making them of
special interest to the paleontologist.
The strange and often bizarre designs
assumed by the varved clay examples
should be an inspiration to the artistic
world.

The experience of collectors has
shown that individual beds or portions
of outcrops develop almost identical
forms, just as the individual strata of
sedimentary rocks carry their own
characteristic fossils by which they can
be identified from place to place.
However, in the case of concretions this
similarity is due to their identical con-
ditions of origin and does not depend
upon time differences as in the fossils.
For example, the National Museum
has an extensive collection of Croton
Point, N. Y., concretions from sandy
beds above the varved clays, which
shows no symmetrical specimens and

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

an almost complete absence of the
characteristic flat forms. Most of these
specimens are greatly distorted, but in
spite of this some indicate an attempt
to assume the symmetrical patterns of
the varved clay examples.

In the present paper the writer has
studied this exceptionally complete lot
of concretions as if it were a collection
of fossils from some specific geological
horizon and locality, in this case the
Post-Wisconsin (Champlain) varved
clay of New England. The photo-
graphs were prepared to illustrate the
trends of concretion growth and the
individual stages of each, in place of
the genera and species of the organic
world. The plates, therefore, can be
used for correlative purposes when
studies of concretions from other
geological formations and of different
origins are undertaken.

In spite of their diverse forms these
specimens can be roughly classified
into the following groups, omitting
some irregular examples noted in the
plate explanations. This outline dif-
fers from Professor Hitchcock’s classi-
fication of a century ago in employing
the evolution of their shapes as a
basis, but it is evident that any classi-
fication of such variable objects is
only a matter of personal opinion.

Generalized Classification of Ryegate
Glacial Varved Clay Concretions

1. Simple, bulletlike forms growing into
loesspiippchen (pl. 2).

2. Thin, flat, smooth disks with faint cir-
cular ornament, occurring in narrow
layers of pervious clay (pl. 3, figs. 1-4).

. Coin-shaped disks with smooth base and
flattened confluent lobes on upper side
(pl. 3,.figs. 5-11):

4. Hemispherical, smooth specimens in
beds thick enough to allow growth in all
directions (pl. 3, figs. 12, 13).

5. Thin disks becoming confluent laterally
with circular ornament on both sides
and small lobes on upper (pl. 3, figs.
14-19).

6. Bulletlike forms uniting and developing
into flattened dumbell shapes (pl. 4).

7. Grapelike or botryoidal growths uniting
into bulbous, twisted structures simu-
lating animal and other forms (pl. 5).

2
GLACIAL VARVED CLAY CONCRETIONS—BASSLER

8. Oval examples with smooth base and
regularly lobed upper surface (pl. 6).

9. Turban-shaped concretions with smooth
base and concentric lobes on upper sur-
face (pl. 7, figs. 5-11), etc.

10. Globular forms with surface marked by
minute nodes (pl. 7, figs. 12-17, 20-24).

11. Watch-shaped examples with terminal
node and concentric ornamentation on
upper surface (pl. 8, figs. 1-10).

12. Elongate, twisted, and bent specimens
(pl. Sy fic. 11).

13. Convoluted globules joined at their ex-
tremities (pl. 8, figs. 16-20).

14. Circular to oval concretions with flat
base marked by growth lines and lobed
upper surface giving artistic effects

(pl. 9).

The term varved clays has been ex-
tended by geologists to include all
seasonally deposited clays, and so in
future studies, ocean deposits of this
nature, those of fresh-water lakes and
other types not connected with glacial
action must be distinguished. Glacial
phenomena such as moraines, till, and
scratched boulders will always be
found in the vicinity of glacial varved
clays, as a check on their identification.
The writer now believes that the study
of concretions of all kinds and ages
promises scientific results much out of
proportion to what is thought and
known of them today.

Concretion collecting simply as a
hobby is recommended as a source of
outdoor exercise and good health.
Most often the layers yielding the most
interesting claystones crop out along
river beds. Here a boat and pair of
boots are excellent adjuncts to this
particular kind of fishing, while a
trowel helps in landing the specimens.
The student is especially urged to
search more ancient glacial clays, for
example, the varved deposits of the
Proterozoic era over a half billion
years ago, those of the close of the
Paleozoic 200 million years since, and
the Mesozoic 60 million years back in
tume.

The same great spirit or intelli-
gence that can produce life, manifests
itself in the inorganic world in giving
rise to these intriguing inanimate ob-
jects, claystone concretions.

275
EXPLANTION OF PLATES

PLATE 1

Clay Island at Ryegate, Vt.

Views of several slopes and samples of this
mound of glacial varved clay, 75 feet high,
which, unless otherwise mentioned, fur-
nished the specimens photographed for illus-
tration of this paper. At the left, a 60° slope
showing the laminated, concretion-bearing
clays, with a moist, dark-colored layer near
the top which could start a landslide. In
the center, three edge views of varved clay
samples showing concretions restricted to the
light-colored (summer) layers. In each case
a dark (winter) layer capped the concre-
tions, but in drying it was lost except in the
topmost specimen. To the right, view of a
40° slope with Mr. Pringle extracting con-
cretions mainly with his hand trowel. Foot-
holds must be cut to ascend the slope which
ordinarily is dry and hard, but slippery and
dangerous after a minute or two of rain.

PLATE 2

Photographs of a series of claystone con-
cretions, all about 14 natural size, illustrating
the development from simple, bulletlike
forms (fig. 1), through two joined together
by a narrow band (fig. 2), the band increas-
ing in size (figs. 3-5), a flat basal side showing
growth lines (fig. 6), and top views (figs. 7-15)
showing the band merging with the larger
end and the smaller extremity developing
the usual three-noded type, this combina-
tion usually classed as loessptippchen. A
double-headed form with a constricted basal
node is shown in figure 16, while figure 17
represents a specimen formed of dark
material with a cover of the lighter-colored
clay, illustrating interrupted development.

PLATE 3

Specimens of thin, disklike concretions,
about 24 natural size, formed in thin layers of
clay. Thin, smooth, flat disks (figs. 1-4)
consisting of one or several layers which split
apart upon frost action. No. 1 shows two
such layers partly separated, and No. 3 the
faint concentric lines indicating growth about
a center. Figures 5-11, coinlike concretions
arising from small, thin disks (figs. 5, 6)
which are smooth on the bottom but are
progressively ornamented by flattened con-
fluent lobes on top as more layers are added
(figs. 7-11). Figures 12 and 13, smooth,
hemispherical concretions with rounded edges
and nodes of growth added at the sides,
formed in thicker layers of the clay. Figures
14 and 15, thin, disklike forms merged
together laterally, exhibiting the surface
ornamentation (fig. 14), and a view through
the center when split apart. Figures 16-19,
a series of thin, platelike specimens illus-
276

trating the simplest form (fig. 16), then the
upper surface of a similar example with
central nodes developed (fig. 17), next, two
such structures joined by a symmetrical
keystonelike arch (fig. 18), and finally three
united in a row (fig. 19).

PLATE 4

A series of dumbbell concretions with
modifications, about %4 natural size. The
simple, bulletlike form (fig. 1) either joins
with a similar one or develops a new growth
connected by a band (figs. 2-6). Sometimes
the end nodes become curiously modified
(figs. 7, 8), or the middle band may become
overdeveloped (figs. 9, 10). In figure 11 a
small typical form is almost engulfed by a
secondary smooth clay deposit. Further
modifications are shown in figures 12, 14,
and 15, while in figure 13 the primary form
here composed of dark clay has been largely
-overed by a broad deposit of lighter-colored

4ay.
PLATE 5

A series of botryoidal or grapelike forms,
all about % natural size, in which the simplest
concretion is roughly rounded with concen-
tric growth lines (fig. 1), becomes joined to
similar associated forms by narrow strands
(figs. 2, 3), which are absorbed with increased
growth. Additional nodes are added at
various angles (figs. 4-7), until a series of
strange, animal imitative forms develops (figs.
8-18). The reader can possibly imagine a
Bactrian camel, sea serpent, hen, ant eater,
dog, and dinosaur among this assemblage.

PLATE 6

Insignia imitations (all natural size except
figs. 6, 8, 13-18, which are X %%) illustrating
the regularity of lobe development on top
side (figs. 1-17) with bottoms faintly marked,
an insect imitation (fig. 18), and top and
bottom views of a tadpolelike concretion
(figs. 19-21, Schoharie, N.Y.). (Fig. 21, X 2.)

PrATE) /

Photographs, about %4 natural size, of
various simulating concretionary specimens.
Capsulelike, etc. (figs. 1-4), turban-shaped
(figs. 5-9), side and bottom views of the same
turban-shaped form (figs. 10, 11), globular
bodies with minute nodes (figs. 12-17), top
and bottom views of a specimen with parallel
lobes (figs. 18, 19), globular forms with small
surface nodes (figs. 20-23), and enlarged view
showing increase by confluence of nodes
(fig. 24).

PLATE 8

Various types of concretion growth (about
X % unlesss otherwise stated). Watch-shaped

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

forms (figs. 1, 2), with terminal node (figs.
3-5), and a series (figs. 6-10) showing devel-
opment of upper surface ornamentation,
four grooved, twisted, and bent forms (fig.
11, longest specimen 14 inches), a simple
type (fig. 12) of a dark concretion upon
which lighter-colored layers have been
arranged horseshoelike, a flat, elongate,
dark example with deposit of light-colored
layer (fig. 13), an elongate twisted form (fig.
14), and a flat specimen with scalloped edges
overlain by smooth growth (fig. 15), con-
voluted globules joined in increasing com-
plexity (figs. 16-20), and a dumbbell form
partly covered by large, smooth, lateral lobes
(fig. 21).
PLATE 9

Imitative forms of claystones, all X 4% except
figure 13, which is X 4%. ‘Trilobitelike speci-
mens simulating a perfect head and a dis-
torted one (figs. 1-2), 3-lobed examples (figs.
3-8), symmetrically lobed forms (figs. 9-12),
a centrally perforated ring like a door knocker
(fig. 13, from Rutland, Vt.), various types
arranged around a central node (figs. 14-21),
and specimens with flat base (figs. 23, 24),
showing growth of lobes on medallionlike
upper surface (figs. 22, 25).

PLaTe 10

Unusual forms of clay concretions, all 4
natural size. Top and bottom sides of two
specimens, with corresponding sides identical
in each (figs. 1, 2); tops of four diverse imita-
tive forms (figs. 3-6); edge views of elongate,
twisted forms, the first showing an unusual
profile (figs. 7-9); an example with confluent
surface lobes (fig. 10); thin, shell-like imita-
tion, top and bottom views (figs. 11, 12).

PLATE 11

Photographs of sand and clay concretions,
¥ natural size. ‘Two concretions composed
of sand and rock fragments cemented by cal-
cite (figs. 1, 2); top and bottom of a trinodate
specimen symmetrical on the upper side,
formed in clay and distorted on the lower
side which rested in an underlying sand layer
(figs. 3, 4); top and bottom of a thin, angular
form (figs. 5, 6) showing attempt at sym-
metry on upper face (fig. 5); thin types of
symmetrically lobated forms (figs. 7-9); three
thin, flat imitative forms (figs. 10-12).

PLATE 12

A portion of the Ryegate, Vt., varved-clay
concretion exhibit in the National Museum
hall of physical geology. This does not in-
clude any of the type specimens illustrated
on plates 1 to 11.
Algal Pillars Miscalled Geyser Cones’

By Roianp W. Brown, Geological Survey, U. S. Department of the Interior

[With 8 plates]

The unsuspecting traveler on the lJess-
frequented trails in the region north-
west of Rock Springs and Green River,
Wyo., may occasionally be surprised
and mystified by encountering what
seem to be either fossil stumps or
rounded rock columns erected by a
prehistoric race. At a number of lo-
calities these protrude through the
strata as large conical or cylindrical
pillars, standing singly or in small
groups (pls. 1, 2). Local collectors
have dug out many of them, which
they, as well as some geologists, have
tentatviely called geyser cones, that
is, vertical, hollow structures resem-
bling those developed at the vents of
hot springs and geysers. Superficially,
this identification has some plausibility
because many of these pillars are more
or less hollow and cross sections of
them display layered deposits some-
what like those present in most geyser
cones. However, here, as elsewhere,
appearances are deceptive, things are
not what they seem, and hasty con-
clusions based on only a few of the
most obvious features of the circum-
stantial evidence must be revised.
Herewith are the details of my own
adventures and observations regarding
these objects.

During field work in the summer of
1946, I arrived one day at Green River,
Wyo., and became acquainted with
William Hutton, Jr., an enthusiastic

collector. The elaborate ‘‘den”’ in the

1 Published by permission of the Director,
U. S. Geological Survey.

basement of his home contains an ex-
hibit of his large collection of minerals,
rocks, fossils, and archeological relics.
Attracting immediate attention is the
wall of the spectacular fireplace, which
is constructed largely of fossil wood,
but mixed with the wood are sections
of ‘“‘geyser cones.” These, together
with the hundred or more additional
specimens around the outside of the
house and along the walks in the yard,
aroused my curiosity intensely. Not-
ing this, Mr. Hutton volunteered to
accompany me to a nearby locality
where I could see “‘geyser cones’’ in
place and observe attendant geologic
conditions. Thus, Sunday morning,
September 15, found us in Whisky
Basin, a local part of the larger Bridger
Basin. The locality is a high, open
valley area surrounded by low, bad-
land hills, about 27 miles northwest of
Green River and 12 miles northeast of
Granger (pls. 1, 2). A locality similar
to this, but not visited by me, is 30
miles west of Whisky Basin and 6 to 8
miles southwest of Opal, Wyo., where
G. P. Merrill, in 1903, collected many
specimens for the United States Na-
tional Museum. Sections of some of
these are here illustrated as noted in
the legends.

The rock strata of the valley floor
and surrounding hills are nearly hor-
izontal, variegated, but chiefly green-
ish sands and clays having a heavy
admixture of volcanic ash. There
are occasional lenses of ironstone and
carbonaceous shale. These strata lie

277
278

along the axis of the Bridger Basin,
which is a broad, shallow rock-trough
or syncline between the Wind River
Range of Wyoming and the Uinta
Mountains of Utah. Eocene sedi-
mentary rocks dip gently from all
sides toward this northeast-southwest
trending axis. Along the central por-
tion of the basin the uppermost rock
exposures are the drab, greenish, or
varicolored strata of the Bridger
formation. Beneath these rocks are
the gray to dark shales that weather
white, and the grayish-yellow sand-
stones of the Green River formation.
These strata, in turn, overlie the red-
dish and greenish Wasatch formation,
whose outcrops, except for a few small
gaps, completely encircle the Bridger
Basin with a striking zone of color.
The Green River, which drains the
basin, originates in large part on the
west slope of the Wind River Range
and flows southwestward through
colorful badlands in the Wasatch
formation to Labarge, Wyo. ‘There
it turns southeastward and in a 65-mile
course through Green River and Brid-
ger strata bisects the basin before
veering south near Green River toward
the Uinta Mountains.

The landscape of the Bridger Basin,
carved out by the Green River and its
tributaries, is at a general elevation
of 7,000 feet and comprises open grass
and sagebrush plains, broad, cotton-
wood-lined valleys enclosed by low
hills, and occasional mesas or buttes
with precipitous slopes or desolate,
dissected badland borders.

When found undamaged and stand-
ing upright in the sands and shales of
the Green River and Bridger forma-
tions, the pillars are usually well
rounded at the top and sides, are with-
out an orifice of any kind, and are
gray to brownish in color. Casually
observed they look like columnar con-
cretions or stumps of fossil wood whose
tops were rounded by weathering.
They may extend into the ground for
several feet and their more or less
irregular, sometimes spreading, flat
bottoms rest on shale without any

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

evidence underneath of a vent, such
as should be expected were they true
geyser cones. Moreover, the ground
and bedrock in their immediate vicin-
ity show no evidence of hot-spring
action, such as tufaceous or sintery
sheet and terrace deposits. The land-
scape of the Bridger Basin is developed
in fresh-water strata, which, at the
sites I visited, are not faulted, and
the nearest outcrops of igneous rock
or surface evidence of volcanic activity
are 30 miles distant. Therefore, a
visible, possible cause or source of hot
waters, and fractured rocks permitting
their emergence from subterranean
depths, is not present in the Whisky
Basin area.

Let us examine these pillars more
closely. Their outer surface is rel-
atively smooth but may be warty or
tuberculated and may be broken as a
result of spalling, the curved, shelly
fragments strewing the ground in the
vicinity. Roughly transverse  frac-
tures or joints are sometimes present,
causing the specimens to disintegrate
into thick, millstonelike sections (pl.
2, fig. 1). Inside, a typical cross sec-
tion (pl. 3, fig. 1; pl. 5, fig. 2) shows
well-marked inner and outer zones
distinguished by color, minerals, and
the ‘“‘growth”’ lines indicating the
direction in which the zones “grew”
by the addition of successive layers of
mineral matter.

The inner zone may consist of an
irregular opening lined with translu-
cent or banded chalcedony (agate)
(pl. 5, fig. 2), sometimes with quartz
crystals projecting inward (pl. 3, fig. 1),
thus simulating a geode. The center,
however, may be completely filled with
chalcedony and quartz, or it may, in
addition, have crystals of calcite, or
may be composed entirely of calcite.
Relatively rarely it may contain a
piece of fossil wood (pl. 7). Clearly,
the beginning of chalcedony banding
was at the outermost boundary of
chalcedony (pl. 3, fig. 1; pl. 5, fig. 2)
and proceeded inwardly in successive,
parallel layers or bands until quartz
or calcite crystals ended this phase of
ALGAL PILLARS—-BROWN

mineralization with the partial or
complete filling of what had obviously
been a cavity, that is, a space unfilled
by mineral or organic matter for some
time prior to the entrance of the solu-
tions from which the chalcedony,
quartz, and calcite were derived.

The outer zone, sometimes 20 cm.
thick, extends from the outer boundary
of the chalcedony zone to the pe-
riphery of the pillar. It consists
of many thin, somewhat undulating
laminae or layers of lime (CaCQO;)
deposited one upon the other (pl. 4),
thus causing “‘growth” of the zone in
the direction away from the center, in
contrast with the development of the
chalcedony zone, which was toward
the center of the pillar. The layers are
fairly uniform in thickness and they
are the result of a coalescence of
materials laid upon closely spaced
centers of origin in such fashion as to
cause a succession of small, outwardly
bulging arcs (pl. 3, fig. 2) around the
pillar. All the layers with their mi-
nute arcs and intervening depressions
unite in giving this zone a somewhat
spongy appearance and, when ex-
amined with a hand lens, show that the
zone is neither a cross section of fossil
wood nor a section of a concretion
with chemical rings or bands. Rath-
er, it is quite evident that small, spher-
ical algae, the molds of which are still
visible between the layers (pl. 4), were
involved in the deposition of this zone.

The outer zone of these pillars is,
therefore, identical in origin with the
deposits comprising the reefs, algal
pebbles, and coatings around fossil
wood found in the shore phases of the
Green River formation. Those in-
crustations were attributed by Bradley
(1929) chiefly to the activity of the
alga Chlorellopsis coloniata. Johnson
(1937) referred similar but smaller
reef-building algae from the Oligo-
cene lakes of South Park, Colo., to
Oncobyrseila coloradensis. The large, en-
crusted logs described by Bradley
(p. 210) simulate sections of the pillars
from Whisky Basin, with the exception
that silicified wood, instead of chal-

817369—49—_22

279

cedony, is the material of their inner
zones. As these logs are usually found
in prostrate position with much of the
wood intact they have never presented
any special difficulties as regards ex-
planation of their origin.

In many of the upright pillars from
the Bridger Basin, the outer limy zone
is more or less silicified, the silica
filling the irregular pores and crevices
in the spongy calcium carbonate or
replacing it completely. It is clear,
therefore, that this impregnation by
silica and filling of the center by banded
chalcedony and quartz occurred sub-
sequently to the attainment of full
outward size by the pillars, that
is, after algal activity ceased. One
section (pl. 6, fig. 2) bearing on this
point is especially pertinent. After
a considerable thickness of lime had
been deposited, the pillar toppled
over or was thrown over so that the
side on which it fell was bashed in, as
shown by the conspicuous ‘‘fault”’
line, angles, and pieces of broken algal
segments within the enclosure. Fur-
ther, the chalcedony ‘‘growth’’ lines,
conforming to the angles and parallel-
ing the outlines of the broken seg-
ments, clearly indicate that the em-
placement and banding of the silica
was subsequent to the completion of
the algal deposit. In some instances
the innermost laminae of the algal
zone appear to have suffered some
solution or disintegration before silic-
ification began. Here it should be
stated that, although a general pattern
of development can be described as
applying to all the pillars, each
specimen has individual peculiarities
caused by variations in the environ-
mental conditions under which it
originated. By paying too much at-
tention to these minor though inter-
esting details and effects, it is quite
possible to lose sight of the main
process.

Essentially, the chemistry of the
process by which algae cause deposi-
tion of lime from waters charged with
that substance is regarded as simple,
namely, that as these aquatic algae
280

live, grow, and multiply they remove
carbon dioxide from the water during
photosynthesis. As the lime dissolved
in the water is in the form of the un-
stable bicarbonate, H,;Ca(CO,),, the
removal from the water of carbon di-
oxide, which helps to keep the bicar-
bonate in solution, causes the rever-
sion of the bicarbonate to the insoluble
carbonate, which is precipitated, and
water. H,Ca(CO,),—2CO,= CaCO,
+H,O. This process is the same for
both cold and hot waters, with the
exception that perhaps evaporation
and release of pressure may play a
larger part in freeing hot waters of
carbon dioxide. As the solubility of
carbon dioxide in water decreases with
increase of temperature, it would seem
that the warming of lake waters in
summer, the optimum season of algal
activity, would assist the algae in pre-
cipitating lime. The visitor at Mam-
moth Hot Springs in Yellowstone Na-
tional Park, where lime is deposited as
travertine, and in the Geyser Basin,
where siliceous sinter or geyserite is
deposited, will note the colors dis-
played and will understand that many
of these are principally caused by dif-
ferent species of algae (Weed, 1889).
Both here and at the hot springs at
Thermopolis, Wyo., and elsewhere,
filaments of algae can be seen in the
hot waters. That these algae may not
have as much to do with the precipita-
tion of lime as Weed assumed seems
to be proved from the observations and
experiments of Allen (1934). The rate
of deposition of travertine from hot

springs is rapid, but variable, some-

times averaging 20 cm. per year. Howe
(1932, p. 61), describing ‘“‘water bis-
cuits,’ quotes Pollock as estimating
that blue-green algae may deposit marl
at the rate of one foot in 75 years.
How long it took to precipitate 20 cm.
on a Whisky Basin pillar is indetermi-
nate, but must probably be reckoned
in decades, perhaps hundreds of years.

As the lime-precipitating algae, like
all chlorophyll-bearing plants, require
sunlight, it follows that the waters in
which the pillars of Whisky Basin de-

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

veloped were shallow and seasonally,
at least, relatively clear. It is con-
sidered that fresh-water algae cannot
function well in depths of more than
10 m. (Cloud, 1942, p. 371). This
accords with the aspect of the sedi-
ments of the Green River and Bridger
formations, which were deposited on
flood plains that included sloughs,
marshes, ponds, and lakes. These
waters were the habitat of many kinds
of fishes, turtles, and crocodiles. The
swamps and adjacent plains supported
ferns, palms, laurels, elms, beans, and
many other plants indicative of a warm
temperate climate; and the land ani-
mals included birds, rodents, insectiv-
ores, carnivores, and large herbivo-
rous odd-toed titanotheres. As time
passed, the meandering streams of
the Bridger plains doubtless on occa-
sion shifted their channels or changed
courses, making new ponds and
marshes and filling old ones with
sediments. Trees or shrubs inun-
dated by these processes would in time
be killed and become snags along
the shore.

Such, then, are the basic facts that
can be read from the Whisky Basin
pillars themselves and their geologic
setting. Can these facts now be ar-
ranged in orderly sequence to explain
satisfactorily how the pillars originated?

The clue to the solution of this prob-
lem and beginning of its unraveling
patently lies in the irregular boundary
between the inner and outer zones of
the specimens—the surface on which
the algae first settled and deposited
the first lime. What was that surface?
It had to be a surface on something
substantial, relatively slender, and up-
right, for it is obvious that such algae
could not start on nothing and build
up a long, thick, relatively uniform
cylinder of lime. Further, this sup-
port, after serving as scaffolding for the
algae, had to disappear in whole or in
part so that silica could fill the space it
vacated and form what is now the
inner zone of the structure. The only
substance that fulfills these require-
ments, under all the conditions stated,
ALGAL PILLARS—BROWN

is wood—the upright, more or less de-
cayed stems, trunks, stumps, and snags
of trees or shrubs killed by drowning
where they stood in an area recently
flooded or ponded. The irregular
contours with jagged lobes and odd
angles of the boundary between the
inner silica zone and the outer lime
zone of many specimens indicate that
most of the wood had already lost its
bark and had undergone considerable
decay and erosion before lime deposi-
tion on it began. Such deterioration
occurs when wood is submerged in
shallow, circulating waters where bac-
teria, fungi, and other destructive
agents are free to act and are not in-
hibited by antiseptic conditions like
those prevailing in peat bogs and
the stagnant bottoms of deep lakes.
The tops of submerged stumps tend
to become more or less ragged to
blunt-pointed. Consequently the first
layers of algal lime covering such tops
appear somewhat disrupted or inco-
herent. Eventually, however, the limy
layers on the sides of the pillars became
homogeneous with those covering the
tops (pl..2, fig..3; pl..3,-fig. 2)... The
fact that the tops of the upright pillars
are entire and continuous, without any
evidence whatsoever of having had an
orifice, is further proof that the pillars
are not geyser cones. Furthermore,
the laminae of the pillars viewed in
lengthwise sections (pl. 3, fig. 2; pl. 8,
fig. 2) are in effect cylinders within
cylinders with rounded to conical
caps, whereas the layers in true geyser
pillars are parts of cones within cones
like the cups in a stack of paper drink-
ing cups (pl. 8, fig. 1). While these
layers were being added one after
another, worms and insect larvae,
living in tubes or cases (pl. 2, fig. 3;
pl. 3; pl. 7, fig. 2; pl. 8, fig. 3), infested
the outside of the growing pillars,
crawling over theni or attaching them-
selves to the surface. After emergence
of the adults, such as caddis flies or
midges, the cases and tubes were
abandoned, and these became new
centers for algal deposits. Most of the
empty cases and tubes filled with cal-

281

careous sand and ostracodes (pl. 8,
fig. 3), or, if left empty, with calcite or
chalcedony as a result of later min-
eralization.

As the tree stumps and snags, sub-
merged in the ponds and lakes, were
rooted in bottom mud and sand, no
algal deposits could form over the
buried portions. Therefore, the roots
and those parts above the mud-line,
now encased in algal lime, would con-
tinue to decay until, in most instances,
all the wood was destroyed. More-
over, no algae could deposit lime in
the water-filled spaces where the
wood had been because algae, requir-
ing sunlight, could not live in those
dark chambers, Also, it seems that
neither sand nor mud could seep into
those cavities.

Eventually the ponded condition of
prehistoric Whisky Basin changed.
The ponds and lakes disappeared by
being filled with sediments, thus end-
ing the algal phase of deposition, if it
had not already ceased, and burying
the algal pillars. Several hundreds of
feet of Bridger strata, which in neigh-
boring areas yield many fossil animal
remains, finally covered the site of the
algal deposits, approximately 40 mil-
lion years ago. Then subterranean,
circulating waters, percolating through
the Bridger strata, which contain much
volcanic ash, a rich source of silica,
leached out some of the silica and per-
meated the buried, porous, limy, algal
pillars, filling all holes and crevices
with the silicifying solutions. In time
the pillars and any remaining wood
became silicified, but in many in-
stances the silicification was incom-
plete, leaving hollow centers in the
pillars studded with quartz or calcite
crystals. I shall not pretend to explain
the chemistry of this process.

I have seen only a few specimens
from Whisky Basin with remnants of
wood left but, unfortunately, have no
illustrations of them. Most of the
specimens here illustrated (pl. 5, fig. 1;
pl. 7, fig. 2; pl. 8, fig. 2) are from the
Esmeralda formation (Late Tertiary)
about 4 miles west of Tonopah, Nev.
282

They were collected by John L. James
and given to Frank L. Hess, formerly
of the United States Bureau of Mines,
who made them available to me for
study and conferred with me in the
preparation of this paper. The speci-
mens are silicified and the wood, which
is coniferous, shows evidence of exten-
sive destruction before being covered
withalgalincrustations. Anotherspec-
imen (pl. 7, fig. 1) is from a locality
near Eden and Farson in the valley of
Sandy Creek, 25 miles northeast of
Whisky Basin, but from the same
Bridger strata. This area is noted for
“‘geyser cones” and fossil wood. The
wood of this specimen is dicotyledon-
ous, probably of the sumac family
(Anacardiaceae).

During many millions of years the
present drainage system evolved in the
Bridger Basin, carving low hills and
broad valleys out of the Green River
and Bridger strata and exposing the
long-buried algal pillars. These now
remain as monuments marking sites
along the shores of the Eocene lakes
where timber was submerged, covered
with algal deposits, and then, for the
most part, destroyed without a trace.
It is unlikely, however, that all such
pillars originated precisely in the
manner just described, for algae could
settle on other objects than wood at
the bottom of a lake and thus produce
variations in the process of pillar and
reef building, with subsequent com-
plications.

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

The hollow “sand trees,’ recently
described by Walker (1948) from San
Nicolas and San Micuel Islands off
the southwest coast of California, were
formed in an entirely different man-
ner, namely, by burial of trees in wind-
blown sand, with subsequent rotting
of the trees and mineralization of the
peripheral casings by calcite.

REFERENCES CITED

ALLEN, EUGENE T.

1934. The agency of algae in the deposi-
tion of travertine and silica from
thermal waters. Amer. Journ.
Sci., 5th ser., vol. 28, pp. 373-
389.

Brapiey, Witmot H.

1929. Algae reefs and oolites of the
Green River formation. U. S.
Geol. Surv. Prof. Pap. 154, pp.
203-223.

Coup, Preston E., Jr.

1942. Notes on _ stromatolites. Amer.
Journ. Sci., vol. 240, pp. 363-
3795

Howe, MARSHALL A.

1932. The geologic importance of the
lime-secreting algae. U. S,
Geol. Surv. Prof. Pap. 170, pp.
57-65.

JouNson, J. Harvan.

1937. Algae and algal limestone from
the Oligocene of South Park,
Colorado. Bull. Geol. Soc.
Amer., vol. 48, pp. 1227-1236.

WALKER, Lewis W.

1948. Trees of sand. Nat. Hist., vol. 57,

No. 1, pp. 16-18.
WEED, WALTER H.

1889. Formation of travertine and sili-
ceous sinter by the vegetation of
hot springs. U. S. Geol. Surv.
Ann. Rep. 9, pp. 613-676.
Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Brown

1. Algal pillars in the Bridger formation, Whisky Basin, 27 miles northwest of
Green River, Wyo.

2. Group of algal pillars and broken pieces, Whisky Basin.
Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Brown PLATE 2

1. Sections of an algal pillar. 2. Broad, open valley of Whisky Basin, with algal
pillars in figure 1, from a different angle, in foreground.

3. Lengthwise section through middle of a pillar, showing layers of algal lime
covering abandoned insect cases or worm tubes, and arching over the top.
Light-colored material in center is calcite that fills the space previously occupied
by wood. The larval cases are filled with caleareous sand and ostracodes.
Specimen from Bridger formation, 6 to 8 miles southwest of Opal, Wyo.
Collected by G. P. Merrill, 1903. X }.
edc
@ Xx M 1840
‘govds Ajdwia oY} pol[y o}10/Bd oojoq puv poAvoap peY pOoOM [BUISIIO ay} 10IYR posde[joo apts qo, osoym serpid @ Jo uoroes OSIMY SUNT

GZ % &K “OAM ‘TRdQ ‘soqn} WOM PUB sasBd JoOoSUT paio}{Bos SULMOYS OUI] [BSTR Jo auoz 94} St AUOpsd[BYy ey} apIsyng “Auopeoyeyo
popued Jo ou0z Yep B Aq pepuno.ns speysdio ZIVNH MOYS S19} U9 BY, *901} B JO YAO] aX punoswe Ing weyid , s[qnop,, B Jo OTS ssolg, “FE

ims

© Silviad UMOIG—'Qp6| ‘40day ueIuosy WIS
‘eT & gz oansy ‘g oye [d Ul UMOYS UdtUDeds WOUy

aN

uoT}eG ‘sIBAB] OY} SUOTV 10Y}050} papMOIO U9S 9q UBO Sp[OUl jeoraayds ‘oynurur osoyM ovsyR Jo AYLAT}OB ayy Aq poysodep oul] Jo s1oAVT

v 3aLV1d UMOIG— Qt6| ‘qrodayy uetuOsyyIWIS
Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Brown PLATE 5

1. Lengthwise section of an algal pillar with silicified coniferous wood at bottom
center, Esmeralda formation, 4 miles west of Tonopah, Nev. Natural size.

2. Cross section of a pillar showing banded chalcedony center surrounded by
algal lime. The chalcedony occupies the space vacated by wood. Opal,
W yO. x yy,
Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Brown PLATE 6

1. An irregular mass from Whisky Basin, showing thick algal lime incrustations
around tangled pieces of silicified wood, which was probably drift debris that
SZ

sank to the bottom of the lake near shore. X 1}.

2. Cross section of a pillar that toppled from its vertical position, bashing in the
lower side, as shown by break at arrow. Portions of the broken algal cylinder
are now in the center surrounded by chalcedony. Opal, Wyo. X }.
Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Brown PLATE 7

1. Cross section of a pillar with silicified dicotyledonous wood (dark). From
Eden Valley, northeast of Whisky Basin. Natural size.

2. Cross section of a pillar with silicified coniferous wood in center. The minute,
spindle-shaped objects are probably larval cases of midges or microcaddis flies.
Tonopah, Nev. Natural size.
VAOGE SOPOdBI}SO PUB MOOG PUBS SNOIIBO[BO YIM Po[Y qn} WOM B JO UOTPS SSO) “EG “be X “AON ‘YRdouoT, *410}U90 Jo YYSII 0} (YaRp)
POOM SNOLOJIUOD POYlOTIS SUIMOYS IBI[Id B JO UTS OSIMYYSUOT “GZ “3, XK "YAVG [BUONBN OUOJSMO][OR WOT oU0d JOSod SNOoIBITRO “|

‘ZL xX  ‘AuOpao[Ryo JUsON[suBIy 9Y4 UI

“NN

4

fj
‘
vy

8 ALV1d UMOIG—'QL6| ‘q4oday URIUOSYyzIUICG
Concepts in Conservation of Land, Water,

and Wildlife’

By Tra N. GasriExson, President, Wildlife Management Institute

[With 3 plates]

Conservation is the wise use of our
natural resources. Conservation is not
a process of locking up those resources
and keeping them for future use as is
sometimes charged, but a concept of
using wisely, and with care, those re-
sources with which this land was
originally endowed. These resources
can be divided into two broad groups:
the mineral or nonrenewable _re-
sources, which can be conserved only
by utilizing them wisely and without
waste, and the organic or renewable
resources which, if properly managed,
can continue to produce indefinitely
things of value for the human race.

It is with this latter group that con-
servationists are now chiefly con-
cerned. In the past there have been
many conservation programs. ‘There
have been abroad groups promoting
the conservation of forests, wildlife,
soils, and, most recently, waters.
There are many smaller groups inter-
ested in single phases of wildlife con-
servation. Each of them has been
more or less successful in proportion to
the popular appeal and to the strength
of the forces behind it. There are
still many groups which are primarily
interested in individual problems, but
there is a growing public understand-
ing of the fact that the conservation of
all renewable resources is inextricably

1 Reprinted by permission from The
Technology Review, vol. 50, No. 3, January
1948, with added illustrations from Outdoor
News Bulletin.

intertwined and that it is difficult, if
not impossible, to pick out any one
element and carry on a conservation
program for that alone without affect-
ing, for good or evil, some other im-
portant elements.

Americans are proud of the fact
that their energy and initiative have
developed a great country in record
time. There is no similar instance is
history of a virgin land being developed
into a great agricultural and industrial
nation in so short a period of time.
While there is much in this record of
which the nation may well be proud,
our achievements have been accom-
panied by an appallingly wasteful and
destructive utilization of basic re-
sources. Virgin forests were cut, piled,
and burned in order to make way for
the plow; for years timber was, and
still is, too often cut with shocking
wastefulness of the present crop and a
complete lack of concern for future
forest growth. Land that never should
have been farmed was broken; vast
drainage schemes were promoted at
public expense even when such
schemes could have nothing but ill
effects on the local and national
economy.

Into this wastefulness the three
elements of ignorance, stupidity, and
greed have entered conspicuously.
It can be said charitably that in the
earlier days much of the waste was
due to ignorance. With present-day
knowledge of the past waste of the

283
284

national resources, we can attribute a
continuation of many of these prac-
tices only to stupidity or greed; it is
hard to say which is dominant. In
spite of the knowledge that is available
for the asking, it is still possible for an
unscrupulous promoter to enlist busi-
nessmen, the chamber of commerce,
or other local groups in a dubious
drainage or development scheme which
lacks many or all of the elements that
might make it successful. Despite the
record of past mistakes, this Nation is
still dissipating and unnecessarily de-
stroying the basic resources on which
its future depends.

Land

Someone once said that the future
of the human race was entirely de-
pendent on the top 14 inches of soil.
Like many epigrams this one contains
much truth. All food, most of the
clothing, and many other products
that fill everyday human needs are
products of the soil and water. So
far as the future can be discerned, they
will always be so produced. The
development of the great plastics in-
dustry has not changed this picture.
While plastics can be substituted for
many uses to which metals are now
devoted, they cannot replace food and
other essentials. In fact, plastics are
made largely from products of the
soil. Those that have been developed
from petroleum products or byproducts
were living plants and animals at one
time, and those that are produced
from cellulose are direct products of
the soil.

The fall of many nations has been
linked directly to abuse and destruc-
tion of that nation’s soil. Many rose
to greatness on virgin agricultural
areas and declined with the destruc-
tion of the soil. The same historical
sequence is inevitable in this country
unless we learn to use more wisely the
soils and waters of the United States.
Scientists realize this keenly and have
been trying for years to impress upon
the general public the need for con-
servation. However, it took the spec-

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

tacular dust storms of the 1930’s,
resulting from wind erosion of the arid,
drought-stricken plains country, to
focus attention, even momentarily,
upon some of the basic problems of
maintaining our natural resources.
Like all farm crops and animals,
wildlife, too, is directly dependent
upon the soil. In fact, all animal life,
including man, is dependent upon
plants which are the only living things
capable of taking minerals, air, and
water, and combining them into the
complex substances that are required
for human and animal nutrition.
When man eats meat, he feeds upon
the products of plant development and
growth for, as a food, meat is only
once removed from plants. Whether
fish, fowl, or beast is eaten, man de-
pends ultimately upon vegetation and
this fact is one of the primary bases of
the conservation concept.

The productive soils with which this
country was originally endowed were
built by a very complex process that
required vast stretches of geologic time.
Only by going through an exceedingly
time-consuming evolution did _ soils
become fertile and productive. Usu-
ally, the first step in the formation of
soils is the breaking down and weather-
ing of rock, as the result of wind, water,
and temperature acting upon the
rocks. Without forming immediately
productive soils these rock particles
contain mineral elements that provide
basic fertility. These broken-down
particles of rock may be moved, mixed,
shuffled, deposited in layers, torn up
and resorted by the action of erosive
agents until they become capable of
sustaining some type of plant life. A
few plants are even capable of growing
on the faces of solid rocks and the
growth of their roots contributes to the
actual breaking down of the rock.
More kinds of plants can grow on
newly broken-down rocks. As these
plants grow and decay, the humus,
which they create and return to the
soil, enables other and higher types of
plants to develop on the same area.
Eventually a fertile topsoil is formed

CONCEPTS IN CONSERVATION—GABRIELSON

by the incorporation, with the mineral
particles, of the decaying remnants of
many generations of plants and ani-
mals. It is by this process that pro-
ductive soils are built.

When the white man arrived in
North America, he found a continent
in which these processes had been
going on for geological ages. As a
result highly productive soils, natu-
rally some better than others, were
found. This natural process permits
the return of all materials to the soil
and as long as it continues, soils build
toward a more productive condition.
When the soil-formation process is
interrupted, as it is when man develops
an agricultural program and begins to
take away and market great quanti-
ties of the products of the soil, it is
inevitable that soil building ceases and
soil exploitation is started. Man recog-
nizes this fact every time he fertilizes
a piece of land, plows under a green
crop, or spreads animal and plant
wastes upon the soil.

Soils that are devoted to agricul-
tural crops become more subjected to
erosive agents and in the past the
result has been that an accelerated
erosion of the soils started immediately.
Erosion has hastened the reduction of
soil fertility far beyond any loss that
came from the removal of the elements
of fertility from the soil. Fluctuating
streams, the choking of stream beds
with silt at an extremely rapid rate,
and other disastrous consequences
follow destructive erosion processes.
Soil destruction has been going on in
America since the first settlers landed
and is still affecting a major part of the
land. Net results are easy to see. At
the present time, something in excess
of 100,000,000 acres of formerly good
crop land is now completely unpro-
ductive. Some of it will not return to
productive capacity for many thou-
sands of years and then only as a result
of the slow natural soil-building
process. Some of it can be brought
back more rapidly by careful handling.
Another 100,000,000 acres are seri-
ously damaged and nearly all of the

285

present land used for agriculture has
deteriorated appreciably because of
our crude methods of exploitation.
More than 100,000,000 acres of
swamp, marsh, and lake lands have
been drained by one device or another.
In some cases drainage has produced
good agricultural land and in others
it has not. In either case, but little
thought has been given to a compari-
son of the value of land in its original
condition and its value for agricul-
ture, wildlife, and the preservation of
natural resources after drainage.

When the white man came to Amer-
ica, he found a land that was ade-
quately clothed in vegetation, nature’s
major instrument for retarding erosion.
Both the character and density of the
vegetation varied with the fertility and
character of the land, the amount of
rainfall, and the climate. The eastern
half of this country was largely an un-
broken forested area. In midcontinent
the grasslands and prairies were com-
pletely clothed with a turf and in the
more arid areas of the country desert-
inhabiting plants with vast root sys-
tems performed the function of soil
protection.

To a large extent this vegetative
cover has been disrupted, some of it
necessarily and some of it needlessly.
Under conditions of natural growth
the vegetative cover performed other
functions in addition to that of inhibit-
ing erosion. It forced water into the
soil and held it there stored for the
future use of the plants. It maintained
ground-water tables and gradually fed
the surplus water into the streams.
The natural cover of vegetation held
to a Minimum variation in stream flow,
and the stored waters fed permanent
streams and maintained ground-water
levels with small variation even during
long periods of drought. In other
words, nature’s method for protecting
the land, building its fertility and pro-
ductiveness, and storing water is the
natural mechanism by which the soils
and vegetative resources can be main-
tained to the greatest benefit to the
human race. A wise national policy
286

would disrupt this mechanism as little
as possible.

Conservationists realize that a return
to the natural conditions of centuries
ago is neither possible nor desirable.
The present population of the country
could not be maintained on the low
agricultural productivity that existed
prior to the voyage of Columbus. Con-
servationists do believe that the great-
est possible use should be made of this
natural mechanism of soil preserva-
tion. The basis of conservation think-
ing is that man should work with na-
ture and natural processes rather than
in direct opposition to them. This
basic concept may be translated into
concrete practices by developing per-
manent vegetation of some sort for all
land too steep to farm profitably or
having such a soil texture as to be in-
capable of staying in place under agri-
cultural conditions. In the eastern
United States such a program requires
the growing of forests, and in more arid
sections of the country permanent grass
or other ground cover is required. A
cessation of drainage programs is de-
sirable until a careful determination
has been made of the present value of
the land and water and their products,
the importance of undrained land in
the storage of water, and the effect
which draining may be expected to
have on the reduction of flash run-off,
not only locally but for the entire
drainage area involved. Once a com-
plete study is made, a comparison of
present values with those that can
reasonably result from the proposed
drainage should determine whether or
not the project is a beneficial one.

On lands devoted to agriculture, we
must utilize the best available know]l-
edge to prevent excessive erosion and
to maintain soil fertility and pro-
ductivity. Attainment of the desired
goal may often require contour farming,
terracing, strip cropping, grassing of
run-off strip, construction of farm
ponds, and the employment of various
other devices by which water is held
on and forced into the land to the
maximum possible extent. In areas

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

that have been subjected to successive
erosion, conservation requires a cur-
ative treatment involving gully con-
trol, check dams, and permanent
vegetation.

Water

Acre for acre, water is often as pro-
ductive a basic resource as land, and
the products of rivers, lakes, and ponds
are equally valuable to the human
race. The tremendous tonnage of
fish, shellfish, and crustaceans used
each year for human food and for
other uses may be cited as one of the
obvious values of areas covered by
water. The natural water resources
have been abused even worse than
those of the land. Fisheries, partic-
ularly the inland and coastal bay
fisheries, have declined tremendously
due to overfishing, the blocking of
streams by dams, pollution, or exces-
sive erosion which has silted up the
streams and lakes until they can no
longer sustain the quantities and vari-
eties of life that formerly thrived in
these areas. Sometimes the decline
of animal and even plant and human
life is due to one of these factors alone
but usually it is the result of a com-
bination of two or more man-made
troubles. Yet the productive capabili-
ties are there; they have merely been
abused.

There has been a slowly growing re-
alization of the necessity for dealing
with water control on the basis of an
entire drainage basin rather than by
isolated projects. It should be ob-
vious that, insofar as possible, water
management should start where the
raindrop falls. To secure the greatest
value from both land and water, agri-
cultural and land management prac-
tices should be such as to retain as
much rainfall as possible for use on
the land. An understanding of this
necessity has resulted in the develop-
ment of a program of soil conserva-
tion which, by forcing water into the
soil and by storing of water in small
ponds, helps maintain ground-water
CONCEPTS IN CONSERVATION—GABRIELSON

levels and takes maximum advantage
of the combined productivity of the
land and water. To the complete
surprise of many people it is being
demonstrated that water can often
produce a value per acre that com-
pares favorably with that obtainable
from the best production in farm
crops. Slowly we are commencing to
realize that there are better ways of
utilizing this country’s natural re-
sources than to drain water-covered
areas solely to provide larger crops
which may be already in surplus. A
revolutionary change in the _ phi-
losophy of the average farmer and
land manager will be required, how-
ever, before the detrimental effects of
indiscriminate drainage are recog-
nized; we shall also have to change
some of our past engineering practices.
Among students of natural-resource
problems there is a conviction that a
program combining good manage-
ment of land and water over an entire
watershed is the only possible way to
stop the dissipation of the basic re-
sources of the country. Obviously to
carry out such a program it is un-
necessary to advocate valley authori-
ties, or the program of any particular
organization or group of engineers.
Regardless of which group or groups
do the work, there should be no more
piecemeal planning and construction
of projects for flood control, hydro-
electric power, or other purposes.
Conservationists do not believe that
it is either good planning or good na-
tional economy to flood great areas
of good farm land above a dam in order
to furnish flood protection to the
same or less acreage below the dam.
They do not believe that big dams
are the solution to this basic problem.
They realize that big dams have a
place but they believe that the best
use that can possibly be made of
water is for it to contribute the utmost
from the moment it falls on the ground.
They believe that these programs
should come first; that control at the
source will provide greater immedi-
ate values than great impoundments

817369—49——_23

287

far downstream. ‘They believe that
proper land and water management
will render many flood-control dams
unnecessary. They believe that such
dams as are a demonstrated necessity
will silt up much less rapidly and be
of use for a much longer period if the
management of water starts at the
source.

In other words, groups studying this
problem from the over-all standpoint
—conservationists, soil experts, biolo-
gists—believe that the cart is before
the horse when flood control and water
management are begun far down-
stream instead of at water sources.
They believe that such programs as
have been common in the past are
more expensive, less efficient, and less
productive for public good than the
more logical but less spectacular util-
ization of water, initially, from the
time it first fallson the land. Conser-
vationists believe that land and water
management should be combined and
started with the raindrop; they most
certainly do not believe that the con-
trol of water should be delayed until
it becomes necessary to deal with great
volumes of water which already have
become destructive forces.

Another great abuse is the pollution
of water resources through the prac-
tice of dumping untreated industrial
wastes and domestic sewage into the
streams and lakes ofthe country. This
abominable practice has been tolerated
because it provided a cheap and easy
way of solving an immediate problem.
Yet the food and recreational values
thereby destroyed would often show a
loss of public values far outweighing
the gains which the offending industry
or community may have obtained by
its shortsighted and thoughtless pro-
cedure. Pollution has played a big
part in the decline of the shad fisheries
of the Atlantic coast, the oyster fish-
eries of the Chesapeake Bay, the inland
fresh-water fisheries of the Illinois and
other rivers. ‘Through dumping sew-
age and industrial wastes the nation
loses each year a staggering sum rep-
resenting the value of the aquatic
288

crops that could be produced in the
absence of polluted waters.
Conservationists believe that no in-
dividual or group of individuals has
the right to destroy publicly owned
resources needlessly or for their own
immediate profit. Both from an eco-
nomic and a public health standpoint,
it is becoming increasingly important
to clean up the polluted waters and
thereby to protect human health and
restore the biological productivity of
part ofour natural-resource machinery.
There is one way to accomplish this
program. It is necessary, first of all,
to stop immediately any new pollution
of water; it is then essential to put into
effective operation a program for abat-
ing the existing sources of pollution.

The Role of Vegetation

Reforestation or revegetation is the
first line of defense in both erosion
control and water management. ‘Too
late has the public realized the mistake
in cutting forests recklessly, and the
wastefulness of allowing land to pass
into an irresponsible ownership in
which no thought was given to the
future. Still, much progress has been
made in the last 40 years in public
understanding of the necessity of re-
vegetation, and much public money
has been spent in buying back lands
suitable for reforestation.

Much of the rough and poor land
of the western States is in public
ownership and capable of being man-
aged in large blocks with maximum
permanent return. The publicly
owned lands in the West are valuable
chiefly for timber production, water-
shed protection, and recreational pur-
poses. Some of them have value for
grazing, but many of the more arid
regions quickly deteriorate when over-
grazed, a mistake that is easy to make
in an arid land particularly during a
drought period. This nation should
not make the mistake of allowing
highly productive lands to pass into
private hands for the purpose of ex-
ploitation or destruction, for ulti-
mately they must then be brought

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

back into public ownership for re-
vegetation at great public expense.
We should learn by the mistakes of
the past. The rough and mountain-
ous lands of the country, the arid
grazing lands, and the deserts that
are not suitable for agriculture should
always remain in public ownership
where they can be managed for the
protection of all interests and still be
made to produce some return.

The basic concept of conservation
may be said to be the permanent re-
vegation of all lands not suitable for
agricultural development. Such lands
in which rainfall is adequate should
be restored to forests and when re-
stored, they should be placed under a
program of management such as will
produce a sustained yield. In that
form they will return their greatest
value to the nation as well as to the
community in which they are located.
The more arid lands should be re-
turned to grass or other suitable forms
of vegetation.

One of the great mistakes of World
War II was the plowing up of vast
areas in the Great Plains country
which, conservationists hoped, had
been permanently placed in grass
following the spectacular dust storms
of the 1930’s. Much public money
was spent on the effort to vegetate
these lands. Now with high prices and
a little better rainfall, it has been prof-
itable to gamble on cropping this
land. It is a gamble and droughts
will again return to the plains. Will
these landowners have either the re-
sources or the understanding to put the
land back into grass once prices go so
low as to render the gamble unprofit-
able or when drought begins to cut
returns to the same point? Especially
when our Government supports a
program of high farm prices it is a
good guess that they will not and that
the public will again be called upon
to pay the cost of returning these lands
to the only use for which they are
basically fitted. The protective vege-
tation can be utilized for grazing by
livestock or wild animals. It can be
CONCEPTS IN CONSERVATION—GABRIELSON

utilized permanently only if the vege-
tative cover is not destroyed by exces-
sive use.

It is hoped that this brief discussion
of the role of vegetation has pointed
out the importance of plants in the
management of lands and waters.
Plants are one of the great natural
controls since they are highly effective
in retarding erosion and regulating
run-off. They furnish an indispensable
part of the mechanism by which a
suitable water table is built and main-
tained; they build continually toward
a more productive soil and they
manufacture all the basic foods utilized
by all animal life, including man.
Can there be any questioning of the
belief of conservationists that all land
not immediately needed for other pur-
poses should be kept continuously
vegetated as a part of any intelligent
program of natural resource manage-
ment?

Wildlife Management

Biologists and naturalists realize
keenly that the ultimate fate of wild-
life is tied up inextricably with the
management of the lands and waters.
They realize that a good crop of wild-
life cannot be produced on poor and
worn-out land any more than a good
crop of cattle or corn could be pro-
duced on the same land. There is a
popular belief that any piece of waste
land is adequate for wildlife produc-
tion. This belief prevails because
wildlife, often crowded into such
areas, survives in minimum numbers
on marginal areas. That does not
mean, however, that good crops of
wildlife can be produced profitably on
such land. For this reason wildlife
biologists are keenly interested in
maintaining the highest possible pro-
ductivity of the lands and waters.

There are types of wildlife fitted to
live under almost all possible normal
variations in vegetative cover and
under varying climatic conditions. A
reforestation program cannot but help
certain types of forest animals. If
that reforestation program is wisely

289

carried out, the wildlife values are
enhanced. As the timber grows, con-
ditions become better for some forms
of wildlife and worse for others. A
forest slows down run-off as duff accu-
mulates. Streams which had become
intermittent because of forest destruc-
tion, often become permanent streams
once more as reforestation progresses.
Likewise, in areas suffering from exces-
sive erosion any sound program of soil
conservation cannot but help wildlife
to some extent. If some thought is
given to wildlife at the time this pro-
gram is laid out, this benefit can be
multiplied many times.

Many flood-control programs, hy-
droelectric developments and recla-
mation projects have been very de-
structive to fish and wildlife. Often
this has been needless since experience
shows that some consideration would
have provided an opportunity to sal-
vage many fish and wildlife values.

The greatest single benefit of wild-
life, although one which it is difficult
to evaluate in a monetary sense, is the
incentive it affords man for wholesome
outdoor recreation. The outdoors still
has a major appeal. People go out-
of-doors not only to hunt and fish,
but to look at and _ photograph
birds, mammals, and scenery. ‘Their
methods of enjoying these resources
are diverse and that is one of their
most wholesome values. There has
been a saying circulated for many
years that more film is utilized in
photographing wildlife than is used
on any other subject except babies. A
total of 9,854,314 hunting licenses
were sold in the United States during
1946 and 11,068,717 fishing licenses
were recorded in addition. ‘This is a
record amount, but the number of
such licenses has grown steadily each
year since 1918 when records first
began to be kept on a wide scale.
Yet these numbers represent only those
who are required to obtain a license
to hunt or fish; they do not include the
great many who can hunt or fish
without licenses, nor those who get
their fun out of wildlife in other ways.
290

From an economic standpoint, how-
ever, wildlife is also of great value to
the country. The fish and other prod-
ucts taken from the streams, lakes, and
coastal waters of this country amount
to from 4 to 5 billion pounds a year.
They furnish a source of wholesome
protein food that costs little to produce
if the nation gives nature a chance and
works with her rather than against her.
The only thing the human race is
called upon to do to preserve the
fisheries is to refrain from destroying
the environment on which the fish
depend and to regulate their take out
of the fish populations so as to leave
adequate breeding stock. It seems a
small enough investment to guarantee
such a quantity of wholesome and
nutritious food. A rather hasty survey
has shown that the combination of
overfishing, drainage, pollution, and
siltation of streams and lakes has cut a
potential 2 billion pounds a year from
possible commercial production.

While engaged in recreation, hunt-
ers and fishermen take approximately
three-quarters of a billion pounds of
meat and fish annually in this country.
This harvest could be appreciably
increased if intelligent management
were applied to the lands and waters.

Fur-producing animals furnish the
incentive and the economic return
which pioneered much of this land, and
the fur taken in the United States
under present lack of suitable envi-
ronment and depleted stocks of fur
bearers still aggregates $50,000,000 to
$60,000,000 a year. It could be sev-
eral times that much if this resource
had been managed more wisely. There
are acres of marshlands, for example,
that produce more net return per acre
in muskrat fur alone than similar land
produces when drained and placed
under cultivation.

In addition to these direct values,
there is a tremendous business, esti-
mated at 2 billion dollars annually, in
furnishing accommodations and pro-
viding outdoor clothing and hunting
and fishing equipment to those seek-
ing recreation and relaxation in the

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

outdoors. It is one of the major busi-
nesses in the country and has a pecu-
liar value in placing much of the
money expended for this purpose in
the remote and poorer sections of the
country. With lands revegetated and
properly managed, this business can
be increased.

Summary

The basic concepts may be sum-
marized as follows: Conservation in-
volves wise use of renewable resources
of the country so as to obtain a per-
petual harvest of the production of the
lands and waters. Profitable produc-
tion of American farms and forests can
be maintained only by adequate man-
agement of the soils to prevent destruc-
tive erosion. Water control and land
management should go hand in hand
and should start from the moment rain
falls on the land. There should be a
coordinated program over an entire
watershed in order to maximize the
benefits of conservation. So far as
possible, water should be stored in the
land where it falls and it should be
used to produce crops, to keep the
stream flows regular and steady, and
to provide ground-water supplies for
human and agricultural use. No more
land should be drained without care-
ful consideration of its value in the
over-all management of water and its
total productive capacity before and
after drainage. No more pollution
should be permitted to start and exist-
ing pollution should be cleaned up as
rapidly as possible. Once the pollu-
tants have been removed, waters are
capable of producing as great a crop of
fish as ever. All lands too steep, too
light, too sterile to be used profitably
for intense agriculture should be re-
vegetated. In the more humid areas
lands must be reforested; in the arid
sections grass or some of the more arid
land plants will have to be restored.
The imperative need is to maintain an
adequate vegetative cover on all lands
not needed for more intensive use.
Problem areas, in particular, should
CONCEPTS IN CONSERVATION—GABRIELSON

be maintained in grass cover even at
the expense of some incidental uses
which might be obtained from them.
Wildlife is a crop that must be grown
the same as any other crop; its pro-
duction can be integrated with intel-
ligent and better management of lands
and water. The recreational value of
wildlife is intangible but tremendously
important; the monetary and eco-
nomic value amounts to billions of
dollars annually.

291

The intelligent management of re-
newable resources is the major prob-
lem before America today. While the
strikes, divorces, murders, baseball
games, and many other features fill the
headlines and attract momentary at-
tention, the future of this country
depends upon how weil its remaining
resources are managed, and how effec-
tively the resources can be restored
where ignorance, greed, or stupidity
have destroyed their productivity.
a t 7 _
- est : 1

fos ; Wc ia asi
4 U 4 i i vives?

: Conte ie Are { Ti ay Ar vs wie :
é visi arate Taare a od ; My Life lion a | 4 oh Mei alg
my cNa ; : bay Ve goal rs nds a4 Ties

if 7 diab | e iver are ss ey pil y i ie a5 ivia Ai

eel a ase a NiGE fie Silo 2arae
iA\e 4 Ty Pig is Eby aH?

$74 ] ba tagerthe ty ia ey, ae’ S
ravi “it we ut ote AIOE:
aris ii Thaw? Work morferatisae

ay if ' ann o fics de Swear S14 ono

ot Sat fi) spaniaat el
poe eres a ea

‘
{
*
J
i‘
f
‘
=
”
wh) o
; ! a %
i
i
ry
'y
| 4
> I
é ;
}
4
gpk ‘
f]
>
:
1
7 - tot.
i rT .
es oe p
i
|
- : '
; 2 Sot
ion : ‘
2%
- ray ey) pike
7 ns let ey ae
Dae i, ey ye hae
yt ia ; i NE Peis?
. ae ve.

epee ae

cate

Jn en

, bcdiny oe

te a i ayy ear vie
aiiith ive bores’ saa
ale el TG Jicheganaar int: ere)

Ae: vila innolisoiar aaa

antisite alsin E
a i arconllig ws Mrs

i Din
\
Ley
|
en mere TT:
r, Tot “7 ma
1) a 108 Tae
aany wit Ly she. - et
iat Ee es Ne

eu ris

ob
i>
ie

Pre Sythe it
fae 7
1 ie ae naan it a
a ee ate thin!
aaa) ht i
7 el! it ae
gabe eh
ree OL
ei! oe ar
Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Gabrielson PLATE 1

<aypgeee eo _
om ss

1. Forests were burned and cut to make way for the plow.

Photograph by U.S. Forest Service.

2. The productive soils with which this country was originally endowed were
built by a complex process requiring vast stretches of geologic time.
Photograph by Gabriel Moulin.
Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Gabrielson PLATE 2

1. The dust storms of the 1930’s focused attention on some of our basic problems.

Photograph by Pathe News, from Underwood and Underwood.

2. Erosion has hastened reduction of soil fertility far more than any other
factor.

Photograph by Soil Conservation Service.
Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Gabrielson PLATE 3

as agree ey Peet, Se Moe: Be = ct aD it st £2 we
1. On lands devoted to agriculture we must utilize our best knowledge to prevent
excessive erosion.

Photograph by Soil Conservation Service.

2. Farm ponds have proved their value in the soil conservation program,

Photograph by J. P. Barney.
The Evolution and Function of Genes’

By A. H, Sturtevant, California Institute of Technology

Every individual organism is the
resultant of the activity of the ultimate
hereditary units, or genes, that it
carries and of the environmental con-
ditions under which it has developed.
The geneticist is likely to lay particular
emphasis on the gene as the hereditary
component in this dual control, but
it must never be forgotten that the en-
vironment is also essential. The dif-
ferences between individuals may be
due to differences in either genes or
environment. There is one group of
characters where caution in interpre-
tation is especially necessary, namely,
those having to do with human
faculties.

There can, I think, be no doubt that
there are differences between people
in their inherent, inherited, mental,
and psychological potentialities; there
can also be little doubt, by analogy
with other characters, that there are
at least statistical differences between
races. But precisely these characters
are obviously peculiarly sensitive to
environmental effects—to tradition
and to social and economic conditions.
It seems clear, therefore, that one can-
not conclude that there is a very high
correlation between the _ inherited
mental potentialities of an individual
and the properties that he actually
possesses, and this caution is doubly
necessary when one compares different
races.

1 From American Scientist, vol. 36, No. 2,
1948 (reprint, Science in Progress, Series
VI, 1949), and here reprinted by permission
of The Society of the Sigma Xi and the
Yale University Press.

I

An individual belonging to any of
the higher plant or animal groups car-
ries numerous different genes. The
exact number cannot be specified, for,
while there are several methods of ar-
riving at estimates of the number, none
of the methods is very satisfactory. It
seems safe to suppose that the number
is at least in the thousands, but it may
well be in the tens of thousands. Per-
haps the next question that a physicist
or achemist might ask about the genes,
after their number, would be about
their size. It is clear that they are
small, but again an exact answer Is
not possible. They are evidently so
small as to be beyond the resolving
power of an ordinary miscroscope;
they are probably within the size
range of large complex organic mole-
cules, but it is not possible to be more
specific.

In spite of these uncertainties with
respect to such basic matters as their
number and their size, genes are im-
portant units, for they are responsible
for all the characters present in living
things, and it is, therefore, desirable
to find out all we can about them.
One of the many methods that has
been used in the study of genes is the
comparative one. Asa result we now
have reasonably satisfactory accounts
of the genetic behavior in a wide vari-
ety of organisms. Several kinds of
vertebrates and of insects are well
understood, there is some information
on a few other invertebrate animals,
extensive data are available on many

293
294

higher plants, and in recent years we
have come to know a good deal about
the genetics of some of the lower plants.
Perhaps the most important general
conclusion to be drawn from a com-
parison of heredity in these forms is
that, by and large, the same principles
apply to all of them. There are dif-
ferences, but these are not sufficient
to obscure the essential! similarity.

For some comparative purposes,
however, it is desirable to consider a
series of rather closely related forms.
The best understood group of related
species occurs in Drosophila—a genus
of small flies, 2 to 6 mm. in length,
many of which are convenient labora-
tory objects. The best known is Dro-
sophila melanogaster. This is a small
yellowish fly with bright red eyes,
commonly found about fermenting
fruit in most parts of the world. Ow-
ing to its short life cycle of about 10
days and to the fact that large num-
bers of the flies can be reared with
little space and expense, D. melanogaster
has long been a favorite subject for
genetical research. More is known
about heredity in this species than in
any other organism, and much of the
modern theory of genetics is based on
studies of it.

There are about 500 known species
of Drosophila; of these about 8 have
been reasonably well studied geneti-
cally, as many more are less well un-
derstood, and there are scattered data
on still others (8).?. The species so far
studied do not constitute a random
sample of the genus, since several of
the more distinct groups of species do
not breed easily under usual laboratory
conditions; nevertheless the available
species do represent considerable diver-
sities of type.

There are a few species hybrids rec-
ognized in Drosophila, and the study of
these has yielded much information;
in all cases, however, interfertile species
are so closely similar as to be of little
interest for present purposes. For the

2? Numbers in parentheses indicate refer-
ences at end of article.

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

other forms, here under consideration,
the method of study has been to in-
vestigate each species separately, and
then to compare the information on
the gene composition of a particular
species with that available for the other
species. This usually means a com-
parison with melanogaster, since more
genes are known in it than in all the
other species combined.

The methods used may be illustrated
by afew examples. D. melanogaster, as
stated, is commonly found in most
parts of the world. Although there
are minor differences between strains
in this species, there is, nevertheless,
essentially a single “‘wild type” form
to be found everywhere and it is not
possible to judge the geographical
origin of a specimen or of a strain by
an examination of its characteristics.
This “‘wild type” form is the standard
of reference for comparison of gene
composition. Occasionally one finds,
either in laboratory cultures or in wild
populations, individuals with definitely
distinct characteristics, and such a new
feature can often be shown to be due
to a change that has occurred in a
single gene. Since the resulting new
genes are relatively stable, it is possible
to establish strains carrying them, and
to produce any desired number of in-
dividuals showing the distinct new
characters.

One such new, or “‘mutant,”’ gene
results in flies possessing shortened,
kinky bristles. Specimens with this
character agree with the “‘wild type”
in all but one of the thousands of
genes they carry; the kinky bristles are
the consequence of a single gene sub-
stitution. It happens, however, that
there are two different genes in the
‘wild type,’ a change or mutation in
either of which will produce kinky
bristles; the two resulting mutant char-
acters are not distinguishable by su-
perficial examination of the flies. Each
of these genes in the “‘wild type” un-
dergoes mutation relatively frequently:
it is, therefore, possible to obtain a
considerable series of separately arisen
strains with such bristles. Crosses be-
GENES—STURTEVANT

tween flies from these strains show at
once that they fall into two, and only
two, types. If flies from two forked
strains are crossed, the offspring are
all forked; if flies from two singed
strains are crossed, the offspring are
singed, but if a forked strain is crossed
with a singed one the offspring are
“‘wild type.’? When flies from a series
of such types are obtained and exam-
ined, a difference does appear; the
females are sterile and lay abnormally
shaped eggs in many of the singed
types, but never in the forked ones.

Similar observations have been made
on other species. There are now seven
species of Drosophila in which two such
types are known, and in no species
have more than two been found.
Furthermore, in several forms one
type—evidently singed—has been
found to be sometimes associated with
female sterility. There can, then, be
no serious doubt that in these species
the same two “wild type” genes are
present and have similar effects on the
development of bristles—even though
the test of crossing to known D. melano-
gaster types is here not possible.

A frequently occurring mutant
change in D. melanogaster is that which
results in a completely white eye.
There are many genes involved in the
production of the red eye of the “‘wild
type,” but only one is known to cause,
when it mutates, a wholly colorless
eye. There are other ways of produc-
ing white eyes, but these require
changes in more than one gene. The
same gene of the “‘wild type” that may
mutate to give a wholly white eye is
also subject to other changes that give
intermediate eye colors: eosin, cherry,
buff, apricot, etc. Here again, in no
species is there more than one gene
known that is capable of changing in
such a way as to produce white eyes,
and this one is known in 12 species.
Furthermore, in several of the other
species intermediate stages are also
known that are due to changes in this
same gene. Therefore it seems safe to
conclude, even without the crucial
test of crossing to a known D. melan-

817369—49—_24

295

ogaster white, that we are dealing with
changes in the same “‘wild type” gene.

The principal bristles of the head
and thorax are constant in their
nuinber, position, relative lengths, and
in the directions in which they point in
the “‘wild types” of the various species
studied; they are in fact recognizable
in a large proportion of all the higher
Diptera, including, for example, the
common housefly. There are, how-
ever, a number of genes in the “wild
type’ whose mutations affect this
bristle pattern. One of the most
frequent types of change involves a
loss of particular bristles, and there
are several different ‘‘wild type’
genes giving such changes. In gener-
al, however, the new patterns result-
ing from such changes are sufficiently
characteristic in D. melanogaster so
that, with practice, it is usually possi-
ble to determine by simple inspection
of a mutant specimen which one is
concerned. Crosses to known types
have consistently confirmed such iden-
tifications. The two such types most
frequently occurring in D. melanogaster
are known as scute and hairless; types
closely resembling both of them are
known in other species (scute in 10,
hairless in 4). Here the high degree
of specificity of the patterns is the chief
assurance of the identity of the genes.

The examples just given show some
of the ways in which homologies may
be established between the genes of
different species. By such means, and
by others similar in nature, rather
detailed comparisons have now been
made possible between several forms.

Within each species, study of the
linkage, or association in heredity,
between genes makes it possible to
correlate the genes with particular
chromosomes, and even to determine
in which part of a chromosome each
gene lies. It so happens that the
chromosome configurations of the
various species are not all alike, but
they can all be interpreted in terms
of six elements, lettered from A to F,
which are variously attached to each
other (fig. 1). When the genes of
ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

296

‘ppiygososq] Ul SYUIUID[a SUIOSOMMOIY)—"] ANNO

V2312V

VISVOVHIV

VONVUIW NINONOD TY
vunrdseoodn3sd SINTIIV

aga: SN 25.
ag

VNVIISINY IN OLS17 2M

ae

IVSSVNVNY

Qa

AY

CAs

SI¥@3Nn4d
VL31d34
13GAH
SITIMIA

>

Zo

WNVX3L

Rtas

SNV TANIS
YILSVOONY 13N

:
GENES—STURTEVANT

each species are located, the striking
result is that those that are associated
in any one element in one species lie
also in the same element in every
other species where they can be iden-
tified. There is one exception to this
rule shown in the diagram—in D.
ananassae a part of element A is asso-
ciated with element F—a relation
that is known both from direct micro-
scopic examination of the chromo-
somes and from a comparison of the
homologous genes, so that the excep-
tion does not in principle upset the
parallelism. There are also one or
two other probable exceptions, con-
cerning species that are as yet little
studied and therefore are not well
understood.

This rule of the integrity of the ele-
ments serves as a strong confirmation
of the identification of the genes; for,
if one were making many mistakes in
identifying them, no such consistent
result would be possible. In this
connection it should be pointed out
that there are many genes that cannot
be utilized in such comparisons, be-
cause the characters associated with
them are not sufficiently specific.
There are, for example, several differ-
ent pinkish eye colors in most species:
these are not distinguishable (with
methods now available) within a
species without the test of crossing,
and they are therefore of little use in
interspecific comparisons. Their pres-
ence is not contrary to the scheme,
but they cannot be used to support it.

Comparisons of this same nature
may be made between related species
in several other groups, notably among
the rodents and in several groups of
seed plants. In no case can the com-
parisons be pushed so far as in the
genus Drosophila, since there is in these
groups no thoroughly understood
standard of comparison equivalent
to D. melanogaster. The data, how-
ever, are in agreement with those
from Drosophila so far as they go; I
think there can be no doubt that, in
general, related species have essenti-
ally the same complements of genes.

297

It must be recognized, however,
that even in the best-known pair of
species the total number of common
genes indicated by this method lies
only between 50 and 60, which is the
number common to D. melanogaster
and D. pseudoobscura—the uncertainty
arising from the existence of more or
less questionable comparisons. ‘This
is only a small fraction of the number
of different genes present in each spe-
cies. It can be concluded, I think,
that many more are in fact alike. If
one considers the bristle patterns of
the “wild type” it is clear that the
two species are closely similar, and
also that there are identical gene sub-
stitutions which result in new patterns
that are equally similar. This evi-
dently means that the original patterns
were alike, because their development
was determined in the same way in
each species. That is, not only the
genes that give similar mutant types
are the same, but essentially the whole
set of genes controlling bristle develop-
ment is the same. This argument,
when applied consistently to the vari-
ous characters for which correspond-
ing mutant genes are known, leads to
the conclusion that the whole animals
are controlled by nearly identical
systems of genes.

Such a conclusion may seem to be
merely a platitude. After all, these
are very similar animals belonging to
a single genus, and are much alike in
most of their properties. It may be
asked—was it worth while to spend
so much effort in establishing their
essential genetic similarity? Did any-
one ever doubt it? The answer is that
precisely this point has been seriously
doubted, and so it has seemed desir-
able to examine the situation carefully.

II

The basis for this doubt may perhaps
be stated best by first going back a
little in the history of genetics. The
orthodox view has been that at each
particular point, or locus, in each
chromosome there is a “‘wild type”
298

gene that is consistently present in
every such chromosome of every
normal ‘“‘wild type” individual. This
locus may at times be occupied by a
distinctly different mutant gene, and
these constitute the working material
of the geneticist, but the resulting in-
dividuals are somewhat aberrant and
are rather rare. The usual typical
individual always carries the ‘‘wild
type’? genes. ‘This is perhaps an over-
simplified formulation, but it does, I
think, represent something closely ap-
proximating the viewpoint of many
geneticists.

This view has now been questioned.
It is clear that, at least for some loci,
there exist several or many nearly
equivalent genes, any one of which
may be present without any marked
effect on the organism (7). The earlier
interpretation of a single “wild type”
gene at each locus was due to lack of
refinement of the methods of the genet-
icists. It is not yet clear how wide-
spread this phenomenon is; it may be
the rule that at each locus there are
numerous nearly equivalent genes in
the ‘‘wild type” individuals, rather
than only one typical one.

Some geneticists, impressed by this
evidence, have been inclined to go a
step farther and to postuldte rather
frequent changes from one such gene
toanother. They feel that perhaps the
older view of the great stability of genes
was also only a first approximation to
the true state of affairs; that perhaps
the whole system is in a state of flux,
and in the course of time the individual
genes may undergo extensive changes
of function, even to the extent of ex-
changing their roles in the determina-
tion of the properties of the organism.

Perhaps the most extreme statement
of this view is that of Harland (4) who
writes: ‘“The genes, as a manifestation
of which the character develops, must
be continually changing” and, “. . .
we are able to see how organs such as
the eye, which are common to all ver-
tebrate animals, preserve their essen-
tial similarity in structure or function,

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

though the genes responsible for the
organ must have become wholly al-
tered during the evolutionary process,
since there is now no reason to suppose
that homologous organs have anything
genetically in common.”

This is a point of view very different
from that to which I have been led by
the study of the species of Drosophila.
It is, however, the opinion of an ex-
perienced geneticist, and is based on a
large body of experimental data de-
rived from species comparisons within
the genus Gossypium, to which the cot-
ton plant belongs. That evidence may
now be examined.

The wild species of cotton usually
have a dark purplish or maroon spot
at the base of each petal. Some of the
cultivated races lack this spot, but its
presence is the rule in the wild forms.
In this group, as in many others,
species comparisons may be made by
crossing distinct forms and studying
the genetic behavior of their fertile
hybrids. When this is done, it is found
that the petal spot has a different
genetic basis in some species. The
genes responsible for its development
in one species may be absent in another
one, but the spot is still present and is
now determined by different genes.
Since it is probable that the ancestors
of these two species, back to their ulti-
mate common ancestor, all had the
petal spot, it is evident why the con-
clusion has been drawn that some
genes have exchanged functions. The
argument becomes even stronger when
it is shown, as has been done, that cer-
tain other characters of cotton plants
likewise show differences between the
species in their genetic determination.
The facts are, I think, not open to
doubt, but there is a special reason
why the conclusion seems question-
able.

The New World cultivated cottons,
from which most of the evidence is
derived, have 26 pairs of chromosomes,
which may therefore be conveniently
represented by the letters of the alpha-
bet (fig. 2), It is clear from several

GENES—STURTEVANT

kinds of evidence that these plants are
ultimately of hybrid origin, the two
parents belonging, respectively, to the
group of Old World cultivated types
(the only forms known in the Old
World before the discovery of Amer-
ica), and the New World wild forms
(of no economic importance).? Each
of the two parental forms has 13 pairs
of chromosomes; in the artificially pro-
duced hybrid the maternal and pa-

ABCDEF GHI J KLM
ABCDEFGHI J KLM

OLD WORLD

299

are the different species of Drosophila;
in any case each of them has the full
set of genes necessary to produce a
cotton plant. When first produced,
therefore, the form with 26 pairs of
chromosomes had these genes present
twice. In general in such a hybrid
one of the duplicating pairs of genes is
enough to produce a given character,
and the other is likely to be lost by ac-
cident. What has happened, then, ap-

NOPORSTUVWXYZ
NOPQRSTUVWXYZ

NEW WORLD WILD

ABCDEFGHI J KLMNOPORSTUVWXYZ
ABCDEFGHI J KLMNOPORSTUVWXYZ
NEW WORLD CULTIVATED

FicurE 2.—Chromosome constitution in the cotton plant.

ternal chromosomes fail to pair, and
the plant is sterile. Accidental dou-
bling of this complement of 26 chromo-
somes has given rise to the fertile New
World cultivated types.

The two parental types may be sup-
posed to be related in the same way as

8 It is not clear where or when these forms
crossed to produce the New World cultivated
types. These questions are of great interest,
but cannot be discussed adequately here.

pears to be that one set of genes nec-
essary for the petal spot has been lost
in some of the New World cultivated
types, whereas in others this set has
been retained, but the corresponding
set from the other original parent has
been lost. On this basis, then, it may
be supposed that the differences in
genetic determination are only ap-
parent—the genes concerned are really
the same, and are descended from
300

identical genes in the common ances-
tor of the two 13-chromosome types.*

Ill

There may seem to be a contradic-
tion in what has been stated. I have
argued that related species have essen-
tially the same sets of genes, and yet I
have admitted that within one species
there may be a series of different but
similar genes at any one locus in differ-
ent members of a population. If one
studies the characters conditioned by
the various genes at any one locus they
turn out to be related. The impres-
sion is that all the genes at any one
locus are developmentally alike; ap-
parently they are carrying on the same
function, but with varying degrees of
efficiency—often with different effi-
ciencies (not necessarily parallel) in
different parts of the organism. If the
genes are thought of as being catalysts,
or, as is perhaps more probable, as
conditioning the presence of specific
catalysts, then one may make a rough
analogy to a lock-and-key system in
which the different genes at any one
locus are keys to the same lock, but do
not all fit it equally well. It is in this
sense that one may conclude that
related species have like genes—per-
haps not identical, but certainly very
similar, and carrying out the same
functions. They are keys that fit the
same lock.

The chemical composition of the
genes is not accurately known, but
evidence is accumulating that seems to
make it most probable that they are
largely or entirely nucleoprotein in
nature. The indication of a protein
component is of considerable interest,
for it suggests that the problem of gene

4 This account is somewhat simplified. In
particular, some of the evidence is derived
from comparisons between different 13-
chromosome types. There is, however, a pos-
sibility that these are themselves derived from
doubling of the chromosomes of still earlier
hybrids between forms with lower numbers.
So long as this possibility exists these species
cannot furnish conclusive evidence for a
change in function of genes.

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

specificity—that is, how it happens
that each gene has properties different
from those of its fellows—is an aspect
of the problem of protein specificity.
This in turn means that the geneticist
may expect help from the techniques
and results of other biologists who are
concerned with protein specificities—
such groups as enzyme chemists and
immunologists.

There is a current tendency to look
upon protein specificities as being due
to the way in which the molecules are
folded—to their shapes rather than to
their gross chemical composition (6).
On this basis the primary specificity
may be supposed to be that of the
genes, the other proteins having their
specific properties impressed upon
them by the genes (3). This is sug-
gested by two circumstances; it is clear
that genes can in some way impress
their specificities on new material, for
this is what must happen each time a
gene reproduces itself at cell division,
and it is also clear that antibody pro-
teins somehow have their specificities
impressed on them by the correspond-
ing antigens in cases of acquired im-
munity (5). It thus seems probable
that the lock-and-key analogy sug-
gested above is a valid one, though one
must think of the keys as reproducing
themselves without the intervention of
a locksmith.

Every cell of an organism has, in
general, the same set of genes as the
other cells in the same individual.
The problem that arises at once is:
how is differentiation possible? If the
characters of an organism are depend-
ent on its genes, it follows that the
different properties of the various parts
of one organism are under gene con-
trol, yet the same genes are present in
all these parts. This may mean, in
terms of the lock-and-key interpre-
tation, that in any given part of the
organism all the keys are present but
only some of the locks; in other words,
that the outcome is determined by
which substrates are present rather
than which gene-controlled enzymes.
This is, however, probably an incom-

GENES—STURTEVANT

plete picture, since it may also be pos-
sible that both substrate and enzyme
are present, but some other condition
(e. g., the hydrogen ion concentra-
tion) prevents their interaction.

The relation between different forms
of the same gene may be interpreted
along similar lines. The effects of
these different forms are often not
parallel in different parts of the same
individual. There is, for example, a
gene in the ‘“‘wild type’? Drosophila
that mutates to produce a type called
yellow. There are several different
mutant forms of this gene: yellow—1
results in yellow bristies and yellow
wings; yellow-2 causes yellow wings,
with little effect on the bristles;
yellow-3 produces yellow bristles and
dark wings. In such cases as this—
and they are very frequent—it may
be supposed that there are related but
slightly different substrates in differ-
ent parts of the body, and therefore
the efficiencies of the slightly different-
ly shaped enzymes are not necessarily
parallel.

If one accepts the view that there
are fairly numerous slightly different
genes at many loci, it is probable that
those which are concerned in particu-
lar reaction systems need to be ad-
justed to each other. If one gene is
working at a high level of efficiency, it
is probable that the other genes that
influence related reactions should also
be working at high levels in order to
produce a harmonious and properly
adjusted system, though it might be
possible to have an equally successful
organism if all the genes concerned
were working at a lower level. ‘There
is some evidence that precisely such
differences do occur between related
species. It may be suggested that
gene systems gradually drift apart in
their levels of activity during the
differentiation of species; in that case
much of the sterility and inviability
often found in species hybrids and
their offspring may be due to bringing
together genes that differ in their levels
of activity rather than in their specific
effects on development.

301

The view that related forms of
organisms owe their resemblances to
the possession of common genes leads
to an interpretation of homology.
This is a biological concept that lends
itself rather easily to somewhat mysti-
cal speculations. Accordingly it has
not often been seriously discussed in
connection with the results of modern
experimental work. There is, never-
theless, something real in the relations
covered by the term, whether one
considers serial homology within an
individual or the homologies between
organs in different groups of organ-
isms. The point of view here devel-
oped leads to the interpretation that
two organs are homologous to the
extent that their development is con-
ditioned by the same genes. One
consequence of such a formulation is
that homology becomes a relative,
rather than an all-or-none, phenome-
non. This result seems to me an
advantage, since it suggests the possi-
bility of a quantitative mathematical
approach.

If genes do not change their func-
tions, but only change in the relative
efficiency with which they carry on
their predestined ones, it follows that
organisms also cannot develop new
functions—which is obviously contrary
to fact, for there can be no doubt that
new functions do develop in the course
of time, It may be taken as probable
that most of the genes present in an
organism are performing functions
that are advantageous to the organ-
ism, for otherwise they will not long
persist. ‘This is not a teleological view,
but one that follows from the observa-
tion that most changes in genes are in
the direction of loss of activity. Evi-
dently the only stable condition of the
gene composition of a particular locus
is the absence of the gene in question,
and unless there is selection for some
particular function resulting from the
activity of the genes at that locus,
there will come to be no gene there.
Most of the genes, then, are needed
by the organism, and cannot well be
spared for the production of new func-
302

tions, even when they happen to
change in such a way as to initiate
new reactions. It seems likely that
the most favorable condition for the
production of such new functions is
one in which some of the usual genes
are present in duplicate. Cases of hy-
brids with doubled chromosome num-
bers, such as the cottons discussed
above, furnish such an opportunity,
for in these cases there is a whole extra
set of genes, whereas a single set is all
that is needed to carry on the func-
tions normal to such an organism.
There is evidence, particularly in the
case of the tobacco plant (2), that such
hybrids gradually lose one set of
genes—or rather parts of the set derived
from one original parent, and other
parts of the set derived from the other
parent. Nevertheless, a considerable
period is present in which duplicate
genes are present and are available for
the trying out of new experiments
without the loss of any of the estab-
lished and useful reactions.

This cannot be the only answer to
the problem, for hybrids of this kind,
while rather frequent in the higher
plants, are very rare in animals, and
animals also develop new functions in
the course of evolution. It may be
suggested that here also there is a
source of new genes. It happens that
in certain of the Diptera, including
Drosophila, the chromosomes in the
salivary gland cells are unusually large,
and permit a study of the details of
their structure to a degree of refine-
ment nowhere else attainable. One
result of such a study is the discovery
of “repeats’”—small sections present
in duplicate (1). It is not known how
widespread the ‘‘repeats”’ are, for they
cannot be detected in most material.
Little is known as yet about the gene
content of such “repeats.’” However,
it seems probable that they occur in
most chromosomes, and that they do
in fact represent duplications of genes.
These “repeats” may, therefore, be a
source of extra genes that are not
needed for the maintenance of existing

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

functions, and that may therefore be
used by the organism in trying out
new kinds of reactions.

One thing that is definitely known
about genes is that they reproduce
themselves. At least once per cell
division, on the average, each gene
somehow conditions the formation of
a copy of itself. On the view that
gene specificity is due to shape rather
than to gross chemical composition,
the simplest assumption is that the
new gene is moulded about the old
one. This process may be pictured
most easily if each gene is thought of
as being only one layer thick, so that
determination of the shape of one
face automatically fixes the shape of
the opposite one also.

There are in Drosophila some dozens
of successive cell divisions between the
egg of one generation and that of the
next. It isnot known how many gen-
erations of individuals separate the
members of one species from those of
another species, but hundreds of thou-
sands is clearly a conservative estimate.
Multiplying these two numbers to-
gether, we find that like genes in dis-
tinct species must have resulted from
some millions of successive copyings
during the long period since they had
a common model. Whatever be the
process of gene reproduction, it is evi-
dently an extraordinarily precise one.

REFERENCES

This list is intended only as a series of
suggestions for those who may be interested
in following up particular subjects.

1. Bripces, C. B.
1935. Salivary chromosome maps.
Journ. Hered. vol. 26, pp.
60-64.
2. CLausen, R. E.
1941. Polyploidy in Nicotiana. Amer.
Nat., vol. 75, pp. 291-306.
3. EMERSON, S.
1945. Genetics as a tool for studying
gene structure. Ann. Mis-
souri Bot. Garden, vol. 32,
pp. 243-249.
4. Harwanp, S. C.
1936. The genetical conception of the
species. Biol. Rev., vol. 11,
pp. 83-112.
GENES—STURTEVANT 303

5. Lanpstener, K. 7. STERN, C., and Scwaerrer, E. W.
1945. The specificity of serological re- 1943. On wild-type iso-alleles in Dro-
actions. 310 pp. Cambridge, sophila melanogaster. Proc,
Mass, Nat. Acad. Sci., vol. 29, pp.
6. Pautine, L., Campstt, D. H., and 361-367.
PrEssMAN, D. 8. SturTEVANT, A. H., and Novrrsk1, E.
1943. The nature of the forces be- 1941. The homologies of the chromo-
tween antigen and antibody some elements in the genus
and of the precipitation reac- Drosophila. Genetics, vol. 26,
tion. Physiol. Rev., vol. 23, pp. 517-541,

pp. 203-219,
The Sense Organs of Birds’

By R. J. Pumpurey, The Zoological Laboratory, Cambridge, England

[With 4 Plates]

Introduction

Part of the interest and sympathy
of man for birds undoubtedly arises
from the sharing of similar worlds
of sensory experience. Both birds
and anthropoids, almost alone among
animals, are excluded for practical
purposes from the world of smell.
“They haven’t got no noses, the fallen
sons of Eve,” sang Quoodle. And he
might have said the same of the de-
scendants of Archaeorns. Birds and
anthropoids are also almost alone in
having both excellent sight by day
and excellent hearing. Consequently
it is easier, in some respects, for man
to enter imaginatively into the life of
a thrush than into the life of a dog,
even though the latter is a closer
cousin and the relationship has been
enhanced by centuries of domesticity.

This point is made at the outset
because in what follows it will gener-
ally be convenient to take the perfor-
mance and structure of human sense
organs as the yardstick of comparison.
Each of us has a direct awareness of
the excellence of his own sense organs
and of the ways in which they can
cheat him. So it is more informative
to say that the eye of a buzzard equips
him to recognize a mouse three times
as far off as a man could hope to than
to say that his visual acuity is 5.
Such comparisons, however, empha-
size differences rather than similarities,

1 Reprinted by permission, with slight re-
vision by the author, from The Ibis (the
journal of the British Ornithological Union),
vol, 90, April 1948.

and they ought not to be allowed to
obscure the over-all resemblance in
the perceptual worlds of man and
birds.

It is true that much of the sensory
equipment of all vertebrates is essen-
tially similar. The senses of warmth
and cold, of pressure and tension, of
linear and angular acceleration, of
taste, and of pain are all concerned
in a greater or less degree with the
complicated process of self-regula-
tion necessary to maintain the organ-
ism as a goingconcern. The mainte-
nance of body temperature and of
posture, the regulation of the heart
and other viscera, the rejection of in-
appropriate food and the avoidance
of immediate injury are aspects of
this process in which the part played
by sense organs is fairly evident. And,
so far as the task is broadly the same
in all warm-blooded animals, it is
scarcely surprising that the sensory
equipment concerned with it conforms
rather closely to a common type.

Against this background the ‘“‘dis-
tance receptors,” the organs of vision,
of hearing, and of smelling, are con-
spicuous for the changes which have
occurred in them in the evolutionary
history of the vertebrates. The vestib-
ular (nonauditory) part of the ear,
which is concerned exclusively with
the appreciation of position and move-
ment of the animal in space,’ is vir-
tually identical in structure in all

2 It has been suggested by Ising that the
vestibule of birds has an additional special
function (see p. 326).

305
306

vertebrates, whereas it is difficult to
recognize any similarity at all between
the auditory parts of the ears of a fish
and of a mammal. And though the
eyes of vertebrates necessarily have the
common structural plan to which they
were committed at the dawn of their
history, there is great variation in de-
tail even in quite closely related ani-
mals; and such attributes as color vision
and the power of accommodation have
been repeatedly lost and reacquired.

It is not surprising that this should be
so, for, given the ground plan of
vertebrate organization, it is the per-
formance of the distance receptors,
more than any other single factor,
which limits the field of an animal’s
activities; and the evolution of new
habits must go hand in hand with
appropriate changes in the balance of
that performance.

The distance receptors of sight and
hearing (we still know almost nothing
of smell) are very far from being sim-
ply physical devices whose function
is “‘to tell the brain what is there.”
Physical laws set an absolute limit
to what they can do, but unless great
care is taken in applying the laws in
a biologically relevant way, it is found
that their performance in some re-
spects betters what a physicist would
admit to be possible, while in others it
fails mysteriously to achieve what he
would consider easy and desirable.
The reason is fairly evident to the biol-
ogist. The organs of sight and hearing
are vulnerable, bulky, and expensive
to maintain, and natural selection
ensures that their performance is
pushed to the limit in those respects
only which have survival value in the
circumstances of the animal’s life;
while refinements which are not so
necessary, if they interfere with the
primary requirements, or even if they
only represent a significant overhead
charge on the animal’s energy balance
sheet, are dropped like a hot brick.
Moreover the eye and, to a less
extent, the ear are integrative centers.
They do more than decode a pattern

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

of physical stimuli into terms of nerv-
ous impulses. In some respects they
stand in the same relation to the
higher integrative centers in the brain
as do subeditors to the editor of a
newspaper. ‘Information received”’
is marshalled and the pursuit of fur-
ther information is organized without
reference to the editor’s office, which
gets only carefully selected and docu-
mented items. The greater part of the
incoming news is filed or blue-penciled
before it has a chance of affecting the
policy of the paper as a whole. The
distance receptors are, therefore, far
from being the “‘passive linear systems”
of a physicist’s dream.

It is easier to interpret the structure
and function of the distance receptors
and to understand some of their limi-
tations if they are looked at historically
for, though they are rebuilt in each
generation, they are not redesigned.
The basic specification, hundreds of
millions of years old, is smothered
with emendations, additions, and dele-
tions, but it is still there; and all the
changes have represented workable
modifications within the framework
of the original design. The unborn
baby (and the unhatched bird) has the
task of fashioning for each ear a fre-
quency analyzer of great sensitivity,
resolving power, and range from a
design, inherited from its fishlike an-
cestors, which is basically the design
for a seismograph. Trivial modifica-
tions may have occurred in any or
every generation, but there must al-
ways have been continuity, and never
an opportunity to scrap and _ start
again. The finished job is naturally
very different from a physicist’s con-
ception of what it ought to be. But
for the biologist it is a delight to find
what perfection is achieved with the
means available and how subtly the
most unlikely means are used—how,
for example, the ear of the mammal
has taken over a few superfluous
bones and muscles from the reptilian
jaw and used them to make what an
engineer would recognize as an im-
SENSE ORGANS OF

pedance-matching transformer incor-
porating automatic volume control.

The organs of sight

The eyes of birds are progressively
conservative. They represent the cul-
mination of a process of development
which is traceable back to the earliest
land-living animals, and which has
been continuously in one direction,
toward the perfection of daylight
vision. Human eyes are the product
of two revolutions, for man’s earliest
mammalian ancestors, unlike their

reptilian forebears, were small and
and only recently,

nocturnal, by

307

differences between human and avian
vision are traceable to this history,
while most of the similarities reflect
the similar requirements of the present
day.

Leaving aside for the moment the
advantages of mobility and binocu-
larity, the bird’s eye, considered
simply as a camera, is the better in-
strument. It can be seen from figure
2 that there is less optically wasted
space, and that the aperture (the ratio
of maximum pupil diameter to focal
length) is greater. Moreover the ret-
ina is shaped so as to lie almost wholly
in the image plane, so that all distant

BIRDS—PUMPHREY

Ficure 1.—Schematic horizontal sections of right half of the heads of man and sparrow to
show the proportions of eyeball and orbit. Scale chosen to make the eyeballs of equal

depth.

geological standards, has his family
come out again into the daylight. In
the nocturnal epoch large eyes no
longer had the same survival value,
since resolving power had to be sacri-
ficed to sensitivity, which is nearly
independent of the size of the eye; and
man’s family emerged from it with
eyes loose in their orbits and small in
proportion to the skull, but forward-
looking and very mobile (fig. 1).
There has been no nocturnal epoch
in the evolution of the birds, and
evolutionary pressure has been con-
sistently toward large eyes. The skull
is built round the orbits, which fill the
width of it completely, and the eye-
balls fit the orbits so tightly that their
freedom of movement is slight or (as in
the owls) nil. Most of the important

objects within the visual angle are
sharply focused on the photosensitive
cells, whereas in the human eye this
is only true of objects lying close to
the optic axis.

In birds, moreover, the iris and the
accommodatory mechanism—the stop
and focusing adjustment—are actuat-
ed by striated “voluntary” muscles.
The operation of accommodation is
shown diagrammatically in figure 3,
a. The action of Crampton’s muscle
is to pull the margin of the cornea in-
ward, causing a compensatory out-
ward bulge of the center. Briicke’s
muscle drags the ciliary body toward
the axis of the eye, and this in turn
squeezes the lens, increasing the
curvature, especially of its external
surface,
308

Man’s ancestors lost this mechanism
when they became nocturnal, and the
human eye has only an unsatisfactory
makeshift which becomes more and
more inefficient throughout life. Both
the muscles of accommodation and
the muscles of the iris are unstriated
and, compared with those of the bird,
sluggish in action.

The maximum accommodation of a
20-year-old man is about 10 diopters
(i. e., equivalent to inserting a specta-
cle lens of 1/10-meter focal length in
front of the eye). For the majority of

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

in accommodation is enormous (fig.
3, 6). In the cormorants the iris is
very muscular and the sphincter iridis
muscle assists In compressing the an-
terior part of the lens.

The retina consists of four well-
defined layers of cells, the outermost
of which is the opaque, black, and
nonreflecting chorioid layer. Imme-
diately within this lies the layer of
photoreceptive elements, the rods and
cones. Then comes the layer of bi-
polar cells and, finally, the layer of
ganglion cells, each of which is ex-

cornea
aqueous humour

scleral ossick

pecten

FicurE 2..—Lower halves of the right eye of man and left eye of swan. Position of image

plane of human eye dotted.

birds accommodation has a range of
at least 20 diopters. For the cor-
morant it is said to be 40-50 with the
lens alone. Diving birds have to cope
with the special difficulty that under
water the outer surface of the cornea
no longer contributes appreciably to
the total refraction of the lens system;
so that, in addition to accommodation
for close range, the lens has to contrib-
ute an additional 20 diopters or more
to compensate for the loss of the cornea
when the eye is immersed. As might
be expected, Crampton’s muscle is
degenerate in diving birds, while
Briicke’s muscle is proportionately en-
larged and the deformation of the lens

The arrows point forward.

tended into a nerve fiber which runs
in the optic nerve to the brain (pl. 1).

The names “rod” and ‘‘cone’’ are
descriptive of the shape of these cells
in the human retina and are not very
appropriate for birds, whose cones are
much thinner and more rodlike than
are human cones. There are, how-
ever, important anatomical and physi-

3 The outermost pigment-cell layer of the
retina is distinct in its development from the
innermost pigmented layer of the fibrous wall
of the eyeball which is the chorioid, s. str.,
but structurally and functionally the pig-
ment-cell layer belongs to the chorioid rather
than the retina in birds and mammals, and it
is convenient to use the term chorioid to
include the pigment-cell layer,

eS “
SENSE ORGANS OF

ological differences between rods and
cones which seem to be consistent in
all vertebrates. Each cone typically
connects with its own group of bipolar
cells and each such group with its own
ganglion cell. It is rare, therefore, to
find that an optic nerve fiber repre-
sents more than four or five cones, and
in the area and fovea (see below) there
is strict one-to-one correspondence.
On the other hand there are always
many rods connected with a rod bi-

tenacular ligament,

Crampton's m.

scleralossicle

(a)

Bruckes m.

ciliary

BIRDS—PUMPHREY 309
suited for the registration of detail in
a brightly illuminated visual field.
The rod system, because of its exten-
sive summation, is comparatively in-
capable of resolving detail but can
register an achromatic picture of the
gross features of the field at Ulumina-
tions so low that the cone system is
quite blind. We may expect, there-
fore, to find, as in fact we do, that
cones are predominant in the retinae
of eyes which are exclusively diurnal

/ lens

zonule

body

FicurE 3.—a, the mechanism of accommodation (orig.); b, the lens of the cormorant’s eye

at rest (full line) and fully accommodated (dotted).

polar and often many rod _ bipolars
connected with a single ganglion cell.
An optic nerve fiber may therefore
represent anything from 20 to several
thousand rods.

Rods will respond to an intensity of
illumination from 1 to 10 thousand
times less than is needed to excite the
cones. But within their more re-
stricted range the cones are responsive
to much smaller percentage changes
in intensity; and it is the cones which
are responsible for color vision.

The cone system is consequently

(From Franz, after Hess, 1910.)

and rods in eyes used only at night.
Acuity (the power of resolving detail)
and sensitivity are inverse require-
ments which cannot both be fully satis-
fied in the same eye. And in man a
compromise is reached by cone pre-
dominance near the axis of the eye
where the image is coincident with the
retina and rod predominance toward
the periphery.

The retina of a diurnal bird’s eye is
cone-rich everywhere, but there is
frequently a good deal of local differ-
entiation. There may be one or two
310

areae and one or more foveae. An
area is a part of the retina in which rods
are generally few or absent and cones
are particularly tightly packed and
individually represented by optic nerve
fibers. Because of the corresponding
increase in the number of nerve cells,
the inner layers of the retina are
thicker, so that a perceptible ridge or
hummock is visible to ophthalmoscopic
inspection. A fovea is a part of an
area in which the density of cones is
even higher, but the corresponding
cells of the bipolar and ganglion layers
are displaced radially from the center,
leaving a pit. The pit may be a shal-

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

It is tempting to correlate the first
line of specialization with habits
which give a special importance to
the horizon, and, in fact, the birds
illustrated are those of the wide open
spaces—prairie, moor, sea, and lake
—while there is no evidence thata
ribbonlike area is ever found in the
eyes of forest dwellers. The second
type is characteristic of birds which,
because they pursue fast-moving prey
or, like the hummingbirds, feed from
flowers on the wing, need an especially
accurate perception of distance and
relative speed. In these birds the
central area is generally close to the

visual-cell layer

wooo?

retinol tissue

oor
Seen esccocuccue hes

vitreous

image in the plane of the visual cell layer.
(From Walls, 1943.)

low, barely perceptible depression or
a deep crater reaching down to almost
the external limiting membrane (fig.
5).

The area must be regarded as poten-
tially a region of high resolving power
both for movement and static detail, as
is the corresponding macular region
of the human eye. It seems to be
absent in many grain-feeding birds.
When present it usually conforms to
one or other of two distinct lines of
specialization. In one line the area
tends to extend like a ribbon round the
retina in a horizontal plane. In the
other, the tendency is toward the
formation of distinct central and
temporal areae (pl. 2).

fie A Gs se

visual-cell layer

retinal tissue

‘ vitreous

FicurE 4.—Diagram to show how refraction of light at the clivus of the fovea magnifies the

Based on central fovea of a buzzard, Buteo sp.

optic axis (where aberration is least
and the image consequently most
perfect); the temporal area is so
situated that the image of an object
ahead falls on the temporal areae of
both eyes simultaneously.

The function of the avian fovea is
still a problem. In man the neural
layers of the retina are nourished by a
network of blood vessels, through
which light has to penetrate to reach
the photosensitive layer. The radial
displacement of the bipolar and gang-
lion layers from the fovea permits
light to reach the cones of this area
unobstructed by a filter of blood capil-
laries. Since the resolving power of

foveal vision is very close to the
SENSE ORGANS OF

theoretical maximum, the absence of
obstruction is in itself worth while, and
is possibly a sufficient reason for the
geometrical arrangement which is
found. In birds the situation is differ-
ent. There are no retinal blood ves-
sels and no apparent advantage to be
gained by displacing cells of the neural
layers whose transparency in life is very
nearly equal to that of the vitreous
humour. The extreme regularity of
the bird fovea (in contrast to the pri-
mate) suggests that the shape is of func-
tional importance. We owe to Walls
(1937, 1940) both the suggestion that
the fovea has a lenslike action and the
resuscitation of the measurements by
Valentin of the refractive index of
vitreous humour and neural retina—
measurements which support the sug-
gestion. Walls infers that the effect of
the central fovea of hawks is to magni-
fy the image falling on the fovea by
30 percent in area, and concludes that
acuity is increased in proportion (fig.
4). Later he states that, ‘‘foveally, the
visual acuity of some hawks and eagles
reaches a value at least eight times
that of man” (1943, p. 662). It must
be said at once that this statement
could not possibly be justified on the
most extreme assumptions. And, in
fact, Walls’ analysis is oversimplified
in its neglect of aberration, which is so
great that the static acuity of the
central fovea is in all probability sub-
stantially less than it would be if there
was no refraction at the vitreo-retinal
boundary (Pumphrey, 1948). It is
significant in this connection that
the profile of the temporal fovea
of Aquila is very shallow and the
effect of refraction negligible; for
the temporal fovea is used binocu-
larly and must, presumably, obey
the same conditions as the similarly
shallow fovea of man. It may be
inferred that where binocular fusion
of images is a prerequisite of accurate
judgment of distance and speed, the
aberration and loss of definition asso-
ciated with a steep foveal profile
cannot be tolerated (fig. 5, c, d).

The central fovea is not associated

8173683—49——-25

BIRDS—-PUMPHREY alt
with binocular vision, and it must be
remembered that a central fovea with
a steep profile is found in fish and
reptiles as well as birds. Moreover,
the high static acuity associated with
the anthropoid fovea is probably a
late acquisition. Is there a visual
function which (in contrast to acuity)
will be assisted rather than hindered
by foveal refraction? I suggest that
there is. Consider the effect of the
fovea on the image of an object which
is passing across the visual field with a
constant angular velocity. While the
image is traveling over the fovea, the
effect of refraction is to change mo-
mentarily its apparent course, its ap-
parent size and its apparent shape. It
is reasonable to suppose that the
saliency of the object’s movement is
thereby increased, just as to human
eyes the saliency of movements viewed
through a defective piece of window
glass is increased. Conversely, foveal
fixation of moving objects against a
featureless background should be facili-
tated. Asaircraft watchers well know,
aircraft vanish into the distance not
because they have really become
invisible to foveal vision, but simply
because the fovea loses them owing to
inadequate fixation, and, once lost,
the chance of picking them up again
is remote. I suggest that the “‘phe-
nomenal acuity” attributed to birds
is simply a phenomenal power of
fixation to which the geometrical form
of the fovea contributes, or a phe-
nomenal ability to detect angular
movement in the visual field, to which
again foveal refraction is contributory.
There is no evidence of extraordinary
acuity in birds which cannot equally
well be attributed to one or other of
these alternatives; there is no evidence
that a distant moving object which is
responded to is therefore resolved in
the physical sense; there is no evidence
that birds respond at all to a station-
ary object at distances such that the
human eye cannot recognize its
nature.

Though it may be difficult to prove
experimentally that the above inter-
312 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

1mm.

1 mm.

Ficure 5.—a, central fovea of Aquila chrysaetus. (After Polyak.) 6, central fovea of kingfisher.
_ (After Kolmer; no scale given by author.) ¢, temporal fovea of Aquila. d, fovea of man.
SENSE ORGANS OF

pretation of the function of the steep-
sided fovea is correct, it is at least
consistent with the current view that
detection of movement is a more
primitive visual function than inter-
pretation of static detail, for the pis-
cine and the reptilian foveae resemble
the typical avian central fovea much
more closely than the primate fovea;
and it also affords a rational explana-
tion of the extreme steepness of profile
of the central fovea of kingfishers,
(fig. 5 6), which is manifestly incom-
patible with Walls’ theory.

A central fovea is present in most
avian retinae with a well-marked cen-
tral area. A temporal fovea is also

C. ff ne

BIRDS—PUMPHREY 313
are directed more forwardly than is
commonly the case for birds, with a
consequent: sacrifice of the ability to
“see behind,”? which most birds with
laterally directed eyes retain. It is
noteworthy that owls, which have an
even larger binocular field than
hawks, have eyes which are rigidly
fixed in their sockets and quite in-
capable of convergence, but here the
retina is of the rod-rich nocturnal type
and the temporeal fovea is vestigial or
absent. (There is no area or central
fovea.)

This is a convenient place to com-
ment on one profound difference be-
tween the vision of birds and man.

5
ce ee

Figure 6.—Diagrammatic horizontal section of bird’s head to show the line of sight of
temporal and central foveae.

present in nearly all birds which pur-
sue moving prey in the daytime—
hawks, kingfishers, shrikes, swallows,
terns, etc.—and in the hummingbirds,
whose feeding habits necessitate a very
-nice adjustment of hovering flight
(pl. 2, lower left). And in all these
birds, as has been said, it is so situated
that the image of an object ahead is
formed on the temporal foveae of both
eyes similtaneously (fig. 6). It is very
probable that these birds rely entirely
on the degree and rate of convergence
of the eyes in achieving the fine judg-
ment of the distance and relative speed
of their prey which they obviously
possess. ‘To achieve the necessary
overlap of the visual fields, their eyes

Man is fully binocular, his eye move-
ments are conjugate and extensive
and his visual field (at daylight inten-
sities) is being continually scanned as
these movements cause successive small
areas of the field to be fixated foveally
by both eyes. Though vision appears
to be continuous, sensation is, in fact,
almost completely suppressed during
these scanning movements, and is only
experienced in the intervals when the
eye is stationary. (It is impossible to
see one’s own eyes Moving in a mirror.)
This suppression is probably neces-
sary to prevent confusion between
movement of the image across the
fovea due to eye movement and move-
ment of the image due to movement
314

of the object itself. Compensatory
reflexes of the eye muscles ensure that
binocular fixation is unaffected by
movements of the head. The resolv-
ing power (acuity) of the human eye
outside the fovea is poor, and the
overwhelming importance of foveal
vision to man is indicated by the fact
that the area of the optical part of
the brain concerned with vision by
the fovea and its immediate neigh-
borhood is many times larger than
that devoted to the whole of the rest
of the retina. It is stereoscopic foveal
vision which gives solidity to the vis-
ual field and makes accurate judg-
ment of distance possible. On the
other hand, man has retained some
power of night vision, the legacy of
his nocturnal ancestors, and rods are
numerous in the periphery of the
retina.

Diurnal birds are much more fully
diurnal than is man, and the extra-
foveal cone population of their retinae
is frequently denser than is that of
the fovea of man, while rods are
scarce. Consequently they are nearly
blind at night and inactive unless
disturbed. By day it may be inferred
that their extra-foveal acuity is nearly
as good as is man’s in the fovea.
And they are thus relieved of the
necessity of scanning the visual field
bit by bit to build up a detailed picture,
though intense scrutiny of objects of
special interest with the central area
of one eye or the other is achieved by
movements of the whole head. And
the detailed picture extends typically
all around the horizon, for there is
frequently an appreciable posterior
as well as an anterior overlap of the
monocular fields. ‘This all-around de-
tailed picture cannot have the stereo-
scopic solidity or the quality of dis-
tance inherent in our own visual
images. It is of some interest to en-
quire how birds get along without
this quality, and the answer seems to
be that distance enters into avian
vision with the same element of suc-
cessiveness with which detail enters

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

into human vision. For man, the
distance element enters into every
glance, but the appreciation of detail
of the field has to be built by a suc-
cession of glances from the same point
and directed to different parts of the
field. For the bird, detail enters im-
mediately into every glance, but the
appreciation of distance has to be
built up by a succession of glances
from different points toward the same
point of the field.

This will, perhaps, seem a rather
prolix way of saying that monocu-
larity compels birds to employ the
familiar method of parallax in esti-
mating distance. But it does em-
phasize the element of compromise
inherent in sense organs, and the
futility of any attempt to estimate
which is the better of two types of
sense organs on purely _ physical
grounds. Man’s immediate visual
awareness is three-dimensional but
restricted, a bird’s is two-dimensional
but virtually boundless. Which is the
better is a meaningless question, for
natural selection has ensured that
each is the best possible in the circum-
stances. If man had a bird’s eyes he
would be incapable of threading a
needle; if a bird had man’s he would
be at the mercy of any cat which had
the sense not to attempt a frontal
attack.

There is a good deal of evidence that
both time and movement are necessary
for the bird’s visual image to acquire a
three-dimensional character. Small
birds are frequently road casualties,
but they are almost always overtaken
on the ground. Once they have
started to fly they are astonishingly apt
at avoiding collision, and it is at least
a plausible suggestion that they are so
frequently run over because it is not
till they have started to move that the
nearness and speed of a vehicle are
appreciated. Anyone who has watched
a robin feeding will have noticed that
it scrutinizes an insect monocularly
from at least two places before peck-
ing and eating it. During the peck the
SENSE ORGANS OF BIRDS—PUMPHREY

insect is presumably viewed binocu-
ularly, and the action is controlled by
a distance appreciation based on the
amount of accommodation required to
bring the image of the insect into focus;
but it is likely that the parallax esti-
mate is necessary before the head can
safely be brought into position for a
peck, and that the successive scrutinies
are not due to uncertainty about the
edibility of the food.*

As has already been indicated, mon-
ocularity is considerably modified in
those diurnal birds which pursue mov-
ing prey, but even in these binocular
fixation appears only to occur as a
response to a moving object which is
close athand. Remote moving objects
are scrutinized monocularly, perhaps
because their movement is more per-
ceptible when the image falls on the
central fovea. Prey appear to be sought
monocularly, and only in the pursuit
is binocular fixation brought into play.
But although we may suspect that
avian vision is fundamentally based on
monocularity, operations in which the
beak is involved—pecking, preening,
nest building, and so forth—have en-
sured that there was always a use for
the anterior binocular field, and that
the potentiality of a more highly
developed binocularity was always la-
tent. When it emerges, as, judging by
the occurrence of a temporal fovea, it
has done independently in many re-
motely related birds, it does so in strict
conformity with the requirements of
the bird’s habits, and would, presuma-
bly, subside again if the abandonment
of a raptorial career rendered it
unnecessary.

VISUAL ACUITY OF BIRDS

It is known that the foveal acuity of
man is very close to the maximum
physically possible. The imperfection
of the image formed by the lens system

4I am indebted to R. E. Moreau for the
information that an egret, feeding on insects
on the ground, also appears to make several
parallax estimates before pecking.

315

and the coarseness of grain of the
retina individually impose limits on
what the eye can resolve, but it is
reasonable to expect these limits to be
the same, for otherwise either the
retina or the dioptric system would be
better than it need be, contrary to the
law of parsimony that natural selec-
tion rigorously enforces. It is found in
fact that two self-luminous points
such as stars can in the best conditions
be seen as separate when their angular
separation is more than (but less than
twice) the angular separation of two
adjacent cones in the fovea, which is
about 30 seconds of arc. Moreover,
human acuity is somewhat improved
by the use of monochromatic illumi-
nation and is diminished by a decrease
in pupil width. The former elimi-
nates chromatic aberration and the
latter increases the extent of the
diffraction pattern which forms the
image of a point in the field, so we
may conclude that both chromatic
aberration and diffraction are limiting
factors in the human eye. We find
however, that in the central fovea of
buzzards the effective angular separa-
tion of the cones is only about one-
third that of the cones in the human
fovea. Whether the bird fovea is con-
cerned principally with discrimination
of movement or principally with dis-
crimination of detail, in either event
the high cone-density must be sup-
posed to be of functional value. And
its advantages can only be realized if
the dioptric system is improved pro-
portionately, that is to say, the aper-
ture—the ratio of pupil diameter to
focal length—must be about three
times the aperture of the human eye
and, in spite of this, there must be a
proportionate decrease in the effect of
chromatic aberration.

The shape of the bird eye makes the
necessary pupil width quite possible,
and though diurnal birds show pupillo-
motor reflexes (contractions of the pupil
in response to sudden increases in il-
lumination), the contractions are not
maintained as they are in man, and the
316

pupil is commonly seen to be widely
open in bright sunlight. But the wide
pupil by itself would emphasize chro-
matic aberration, and we have to look
elsewhere for a means of reducing its
effect. A possible answer to the prob-
lem lies in the pigmented oil droplets
which have been known for many
years to be present in the cones of
birds; and these droplets are so situ-
ated that light passes through them to
reach the light-sensitive terminal seg-
ment of the cone. They are generally
red and yellow in diurnal and color-
less in nocturnal species, the propor-
tion varying both with the species and
with position in the retina, and a very
plausible explanation of their distri-
bution has been developed by Walls
and Judd. The relevant point to the
present argument is that the cones of
the fovea apparently always contain
yellow droplets, and only yellow drop-
lets; so here we have a device which
seems capable of absorbing the blue
and to a lesser extent the red ends of
the visible spectrum, and so suppress-
ing the chromatic fringes which would
otherwise mar the image.’ The pres-
ence of the yellow droplets does not,
of course, mean that the bird is color-
blind, even for foveal vision, for it is
not an absolute freedom from chro-
matic aberration which is the target.
The absorption of the blue and red is,
presumably, nicely calculated to per-
mit of full use of the foveal cones in
resolving detail with the least possible
sacrifice of hue discrimination.

We may conclude that birds with
the keenest vision are potentially ca-
pable of an acuity two to three times
that of man.

COLOR VISION

The mechanism of color vision is
still so little understood in man that

5 It is still an open question whether the
yellow macular pigment does or does not
extend over the central part of the Auman
fovea. If it does we have here another inter-
esting example of convergence between the
human and avian eye.

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

no purpose would be served by a gen-
eral discussion here. The fact which
seems to be established by the best
experimental work is that there is very
little difference between the color
vision of birds and man. The ratio
of luminosity to wave length for pure
spectral colors, and also the number
of distinguishable hues in the spec-
trum, is not significantly different,
which is a little surprising since the
work of Watson (1915) and, later,
Lashley (1916) was done on the ban-
tam, whose retina is rich in cones with
red oil droplets. It must be presumed
that there are still enough cones with-
out colored droplets in the retina to
register blueness unimpaired. No
method has been developed for assess-
ing foveal color vision alone in birds.

Although the limits of color vision
seem to be the same for man and birds,
it is likely nevertheless that color sense
plays a more emphatic part in the
visual sensations of diurnal birds than
of man simply because of the density
of cones in the peripheral retina. If
a man looks at a distant part-colored
object, such as a flag flapping against
the sky, at first directly and then at an
increasing angle, he finds that at 20°
the individual colors can no longer be
distinguished and the hue of the flag
is uniform though inconstant. At 30°
there is no sensation of hue whatever
and the flag is just a dark moving
object. This loss of color definition
must be attributed to the dilution of
cones with rods in the periphery of the
human retina, and consequently it will
not occur in the most completely
diurnal birds, which will see hue as
well as detail in its full emphasis over
the whole visual field.

MOVEMENT PERCEPTION

If the eye can be said to have a
primitive or intrinsic function, that
function is undoubtedly the perception

6 Despite this work, many students of bird
behavior are convinced that birds do not see
as far toward the violet end of the spectrum
as we do.
SENSE ORGANS OF BIRDS—PUMPHREY

of movement.’ It is movement to
which the most primitive eyes respond,
and sensitivity to movement remains
in eyes so degenerate that all other at-
tributes are lost. Unfortunately it is
an exceedingly difficult function to
reduce to definition or measurement,
but some aspects of it are obvious
enough. Ifastationary field is viewed
with a stationary eye, a movement of
a small object in that field will result
in a change in illumination of a small
part of the retina, while the excitation
of the rest of the retina remains con-
stant. Whether the movement is seen
as movement or not depends, there-
fore, not only on the threshold of the
sensory elements for change and for
rate of change of illumination, but also
on the presence of a stationary but
variegated background. Consequently
a moving object may fail to be seen as
moving (a) because it is too small or
too good a match to the background
to be seen at all, (b) because it is
moving too slowly or too fast, or (c)
because the background, or part of it,
is also moving, or (d) because the back-
ground has no landmarks. All these
conditions are quite obvious and fa-
miliar, but the background difficulty is
much less acute for man, most of whose
activities require him to look horizon-
tally, than it is for birds, which often
have to look up at a clear sky or down
at uniform pasture and moor and sea.
In such cases there is nothing to hold
the eye so that the retina can settle
down to a steady state in which the
changing excitation due to movement
of an object will be salient. Yet there
is abundant evidence that birds as a
whole are immensely more successful
than man at detecting movement.

7 Movement here refers to movement across
the line of sight. Perception of movement
along the line of sight is a very much less gen-
eral accomplishment. To avoid ambiguity,
it may be necessary to point out this section
is concerned with initial detection of move-
ment. The case is distinct from the percep-
tion of movement in an object which has
already been fixated by the central fovea, a
type of movement perception discussed
above.

317

A tentative but fascinating explana-
tion of this faculty was offered by
Menner (1938) as a result of his exam-
ination of the pecten of a number of
birds, supplemented by one experi-
ment. The primitive function of the
pecten is undoubtedly nutritive. Birds
do not have, and probably could not
tolerate without a substantial loss of
acuity, the network of blood vessels
which spread over and nourish the
inner layers of the mammalian retina.
Instead they have the pecten, a more
or less conical foliated structure whose
base covers the “‘blind spot” at the
entry of the optic nerve and whose
apex is directed out toward the pupil.
The pecten is richly supplied with
blood vessels, and it is presumed that
nutritive substances diffuse through
the vitreous humour between it and
the retina. But though a number of
fantastic suggestions have been made
about possible subsidiary functions, no
one before Menner seriously thought
of it as anything but a nuisance in the
dioptric system. Menner, however,
proved that not only do the foliations
throw shadows onto a functional part
of the retina but that the extent of
foliation, and consequently of the
shadows, is directly related to habits.
They are most extensive in hawks;
diurnal insectivorous birds come next,
then grain feeders, with nocturnal
birds easily last (fig. 7). Menner in-
ferred that the pecten played some
part in the detection of movement.
He directed a camera at the sky in
which some high-flying swifts were
circling, and, inspecting the image of
the sky on the ground-glass focusing
screen, he was unable to detect any
trace of the images of the moving
swifts. When a model of a hawk’s
pecten was stuck on the inner side of
the ground glass, he found he could
then easily detect the images of birds.

The principle of this remarkable
observation has been confirmed and
extended by Crozier and Wolf (1943)
and there is no doubt of its reality,
but the theory is still very incomplete.
It is known, however, from other
318

experiments, that cone summation
must occur at some level, for the
threshold for brightness discrimina-
tion (at high illuminations as well as
at low) is higher the smaller the area
of the retina stimulated. Now the
mean illumination of the retina when
the eye is looking at a bright sky is
not changed by movement of a dark

Parus major

ou

- Archibuteo lagopus Falco subbuteo

Ficure 7.—A selection of tracings of the pecten shadow upon the retina.

object, such as a swift, within the
inspected area provided the optical
path is unobstructed. If, however, a
series of shadows is cast on the retina
by an obstruction, it is clear that the
mean illumination will be a maximum
when the image of the object coincides
with one of the shadows. Conse-
quently movement of the object across
the field will cause successive rises and

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

falls in the mean illumination. It is
therefore quite possible that the pec-
ten is effective in increasing contrast,
but it is doubtful, perhaps, whether
it is proper to speak of the effect as
enhancing perception of movement.
The contrast is improved equally
whether it is the object or the eye
which moves, and the improvement

Strix flammea

Falco peregrinus Buteo buteo

(From Menner,

is likely to be most marked when the
background is so neutral and feature-
less that there is no fixation point to
keep the eye still.

NOCTURNALITY

Nocturnal birds have eyes special-
ized for night vision, though to a less
extent than those of completely noc-
SENSE ORGANS OF

turnal mammals. The increase in
sensitivity is achieved at the sacrifice
of many of the features which increase
the resolving power of the diurnal
eye. In the retina rods are predomi-
nant and cones few, the oil droplets
are colorless or absent, and there is
no fovea or only a vestige. The curva-
ture of the cornea is less and its area
greater, and the lens approaches a
spherical shape and retreats toward
the fundus of the eye (fig. 8). The
apparatus of accommodation is de-
generate.;; The; | effect, of all ;. these
changes in dimensions is to produce a

BIRDS—PUMPHREY

319

the brilliant ‘‘eyeshine”’ of cats caught
in a car’s headlights. Owls rather sur-
prisingly have no tapetum,® but the
nightjar family, which show brilliant
eyeshine, presumably have. Apart
from these two families, nocturnal
habits are rare and sporadic in birds.
The kiwi is exceptional in this, as in
so many other ways, but its eyes are
considered to be very poor. Alone
among birds it is believed to have a
keen sense of smell and to find its
food thereby.

In spite of all that has been said
about the night vision of owls, it does

Ficure 8.—Horizontal sections of the left eyes of the diurnal honey buzzard Pernis apivorus

and the nocturnal Australian frogmouth Podargus strigoides.

substantially smaller, and therefore,
brighter (though more aberrated and
distorted) image.

A typically nocturnal adaptation
in mammals is the formation of a
tapetum. In diurnal eyes the retina
is backed by the densely pigmented
chorioid layer of cells whose function
is to absorb light not absorbed by the
retina, and so prevent blurring of the
image by scattering, the effect known
to photographers as halation. Noc-
turnal eyes can usually not afford
such a loss of radiant energy in the
pigment which is replaced by a mirror
called the tapetum over at least part
of the fundus of the eye, so that light
which is passed unabsorbed through
the retina in the first instance is
reflected back into it. It is the pres-
ence of a tapetum which gives rise to

(After Franz, 1934.)

not seem possible that the most noc-
turnal of them hunt by sight alone.

8 The only use of a tapetum is to give the
retina a second chance, and it is only when
the retina itself is relatively inefficient that a
tapetum is worth while. If, for example,
the rods transmit 1 percent and absorb 99
percent of the light falling on them, a tape-
tum which would allow them to absorb a
further 99 percent of the 1 percent which
escaped them at the first transmission would
not be economic since it would increase the
efficiency by only 1 percent. If, however,
the rods only absorb 50 percent at the first
transmission and a further 50 percent of the
light reflected back into them by a tapetum,
then if the tapetum is a perfect reflector, it
will increase the efficiency by 50 percent,
which is worth while.

The terminal segments of the rods in the
owl’s retina are known to be exceptionally
long and, therefore, may possibly absorb
so much incident light that a tapetum
would be a luxury.
320

The extent to which an owl’s eye is
better than man’s at night is roughly
calculable. It is unlikely that the
sensitivity of the owl’s eye is more than
100 times that of the fully dark-adapted
human eye, so that an owl perhaps
sees nearly as well by bright starlight
as man by a bright full moon. But
though bright moonlight may look
light enough to play tennis by, it is not
so in fact, and it is probable that an
owl’s chances of finding a mouse on a
dark night by sight alone are nil. If
his eyes enable him only to avoid
collision with bushes and other ob-
stacles, they serve him very well.?

The Organs of Hearing

Far less is known of the comparative
structure of the ears of birds than of
the eyes. They are hidden, secret
things, lacking the large external pinna
of most mammals and, except in os-
triches and a few other very bald spe-
cies, quite invisible externally. Only a
close scrutiny discloses that the feathers
behind the angle of the jaw have a
slightly different sheen owing to the
absence of barbules; and these feathers
must be turned forward before the
small external aperture of the outer
ear can be seen.

The avian ear is divisible, like the
human, into outer, middle and inner
parts .(fig.9): The, cavity. of the
outer ear, the external meatus, is
terminated by the tympanic mem-
brane. The middle ear cavity commu-
nicates with the pharynx through the
Eustachian tube and with the inner ear
by two membrane-covered openings,

9 The view of Vanderplank (1934) that
owls “‘see”’ their prey as self-luminous sources
of infrared rays has received considerable
publicity. It may be noted that Hecht and
Pirenne (1940) found that the pupillomotor
response of the eye of Asio wilsonianus to dif-
ent wave lengths yields a curve identical with
the human scotopic brightness curve. Mat-
thews and Matthews (1939) have shown that
the eye of Strix aluco (Vanderplank’s species)
does not transmit infrared, and that no elec-
trical response follows exposure to infrared.
It may be concluded that Vanderplank’s
theory has no foundation in fact.

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

the oval and round windows. The
oval window is almost completely
filled by the foot plate of the columella,
a bone which, with its cartilaginous
extension, the extra-columella, com-
municates the movements of the
tympanic membrane to the liquid
perilymph of the inner ear.

The auditory part of the inner ear,
the cochlea, resembles that of man in
its general plan, though it is propor-
tionately much shorter and is straight,
or nearly so, instead of being rolled
into a tight spiral. It is divided into
two channels by cartilaginous shelves
supporting the basilar membrane, ex-
cept near the apex, where the channels
are connected by a narrow opening,
the helicotrema; and these two chan-
nels communicate with the round
and oval windows respectively. Any
displacement of the perilymph at the
oval windows is compensated by a
displacement in the opposite sense
at the round window, and this neces-
sarily involves a displacement of the
basilar membrane unless the move-
ment is so slow that the pressure in the
channels can be continually equalized
by flow through the _helicotrema.

On the basilar membrane are ranged
the hair cells, which are believed to
be the actual receptors for sound.
They carry fine processes which termi-
nate on or in the tectorial membrane
and are consequently distorted or
stretched when the basilar membrane
is displaced. The hair cells are
innervated by nerve fibers from the
cochlear ganglion. The whole of this
sensory apparatus is separated from
the perilymph by the basilar mem-
brane below and the tegmentum vas-
culosum ?° above.

The basilar membrane contains
transverse fibers which increase regu-
larly in length and probably decrease
in tension from the outer (basal) end of
the membrane to the apical end. It is
believed that, as in man, these fibers

10 The tegmentum  vasculosum _corre-
sponds roughly in position to Reissner’s
membrane in the mammalian cochlea but
incorporates the stria vascularis.
SENSE ORGANS OF BIRDS—PUMPHREY 321

SY,
MS Se ae ay

‘.

Dal Te
“NOOO TLE LILI TI
. .

: St.

Memobrana tectoria

Figure 9.—A, Diagrammatic section of bird’s ear. 6. m., basilar membrane; col., columella;
e. c., extra-columella; £. ¢., Eustachian tube; f. r., round window; h., helicotrema; h. ¢. C.,
hair cells of Corti’s organ; h. c. l., hair cells of lagena; sacc., sacculus; s. ¢., scala tympani;
5. v., scala vestibuli; ¢. m., tectorial membrane; ¢. v., tegmentum vasculosum; tym., tympanic
membrane. B, Diagrammatic section across avian cochlea. G. cochl., cochlear ganglion;
s. m., scala media; other lettering as in A. C, Central part of B enlarged. (After Satoh,

1917.)
322

are each tuned to a distinct frequency,
like the strings of a harp, and that the
basilar membrane is a_ frequency
analyzer. The number of fibers in the
pigeon is, however, only about one-
eighth of the number in the human
cochlea.

At the apical end of the cochlea,
beyond the end of the basilar mem-
brane, there is a further range of hair
cells whose hairs are embedded in a
mucoid cap or cupola. The cap, unlike
the tectorial membrane, is loaded with
calcareous particles. Of this sense
organ, the lagena, no trace remains in
the human cochlea (or, indeed, in any
mammal except the egg-laying Mono-
tremes), but it is known that it is
important in the hearing of fish and of
many reptiles which have no basilar
membrane. It is known, moreover,
that these animals are less responsive
to high-pitched sounds than are the
mammals. Consequently it is a legiti-
mate inference that birds have a dual
auditory mechanism, the lagena being
responsive to low frequencies and the
cochlea proper, with its basilar mem-
brane, to high frequencies. It may,
indeed, be that the ranges of frequen-
cies to which lagena and cochlea re-
spond do not overlap. Small birds
may have no interest in the band of
frequencies lying between the thud of
footsteps and their own shrill twitter-
ing. But this is necessarily pure specu-
lation, for no reliable physiological
work has been done on the hearing of
birds. ‘Though there are well-authen-
ticated records of pheasants being dis-
turbed by distant gunfire and explo-
sions quite inaudible to man, it is not
even certain whether it was the air-
borne waves or the earth tremor which
was the disturbing factor; and the
upper frequency limit is also quite
uncertain for any species of bird.

What little there is to say is an infer-
ence from behavior. It seems certain
that birds can hear the voices of their
own species, and at least probable that
they can hear those of other species.
Sc the auditory range may extend
from the bark of a raven or the cooing

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

of a pigeon to the cheep of a chiffchaff
or, say, from 200 cycles/sec. to 10
kilocycles. It is most unlikely, how-
ever, that 10 kilocycles represents the
upper limit for small birds since recog-
nition of an individual song or call
seems to require perception of at
least the first few harmonics as well as
the fundamental of the highest tone
in the song. We may plausibly guess
that the auditory spectrum of chiff-
chaff and willow wren extends higher
than that of man, perhaps to 30 or
40 kilocyeles.

The rather widespread faculty of
mimicry in birds is another indication
that they are capable of pitch and
intensity discrimination comparable
with human ability in these respects,
and noticeable departures from verisi-
militude are at least as likely to be due
to limitations imposed by the syrinx
and buccal cavities of the mimic as to
its failure to appreciate what it hears.
But as a matter of fact the performance
of some exotic mimics is staggering.
Australian lyrebirds and bowerbirds
are said to imitate with deceptive
accuracy the patter of dry leaves in a
breeze, the twang of a man climbing
a tightly strung wire fence, and the roll
of distant thunder—all of which are
sounds of a type which is reproduced
with notorious infidelity by grama-
phone and radio, Clearly, therefore,
these birds have an auditory spectrum
substantially wider than the pass band
of a broadcast receiver.

It is perhaps significant that in the
collection of labryinths of birds of the
late A. A. Gray the three mentioned as
having aconspicuously elongated coch-
lea were a cockatoo, a thrush, and an
owl. The first is a noted mimic, the
second an occasional mimic whose
habit of repeating a theme without
perceptible deviation points to accu-
rate pitch discrimination, the third
has other reasons (discussed below) for
requiring a frequency analyzer of high
performance.

The labyrinths figured by Retzius
can be grouped by inspection as fol-
lows:
SENSE ORGANS OF BIRDS—PUMPHREY

pCocblen conspicuously long (and curved):
uodo.

Cochlea long: Turdus, Columba.

Cochlea average: Vanellus, Scolopax, Cypse-
lus, Nucifraga.

Cochlea short: Gallus.

Cochlea very short: Anser, Mergus, Haliaétus.

If we exclude the owl, we can per-
haps imagine a correlation between
length of cochlea and musical ability
in this series.

A little bit more is known of another
aspect of hearing, the ability of birds
to determine the direction from which
sound is coming. It might be thought
that birds, lacking the external pinna,
would be severely handicapped, but
reliable work on the hen indicates
that she can locate the cheeping of
her chicks within 2° in the horizontal
plane. Incidentally, the chicks are
just about as good at locating their
mother. This performance is rather
better than a dog’s and not quite as
good as a cat’s performance in similar
circumstances. It is substantially bet-
ter than an inexperienced man can do,
though man improves with practice.

Man’s directional sensitivity to sound
is an extremely complex function. It
depends primarily on an unconscious
comparison of the signals arriving at
each ear in respect of both time or
phase differences and differences of
intensity. For low frequencies and
noises of short duration it is the phase
or time difference which is the more
important, and for high frequencies
it is the intensity difference. If the
sound lasts long enough and the man
is allowed to move his head, he turns
it until the sound paths to his ears are
nearly equal, and in this position can
make his most accurate estimate.

This all seems obvious enough, but
it is not the whole story, for a man
with one ear plugged is quite at sea
when asked to locate the source of a
pure tone or a click. But if the noise
is both complex and continuing like
a rattle or human speech, and par-
ticularly if the noise is familiar to him,
he can locate it nearly as well as if both
ears were free. The explanation is
that the sense of direction for complex

323

sounds depends rather intimately on
an analysis of the relative intensi-
ties of the frequency components.
Because the head casts a sound shadow
which is more complete for high fre-
quencies than low, the perceptual
character of a complex sound differs
with the angle at which it reaches the
ear. Ifitis familiar, it is unconsciously
compared with the memory of what it
should sound like when coming from
directly in front, and the head is moved
until the sound heard corresponds with
the memory.

There is no evidence that birds are
capable of monaural localization. In
fact Englemann’s experiments with
the hen indicate the contrary, but the
possibility must not be ignored. In
any case it is likely that frequency
analysis is even more important in
direction finding for some birds than
it is for man.

The hen, like dog and man, appears
to be almost incapable of localization
in the vertical plane. Man invariably
refers an unfamiliar noise to the hori-
zon, and has to learn to look up to
see an aircraft. It is likely that this
limitation is inherent in all animals
whose ears are symmetrical about the
median plane of the head, a class which
includes very nearly all the vertebrates.
It has long been known, however, that
the ears of many owls display a very
remarkable asymmetry. So far as is
known it is only the outer ear which
is asymmetrical. And on the whole
it is in the most nocturnal species that
the asymmetry is most marked. Be-
fore discussing these structural peculi-
arities it is illuminating to consider
what are the requirements of a bird
which is so nocturnal that it has to
find its prey by ear while in flight.
It obviously must possess a directional
sensitivity which is effective in the
vertical plane as well as in the hori-
zontal, and this is quite obviously im-
possible if the ears are mirror images
of each other and the median plane
of the head remains vertical. It must
be further assumed that the bird’s
directional clues must be derived from
324

sounds of short duration—transient
rustles and squeaks which do not last
long enough for the bird to make
searching movements with its head.

In order to locate such sounds un-
ambiguously with two ears only it ap-
pears, from theoretical considerations,
that the following minimum conditions
must be satisfied:

(1) The sound must be complex and
the ears competent to resolve it into at
least three bands of frequency in such
a way that independent comparison of
the signals arriving at the two ears is
possible in each band.

(2) The two ears must have a direc-
tion of maximum sensitivity which is
different for each band and is different
for the left and right ear for at least
two of the bands.

The exceptional length of the owl’s
cochlea and the prevalent asymmetry
of their external ears suggests that these
conditions are in fact met, though the
second condition is fulfilled in different
ways in different genera.

Birds are prevented by aerodynamic
considerations from using external
baffles like the pinnz of mammalian
ears. Whatever is done must be under
the cover of the feathers which insure
laminar flow across the orifice of the
auditory meatus and subdue the whis-
tling of the wind. We find in Strix
that the left and right ear cavities are
of markedly different sizes and are
each nearly closed by opercular flaps,
leaving a slitlike orifice which is half as
long again on the left as on the right.
For wave lengths comparable with the
length of the slit the polar diagrams of
left and right ears will certainly be
different.

In Asio the external auditory meatus
is enormously enlarged on both sides
to occupy the whole of the lateral post-
orbital sides of the head. Here the
opercular slits are of similar dimensions
on the left and right sides. But be-
neath the opercula the meatus on each
side is divided into two compartments
by a horizontal shelf, one compart-
ment communicating with the middle
ear while the other is blind. On the

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

right it is the upper compartment
which is blind and on the left the lower
(pl. 3). The effect of the arrangement
is to make the relative lengths of the
sound paths from the upper and lower
extremities of the slit to the tympanic
membrane different on the left and
right side; so that for wave lengths
comparable with the slit lengths the
direction of maximum sensitivity will
be directed above the horizontal plane
for the right ear and below it on the
left.

Of the two British species of Aszo,
one, A. otus, the long-eared owl, is very
nocturnal while A. /fammeus, the short-
eared owl, is largely diurnal, and it has
been argued that, because of the sim-
ilarity of the ears in species with differ-
ent habits, it is illegitimate to correlate
asymmetry of the ears with night hunt-
ing. This is a misconception. The
asymmetry of the ears indicates that
owls are descended from nocturnal
ancestors which were forced to rely on
their ears for hunting. Even the most
diurnal owls have eyes of nocturnal
form which must be deficient in day-
light compared with those of, say, a
hawk. The late Miss Turner’s de-
scription of the hunting of the short-
eared owl does not suggest that the
eyes are used. In fact, since the prin-
cipal prey is the field vole, which at
least by day lives in grass tunnels, it is
difficult to see how the eyes could be
used. It seems certain that the owl
locates the prey quite accurately by
ear and then rakes through the grass
for it with its talons.

Another fully nocturnal species,
Tengmalm’s owl, shows an asymmetry
of the ears which involves extensive
distortion of the bony structure of the
skull in which the right ear is set above
and the left below the midline of the
orbits. It is likely that the objective
of the asymmetry is the same as in
Asio and Strix, but the descriptions of
the soft anatomy which are available
are inadequate for certainty.

It will have been noted that there is
a sufficient body of knowledge of the
avian eye to permit of intelligent spec-
SENSE ORGANS OF

ulation about its performance and the
part it plays in determining avian be-
havior. This is far less true of the
ear, which offers a most promising and
unjustly neglected field for experiment
and observation.

Other Sense Organs

Of the other sense organs, there
remains little that is worth saying.
The sense of smell is undoubtedly
only very moderately developed by
comparison with the more gifted
mammals. ‘Though birds can be
trained to respond to odoriferous sub-
stances, such training is very readily
disrupted by visual or aural stimuli,
which is at least an indication of the
relative unimportance of olfaction.
It should be noted that there are per-
sistent reports that some birds show
evidence of a keener sense of smell
than might be expected. These in-
clude the carrion feeders, especially
the vultures, scavengers like gulls
and petrels and, rather surprisingly,
the ducks. The literature, which is
largely anecodotal, has been reviewed
by Gurney (1922) in this journal.
Most of the positive evidence brought
forward by one authority has been
destructively criticized by another.
Indeed, in this field critical experi-
ments are almost impossible, because
human beings labor under the ex-
cessive difficulty of not knowing what
to look for. There is no theory of
smell which is even moderately con-
sistent with the facts of human ol-
factory experience, and we can per-
haps best sum up the situation for
birds by saying we know even less
about their sense of smell than we do
about our own.

The sense of touch is in a class rather
by itself. For one thing it is not a
single sense in the way in which sight
and hearing are (in vertebrates)
single senses; there is no organ of
touch, but a multiplicity of organs
whose individual responses to stimu-
lation must be centrally integrated
before a man can tell a tennis ball
from an egg with his eyes shut. For

BIRDS—PUMPHREY 325
another, though not distance recep-
tors, the organs of touch are comple-
mentary to them. Man and the
primates learn very much by seeing
plus handling and by hearing plus
handling, and it is in the skin of the
fingers and the muscles and joints of
the arms that the sense of touch is
most highly developed. We find in
the inner skin of the hands numerous
sensory end-organs of a type which
are rare or absent elsewhere, con-
sisting of a capsule of tissue within
which the fiber of a sensory nerve
terminates in a coil or web. In other
mammals which have no hands but,
like the pig and the mole, use the
snout for exploratory purposes, we
find very similar encapsulated end-
organs most numerous in the moist
mucosa round the nostrils. In birds
similar end-organs are found in the
beak and tongue, and though at first
sight the horny beak appears unlikely
to be a suitable vehicle for a refined
sense of touch, the presence of end-
organs of this type suggests that it is
in fact the part of birds which is tact-
ually the most sensitive. The sensory
capsules are most complex and most
numerous, so far as known, in the bills
of ducks (pl. 4) and geese, and very
likely are important for finding food
in mud. It does not seem that the
histology of the beaks of waders has
ever been examined. By contrast the
innervation of the feet is scanty (even
in the hawks and owls), and they are
probably quite insensitive to touch.

Incertae Sedis

This article is about sense organs,
and it might be the better part of
wisdom for the author to leave it at
that and refrain from even passing
mention of senses which in some way
have a reality and importance for
animals in general and birds in par-
ticular but which are not, or at least
not yet, referable with certainty to
special sense organs. These ‘“‘senses”
are the sense of time and the sense of
direction; and their relevance to the
migratory problems of birds is obvious,
326

for the minimum requirements for
achieving a long and trackless journey
are a clock and a compass.

It is curious, and perhaps significant,
that, on a small scale, both these
senses are connected in human expe-
rience with the ear (auditory and non-
auditory parts of the labyrinth). It is
notorious that the visual mechanism
is capable of only an elementary appre-
ciation of time interval. Ifa man de-
sires to appreciate the time interval
between two events he either turns
the time interval into a space inter-
val by some stroboscopic or oscillo-
graphic device for visual observation
or he arranges for each event to give
an audible signal and listens to the
interval; and the second method is,
within a limited range, surprisingly
sensitive.

On a short scale, too, the normal
orientation mechanism of the semi-
circular canals and utricle in the non-
auditory part of the labyrinth tells
man not only which way up he is in the
absence of visual clues but which way
he is turning and how fast. We have,
therefore, in the ear and its associated
centers in the brain the rudiments of
the clock and compass we were looking
for.

It is true that these rudiments are
very inadequate. They do not hinder
civilized man from losing his way in a
fog, nor prevent him from estimating
quite wrongly the time he spends in a
dentist’s chair or a tavern. It may,
however, be that they are vestiges
rather than rudiments. There are
people who can awake themselves at
a specified hour without an alarm
clock. There are people, generally
country folk, in whose lives the points
of the compass are a constant frame
of reference. The Irishwoman in the
railway carriage in Somerville’s story
“Poisson d’Avril,” who said ‘‘Move
west a small piece, Mary Jack, if you
please. I declare we’re as throng as
three in a bed this minute,” is a type
of an aptitude so common as to be the
rule in many districts.

Because we know so little about these

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

‘‘senses” it is still possible to adopt
either of two radically different theo-
retical approaches. The sense of time
has been regarded as a sense of inter-
val, for which the reference standard
is the solar day. And alternatively,
the reference standard has been
thought to be inherent and associated
in some way with the rate of living
of the animal organism. The latter
view would make the time sense inde-
pendent of external stimuli, at least in
the warm-blooded birds or animals,
and would make biological time akin
in a philosophic sense to the thermo-
dynamic time of Eddington and Milne.

In a rather similar way the sense of
direction and position has been re-
garded as either the expression of a
kind of dead reckoning for which the
starting point is a particular orienta-
tion in a known topography or as
being based on some kind of internal
compass needle. Ising (1945) has
made the interesting suggestion that
the semicircular canals may be inher-
ently suited to supply the internal
compass needle since they are a device
by which Coriolis forces might be dis-
tinguished from other and generally
much larger forces acting on a bird
in flight. The physics involved is in
a field which is unfamiliar to most
people. Any body which moves at
constant velocity over the earth’s sur-
face will in general have a component
of velocity toward the earth’s axis of
rotation and will in consequence ex-
perience a horizontal force normal to
its own direction of motion. This is
the Coriolis force. It is proportional
to the velocity component toward the
earth’s axis and is therefore zero at
the Equator and also for movement
in east or west direction. For north
or south movement it is a maximum
and increases with latitude.

If the body which we have been
considering were a bird in level flight
at constant speed, the Coriolis force
would be equivalent, so far as the
bird’s receptors were concerned, to a
very small linear acceleration side-
ways, and there would be no way of
SENSE ORGANS OF

disentangling its effect from the other
and much larger linear accelerations
experienced as the result of wind irreg-
ularities, etc. But the effect on a ro-
tating body is different. Consider the
special case of a liquid-filled tube (fig.
10) rotating with the earth.

And suppose it also to spin about the
axis WE so that at the instant illus-

BIRDS—PUMPHREY

327

and current would vary in a ring-
shaped conductor rotating in a mag-
netic field.

If we now suppose the tube to
represent one of the horizontal semi-
circular canals of a bird, it is evident
that if the bird nods its head in the
N-S direction a circulating current
will tend to occur in the endolymph

i

trated the north limb is descending.
At this instant the liquid in the north
limb has its maximum velocity toward
the earth’s spin axis and that in the
south its maximum velocity away
from it. In the result the Coriolis
force is a couple acting on the liquid
causing it to flow around the tube.
For a constant rate of spin the Coriolis
couple and hence the flow vary
sinusoidally, precisely as the e. m. f.

817369—49—_26

9

FicurE 10.—Diagram of liquid-filled tube rotating with the earth.

of these canals while a nod in the E-W
direction will have no effect. More-
over the circulation due simply to the
inertia of the endolymph when the
head nods is limited to the vertical
canals.

The Coriolis force could in this way
be separated from other forces and
could therefore in theory be used as
an indication of true bearings. In
fact a large-scale working model has
328

been constructed. Thorpe and Wil-
kinson (1946) have considered whether
such a system could operate on a small
scale and have concluded that in a
bird’s labyrinth viscous losses would
be large and the Coriolis flow would
be less than that due to random ther-
mal agitation.

More recently Yeagley (1947) has
surmised that pigeons, through an
appreciation both of Coriolis force and
of the vertical component of the earth’s
magnetic field, can not only recognize
bearings but can locate themselves
uniquely or nearly so on the earth’s
surface. The experimental evidence
adduced in support of this surmise has
been destructively criticized by Thorpe
and others (1948) so it is perhaps un-
necessary to enumerate here all the
theoretical objections which are ap-
parent. The suggestion that birds
may be capable of response to the
earth’s magnetic field, though not
new, and not, as Yeagley presents it,
feasible, is nevertheless worth brief
consideration.

It is reasonably certain on both
theoretical and practical grounds that
a constant magnetic field, even if very
large, produces no effect on a living
body which is stationary or in uniform
movement through it. A magnetic
field produces biological effects only
in such circumstances that electric
currents are caused to flow in living
tissue, namely, when the magnetic
field intensity changes or the tissue is
accelerated across the field. The
second condition is, however, realized
when a bird is circling and it is easily
seen that, owing to the horizontal
component of the earth’s magnetic
field, the current through any small
element of volume within the bird will
vary sinusoidally through a cycle for
each completed circle of flight. Hence
if the bird could appreciate the
instants of maximum current it could
distinguish N. and S. from E. and W.
If it could also appreciate the sense of
the current it could distinguish the
cardinal points uniquely.

As in the case of Ising’s theory the

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

plausibility of this kind of mechanism
turns on a comparison of the magni-
tude of the currents likely to be pro-
duced in such circumstances with the
magnitudes of currents known to have
sensory effects. One of the few rele-
vant experiments is that of Magnusson
and Stevens (1911) who succeeded in
producing visual sensations in man
with a rather large alternating mag-
netic field. Auditory sensations are
well known to result in man from elec-
tromagnetic radiation of sufficient in-
tensity, provided there is modulation
at an audible frequency. And the
frequently reported disturbance of
birds in the immediate neighborhood
of broadcast transmitters during trans-
mission is very possibly due to similar
sensory excitation. In all these cases
the induced current density is proba-
bly greater by a factor of more than
105 than that which would be induced
in a circling bird by the earth’s mag-
netic field. Such a gap seems too wide
to be easily bridgeable.

So neither Coriolis forces nor terres-
trial magnetism are likely explana-
tions of birds’ migratory powers. And
it may perhaps be misguided to seek
such exotic solutions. Better evidence
is needed that the ordinary senses,
together with adventitious assistance,
such as prevailing winds, etc., are not
enough to explain the facts. In par-
ticular, a balanced estimate of the
migratory achievement is impossible
without a far greater knowledge of the
losses en route than we yet possess.
Nevertheless, suggestions such as
Ising’s and Yeagley’s, have often been
fruitful in the past, not necessarily be-
cause they were right, but because the
attempt to disprove or confirm them
gave an impetus and direction to re-
search which was previously random
and fumbling.

BIBLIOGRAPHY

Boeke, J.
1934. Niedere Sinnesorgane. Handb.
Vergl. Anat. Wirbelt., vol. 2,
No. 2, pp. 841-878. (Bolk,
Goéppert, Kallius, Lubosch.)
SENSE ORGANS OF BIRDS—PUMPHREY

Burtet, H. M. ve.
1934. Héhere Sinnesorgane (Stato-akus-
tische Organe). Handb. Vergl.
Anat. Wirbelt., vol. 2, No. 2,
pp. 1293-1444.
Crozier, W. J., and Wo r, E.
1943a. Modifications of the flicker re-
sponse contour and the signifi-
cance of the avian _ pecten.
Journ. Gen. Physiol., vol. 27,
pp. 287-313.
1934b. Flicker response contours for the
sparrow, and the theory of the
avian pecten. Ibid., pp. 315-
324.
ENGLEMANN, W.
1928. Untersuchungen uber die Schallo-
kalization bei Tieren. Zeitschr.

Psychol. und Physiol., Sin-
nesorgane, Abt. I, Zeitschr.
Psychol., vol. 105, pp. 317-370.
Franz, V.
1934. Héhere Sinnesorgane (Auge).

Handb. Vergl. Anat. Wirbelt.,
vol. 2, No. 2; pps 969-1292.
Gray, A. A.
1907. The labyrinth of animals. London.

Gurney, J. H.
1922. On the sense of smell possessed by
birds. Ibis, ser. 11, vol. 4, pp.
225-253.
Hecut, S., and Pirenne, M. H.
1940. The sensibility of the nocturnal
long-eared owl in the spectrum.
Journ. Gen. Physiol., vol. 23,
pp. 709-717.

Hess, C. von.

1910. Beitrage zur Kenntnis regionarer
Verschiedenheiten der Netz-
haut und des Pigmentepithels in
der Wirbeltierreihe. Arch.
Vergl. Ophthal., vol. 1, pp.
413-422.

Isinc, G.

1945. Die physikalische Méglichkeit
eines tierischen Orientierungs-
sinnes auf Basis der Erdrotation.
Ark. Mat., Astron., och Fysik,
vol. 32, A, No. 18.

KOoLMER, W.

1924. Uber das Auge des Eisvogels
(Alcedo attis attis). Pfliigers
Ark., vol. 204, p. 266.

LasHLEY, K. S.

1916. The colour vision of birds. I.

The spectrum of the domestic

fowl. Animal Behavior, vol.
6, pp. 1-126.
Macwnusson, C. E., and Stevens, H. C.
1911. Visual sensations caused by

changes in the strength of a

magnetic field. Amer. Journ.

Physiol., vol. 29, pp. 124-136.

Matruews, L. H., and Mattuews, B. H. C.

1939. Owls and infra-red radiation,
Nature, vol. 143, p. 983.

329

Menner, E.

1938. Die Bedeutung des Pecten im
Auge des Vogels fiir die Wahr-
nehmung von Bewegungen,
nebst Bemerkungen iiber seine
Ontogenie und Histologie.
Zool. Jahrb., Abt. Allg. Zool.
Physiol. Tiere, vol. 58, pp. 481—
538.

Pate, L.

1924. Allgemeine Zoologie und Abstam-
mungslehre. II. Die Sinnesor-
gane der Tiere. Jena.

Po.yak, S. L.

1941. Retina; the anatomy and histol-
ogy of the retina... Univ.
Chicago Press.

PumpHeey, R. J.

1948. The theory of the fovea. Journ.
Exp. Biol., vol. 25, pp. 299-
S02:

Pycrart, W. P.

1898. Acontribution towards our knowl-
edge of the morphology of the
owls. ‘Trans. Linn. Soc., vol.

ds-Ppps 209-215.
1910. A history of birds. London.
Retzivs, G.
1884. Das Geh6rorgan der Wirbel-
thiere, Vol): 2)” pp. 139-198;

Stockholm.
Satou, Nosvo.

1917. Der histologische Bau der Vogel-
schnecke und ihre Schadigung
durch akustische Reize und
durch Detonation. Basel.

Tuorpe, W. H., and WiLkinson, D. H.

1946. Ising’s theory of bird orientation.

Nature, vol. 158, pp. 903-905.
Tuorper, W. H., et al.

1948. Orientation of birds on migratory
and homing flights. (Report
of discussion by the Linnaean
Society.) Nature, vol. 161, p.
996.

Turner, E. L.
1924. Broadland birds.
VALENTIN, G.

1879. Ein Beitrag zur Kenntnis der
Brechungsverhdltnisse der Thi-
ergewebe. Arch. Ges. Physiol.,
VOle 19; P75 VOL. 205 pinZ8os

VANDERPLANK, F. L.

1934. The effect of infra-red waves on
tawny owls (Strix aluco). Proc.
Zool. Soc. London, pp. 505-
507.

Wa.Ls, G. L.

1937. Significance of the foveal depres-
sion. Arch. Ophthalmol., vol.
18, pp. 912-919.

1940. Postscript on image expansion by
the foveal clivus. Ibid., vol.
23, pp. 931-832:

1943. The vertebrate eye and _ its
adaptive radiation. Cranbrook
Inst. Sci., Bloomfield Hills,
Mich.

London.
330 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

Watts, G. L., and Jupp, H. D. Woop, C. A.
1933. The intra-ocular colour filters of 1917. The fundus oculi of birds. Chi-
vertebrates. Brit. Ophthalmol., cago.
vol. 17, pp. 641-675, 705-725. YEAGLEy, H. L.
Watson, J. B. 1947. A preliminary study of a physical
1915. Studies on the spectral sensitivity basis of bird navigation. Journ.
of birds. Pap. Dep. Marine Appl. Phys., vol. 18, pp. 1035—
Biol., Carnegie Inst. Washing- 1063.

ton, vol..7; pp!.67—104.
“MOMMY SNOIAPA “Yy ‘s[[9d WOI[ZUBS JO TofONU ‘4 {(s][ad WOT[ZuBS pu Iepodrq uaeMjoq SUOT}NIUUOD) LOA] UALOJIXoTd JoUUT ‘ff (SUOT{D9UMODI0} UL
PSIOASTBI] SULYVU S[[99 PATO JO OsTB PUL) ST[od Iepodrq Jo faponu ‘a {(s]Teo IB[OdIq YILM Seuod pukB spol Jo SUOTPIIUUODIOJUT) JOART WIOJIXoTd
Joyno “p :setod pu SpOI JO IajoNU JO JaX VI ‘9 ‘sad pu Spor JO syuAUIseS (9A1}d90910} 04d) [BULTIID} AYY JO OAR ‘q {19K RT ploroys poyusursid ‘p

VAAO4 IWYLNAD AHL HONOYHL ONISSVd MOTIVMS AO YNILEY AO NOILOAS

evry weal

lL 3ALV1d Aaiyduin J—9¢6 | ‘ysoday ueluosyyIWG
Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Pumphrey

PLATE 2

1. Herring Gull 2. Shearwater
Puffinus griseus

Larus argentatus

Y
We pecten

4. Coot 5. Ostrich
Fulica americana Struthio camelus

central area
& fovea

8. Shrike
Lanius ludovicianus gambeli

7. Humming bird
Calypte anne

3. Great Bustard
Otis tarda

ae

6. Cormorant
Phalacrocorax penicillatus

9. Kingfisher
Alcedo atthis ispida

OPHTHALMOSCOPIC APPEARANCE OF THE INNER ASPECT OF THE RETINA AS SEEN
THROUGH THE PUPIL, SHOWING POSITION AND EXTENT OF AREA AND FOVEA

(After Wood 1917.)
Smithsonian Report, 1948.— Pumphrey PLATE 3

Mie

os
/ BL xt

Lefl ear | MM.

RIGHT AND LEFT ASPECTS OF THE PLUCKED HEAD OF THE LONG-EARED OWL
ASIO OTUS

The operculum is turned outward and forward to expose the external meatus. MM. e., cavity terminated
by tympanic membrane; d, blind cavity. (From Pycraft, 1898.)
‘loqg
JAIOU OY} JO YIOMJOU [BUTUIIO OY BuIMOYS ‘T oIMSY JO “g' Syjoo a[nsded oy U9eM4oq SuLIo}U ‘p ‘UOXR
oueld oy} 0} sopsue yYysI ye vposndi0d AdpuBly JO UOTOIG ‘7 9} JO UOTYVUIUIL0} PoJC][NpouunN sy} SULMOYS ‘Yonp ¥B Jo [[Iq vy} WOW oposnd1o0d ArpuBsly BJO UOTVIG “T

sdquylg NI SNV9YO ANZ ATMLOVL

or
SF aon
“ge

le

yp 3LV1d Asryduin q—"gp6| ‘J4oday ueiuosyzwg
Insect Control Investigations of the Orlando, Fla.,
Laboratory During World War II

By E. F. Knierine, Bureau of Entomology and Plant Quarantine, Agricultural Research
Administration, U. S. Department of Agriculture

[With 6 Plates]

Early in 1942 the Bureau of Ento-
mology and Plant Quarantine in the
United States Department of Agricul-
ture reviewed its research projects for
the purpose of realigning them in
closer correlation with the exigencies
of war. Inasmuch as funds are usu-
ally appropriated for specific purposes,
it is difficult to make sudden shifts
from one project to another. This
difficulty was considerably alleviated,
however, by funds provided by the
Office of Scientific Research and De-
velopment of the National Emergency
Council. This transfer of funds was
prompted by requests for research on
medical entomology by the Surgeon
General’s Office of the United States
Army.

This paper is designed to review
briefly the conspicuous accomplish-
ments of the men and women who par-
ticipated in the research conducted at
the Orlando laboratory during the
period from March 1942 to October
1945. During this period much in-
formation on the control of insects,
especially those carrying disease, was
developed and was applied under
emergency conditions by our military
forces. The practical use of this infor-
mation was a notable contribution to
the successful termination of the war.
The first recommendations on the use
of DDT and other insecticides for
controlling body lice, vectors of typhus,

mosquitoes, vectors of malaria, dengue
filariasis, and encephalitis, and yellow
fever were made by the Orlando
personnel. The number of persons
involved, including the technical per-
sonnel, clerical staff, and human
guinea pigs, averaged less than the
number of one company of infantry;
yet, the recommendations made by
these workers, no doubt, saved thous-
sands of lives and prevented the loss
of hundreds of thousands of man-days
which otherwise would have been
caused by insect-borne diseases.

The total funds expended amounted
to less than the cost of one of the small-
est cargo vessels, yet the findings of
this group of researchers now form the
basis for our present methods of con-
trolling some of the most devastating
and debilitating diseases of mankind.

For centuries man has been in con-
tinuous conflict with dangerous and
treacherous insects. Insects and their
allies (ticks and mites will be called
insects in this paper) directly and in-
directly have taken a tremendous toll
of human lives, but until the advent of
DDT we had no very effective method
for stopping an onrushing epidemic of
typhus. Neither had we an effective
method for killing adult and larval mos-
quitoes with one application of an in-
secticide. Today, however, a wide-
spread epidemic of malaria can be stop-
ped within a matter of hours by the

331
332

comparatively simple expedient of ap-
plying 2 quarts of a 5-percent DDT
solution per acre from an airplane.
Flies, potential transmitters of dysen-
teries, typhoid, cholera, and other
diseases can be brought under control
by the judicious use of recommended
procedures first initiated by members
of the Orlando laboratory.

Although these new insecticidal
formulations were designed for military
needs they can be revised, modified,
and used for the benefit of a world at
peace. During the past 5 years,
entomologists and others from around
the world have paid their respects to
the Orlando laboratory and have
returned to their native lands with
information which is being applied to
their peculiar insect problems.

Organization of the Orlando Laboratory
and Its Relationship to Other Research
Institutions

Fortunately the urgent need for
modern and effective methods for
controlling insects of medical im-
portance was known by at least a few
farsighted entomologists and medical
officers. To Col. W. S. Stone and
Gen. J. S. Simmons, United States
Army, however, goes the greatest
credit for initiating research programs
especially designed to furnish the
much needed information. ‘Together
with colleagues in the War and Navy
Departments these men sitting in
selected committees in the National
Research Council first contacted the
Bureau of Entomology and Plant
Quarantine late in the fall of 1941.
Plans for research projects designed
to protect the health of our military
personnel from insect attack and insect-
borne diseases were shortly outlined
by F. C. Bishopp, E. C. Cushing, and
H. H. Stage of the Bureau and sub-
mitted to the Committee on Medical
Research of the Office of Scientific
Research and Development where
they received favorable consideration.
The first funds were allocated by the
Office of Scientific Research and

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

Development to the Bureau early in
1942.

Within a few weeks selected ento-
mologists, insecticide chemists, engi-
neers, and others were transferred to
Orlando and charged with the respon-
sibility of initiating the prescribed
investigations without delay. R. C.
Bushland, C. C. Deonier, G. W. Eddy,
Howard A. Jones, A. W. Lindquist,
A. H. Madden, L. C. McAlister, H.
O. Schroeder, and B. V. Travis work-
ing under the immediate direction of
W. E. Dove, and later, of the writer,
formed the nucleus of this organiza-
tion. As the program progressed,
additional specialists were added to
the staff. These included James B.
Gahan, C. N. Husman, J. P. Lin-
duska, O. M. Longcoy, F. M. Snyder,
F. A. Morton, and others, including
valuable and capable young men as-
signed to the laboratory by the Army
Air Forces base at Orlando and by the
Office of the Surgeon General, U. S.
Army. ‘The separate contributions
of these men cannot be given here.
They worked as a team, and because
of their close cooperation and co-
ordination of work their accomplish-
ments were far greater than would
have been possible if working as
independent researchers.

The laboratory as a whole function-
ed as an important cog in the machine
which produced the many new de-
velopments in insect control during
the war. Industry furnished most
of the chemicals which were evaluated
as insecticides. These were tested
against a number of insects and those
that were worthy of practical con-
sideration were developed through
intensive study to a point where the
armed services and other insect con-
trol agencies could try them out under
practical conditions and develop them
further for use in actual control
operations.

As the research program developed
and as reports from war theaters em-
phasized the importance of insects and
insect-borne diseases to our war effort,
various agencies set up research proj-
INSECT CONTROL INVESTIGATIONS—KNIPLING

ects or expanded available facilities to
undertake research along lines under-
way at Orlando. The Orlando group
cooperated with these agencies which
included the U. S. Army and Navy,
Rockefeller Foundation, ‘Tennessee
Valley Authority, Food and Drug
Administration, U. S. Public Health
Service, and various groups conduct-
ing research under contract with the
Office of Scientific Research and De-
velopment. Close contact and ex-
change of information was also main-
tained with laboratories and scientific
workers in allied foreign countries.

Financing

The approximate expenditure of
funds allotted the Bureau by the Office
of Scientific Research and Develop-
ment during the period March 1942
to October 1945 totaled $815,000. In
addition the Bureau furnished available
facilities such as automatic equipment,
experimental aircraft, laboratory facil-
ities, equipment and administrative
supervision. The Army also contrib-
uted much in the way of equipment,
especially experimental aircraft, as
well as enlisted personnel, and aided
in many other ways. In general the
over-all expenditure of funds to carry
out the research program during the
war at the Orlando laboratory
amounted to about 1 million dollars.

Problems Studied and Results Obtained

To appreciate fully the scope of the
research undertakings at Orlando, the
reader should bear in mind that many
kinds of insects were involved in our
global attack on the problem and that
control measures had to be applied
under many conditions throughout the
world.

The objective of the laboratory was
to appraise quickly and in a simple
way the potential value of materials
and methods under consideration for
insect control. During the course of
the investigations approximately 10,-
000 chemicals, chemical formulations,
or items of equipment were studied.

333

Our main job was to sift the wheat
from the chaff, so to speak, and of
this number hardly more than one
dozen reached a state of practical use.
The development of a material for
practical application with a minimum
of delay was uppermost in the minds
of the research personnel. ‘There was
little time for methodical research—
many important leads which a peace-
time or an academic scientist might
wish to follow were discarded. In-
stead, we cut corners whenever possible
in order to reach an end point to make
specific recommendations or to suggest
what might be tried by the army in
large-scale practical tests. We had to
keep in touch with industry, for indus-
trial firms assumed the responsibility
of manufacturing or formulating the
products and only materials which
could be produced commercially were
investigated extensively. It was neces-
sary to consult with toxicologists who
assumed the responsibility of judging
if materials were safe to use on man.

Because of the necessity of this
practical approach to the problems
under study there was little oppor-
tunity for basic work. However, basic
research was undertaken when neces-
sary, and in the course of investigations
much information of a fundamental
nature was developed.

The major projects undertaken and
the results accomplished are briefly
discussed in the pages that follow.
Although the major objectives were
clear-cut, the course of the work and
the degree of emphasis on various as-
pects were shifted as the research
progressed and as the needs of our
military forces and others faced with
the problem of protecting themselves
from insect attack were presented.
Lice

The project given the highest prior-
ity during the early stages of investi-
gation was the control of human lice.
Of the three species attacking man
(body louse, head louse, and crab
louse), the body louse (Pediculus
humanus corporis, Deg.) was of most
334

concern to the military because of its
role as the vector of typhus. The
research was, therefore, centered
around this species, and only the more
effective materials were tested against
the other two forms with necessary
adaptations when this seemed desir-
able.

In carrying out louse control stud-
ies, the usual system of testing prom-
ising materials against natural insect
infestations was not practical because
body louse infestations are scarce in
this country. The entire research
program was accordingly planned so
as to develop treatments under labo-
ratory or simulated practical condi-
tions. To do this we needed an
unlimited supply of lice with which
to test chemicals in the laboratory.
The final field tests under conditions
of practical use were undertaken by
the armed services and by such
agencies as the Rockefeller Founda-
tion.

Because of our method of attack in
carrying out the research on louse
control, it is apparent that the mainte-
nance of a louse colony was among
the most important aspects of the
louse program. G. H. Culpepper
maintained the colony for over 3
years. As many as 25,000 to 75,000
lice in all stages of development and
an even greater number of eggs were
available at all times. The lice re-
quired their blood meals at regular
intervals, and human subjects pro-
vided these meals, which were offered
twice each day. We owe much to
these men who served as subjects, for
giving a blood meal to as many as
50,000 lice at one time is not a pleas-
ant task. Fortunately each subject
had a rest of about 2 weeks between
feedings, but the same men served as
human guinea pigs for other phases
of the louse work and other projects
which will be described later. Plate
1, figure 1, shows the method em-
ployed in feeding the lice. Between
2 to 3 percent of the subjects reacted
so severely that they were unsuitable
as hosts. In between meals the lice

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

were held at a temperature of 86° F.
and at a relative humidity of about
60 percent.

Methods for testing various insecti-
cides as potential louse killers had to
be developed. R. C. Bushland, G. W.
Eddy, H. A. Jones, N. B. Carson, who
were responsible for the laboratory
phases of the louse project, considered
and tried various procedures which
permitted accurate and reliable meth-
ods of determining if a given material
was worth testing on lousy individuals.

The first procedures consisted of a
simple test in which lice were exposed
on chemically treated cloth placed in
asmall beaker. Some 7,500 chemicals
were tested in this manner. Only a
few were worth testing by the second
method, known as the arm-and-leg
method. The cloths shown on the
arms and legs of subjects (pl. 1, fig. 2)
were treated with test chemicals, and
lice were confined in them for at
least 1 day. The lice did not suffer
from lack of nourishment, as any of
the subjects wearing ineffective treat-
ments would testify.

The third step which was carried
out under the supervision of L. C.
McAlister and G. H. Culpepper re-
quired the full cooperation and ex-
treme patience of our research sub-
jects. In this test, the subjects lived
in barracks and were dressed as our
soldiers would be. They wore part
woolen winter underwear. Several
hundred lice and a thousand or more
eggs from the colony in various stages
of development were then placed on
each subject. Promising materials
were then applied to the underwear
as a 5-percent powder at the rate of 1
ounce per garment.

This was a rigid test and we felt
certain that any material that would
free our subjects of lice and keep them
free of lice which were added at inter-
vals of several days would be effective
against natural infestations. The suc-
cess of the materials in actual practice
which we recommended to the armed
services confirmed this belief.

The outstanding accomplishments
INSECT CONTROL INVESTIGATIONS—KNIPLING

in connection with the louse control
investigations were the development
of the MYL louse powder and the
subsequent research on DDT which
lead to the adoption and widespread
use of this now well-known insecticide
by the armed services and by civilians
for the control of lice.

MYL powder.—The research on vari-
ous insecticides as louse killers actually
started late in April 1942. During
the first 6 months several hundred
materials were tested against lice and
their eggs. Some of the many syn-
thetic organic compounds tested were
found to be highly effective against
lice, but a day or two after treatment
the subject would get lousy again.
This lack of lasting effect was the major
objection to fumigants such as methyl]
bromide which had been developed
as a louse fumigant earlier by Randall
Latta of the Bureau of Entomology
and Plant Quarantine. Others were
not suitable because they were too
toxic to man, because they had an
unpleasant odor, or because they
stained clothing.

Pyrethrum and rotenone, two widely
used insect killers, had previously been
employed for louse control and were
considered relatively nontoxic to man.
Extensive tests indicated that these
materials were fairly good louse killers
provided they were properly formu-
lated. However, rotenone was even-
tually discarded because of skin irrita-
tion and its extremely slow action.
Pyrethrum was the most promising
but supplies were very limited. In
efforts to extend its use various ma-
terials known as synergists, which were
employed in pyrethrum fly sprays,
were tested. One of these, N-isobu-
tylundecylenamide, was shown to be
outstanding. When used in combina-
tion with pyrethrum it increased the
action of the insecticide many times
even though alone it would not kill
lice. While research on louse-killing
agents was underway, various tests
were also in progress on materials that
would kill louse eggs. As a result of
these various studies a louse powder

335

was formulated which contained 0.2
percent pyrethrins (principal toxicant);
2 percent N-isobutylundecylenamide
(synergist); 2 percent 2,4-dinitroani-
sole (ovicide and added louse toxicant) ;
0.25 percent phenol S (a mixture of
isopropyl cresols which stabilize the
pyrethrins); and pyrophyllite (diluent).

This preparation, designated the
MYL formula, was recommended to
the armed services in August 1942.
The powder was the most effective
material known for use on man for
control of body lice, head lice, crab
lice, and fleas. It served a useful pur-
pose and was the standard insecticide
powder until DDT was developed and
became generally available.

DDT louse powder.—Available pyre-
thrum was urgently needed for mos-
quito control, and research on new
materials continued in the effort to
find a synthetic compound for louse
control which would be equal to, or
more effective than, the MYL powder.
Within a few months almost a thou-
sand chemicals were tested, and several
samples of other materials were being
received from various sources each day.
Tests were underway with several
chemicals which showed considerable
promise, but they were not the answer
to our problem.

In November 1942 a prepared in-
secticide called ‘“‘Gesarol Dust Insecti-
cide” was received from the J. R.
Geigy Co. of New York, a subsidiary
of the Geigy firm in Switzerland,
where it was developed through the
important research of Paul Mueller
and his associates. A sample of the
insecticide was obtained through the
Division of Insecticide Investigations
of the Bureau of Entomology and
Plant Quarantine. This prepared in-
secticide contained as the active
principle the material now known as
DDT, although when we first received
it we knew little about its chemical
composition. Tests soondemonstrated
that this material had insecticidal
properties possessed by no other syn-
thetic organic compound known at
that time. The material showed a
336

high degree of toxicity to lice, and the
toxic action persisted for an unusually
long time.

Tests were made with various con-
centrations of the product, using many
types of preparations. A 10-percent
DDT powder was shown to kill all lice
on an infested subject and provide pro-
tection against reinfestation for at least
3 weeks. This was the type of mate-
rial we were looking for.! Our chief
worry was: Can the chemical be used
safely on man? The Food and Drug
Administration was attempting to de-
termine the answer to this question.
After several months of intensive study
they concluded that in dust form DDT
was entirely safe to use. By May 1943
DDT was recommended to the armed
services as a safe and effective louse
powder.

The success of DDT in controlling
lice and typhus, as demonstrated by
scientists in the North African War
Theater, the U. S. A. Typhus Com-
mission and the Rockefeller Founda-
tion, is astory in itself that should be
told by those agencies mentioned. It
will suffice to say that we had more
than gained our major objective. We
now believe that DDT provides the
means of not only controlling lice and
typhus but of eventually eradicating
typhus from the earth.

Other developments—The work on
louse powders represented the most
important developments in connection
with the louse program. However,
many other significant contributions
were made and the two most outstand-
ing are listed below:

1. It was found that DDT was far
more effective and persistent when
impregnated in clothing than when
employed as powders. When impreg-
nated in the underwear at suitable
concentrations the DDT continues to

1 Swiss workers, as we learned after our
studies were well advanced, had demon-
strated the value of DDT as a louse insecti-
cide, and the Geigy firm was producing a
product for this purpose called Neocid which
contained 5 percent DDT.

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

kill body lice for as long as 6 months
provided the clothing is not washed.
If laundered according to usual pro-
cedures, the clothing remains effective
even after 4 to 8 washes.

2. A liquid preparation known as
the NBIN formula was developed for
the control of lice, especially head lice.
This was prepared as a concentrate
which when diluted with 5 parts of
water contained approximately 1 per-
cent of DDT, 2 percent of ethyl p-
amino benzoate (benzocaine), 11 per-
cent of benzyl benzoate and 2 percent
of an emulsifier known as a poly
oxyethylene derivative of sorbitan
monooleate.

Mosquitoes

More attention was given to various
aspects of research on mosquito con-
trol than to any other project. This
was justifiable because mosquitoes as
a group are probably the most im-
portant insects in the field of medical
entomology. Investigations on this
problem concentrated along three
major lines of research: (1) larvicides,
(2) insecticides for adult mosquitoes,
and (3) repellents.

There are hundreds of species of
mosquitoes, which vary in their habits
and resistance to insecticides and
repellents. It was possible to carry
out extensive studies on only a few
representative species. For the labor-
atory aspects of the program two
species were chosen, the malaria mos-
quito (Anopheles quadrimaculatus) and
the yellow fever mosquito (Aedes
aegypti). The rearing of large numbers
of mosquitoes which were needed for
research on larvicides, adult sprays,
and repellents, was a major under-
taking in connection with the research
project. The Anopheles are not easily
reared under laboratory conditions in
large numbers, but as many as 50,000
mature larvae or adults were needed
each day during the peak of the pro-
gram. Plate 2, figure 1, shows one
of the rearing rooms for the Anopheles
colony.
INSECT CONTROL INVESTIGATIONS—KNIPLING

LARVICIDE INVESTIGATIONS

The project on mosquito larvicides,
started in October 1942, was under
the direction of C. C. Deonier, and
during the 3-year program he was
assisted for various periods of time by
R. W. Burrell, C. B. Wisecup, J. D.
Maple ?, and others. —These men and
their assistants tested many new chemi-
cals (pl. 2, fig. 2) and tried to improve
the efficiency of known mosquito larvi-
cides such as paris green. Not much
progress was indicated until early in
February 1943, when DDT was tried
for the first time.

Before DDT was tested, the best
mosquito larvicide known was the
chemical phenothiazine, which killed
larvae of the common Culex mosquitoes
at concentrations as low as 1 part per
million parts of water. When DDT
was given preliminary laboratory tests
at various concentrations, it was found
that complete or near complete kill of
Anopheles larvae resulted at the ex-
tremely low concentration of 1 part
of DDT to 100 million parts of water.
A kill of approximately 50 percent was
obtained at the then unheard of dilut-
tion of 1 part to 400 million. There
was reason for real optimism; here
was a material exactly 100 times as
toxic to mosquito larvae as was pheno-
thiazine, the most effective synthetic
organic larvicide previously known.

The next problem was to compare
the efficiency of DDT when employed
as a dust in direct comparison with
paris green, the standard anopheline
larvicide. In the laboratory it was
found that complete kill of Anopheles
larvae was obtained at the very low
rate of application of 1 pound of
DDT to 100 acres of water surface.
This was at least 25 times as good as
“paris green.

2 J. D. Maple entered the U. S. Navy as
lieutenant (jg) early in 1944 and was at-
tached to Naval Medical Research Unit No.
2, which was detailed to the Pacific to con-
duct further research with materials devel-
oped at Orlando. He lost his life while on
active duty in connection with this assign-
ment.

337

With this basic information the
research on DDT was intensified. It
was tested in every form in which it
might be used—as dusts, oil solutions,
emulsions, and aerosols. Studies were
made at different dosages, and against
the larvae of several kinds of mosqui-
toes. Because DDT cannot be applied
in its natural form, DDT formulations
employing various solvents, emulsi-
fiers, and dust diluents, prepared by
Howard A. Jones, our chemist, were
investigated.

Tests were run in the laboratory,
and small-scale field tests were made
(pl. 3, fig. 1). The field tests con-
firmed the potential value of DDT as
a mosquito larvicide: as little as 1
pound of DDT to 20 or even to 40
acres gave a good kill of Anopheles
larvae. But to provide an ample
margin of safety we recommend that
in actual control operations (using
ground equipment) it be applied at
the rate of 1 pound to 10 acres. It
was recommended to the armed serv-
ices as a dust, in petroleum oil solution,
and in special emulsion concentrates
which could be diluted with water
before application as a spray.

When used as an oil solution, it was
found that 5 quarts of oil containing
1 percent of DDT, properly applied,
would do as good a job of killing mos-
quito larvae as 20 to 25 gallons of
oil when used without DDT. This was
real progress, especially from a military
viewpoint, because of the tremendous
saving in transportation.

For military purposes, however, the
emulsion was one of the most practical
forms of DDT to use, chiefly because
of further savings in transportation
costs. One-half pint of a 20-percent
DDT emulsion concentrate could be
diluted with water from the mosquito
breeding area and applied with results
equal to those formerly obtained with
the 20 to 25 gallons of oil previously
mentioned.

The use of DDT as a mosquito lar-
vicide is by no means restricted to
ground equipment, and special re-
search was undertaken to develop it
338

for application by means of aircraft.
Largely owing to developments by the
Bureau of Entomology and Plant
Quarantine and the Tennessee Valley
Authority, airplanes had been used ex-
tensively in connection with the con-
trol of insects attacking agricultural
crops and anopheline larvae. In the
first efforts to apply DDT from the air,
dusts were employed. In collabora-
tion with TVA scientists it was shown
that DDT applied in this way was
effective, but the physical properties
of dusts containing a high percentage
of DDT were such that they were diffi-
cult to apply with existing equipment.
Efforts to apply DDT from the air
were accordingly concentrated on the
development of sprays. C. N. Hus-
man, engineer, and O. M. Longcoy,
pilot, developed experimental models
of aerial sprayers which would deliver
and distribute about 2 quarts per acre
of sprays having rather small droplets.
All early experimental work was done
with a Piper Cub plane (L-4) equip-
ped with sprayers (pl. 3, fig. 2).

Field tests on natural breeding areas
with such equipment, after experimen-
tal tests on larvae in ice cream cups,
demonstrated that good control of
larvae resulted with a 5-percent DDT
oil solution or emulsion applied at the
rate of 1 to 2 quarts per acre.

Since little was known about the
application of liquid insecticides from
airplanes, the experimental work on
the development of DDT larvicide
sprays involved studies with various
types of equipment, relation of par-
ticle size to effectiveness of the spray,
relative effectiveness of different for-
mulations, optimum concentrations of
DDT in the spray, and many other
factors. The potentialities of the uti-
lization of aircraft for dispersing DDT
sprays was called to the attention of
the Army Air Forces Board of Orlando,
Fla., and as early as December 1943
cooperative tests were undertaken uti-
lizing fast combat planes equipped
with standard Chemical Warfare Serv-
ice devices. Studies on many aspects
of the aerial dispersal problem contin-

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

ued “during 1944”and*°1945,° and a
number of other agencies undertook
investigations during that period in-
cluding several branches of the Army,
both at home and overseas; Tennessee
Valley ‘Authority; U. S. Navy; Na-
tional Defense Research Committee;
and others. Consequently, by 1945,
planes ranging in size from L-4’s to
C-47 transports were equipped with
improved aerial spray equipment, and
the armed services were prepared to
blanket DDT over mosquito breeding
areas involving, if necessary, thousands
of acres.

KILLING OF ADULT MOSQUITOES

The complete story of the important
research on DDT for controlling adult
mosquitoes, if related in detail, would
require more space than is allowed for
the entire topic under discussion;
therefore, only the high spots of this
subject will be reviewed. ‘The investi-
gations designed to improve on mate-
rials and methods to kill adult mosqui-
toes involved research on aerosols and
sprays and on residual treatments.
The work on adults was under the
supervision of A. W. Lindquist, and
his assistants included J. B. Gahan,
H. O. Schroder, A. H. Madden, H. G.
Wilson and others. B. V. Travis and
F. A. Morton who were investigating
repellents also took an active part in
the early studies on the control of adult
mosquitoes. The many chemical as-
pects involved in these investigations
were under the supervision of Howard
A. Jones, who was assisted by Miss
Helen Fluno, Corp. C. T. McCollough,
and others.

Aerosols and sprays for use indoors.—As
early as 1942 the armed services were
already employing the famous aerosol.
bomb for the control of flies and mos-
quitoes. This unique principal of
dispersing aerosols was developed by
L. D. Goodhue and William Sullivan
of the Bureau of Entomology and
Plant Quarantine. The problem at
Orlando was to explore the possibility
of utilizing DDT in the aerosol for-
INSECT CONTROL INVESTIGATIONS—KNIPLING

mula in order toimprove its insecticidal
action and to conserve pyrethrum,
and this was done in cooperation with
other researchers in the Bureau. It
was soon shown that DDT had effec-
tive killing power against mosquitoes
and especially against flies but lacked
the rapid knock-down properties that
pyrethrum possessed. Many tests
were conducted with various concen-
trations of DDT and pyrethrum in
order to obtain the proper ratio of
these insecticides. Various solvents
and other auxiliary materials were
employed in testing different formu-
lations. —The outcome was a _ lique-
fied gas aerosol formula developed in
cooperation with L. D. Goodhue,
E. R. McGovran, and others of the
Beltsville Research Center, which
contained 3 percent of DDT, 0.4 per-
cent of pyrethrins, 5 percent of motor
oil, and 5 percent of cyclohexenone.
The U.S. Public Health Service con-
ducted toxicological tests with this
formula and judged it safe for use.

As the research on aerosols was in
progress, efforts were also directed
toward the development of highly
concentrated sprays. It was shown
that within wide limits the amount of
insecticide dispersed governed the kill
of flies or mosquitoes regardless of the
amount of liquid carrier actually
atomized. For example 1 cc. of a
20-percent DDT solution finely atom-
ized in a given space was as good as
20 cc. of a 1-percent solution applied
in the same manner. The same
principle held with pyrethrins. As a
result of these studies, sprayers smaller
than a flashlight were developed,
which contained the insecticide equiv-
alent to about 2 gallons of ordinary
household-type pyrethrum sprays. Al-
though such devices and spray form-
ulas were not utilized during the
war, primarily because the aerosol
bomb had been supplied and dis-
tributed in adequate numbers, the
investigations definitely established the
potentialities of highly concentrated
solutions for use as sprays.

Residual _treatment—The _ greatest

339

single advance in the control of insects
of medical importance was the de-
velopment of the residual or surface
treatment concept of mosquito and
mosquito-borne disease control. Even
before DDT became available, the
principle of controlling insects by
means of surface treatments utilizing
pyrethrins and other toxicants was
under investigation at the Orlando
laboratory. The high degree of toxic-
ity and stability of DDT seemed to
offer promise for this method of insect
control; consequently when this in-
secticide was available it was tried
with preliminary indications of suc-
cess. Studies were therefore intensi-
fied on this problem. It was not
known at the time that R. Weisman
of Switzerland had already demon-
strated the possibilities of DDT as a
residual treatment in controlling in-
sects through his highly significant
work on flies. The Orlando labora-
tory independently developed DDT
for fly control and proved its value
for controlling mosquitoes and cer-
tain other insects.

Since the residual or surface treat-
ment method of controlling mosqui-
toes as well as other insects was new,
many aspects needed investigation.
Various kinds of surfaces were treated
with DDT using different amounts
and different kinds of preparations.
Mosquitoes were confined for speci-
fied periods of time in specially con-
structed cages treated with the DDT
(pl. 4, fig. 1). Tests demonstrated that
the killing action lasted for weeks,
then months. Finally, after about
8 months the laboratory tests were
discontinued even though the better
treatments were still killing adult
mosquitoes.

While the laboratory tests were still
in progress, the principle of residual
treatments was tried in actual field
tests (pl. 4, fig. 2). In 1943 several
types of buildings were sprayed with
DDT. By the end of the mosquito
season, as long as 70 days after the
first treatments were applied, Anoph-
eles mosquitoes entering the build-
340

ings were still being killed. Special
tests were made which demonstrated
that the mosquitoes readily entered
the treated buildings, and by the time
they were affected by resting on treated
surfaces and began leaving, they had
accumulated a fatal dose of DDT.
This was a vital point and practically
assured the success of the method as
a means of breaking the link in the
chain of malaria transmission even
though malaria control had not yet
been demonstrated. On the basis of
these observations together with those
from residual tests against house flies,
bed bugs, and other insects, which
indicated that the insecticide remained
effective for several months, the DDT
residual treatment for malarial control
was recommended to the armed
services.

More extensive tests were under-
taken in 1944 and 1945 in the vicinity
of Stuttgart, Ark., and in Mexico.
These tests yielded highly important
information and fully confirmed our
earlier tests. The tests in Arkansas in
1944 were undertaken in cooperation
with the Arkansas State Board of
Health. The treated buildings were
almost completely free of Anopheles
adults for 5 months, or the entire mos-
quito season. Tests in Mexico in 1945
in cooperation with the Rockefeller
Foundation gave similar results.

The Army, Navy, Public Health
Service, and other agencies carried
out further investigations in 1944 and
1945 with this method of mosquito
control in various parts of the world
against several species of Anopheles
mosquitoes. Results everywhere were
phenomenal.

At present, DDT residual treatments
are widely employed, and this method
alone has potentialities of freeing man-
kind almost everywhere from malaria
and other mosquito-borne diseases—
diseases which according to medical
authorities afflict more than 100 mil-
lion people throughout the world and
cause several million deaths each year.

Area control of mosquitoes.—Larvicides,

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

aerosols, and residual sprays will not
take care of the adult mosquitoes that
have dispersed from breeding places
and which are living in extensive areas
outdoors. In order to provide meth-
ods of attack against mosquitoes under
every type of situation, research on
the destruction of mosquitoes under
these conditions was undertaken as a
part of our broad attack on the entire
mosquito problem. Studies were ini-
tiated using hand sprayers, dusters,
small smoke machines, and aerosol
bombs. It was shown that DDT ap-
plied outdoors would eliminate mos-
quitoes present even in heavy jungles.
Hand equipment had its place in pro-
tecting troops from mosquito attack,
but the method was not feasible for
large areas because of the labor in-
volved.

In efforts to control mosquitoes over
extensive areas two methods of ap-
proach were investigated. ‘These were
aerial dispersion and the utilization of
ground machines that would generate
aerosols in sufficient volume to be
carried by air currents over large areas.
The airplane equipment developed for
larval control has already been dis-
cussed and the same equipment was
also developed for utilization against
adult mosquitoes. The early work on
devices to generate aerosols by use of
heat was largely undertaken by Divi-
sion 10 of the National Defense Re-
search Committee in cooperation with
the Beltsville Research Center.

Small-scale field trials in the fall of
1943 with experimental models of
airplane insecticide dispersal equip-
ment demonstrated that salt-marsh
mosquitoes could be controlled at
dosages as low as 0.2 pound of DDT
per acre. Results of these tests to-
gether with the results of larval con-
trol research were recognized as highly
important by the Army Air Forces and
by the Office of the Surgeon General,
U. S. Army. The former sponsored
tests with DDT utilizing the Chemical
Warfare Service M-10 tanks on fast
combat planes, and it was shown
INSECT CONTROL INVESTIGATIONS—KNIPLING

that control of adult mosquitoes was
possible through the use of this equip-
ment.

The crucial tests on adult mosquito
control on an area basis employing
airplanes were conducted in Panama.
The Office of the Surgeon General,
U. S. Army, arranged for such tests
against tropical Anopheles and other
mosquitoes. In March of 1944 Mr.
Lindquist and Mr. Husman of the
Orlando staff were issued Army orders
to proceed to Panama with equipment
and materials. The tests were made
in cooperation with Army personnel in
Panama. If tropical Anopheles could
be controlled in jungle areas with DDT
sprays applied from the air, the Army
would try the method on a large scale
against other species in various parts
of the world.

Two tests were made on 50-acre
plots, each using the Husman-Longcoy
spray unit on an L-4 plane already
mentioned (pl. 3, fig. 2). The results
were phenomenal. A reduction of at
least 95 percent of adult Anopheles and
other mosquitoes was indicated, and
complete control of larvae was ob-
tained when breeding areas were
present in the area sprayed. For at
least a week the population of the
mosquitoes in the treated area was
greatly reduced. Thus the effective-
ness and feasibility of adult mosquito
control on an area basis were estab-
lished.

I shall not attempt to review further
developments except to state that im-
proved spray equipment consisting of
spray booms placed under the wings
of the aircraft were developed for use
on L-4 and PT-17 planes. Prelimi-
nary studies were also undertaken with
smokes and aerosols dispensed through
the exhaust pipe of aircraft. Other
agencies made important contribu-
tions in developing aerosol spraying for
mosquito control. The ‘Tennessee
Valley Authority and Division 10 of
the National Defense Research Com-
mittee concentrated on and developed
the exhaust type of equipment which
is now widely employed; the Army

341

Air Forces developed spray equipment
for B—25 bombers and C-47 transports;
and the Navy, in cooperation with the
Orlando personnel, developed spray
equipment for the TBM and TBF
airplanes (pl. 5, fig. 1). Overseas
units in the Army and Navy inde-
pendently constructed equipment for
aerial dispersion of DDT.

No phase of the insect-control work
created greater or more widespread
interest than did the aerial spray pro-
gram for destruction of mosquito
larvae and adults. Special missions
organized by the Army and Navy were
sent to different areas to conduct prac-
tical field tests with various kinds of
equipment. One such mission in
Panama was discussed by my col-
league, H. H. Stage, in an article in
the 1947 Smithsonian Report.

Aerial dispersion provided an effec-
tive means of quickly bringing under
control the mosquitoes already present
in infested areas. The destruction of
the adults in 24 hours or less, including
any that might be infected with dis-
eases, eliminated overnight the pos-
sibilities of disease transmission. Con-
trol of larvae at the same time meant
that in large areas at least 3 weeks of
protection from mosquito disease trans-
mission was assured,

The Army and Navy in 1945 ac-
tually treated entire islands in the
Pacific and extensive areas in other
war theaters for the control of mosqui-
toes and flies. At present, civilians
are treating large areas for control of
adult mosquitoes and other related
insects. The research on dispersion of
aerosols from the ground also went
forward, sponsored by Division 10 of
the National Defense Research Com-
mittee and other agencies. Such de-
vices, greatly improved, are now in-
cluded among the weapons for elimi-
nating various insects attacking man.
Five years ago very few biologists
could have visualized the future de-
velopment of such methods of control-
ling the insect pests and disease car-
riers in dense tropical jungles or on the
open tundra of the far North.
342

INSECT REPELLENTS

The major objective in insect con-
trol should be to destroy the insects
themselves, but from practical consid-
erations this is not always feasible.
This is especially true in time of war
when persons subject to attack are
frequently on the move or are living
without adequate means of protection
from insects. When the research pro-
grams were initiated we did not have
the several improved methods cur-
rently available for controlling mos-
quitoes and other related insects. The
need for a good insect repellent was
therefore considered urgent when
work began, and intensive research
was conducted on this project from
1942 to 1945. Even today with our
improved materials and weapons for
destroying mosquitoes and similar
parasites of man, it may not be eco-
nomically feasible to undertake con-
trol measures in some locations, espe-
cially in sparsely populated areas.

In carrying out the repellent pro-
gram, several thousand chemicals
were tested to determine their value
as mosquito repellents when applied
to the skin or to clothing. This
project was under the supervision of
Dr. B. V. Travis until April 1944, when
he joined the Navy to conduct re-
search on all aspects of insect control
probems in the Pacific. F. A. Morton
assumed charge of the project during
Dr. Travis’ absence. These men were
assisted by several able workers for
varying periods of time, including
J. P. Linduska, A. L. Smith, J. H.
Cochran, and J. H. Robinson. Work-
ing with the scientists were from 8 to
20 research subjects, who day after
day permitted their arms or other
parts of the body to be exposed to
thousands of hungry mosquitoes. This
was not an unpleasant job when the
materials under test were good and
repelled the mosquitoes for several
hours, but a high percentage of the
compounds were either worthless or
were of a low order of effectiveness.

For several years before the war,

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

Phillip Granett of Rutgers University,
working on a fellowship sponsored by
the Carbide and Carbon Chemical
Co., had been searching for repellents
for mosquitoes, flies, and other insects.
Using mosquitoes reared in the labora-
tory, over a period of several years,
he had treated his arms with hundreds
of chemicals and exposed them to
mosquitoes in cages. Similar proce-
dures were followed in conducting the
tests at Orlando, but the research was
on a more elaborate scale.

In the search for repellents, arms of
the subject treated with the test
material were inserted into cages
containing from 2,000 to 3,000 hun-
gry mosquitoes (pl. 5, fig. 2). If the
mosquitoes soon ignored the treatment
and proceeded to bite, the chemical was
discarded. If, however, no bites were
received during a period of 3 hours the
material was considered worthy of
further study in the laboratory and
in the field. For field tests, as shown
in plate 6, figure 1, the repellent crew
usually visited the salt marshes along
the east coast of Florida. Tests were
not conducted unless as many as
20 mosquitoes landed on the exposed
portion of a leg, from ankle to knee,
in 1 minute. On some occasions as
many as 100 mosquitoes landed on an
untreated leg in 1 minute.

The first objective of the repellent
program was to evaluate thoroughly
all materials known or reported to
possess repellent properties so that the
best ones that were safe to use could
be employed by the armed services.
Within 6 months after the research
was started three materials, found by
industry to be good insect repellents,
were tested under various conditions
and then recommended to the military
forces as repellents. These were di-
methyl phthalate, Rutgers 612 (2-
ethyl-1,3-hexanediol) and Indalone.

All these chemicals are good in-
sect repellents. They could be ex-
pected to give an average of about
2 hours of protection against the
yellow fever and salt-marsh mosqui-
toes. The length of protection varied,
INSECT CONTROL INVESTIGATIONS—KNIPLING

however, depending on the"individual,
the condition of the skin—whether
dry or wet from perspiration—the
number and species of mosquitoes,
and other factors.

To overcome some of the variations,
it was decided to mix all three of the
repellents that had been recommend-
ed to the armed services. Tests
against several kinds of mosquitoes
under various conditions indicated
that a mixture of the repellents was
more uniformly effective against a
variety of insects than any one of the
three alone. In some cases the mix-
ture was actually better than each of
the three individual repellents. On
the basis of these studies a 6-2-2
combination (60 parts of dimethyl
phthalate and 20 parts each of the
other two repellents) was adopted by
the services as the standard repellent.
The repellents were primarily for ap-
plication to the skin but they also
served a useful purpose when applied
to clothing so as to keep mosquitoes
from biting through.

During 1944 and 1945 work on
repellents was intensified by the Or-
lando laboratory as well as by other
agencies in efforts to find more effec-
tive and more desirable materials.
The goal was a preparation, cos-
metically acceptable, that could be
applied with assurance that the user
would be protected from attack for
about 10 hours, or at least overnight.
The Office of Scientific Research and
Development arranged research con-
tracts with several universities to syn-
thesize or furnish new materials,
especially chemicals related to known
repellents.

As a result of the intensified pro-
gram several thousand new materials
were tested and hundreds of creams
and lotions were prepared and eval-
uated. I cannot review here all the
work done during this period at the
Orlando laboratory and by research
groups with the armed services, uni-
versities, and in industry. Much
worth-while information was obtained,
the value of which may not be fully

817369—49——27

343

apparent for years to come. A num-
ber of very promising repellents were
found. Some of them are now in use,
and others are still being studied.
However, in brief it may be said that
we did not gain our objective. None
of the new chemicals which were
considered entirely safe to use were
sufficiently effective to warrant their
recommendation as replacements for,
or to supplement, the three repellents
and the 6-2-2 combination men-
tioned earlier. When the war ended,
the repellents recommended in 1942
and 1943 were still in use by the
services. Although far from perfect,
they are distinctly superior to any
repellents known prior to the war,
when citronella and certain other
essential oils were the only materials
widely employed.

Flies

Flies of various kinds have always
constituted a serious insect problem,
not only because they are a source of
annoyance, but because they spread
filth and diseases. Some medical of-
ficers in the services considered flies
as important as mosquitoes. Research
on improved methods of controlling
flies paralleled that of mosquitoes to a
considerable extent.

After extensive laboratory studies,
the first practical tests, utilizing DDT
as a residual treatment, were con-
ducted by treating dairies in the vicin-
ity of Orlando. House flies have al-
ways been numerous in this type of
environment even though the owner
might have employed rigid sanitation
and other control measures. In May
1943 fly counts were made around
two dairies. One was treated with 5-
percent DDT in kerosene; the other
served as a control. Before treatment
approximately 1,500 flies were col-
lected around each dairy by making
15 sweeps with an insect net in places
where flies concentrated. Within 24
hours after treatment the fly popula-
tion around the treated dairy dropped
by at least 95 percent. A week later
the population was still less than 5
344

percent of the pretreatment level,
whereas the fly counts remained un-
changed around the untreated dairy.
The same degree of control was main-
tained week after week until in Octo-
ber, when the fly season had practi-
cally ended, observations were discon-
tinued. Similar results were obtained
around other dairies. Thus a single
thorough treatment with DDT caused
immediate reduction in fly populations
of over 95 percent under the most
dificult of circumstances, and _ this
degree of control persisted for the en-
tire season. If similar results could be
obtained around military installations,
one of the most serious military prob-
lems could be largely solved.

The Orlando Air Base and the
Fourth Service Command Corps of
Engineers headquarters at Atlanta,
Ga., cooperated in conducting similar
tests in military installations. Spec-
tacular results were also obtained un-
der these conditions. On the strength
of these studies, together with the
elaborate studies which were still un-
derway in the laboratory against both
flies and mosquitoes, the potentialities
of DDT residue treatments for fly con-
trol was called to the attention of Army
and Navy Personnel and Public Health
Service workers. In 1944 the Army
and Navy began employing DDT for
fly contro] in many parts of the world,
and almost everywhere reports indi-
cated excellent results.

This means much to us in the United
States, but even more to the people of
places in the world where a high per-
centage of the population might die
as a result of fly-borne diseases. DDT
or some similar insecticide used as a
residual treatment can help solve sani-
tation and health problems everywhere.

Mites (Chiggers)

Most of us at one time or another
have experienced the discomfort
caused by one of our smallest arthro-
pod parasites—the larval stage of mites,
commonly called chiggers or red bugs.
Fortunately, in the Americas our chief
concern with this pest is the irritation

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

caused by the bite. This alone,
however, was sufficient reason to
undertake intensive research to develop
more effective methods of control.
In the fall of 1942 medical officers
participating in Army maneuvers in
Louisiana and certain other southern
States reported a larger number of
hospitalizations of military personnel
due to infections resulting from chigger
bites than for any other cause. Later,
however, our armies in the Pacific
and in the China-Burma-India theater
experienced outbreaks of scrub typhus
or Tsutsugamushi disease, transmitted
by mites closely allied to the species
found in this country. Although the
disease was fairly well known before
the war, its potential importance was
not fully realized by our scientists and
medical men. Fortunately, when seri-
ous outbreaks of mite typhus occurred
among various military units in 1943
and 1944, we had already developed
an effective means of protecting indi-
viduals from the vector.

When the mite typhus problem be-
came acute in several war areas, the
U. S. A. Typhus Commission under-
took extensive investigations on the
vectors of this disease and Australian
scientists also concentrated on the
mite problem. At the suggestion of
the Typhus Commission our work on
mites, carried out in close cooperation
with that agency and the Office of the
Surgeon General, was _ intensified.
Capt. R. C. Bushland, formerly in
charge of the laboratory phases of the
louse project at Orlando, had entered
the Army. He was attached to the
Typhus Commission staff and assigned
to the miticide aspects. As he devel-
oped the clothing impregnation meth-
od of mite control under field conditions
using dimethyl phthalate, the work
on new, more effective miticides was
under way at Orlando by Fred M.
Snyder, F. A. Morton, J. P. Linduska,
Pvt. H. F. Cross, and others.

The objective was to develop a miti-
cide which when impregnated in
clothing would protect the individual
even after the clothing was washed.
INSECT CONTROL INVESTIGATIONS—KNIPLING

The Australians had found that cloth-
ing treated with dibutyl phthalate,
chemically related to dimethy! phtha-
late, was effective even after it was
laundered. DDT which had given us
an effective weapon for so many of our
other problems was of no value in
controlling mites.

A. H. Madden and A. W. Lindquist
undertook the early investigations on
mites or chiggers. The objective
was to develop a treatment which the
individual could use to protect him-
self from mite attack. As with the
louse and insect-repellent projects,
human subjects acted as guinea pigs.
These research subjects exposed them-
selves to chiggers in highly infested
areas. Those wearing untreated cloth-
ing knew they were in for hours of
irritation which the chiggers would
cause. The others were only hopeful
that the treatment applied to them
would be a good one. Most tests were
conducted in areas where untreated
men could be expected to obtain up to
200 chigger attachments after a 2-hour
exposure.

Many types of treatments were
tested to protect individuals from
chiggers, including insect repellents
applied to the skin and dusts applied
in clothing. The most significant ad-
vance in mite control, however, was
the work on clothing treatment.
When socks and army uniforms were
treated with dimethyl phthalate or
some of the other repellents and in-
secticides, and worn by subjects in
heavily infested chigger areas, com-
plete protection was obtained. This
single treatment remained effective for
several weeks. Good control was ob-
tained also by spraying the repellents
on the clothing. Even simpler meth-
ods were tried and it was found that
excellent control could be obtained by
applying a repellent barrier to the
socks and all the openings of the
clothing.

In evaluating the different miticides,
definite steps were followed. Patches
of cloth of the kind worn by service
men were treated, and mites were

345

placed on the treated cloth. If the
mites were killed or immobilized
within 15 minutes, the chemical was
studied further to determine whether
the treatment remained effective after
the clothing was washed or laundered.
Several thousand materials were eval-
uated in this manner (pl. 6, fig. 2), and
the more promising of those which
were not too toxic or possessed no
objectional features were considered
for practical tests. Samples of these
were forwarded by the Typhus Com-
mission to their men in the Pacific
and to those in the China-Burma-India
theater. The same materials were
also tested further by the men at
Orlando. The Chemical Warfare
Service also investigated miticides and
concentrated on binders such as chlo-
rinated paraffins which might prolong
the action of the mite treatments
applied to clothing.

These studies produced a number of
materials which were highly effective.

Benzyl benzoate was among the
best that were know to be safe to use
and that could be made available
without much delay. Dibutyl phthal-
ate was generally effective, but the
degree of protection it afforded was
somewhat erratic. Because of short-
ages of benzyl benzoate, the Office of
the Quartermster Corps requested
tests with a combination of this mate-
rial and dibutyl phthalate and these
tests indicated that a 50-50 mixture
of the two miticides was approximately
as good as benzyl benzoate alone.
This mixture is now the Army’s
standard miticide. When the war
ended, work was underway on a num-
ber of materials which, on the basis
of preliminary tests, were even superior
to benzyl benzoate.

Thus other important weapons were
developed which protected our fight-
ing forces from an enemy that exper-
ience with isolated units had indicated
could be as destructive as the Japs.

Other Problems Investigated

Fleas——Fleas, through the trans-
mission of plague, have in the past
346

created much misery to _ peoples
throughout the world. Even today
plague rages in certain parts of the
world and is of potential importance
in the United States. Endemic ty-
phus can be transmitted by fleas and
is one of our common diseases. This
insect was therefore also included
among those investigated at the Or-
lando laboratory. Under the super-
vision of A. W. Lindquist, A. H.
Madden, and others, we tried various
repellents and insecticides. Although
dimethyl phthalate and other mos-
quito repellents afforded some pro-
tection to individuals, a material
which would kill fleas was more
urgently needed.

When DDT proved so highly effec-
tive to a number of other insects, we
naturally investigated this material
for flea control. It was shown that
fleas could be eliminated completely
from infested areas by applying DDT
sprays or dusts. Although slow in
action, DDT was also useful for killing
fleas on persons already infested or
those subject to infestation. Its effec-
tiveness as an all-purpose flea insecti-
cide compared favorably with that as
a louse killer or for mosquito and fly
control.

Bedbugs.—Bedbugs have not been
incriminated as disease carriers, but
they are important from the stand-
point of annoyance. In permanent
military establishments, and of course
among a high percentage of civilian
homes and institutions, bedbugs con-
stituted a major insect pest problem.
Ordinary household type of sprays,
heat, and fumigation were methods
employed for controlling bedbugs.
These treatments, however, were far
from satisfactory.

The bedbug problem was under-
taken in 1942 by A. W. Lindquist and
A. H. Madden, the same men men-
tioned in connection with the research
on mosquitoes, flies, mites, and other
arthropods. Many insecticides were
tested against bedbugs. Pyrethrum
properly used and in sufficient amount
was good, but we could not recom-

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

mend that it be used because all
available supplies were required for
the disease-carrying insects.

When DDT became available, labo-
ratory tests demonstrated that this
insecticide when used as a residual
spray remained effective for many
weeks. Practical tests were then con-
ducted in naturally infested homes.
A thorough treatment of the walls,
bedsteads, springs, and mattresses
completely eradicated the bugs pres-
ent. In order to determine how long
the treatment would prevent rein-
festations, 25 bugs from the labora-
tory colony were added to a bed in
one of the treated homes at intervals
of a week to a month. This test was
continued for 16 months. Bedbugs
failed to become established, and
finally Mr. Madden gave up, even
though bugs placed on the bed were
still being killed after this period of
time.

The next problem was to give DDT
a thorough test under military condi-
tions. The Orlando Air Base under
the direction of Lt. Col. J..@i7A2
Daniels carried out investigations
along this line. A total of 6,000 beds
and the quarters were treated, and
during 6 months of checking no bed-
bugs were found. The Corps of Engi-
neers obtained equally spectacular
results in practical tests. We now say
that DDT is the perfect answer to the
bedbug problem for the military as
well as for civilians.

Scabies investigations—The human
itch mite is widespread in distribution
and is an important military problem.
It is also important among civilians,
especially among school children. The
studies on itch mites, which were un-
dertaken by G. W. Eddy, were greatly
handicapped by a lack of sufficient
cases for treatment. No method of
colonizing this parasite is known. A
treatment for scabies generally re-
quires the application of materials to
the entire body. It was necessary
therefore to exercise extreme caution
from a_ toxicological - viewpoint in
choosing materials for test purposes.
INSECT CONTROL INVESTIGATIONS—KNIPLING

Even though the obstacles mentioned
limited the amount of research that
could be done on this problem, im-
portant progress was made.

Although several treatments were
developed, the NBIN concentrate al-
ready mentioned in connection with
the discussion on lice was adopted as
the standard preparation. ‘This mate-
rial in concentrated form, when di-
luted (1 part in 5 parts of water) and
thoroughly applied to the entire body,
in all experimental cases gave com-
plete control of scabies. There is
strong evidence that this formula is
more effective than other preparations
containing the same amount of benzyl
benzoate. This is thought to be due
to added scabicidal and ovicidal prop-
erties of the benzocaine. ‘There is no
evidence that the DDT present aids in
controlling scabies. Its function is to
control lice when the preparation is
employed for that purpose.

New materials were also tested to
determine their scabicidal properties.
In evaluating new compounds, it was
necessary to limit the tests to a few
selected materials. Only those that
were toxicologically safe as determined
by the United States Food and Drug
Administration were considered. Even
with these handicaps we discovered
several chemicals which in preliminary
tests were indicated to be equal to, or
perhaps better than, benzyl benzoate.

Ticks—These important disease
transmitters were also included among
the problems studied, but no impor-
tant progress was made. Many mate-
rials considered to be effective insecti-
cides or repellents proved useless
against ticks.

Some measure of protection for indi-
viduals was provided by treating the
clothing with dimethyl phthalate,
benzyl benzoate, Indalone, and cer-
tain other chemicals. These treat-
ments were considered to give 99 per-
cent protection against the larval tick
(seed ticks), 90 percent against the
nymphs, and about 50 to 60 percent
against the adult forms.

Culicoides (sand fties) —Culicoides and

347

related insects are important in the
United States chiefly as an annoyance.
In certain regions of the world the true
sand fly (Phlebotomus) is highly impor-
tant as a disease carrier. No oppor-
tunities were afforded to test materials
against Phlebotomus, but some repellent
and insecticide tests were conducted
against the Culicordes which are com-
mon and very annoying along the
coastal regions of Florida. It was
found that materials and methods use-
ful for mosquito control were also
helpful in combating the sand flies.

Educational Service

One of the most important functions
of the Orlando Laboratory during its
period of operation was to disseminate
the information obtained on the con-
trol of insects of medical importance.
Many people from various parts of the
world visited the laboratory in order
to get first-hand information on the
most recent developments in the con-
trol of the insects under investigation.
Most of these were entomologists,
medical officers, and engineers in the
armed services and in public health
services who were charged with the
responsibility of controlling insects and
insect-borne diseases among military
personnel and civilians. The visitors
also included scientists from many of
the Allied nations. Courses of instruc-
tion were offered to groups at regular
intervals.

The constant stream of visitors
naturally interrupted the research
activities somewhat, but this educa-
tional service represented one of the
most important functions of the labo-
ratory. Information on new methods
and materials to control insects was
made available first hand to hundreds
of men who in turn traveled to many
parts of the world to instruct others
on the use of new techniques for con-
trolling insects. Others returned to
their laboratories to carry out further
research in efforts to improve on mate-
rials and methods already developed.

Members of the Orlando staff were
348

sent on special missions to various parts
of the world by the Army and Navy
for the purpose of disseminating the
new information and to participate in
important research activities designed
to adapt control methods against im-
portant insects in their natural habitat.

Special reports under security re-
strictions were issued on all aspects of
the research programs. These were
made available for distribution by the
Office of Scientific Research and De-
velopment to key personnel in the
armed services and other institutions.
Assistance was given to the Army and
Navy in the preparation of training

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

films which demonstrated how per-
sonnel in our services could protect
themselves from attack by the many
insects and insect-borne diseases.

Near the end of the war and imme-
diately following, we undertook the
task of publishing in technical form
the vast amount of data accumulated
in connection with the studies carried
out over a period of almost 4 years.
Many of the data may never appear
in print, but the most significant con-
tributions, contained in more than 150
technical papers, have already been
published or are in the process of pub-
lication in scientific journals.
Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Knipling

1. The body louse colony receives a blood meal. The lice clinging to the woolen
pads placed on the back of the subject crawl beneath them and begin feeding
almost immediately. The feeding process takes 20 to 30 minutes.

2. R. C. Bushland and E. F. Knipling examining treated “farm and leg” gar-

ments on research subjects to determine results of tests with insecticides for
the control of body lice.

‘
Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Knipling PLATE 2

1. A scene in one of the Anopheles colony rooms. Margaret Greenwald and
Jean McHarg are shown caring for the colony which was an important aspect
of the mosquito research program.

2. A scene in the larvicide testing room. Edna Hinchey is shown adding the
desired concentration of a test chemical to water in a beaker prior to introduc-
tion of mosquito larvae.
Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Knipling PLATE 3

1. Dusting with DDT. DDT applied as a dust was found to give good control,
at dosages as low as | pound of active ingredient on 20 acres. Paris green,
formerly used, required 1 pound per acre.

2. The first DDT sprayer employed on aircraft for mosquito control. This
unit, known as the Husman-Longcay spray, was designed for the Piper Club
(L-4). The equipped airplane was called the “Flying Flit Gun.” It was
employed primarily as an experimental unit.
Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Knipling PLATE 4

One type of cage employed in conducting DDT laboratory tests. Various
concentrations of DDT employing different kinds of formulations were tested
as a residual treatment to determine the duration of effectiveness against
mosquitoes and flies.

2. A. W. Lindquist and H. G. Wilson applying a residual or surface spray in an
army installation. The development of the residual treatment principal of
mosquito and fly control probably represents the greatest single advancement
jn our war on insect vectors of diseases.
Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Knipling PEATE)

1. Aerial photograph of Navy TBF airplane applying DDT spray along the
Florida coast. ‘vhe control of both larvae and adult mosquitoes over large
areas represents a new method of mosquito control which few would have
believed possible prior to the advent of DDT. The equipment on this plane
was designed in cooperation with the Navy.

2. Laboratory test of insect repellent. Candidate insect repellents were first
tested in the laboratory using caged mosquitoes. Here Dr. B. V. Travis
has inserted his partially treated arm in a cage containing several thousand
hungry mosquitoes.
Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Knipling PLATE 6

Ree eee AR Petite fs Raisin: '
tS a ee ET ee: ae ey oe ae ES

HER Rycifiy oR tes spetepes

mek

1. B. V. Travis, A. W. Lindquist, A. H. Madden, and A. L. Smith with research
subjects testing mosquito repellents in the field.

(U.S. D. A. photograph by Knell.)

2. Testing miticides. Several thousand candidate materials were tested. The
initial test procedures consisted of “stopping time” tests. Here F. M. Snyder
(center) and assistants are placing chiggers collected in infested areas on cloth
patches treated with miticides to determine if they are effective miticides.
The Golden Nematode Invades New York

By W. L. Popuam, Assistant Chief, Bureau of Entomology and Plant Quarantine,
Agricultural Research Administration, U. S. Department of Agriculture

[With 2 Plates]

Of the many crop pests of foreign
origin that have become established
in the United States the golden nem-
atode (Heterodera rostochiensis Woll.),
which attacks the roots of potatoes and
tomatoes, is potentially one of the
most damaging, and certainly one
of the most difficult to combat.

The golden nematode has been
described as “‘a soil infesting organism,
eel-like in shape, thin as the finest hair,
and less than My of an inch long.”
In heavily infested soil thousands of
them may attack the roots of a single
potato or tomato plant. Upon reach-
ing maturity the males die but the
females, which have embedded them-
selves in the outer layer of the rootlets,
eventually develop into tiny spherical
cysts which may be seen with the
unaided eye. These cysts may be
white, cream, yellow, orange, or
brown in color, according to age.
Mature cysts, which are filled with
eggs, usually become detached from
the roots of the host plant and remain
like weed seeds in the soil. When po-
tatoes or tomatoes (the only known
hosts) are again planted in the field a
substance excreted from the roots
stimulates fully developed larvae to
hatch from the eggs and a new gener-
ation of nematode takes up the attack.
Mature cysts may remain viable in
the soil for at least 8 years without the
presence of host plants.

Effect of Nematode First Observed in 1934

Just when or how the golden nema-
tode gained entry to this country is not

known. It is significant, however,
that a potato grower near Hicksville,
Nassau County, Long Island, N.Y.,
first became aware of its presence
when a certain few spots in his field
would not produce potatoes profitably
even when he gave particular attention
to normal cultural procedures for the
area. In these spots the vines were
stunted and off color. When _har-
vested the potatoes were small, many
no larger than marbles. This was in
1934. By 1938 these spots had multi-
plied both in number and size and, at
a loss to account for the difficulty, the
grower arranged for a soil analysis,
suspecting that a mineral deficiency
was responsible for his trouble. It
was not until 1941, after infestation in
the field had become much more
general, that the real cause of the
difficulty was determined to be gold-
en nematode. During the remainder
of that season an inspection of adjoin-
ing fields was made by the New York
State Department of Agriculture and
Markets and the Federal Bureau of
Entomology and Plant Quarantine
which added some 40 acres to the
known infested area.

For the purpose of this discussion it
will suffice to say that by 1945 the
infested area had been extended to
involve 34 properties totaling 1,080
acres. A year later infestation had
been confirmed on 2,600 acres in-
volving 81 properties, and an addi-
tional 3,000 acres, all in Nassau
County, were known to have been
operationally exposed. As of this

349
350

date (October 1948) the known in-
fested area involves about 7,000 acres,
all within 5 miles of Hicksville and
all in Nassau County except three
small fields comprising 30 acres just
across the line in Suffolk County.

Because thousands of bushels of
potatoes were grown and marketed
without restriction from farms later
found to be infested, there was specu-
lation as to how generally distributed
the golden nematode might have
become. Also there was much specu-
lation as to the amount of damage
it might cause under normal cropping
procedures in this country. What
about soil fumigants? Was there an
economical and practical way to
“live with” the parasite should it
become generally distributed in this
country? Was there a simple way of
disinfecting potatoes so that those
grown on infested land could be
allowed to move through normal
marketing channels without creating
a hazard of spread? There was an
urgent need for research which would
lead to answers to these and similar
questions.

Survey Extended to Outlying Areas

In an effort to determine the distri-
bution of the golden nematode in
this country elsewhere than on Long
Island, a carefully planned survey
was organized by the Bureau of Ento-
mology and Plant Quarantine in 1944
in cooperation with 19 of the more
important potato-growing States east
of the Mississippi River. In repre-
sentative fields in centers of potato
production as far west as Minnesota
and North Dakota, plants were pulled
and the roots examined. Particular
attention was given to potato fields of
poor stands or those with spots or
streaks of unthrifty plants, and to
areas around loading and grading
points and waste dumps. More than
48,000 acres of potato land involving
1,500 properties in 148 counties were
examined. No golden nematodes
were found. Each year since then
the survey on Long Island, elsewhere

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

in New York, and in adjoining States,
has been intensified using improved
soil-sampling procedures but no in-
festation has been found beyond a
10-mile radius of Hicksville. This
year particular attention has been
given to surveys in New Jersey, Penn-
sylvania, Delaware, Maryland, and
Virginia, with some additional work
in New England and in States as far
west as Wisconsin and Minnesota.
It is encouraging that the “outside”
survey for this season is now complete
in most areas as far west as Ohio, and
the results are negative.

Just what would it mean if the
golden nematode became generally
established in the more important
potato-growing areas of the United
States? Actually only a few fields
have been permitted to become in-
fested to the point that damage has
been conspicuous. However, what
has happened in these few fields
coupled with the history of the pest
in the British Isles and at other points
in western Europe not only leaves little
doubt as to its potential as a pest in
this country, but focuses attention on
the complete inadequacy of available
methods of control.

When it was realized that several
thousand acres of potato land on Long
Island were infested, that eradication
of the golden nematode with available
tools was practically an impossibility,
and that further spread of the parasite
was inevitable unless drastic measures
were taken, it was natural that we
should look to Europe for available
information on control. In November
1946 Dr. A. B. Buchholz, representing
the New York State Department of
Agriculture and Markets, and the
writer, visited the British Isles and
other points in western Europe to con-
sult with scientists, potato growers,
representatives of marketing associa-
tions, and others directly concerned
with potato culture and marketing in
areas where the golden nematode has
been a major problem for a number of
years. In our opinion the situation
that exists in England today is sugges-
GOLDEN NEMATODE—POPHAM

tive of what may be expected in this
country eventually if the golden
nematode is permitted to spread
unchecked.

Potato-root Eelworm (Golden Nematode)
Has Spread Rapidly in England

Information obtained in conferences
with more than 40 scientists, farm
advisers, farm managers, and farm
foremen in England, Ireland, and
Holland indicated that the more im-
portant factors contributing to the
spread of the golden nematode were
(a) using potatoes produced on in-
fested soil for seed, (b) moving trans-
plants from infested soil to other fields,
(c) using the same farm implements
and containers interchangeably in
infested and noninfested fields, (d)
soil drifting from infested to non-
infested fields, and (e) the careless
disposal of containers used in handling
culinary potatoes grown on infested
lands.

It was learned that the golden nema-
tode, or potato-root eelworm as it is
commonly called in Europe, is preva-
lent in 65 to 75 percent of the fields
in the more important potato-growing
areas of England. It is reported to
occur wherever potatoes are grown
commercially in Scotland. In north-
ern Ireland the parasite is not widely
distributed. However, some 300 acres
known to be infested at that time had
been taken out of potato and tomato
culture by the Ministry of Agriculture
which has authority to remove from
production promptly any fields de-
termined to be infested, even when
such action involves destruction of a
crop. A similar situation exists in
Holland. Only limited areas are re-
ported to be infested and these have
been dealt with drastically. Both
Holland and northern Ireland have
undertaken to protect export seed
industries which are based to an im-
portant degree upon certification that
the potatoes are grown on eelworm-free
soil.

351

Golden Nematode Now Recognized as
Major Pest in Europe

Research on the potato-root eel-
worm in recent years has been inten-
sified in Europe owing to the extensive
damage that is now attributed to it.
In talking with research workers at
St. Albans, Cambridge, and Leeds, in
England, and at various points in
Holland it was learned that European
investigators were primarily con-
cerned with (a) a search for a fumi-
gant which would effectively and eco-
nomically reduce the eelworm popu-
lation in an infested field to a level
where potatoes or tomatoes could be
grown profitably, (b) a search for
resistant host material, (c) asearch for a
synthetic which would stimulate hatch-
ing of the larvae in the absence of host
material, thus shortening the host-free
period required to suppress or eradi-
cate the parasite, (d) a search for
chemicals having a retarding effect on
cyst development, and (e) the exten-
sion of a publicly provided soil-exami-
nation service undertaken during the
war to indicate fields in which the cyst
count was at a sufficiently low level to
insure a profitable crop of potatoes.
Because the golden nematode has
become so widely distributed in Eng-
land most investigators there were
concerned more with ways of growing
potatoes in competition with it than in
developing practical methods for erad-
ication or prevention of spread.

A few quotations may help in an
appraisal of the seriousness of the
pest in England. J. Wood reports as
follows in the September 1946 issue of
The Kirton Agricultural Journal:

The total acreage of infested land in the
county (Holland, Lincolnshire) is not defi-
nitely known, but from different estimates it
is believed to be about 20 percent of the total
arable. ‘This means that trouble has occurred
on about 40,000 acres during the past 25
years. It does not take into account the land
that is already initially infested or contami-
nated. On a few farms every field is infested
and potatoes cannot profitably be grown.
On some, most of the fields are infested and
the potato acreage has had to be reduced;
352

while on a large number of farms one or two
infested fields are being rested from potatoes
and the directed acreage is being grown on
the remaining land by more intensive crop-
ping, * * *

No information is available concerning the
total acreage of infested land that is being
cropped after being rested, but it can be
stated that 25 percent of the failures occurred
on such land because the resting period had
been too short. In some instances farmers
had concluded that a rest of 3 years ought to
be sufficient, in others they had had a good
crop a year or two earlier after a long rest
and thought that the pest had been starved
out. But the most distressing instances were
the few where the trouble showed up in
patches after a rest of 7 or 8 years.

With regard to a remedy, Mr. Wood
has the following to say:

Farmers are naturally anxious to learn what
steps have been taken to discover some means
of controlling this eelworm, and it may be
mentioned in this connection that when the
Holland County Council purchased the Agri-
cultural Institute Farm they were soon con-
fronted with this problem at Kirton. No
time was lost in calling in available specialists
to carry out an investigation. South Lincoln-
shire was not the first potato-producing area
to experience the trouble, but because of the
importance of potatoes to the county, and the
fact that a County Advisory Service had re-
cently been introduced, experiments were
soon in progress. Hopes of success were high
when a dressing of drained creosote salts
applied at the rate of 8 cwts. per acre and
ploughed in 14 days before planting gave a
big increase of crop. But after several years
it became obvious that the treatment was
unreliable and its recommendation was dis-
continued. Since then research work has
continued at the Institute of Agricultural
Parasitology on fundamental points in the
life-history and responses of the pest. A vast
amount of information has been accumulated
but the search for some material suitable for
application to the soil still goes on. Mean-
while the only effective recommendation is
that of resting the land from potatoes for a
suitable period. And that suitable period
has still to be worked out locally.

In summarizing he points out that—

There is as yet no instance on record in the
county where main crop potatoes have been
grown successfully even once in 4 years when
a crop has once iailed without the trouble
again becoming eventually evident. In the
absence of some helpful control measure it is
not unlikely that a 6-year rotation will have
to be adopted.

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

The following appears in Leaflet No.
117 published by the Ministry of Agri-
culture of Northern Ireland in Decem-
ber 1945:

Potato root eelworm is now regarded as
the most serious pest affecting the potato
crop in many of the main potato-growing
areas in Great Britain. Because of its slow
development, its seriousness, and even its
presence, are often not realized until there
is a very great reduction in crop yields. The
pest may be regarded as more serious than
the well-known Black Scab disease, because
all varieties of potatoes are subject to attack
and there is no known cure under field condi-
tions. Once land becomes infected it remains
so for a long period. How long is not known.

The first symptoms of eelworm attack are
the appearance of a patch or patches in the
crop where the plants are dwarfed and sickly
—not unlike a patch produced by a wet spot
in a field or even by other diseases. ‘The
plants have weak, spindly stems, and the tops
are generally stunted and paler in color than
those of the rest of the crop. The leaves are
under-sized and have a tendency to wilt and
to drop off prematurely. The lower leaves
wither at first but the whole top eventually
collapses early in the season. As these plants
die off, the attack spreads to the healthier
plants around the margins.

The author has the following to say
in regard to preventive measures:

There is no effective means of destroying
the eggs of the eelworm in the fiedd and it is,
therefore, of the utmost importance that
everything possible should be done to prevent
clean land from becoming infected. Two
essentials toward this end are (a) to use only
certified eelworm-free seed, and (b) to adopt
a wide rotation on the farm in which potatoes
do not occur more than once every 5 years.
Eelworm attack nearly always occurs when
potatoes are grown frequently in the same
field. Farmers should, therefore, avoid this
practice at all costs, even should this mean
limiting their area under potatoes.

It has been clearly demonstrated
that golden nematode cysts will re-
main in the soil for 8 or more years
without the presence of host plants.
Therefore, any natural or mechanical
movement of soil from infested fields
during that time may result in its
spread to new areas. Soil fumigation
with materials now available will sub-
stantially reduce but not eradicate
infestation and such treatment is costly
and provides only temporary relief.
GOLDEN NEMATODE—POPHAM

Known Infested Land Held Out of
Potato Production

There are now known to be some-
what more than 7,000 acres in the
Hicksville area either infested or ex-
posed to infestation. In complying
with the provisions of the New York
State quarantine and in accordance
with a carefully organized Federal-
State cooperative control program,
known infested acreage was held out
of production during the 1948 season
with the understanding that growers
would receive compensation amount-
ing to approximately two-thirds of
their losses, these to be calculated on
the basis of average crops over a 5-year
period.

As a result of inspections made on
Long Island since planting date,
infestation has been found on an addi-
tional 800 acres, all of which is very
lightly infested. However, potatoes
from these fields and from adjacent
exposed fields will be marketed through
approved channels under supervision
as heretofore.

The Hicksville area represents less
than 10 percent of the land normally
planted to potatoes on Long Island
so the prevention of local as well as
long-distance spread is an important
consideration. It is recognized that
before the golden nematode was
known to occur on Long Island,
potatoes from infested fields moved to
market without restriction. However,
Long Island is not a seed-producing
area, and potatoes grown there are
consumed for the most part in New
York City or in other metropolitan
areas. It is possible, however, that
some may have found their way to

353

rural points. Bags used in marketing
potatoes from infested fields may have
reached the hands of potato growers in
areas some distance from Long Island.
Thus, while the Bureau is cooperating
closely with the State of New York in
maintaining strict control over the
movement of potatoes or other soil-
bearing objects from infested lands on
Long Island, it is important that
potato growers and pest-control ofhi-
cials throughout the country remain
alert to the possibility that the golden
nematode may have become estab-
lished elsewhere. If such foci of infec-
tion exist it is important that they be
discovered promptly and that suppres-
sive action be taken. At least until
far more statisfactory methods of
control are known, it is highly impor-
tant that further spread of the pest
be prevented.

Cornell University and the Bureau
of Plant Industry, Soils, and Agricul-
tural Engineering are cooperating in
a comprehensive research program
which has two main objectives: (1)
to find a practical method of disin-
festing potatoes grown on infested
lands so that they may move to
market without restriction as to des-
tination, and (2) to determine a more
effective and economical sil treat-
ment which can be used either in an
eradication effort or for commercial
control in areas where the nematode
now occurs or later becomes estab-
lished.

Some modifications will be made in
the cooperative control program for
1949. However, the main objective
will be to keep out of potato and
tomato production as much as possible
of the land known to be infested.
; 4 v. Aa vane hanger
rf : ; ? ee © b EAs a

;
D oh x® ‘feur
ies ae
ce

a : DoT DS hi i eit ‘ rahe
; ran : ish i oar rey tine car Omics | S tc; <7 Rd be Sel

; , .-etae <a * :
: ape ate < Po. cr
eS tae L) yA > tod

ane? |

. apart
. or, eT

- - vt ’ i" i) 7 : 7 ; 7

; 1. ae . (ih a hari any 5) aoe te
; = a 7 “TF : aan De. by *y : act - ;
7 : a vs i f f ‘ I H fa :
of i = - : : a : ~~ : 1 ; 5 i |
Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Popham PLATE 1

GOLDEN NEMATODE, HICKSVILLE, L. I., N. Y., 1946
Roots of potato plant showing golden nematode cysts (enlarged).
Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Popham FASE

1. GOLDEN NEMATODE, HICKSVILLE, L. |., N. Y., 1946

Soil sampling for golden nematode. Inspector lifting soil sample on trowel and placing sample in paper bag.

2. LABORATORY WORKERS WITH BINOCULARS EXAMINING A SYRACUSE DISH
CONTAINING RESIDUE FROM A SOIL SAMPLE IN ORDER TO DETERMINE THE
PRESENCE OF GOLDEN NEMATODE CYSTS
The Cork Oak in the United States

By Victor A. Ryan, Director of Research, Crown Cork and Seal Company, Inc.,
and Gites B. Cooke, Director of McManus Cork Project, Research Department,
Crown Cork and Seal Company, Inc., Baltimore, Md.

[With 8 plates]

The cork tree is a species of oak
which is known botanically as Quercus
suber. The wood is light in color and
the cork oak has been considered to be
of the white oak variety. Recently
Williams (1) } has shown the wood of
the cork tree possesses grain structure
similar to that of the red oak.

Cork is the bark of the cork oak tree
which is native to the small area that
forms the shores of the western Medi-
terranean. When the tree is 20 years
old or about 9 inches in diameter, cork
is stripped from the trunk. New cork
grows to replace that removed, but
much faster than the original bark,
and subsequent strippings of the cork
tree are made every 8 to 10 years.
The bark after being boiled, scraped,
dried, and baled is the cork of com-
merce. For more than 2,300 years
the world’s supply of cork has come
from Europe and North Africa.

The United States uses more cork
than any other country. Cork is very
important to our national economy,
for it is both a critical war material
and an essential peacetime commodity.
To meet this Nation’s manufacturing
requirements approximately 160,000
tons of corkwood are imported annu-
ally. From this cork many important
articles are produced. These include
bottle stoppers, life preservers, ring
buoys, floats, shoe inner soles, sealing

1 Numbers in parentheses indicate refer-
ences at the end of this article.

liners for bottle caps, gaskets of many
types for automobiles, electric motors,
switch boxes, household appliances
and other articles, friction rolls, polish-
ing wheels, and corkboard for insula-
tion, acoustical and machinery isola-
tion purposes.

Early Plantings in the United States

The founders of our country were
aware of the importance of cork. At
the same time they knew the cork tree
could be grown in the South and pos-
sibly elsewhere in the United States.
As early as 1787 Thomas Jefferson sent
cork acorns from France to William
Drayton of ‘‘Magnolia”’ at Charleston,
S.C. No cork trees resulted from this
planting, but Thomas Jefferson con-
tinued to recommend and urge the
planting of cork trees until his death
in 1826.

While the records indicate no cork
trees were established by Thomas
Jefferson, his efforts to introduce this
tree in the United States were not in
vain. Interest in the cork oak had
been aroused, and in 1858 the Federal
Government obtained cork acorns
from Spain and distributed them in
the South and in California. Some
trees were obtained from this planting,
but many of them were lost through
lack of care, drought, and other causes.
Again in 1880 cork acorns were im-
ported, and a few additional cork
trees were obtained. In 1914 the

355
356

Federal Government brought in cork
acorns which were planted in South
Carolina and Florida. A number of
cork trees were started, but fire and
storms resulted in total loss. Some
plantings have been made during the
past 75 years through private and
State efforts. About 600 trees were
planted at Chico, Calif., by the Uni-
versity of California in 1904. Private
plantings have been made in Arizona,
California, Washington, and _ the
southern States.

The McManus Cork Project

Some time ago the late Charles E.
McManus, former president and chair-
man of the board of the Crown Cork
and Seal Co., examined some of these
domestic cork trees. Having visited
the cork forests of Europe and Africa
on numerous occasions, Mr. McManus
at once recognized the good quality of
the cork, and more trees were in-
spected. With more than 30 years of
successful experience in manufacturing
cork products he realized the great
value of having cork trees grown in
this country. Plans were made to re-
move the cork from some of the trees
for thorough testing and to collect
cork acorns for planting. A Cork
Project was established by Mr. Mc-
Manus to promote the growing of cork
trees in the United States. The Cork
Project is designed to add to the na-
tural resources of our country and to
provide in the United States a source
for at least a part of the Nation’s cork
requirements.

The McManus Cork Project was ini-
tiated in California where a substan-
tial number of mature cork trees are
growing. These cork trees are in
parks, along highways, about public
buildings, and on private property.
Arrangements were made with local
and State authorities and private
owners for the experimental stripping
of many of these trees. In 1940 5%
tons of virgin cork were removed from
California cork trees. ‘The same year
approximately 500 pounds of cork
acorns were collected for planting.

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

During the winter Mr. McManus
located mature cork trees in Arizona,
and in 1941 the Cork Project was ex-
tended into that State. More cork
trees were stripped in 1941 and over
three-quarters of a ton of acorns col-
lected for planting. Because of the
interest and enthusiasm shown by
landowners, Mr. McManus early in
1942 expanded the Cork Project to
include the South and all States where
climate, soil, and other factors were
favorable to the cork tree. The Mc-
Manus Cork Project had developed
rapidly into a Nation-wide cork-grow-
ing program.

ORGANIZATION AND YEARLY PROGRAM

The Cork Project has received the
enthusiastic support of foresters
throughout the country. The United
States Forest Service, State depart-
ments of forestry, schools of forestry
in the universities, extension foresters,
vocational agriculture teachers, and
local agricultural agents are cooper-
ating with the project. Their coop-
eration and knowledge of tree culture
has contributed greatly to the splendid
progress that has been made.

Searching for old mature cork trees
was one of the first tasks. These trees
are needed for acorns and experimen-
tal stripping. Also, it is important
to know where mature cork trees are
growing in this country. The loca-
tions of the mature cork trees indi-
cated where cork plantings could
immediately be made. It is obvious
that cork trees can be grown where old
cork oaks have thrived for many years.
Approximately 4,000 cork trees have
been found in California, extending
from Humboldt County in the north
to San Diego County in the south.
A grove of 600 cork trees planted in
1904 is growing at Chico. Fresno
has several hundred cork trees at
Kearney Park and throughout the
fig garden area. In Los Angeles
County more than 1,000 mature cork
trees are located.

Arizona has about 40 cork trees
with the largest number in and near
CORK OAK——-RYAN AND COOKE

Phoenix. In the East and South a
limited number of cork trees have
been found in the States of Virginia,
North Carolina, South Carolina, Geor-
gia, Florida, Alabama, Louisiana, and
Texas. Some of these trees produce
only a few acorns, and annual cork
acorn collections have been concen-
trated in California. Experimental
stripping has been carried out in
California, Arizona, and the South.

PLANTING ACTIVITIES

One of the very first problems was
the proper handling of the cork
acorns which mature in November and
December. Storage tests showed cork
acorns could be kept viable for several
months in wet cold storage at 34° to
38° F. This method has been used
successfully with large quantities of
acorns for the past 5 years. As soon
as collected, the acorns are shipped to
cold-storage plants in New Orleans
and Baltimore. For the Deep South
the acorns are distributed early in
February. Other States receive the
acorns late in February and early in
March. Those States on the northern
border of the cork-growing area
receive the acorns about the last of
March or the first of April.

Cork acorns are sent to the forestry
departments of all the cooperating
States. A portion of the acorns are
planted in the State forest nurseries to
produce seedlings for distribution later
on. The balance of the acorns are
distributed promptly to interested
landowners throughout the States for
immediate planting. In several States,
through the cooperation of the exten-
sion foresters, cork acorns are shipped
to the county agents who distribute
them among 4-H Club members.
Vocational agriculture teachers are
cooperating in the Cork Project by
distributing acorns to F. F. A. and
F. H. A. members. Science clubs
affiliated with Science Service, garden
clubs, and other civic jorpenizenons
are growing cork trees. pr FR

Most of the plane are of limited
size where the cork tree is being grown

357

as an ornamental on Jawns or a shade
tree about farms. In some _ cases
several acres have been planted. A
number of colleges and universities
are growing groves of cork trees of 1
acre in size or larger. Statewide
Arbor Day programs, during which a
cork tree was planted at the county
seat of each county, have been held
in South Carolina and Georgia.
Recognizing the importance of the
cork tree to this country, governors of
11 States have planted cork trees on
the grounds of their respective capitols.

RESEARCH

Numerous research activities are
carried out by the McManus Cork
Project. The cork oak has been suc-
cessfully grafted to native oaks. Mirov
and Cumming (2) have shown that
scions of the cork tree can be grafted
to both evergreen and deciduous
American oaks. This method of es-
tablishing cork trees is under observa-
tion and it will be some time before
the complete story is known.

The rooting of cuttings is another
method of propagation that has re-
ceived serious attention. Cuttings
from old mature cork trees have been
rooted at the Fruitland Nurseries,
Augusta, Ga. Tests are being contin-
ued until the method can be reduced
to aroutine. Cuttings for rooting tests,
like the scions for grafting, are taken
from trees having thick, resilient cork
and bearing large crops of acorns.

Experiments are being conducted on
the rate of growth of cork trees.
Cork seedlings in sand are being grown
in the presence and absence of plant-
food elements. This research will
help in bringing the cork tree to
stripping size in the minimum of time.

The cork oak develops a long tap
root with few laterals and this makes
bare root seedlings difficult to trans-
plant successfully. Research on root
pruning cork seedlings in the nursery
has been in progress several years.
These tests already show more profuse
root-development results from the first
pruning. A much higher percentage
308

of survival should result from these
experiments.

It is well known that top-grade cork
is obtained only with the third and
subsequent strippings. Accordingly, a
cork tree is about 35 years old when
first-grade cork can be _ harvested.
Experiments to reduce this time are in
progress. Second-growth cork has
been removed after 6 years instead of
the usual 8- to 10-year period. Also,
young cork trees 8 to 10 years old have
been stripped. Second-growth cork
will be removed after an interval of 7
years.

Other experiments conducted on
cork oak culture concern the best
season for planting, auxins, and other
factors. However, the extensive an-
nual planting of the cork tree through-
out many sections of 27 States consti-
tutes the largest research work of the
Cork Project. Seedlings and acorns
are planted under widely varying
temperature, rainfall, and soil condi-
tions. Factors such as planting tech-
nique, the best planting month, sun-
shine, and drainage are getting a
thorough test. A storehouse of valu-
able data is being built and at the same
time thousands of cork trees are being
established.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS

The progress made since the initia-
tion of the McManus Cork Project
is very gratifying. From a few experi-
mental plantings in 1940 the Cork
Project has grown to include exten-
sive plantings in 27 States. Thousands
of small cork trees are growing through-
out the warmer half of the United
States and tons of acorns are planted
annually in the potential cork areas
of this country. With the helpful
cooperation of Federal and State
foresters and the aid of local voca-
tional agriculture teachers and county
farm agents, the Cork Project has
passed the trial stage successfully. ‘The
past 8 years of successful work give
confidence and efficiency to those
planting and growing cork trees.

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

The number of cork plantings that
can be made each year depends upon
the quantity of cork acorns available.
When the acorns have matured and
dropped from the trees, they are col-
lected and placed in wet cold storage.
The acorns are picked up to avoid
dead leaves, sticks, and other mate-
rial which would cause mold and
rotting. For the past several years
the entire domestic cork acorn crop
has been harvested, and requests for
seed greatly exceed the available
supply. Distribution of cork acorns
during the past 8 years is given in the
following table:

Year Pounds of acorns
VOAO HAIN. oo ocue sass tic eutodsiooaeceoiere 500
10 AE aD Te ae Ta age ata ay erences 1, 450
OAD RA Sirs le teed tenasch atu others omen 7, 500
V9 A344 4 ok iss chore hie ob ee eee 7, 900
194 AAD EY oe oc alene: cree euchepereueeeLolene 13, 800
TODAS ~4.G05 ce Sraeccve.e Greiehe ohn icra 10, 200
SW ie By A emery pee IIR tre chcf'c 14, 812
194 746i Wei tias cake cnetenstescnicianers *7, 876

*3mall crop of California cork acorns in 1947-48,

All these acorns, except approxi-
mately 200 pounds collected annually
in Arizona and the South, were ob-
tained in California. When taken
from storage, they are shipped in
burlap sacks in about 100-pound lots
to the cooperating State foresters. For
clubs and organizations from 10 to
20 pounds of acorns are packed with
moist sawdust in waterproof cartons.
Individuals receive from % to 2
pounds which are packed moist in
waterproof boxes to prevent drying.

Because of the huge quantity of
acorns and large number of individ-
uals planting them, a check on the
plantings is as yet very incomplete.
However, a partial check on Florida
plantings in 1946 showed more than
1,000 young cork trees were growing
in that State. Reports for a portion
of the Future Farmers of America in
Georgia show this group of young
people obtained over 1,000 cork
trees from their 1947 plantings alone.
The F. F. A. members in Georgia have
planted cork trees the past 4 years.
An incomplete survey in Oklahoma
CORK OAK—RYAN AND COOKE

indicates several thousand cork trees
are growing in this State. Excellent
specimens of young cork trees 6 to 8
years old are now growing in Califor-
nia, Arizona, Texas, Arkansas, Ala-
bama, Mississippi, and elsewhere in
the South. In all the cooperating
States encouraging progress has been
recorded indicating that the cork
tree can be grown successfully when
planting conditions are favorable.

Since the initiation of the McManus
Cork Project more than 600 cork
trees have been stripped of virgin
cork. Most of these trees are in
California but cork has been removed
from approximately 20 trees in Ari-
zona and the southern States. This
cork has been manvfactured into
cork products and given standard
tests. Composition cork and _ cork-
board insulation manufactured from
the domestic product were of excel-
lent quality. Growth of reproduction
cork on the stripped trees is very satis-
factory. Almost 1 inch of second
growth is obtained in 6 years on 35-
year-old trees. With older trees the
growth was even greater. The follow-
ing table gives a summary of cork
stripping by years:

Number | Yield of

Year of trees cork

stripped | (Ibs.)
ROAD erence ecsix ae ee 248 10, 561
LOAN Gaus cies caches ats 47 2ee42:
NA 2 irene tee ieee Soh hee 63 3, 466
NAS Re Pennencoe nc: 46 Di35
NAA Perry ae eee aise cas eae 54 3, 216
OAS Ve cress tesa are 58 3, 538
NDA Gere ta coterie favsrccc oe 46 2, 882
OA erent 5A ayceemeh fd 61 2, 803

Geographic and Economic Studies

Although there are upward of 4,000
old cork oaks and nearly a million
new plantings scattered in 24 States,
we must face the fact that the cork oak
is not yet grown in the United States
in commercial quantities and that we
are virtually without experience in its

817369—49-—_28

359

growth as a crop. Therefore, before
a cork-forest industry becomes a reality
in this country, there is much to be
done in the way of organized research
and systematic planning in order to
establish the essential foundations for
such an industry.

At this particular stage of develop-
ment, the most essential requirement
for the botanic and economic success
of a cork-forest industry appears to be
the selection of suitable areas in which
to grow the trees in order that the
cork oak in the United States will be
provided with a geographic ecology
identical with that of the Mediter-
ranean region and will not be required
to adapt itself to a new or foreign
climate, but will be free to grow and
produce in response to the same laws
of Nature as those prevailing in its
natural habitat. A hypothesis as to
such suitable areas was developed
after the completion of a compre-
hensive geographic study of the natu-
ral distribution of the cork oak in rela-
tion to the climatic factors of temper-
ature, rainfall, and soil, which is
described in detail in “Some Geo-
graphic and Economic Aspects of the
Cork Oak” (3), from which the
following is condensed.

Geographic Distribution of the Cork Oak

The world’s commercial supply of
cork, which averages, at the present
time, about 350,000 short tons per
year, is grown in the approximate
5,015,000 acres of cork oak forests
bordering the Mediterranean Sea.
The entire area is known as the
Mediterranean region and comprises
Portugal, Spain, France and Corsica,
Italy, Sicily and Sardinia, Tunisia,
Algeria, French Morocco and Spanish
Morocco. The total cork-forest area
of this region is approximately 7,950
square miles.

The locations of the cork-growing
areas within each Mediterranean
country are shown in figure 1 and the
facts and figures of distribution and
production are listed in table 1.
360

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

TABLE 1.—Mediterranean region—cork oak acreage and cork products, 1936

Area Annual production
Country :
Percent | 0410" Short | Percent Re
of total tons of total | POUNC-
acre)
$358) (15,720;,000 |) Portugal 230i. acya-tatoe so ersten. eon 130, 000 46.2 151
122 6227000) || S paint ape sana ctenstelee mere aeieitena ovis 66, 000 2351 212
6.9 S50N0008 |p brance-Corsicamers an tierce aiea 13, 200 4.8 75
4.9 247, 000 | Italy-Sicily-Sardinia................ 8, 800 352 “il
4.6 2351000] Miumisiarisyete ete secs fae ieies ate et act ay ateeathorete 7, 400 2.6 63
21 A6r 11s LOO COOR| BAlseniale, acieeaert -iteriet ete etter 38, 500 13.8 70
14. 6 (41000) PE rench¥Moroccor ers ces erty eecyareio cieiers 17, 600 6.3 48
1.4 74,000) | SSpanishe Morocco trate sick tie, 2ce neta, = oor [esos] otal keyll ohs euesomekete| | etree
100. 0 |5,089, 000 | Mediterranean region.............. 281, 500 100. 0 112
Key to Figure 1
I. PORTUGAL IV. ITALY
Number Province Number District or Province
POG Ae Beja Te Raa ye Sardinia
Dit. arte Setubal 1-A........ Sassari
Sradishresien css Evora 1-B......... Nuoro
L OOOO Ore Portalegre 1-C........ Cagliari
Disveisre these tis oe Santarem Zee cece ee eee Tuscany
6h All others 2-A....eeee Pisa
Srreeskowe tele ae Latium
AM cates Apehere hor: Compania
II. SPAIN AA i roetette Salerno
Dial evandisremcsaee Apulia
1 hee eta Granada Giserd ate cyeud ens Calabria
VEN CCE Malaga HD toy. ts evecare, acer Sicily
Drie tetsyaterarcenete Cadiz (Estes Sipe Trapani
2. Senet reP ict ice Huelva (=Bea ee aes Palermo
Dies Ceheabetee Sevilla dOnt mae Messina
TEINS Bat aintoe Cordoba (EA Wemeac ec Catania
i ecrno rts cred cr Ciudad Real i Eicee sseruecene s Syracuse
Oise onen eiepenyents Badajoz
Qin iaceerarsba rs Caceres V. TUNISIA
NOvr ren oats: Toledo ;
sta base meee Avila Region
LS estan ce Salamanca Ween Bis savenctere Mogods
Ieee micron ge Coruna DER rs. Seo en here Khroumiria
LA ober a Warcre ever Santander
| La eens Sepa Gerona VI. ALGERIA
GHEE aaes sibs Barcelona 1 Denton cece
Valerie) enCastellonben .ziinie war’ Chesser. ep.
i aici JAS nee, Souk-Abras
Wo6000.010-00 Jemmapes
III. FRANCE 1 ORaueiog.c Sidi-Meroun
IFAD os bw aldo Philippeville
Department TOE Stiegs apes Collo
oe vdeo suceete cnr Landes LESH ncwis Cars E] Melia
DAA APSE nm Lot-et-Garonne ISG este: Djidjelli
ese a ke OE eS Pyrenees-Orientales joo ieee Bougie
4ncty., Pacsecah ee Var DP ts Sr b32)4 bis Jebel (Mts.) of Babors
Bt en amarok ae Alpes-Maritimes er oe ee Bona
Oral aleatee clot Corsica TW, Waa La Calle
3
B
=
5
cs
wd
ry
fe)
™
I
ce)
Oo
¢
a
=
x
rE
Z|
X
5
I]
a.
a.
<x

Cork-growing ign and Domestic Com-
merce; USS. ]

by P. L. Buttr'

(LLL.

17369—49 (Face p. 360)
3

es
Ci) os

Uf, EN | YY
1/4, f J,

Wy ls
UY WI
Fioure 1.—Mediterranean region. Natural distribution of the cork oak

(7777_~Cork-growing provinces, districts, and regions as described in “World Production and Trade in Cork,” Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Com-
<iié merce, U. S. Department of Commerce, 1937.

3] Approximate location of cork forests, from “Map Showing Natural Distribution of the Cork Oak and Location of Important Cork Oak Forests,"
by P. L. Buttrick, Forestry Department, Armstrong Cork Co., Lancaster, Pa., 1931

8173040 (Face p. 36)
2 OSSTYTOTION, 1948
§ wcrecige wnilnedl piles, 1056

130, 600
66, (00
13, 200

ITALY
or Prosinee
i a
2 ee
pecs sig eda
= CE
=
SIA
2
+ :
hroumiria a8 i)
: : ‘oF
VI; ALGERIA ie

; ace pit
* , sine : = ; sidi-Meroun
forger asses riotibsM—.? araards. aso. Philippevitie
aW” af bsdisseeb 2s ettolgo’ bor’ gi itheity (e5dni i TEINS
ECL so1emm0D to + L 4 8] aonar SSS
InrsteVi'gaiwode qs” aot \alécidtdi09 16 Ho BSO! otsmixonqas
mpik:,.6D.296D 'gnovanrr1A Joaomsqsd yries10T 2 ;
CORK OAK-——-RYAN AND COOKE

Number Region

2. gate pee Dep. of Algiers

Distt oi tcieterels Drael-Mizan

Bharti Bouira

5-3 OF ROPO OND Algiers

Da cu susysy stove Cherchel

Da Piele rs (oo. ecole Militana

Sic DOB OmIO OL Dep. of Oran

CT ASOCIG OOD e Sahel of Oran

SH Biais aos sts Oran

c= Oooo Tlemcen

SIDS agieicac Jebel Tlemcen

VII. FRENCH MOROCCO

1 cd ae eee Taza, near forest of Bab
Azhar

Diath sy sis /ors $0 5! Tedders, near groves of The
Zemmour

Ss om@ineoooeuT Marchand, near groves of
The Zaer

CWA leat ch ore ee Sale, near forest of The
Sehouls

Sota cia versiats: ate Mamora

Olive erchctsia.s ost Moulay Bou-Selham, near

Forest of Gharb

VIII. SPANISH MOROCCO
Line of the Riff Mountains

All statistical data relating to the
distribution of the cork oak and to the
production of cork in the Mediterra-
nean region and its constituent coun-
tries were either taken or computed
from the Bureau of Foreign and
Domestic Commerce report, ‘‘World
Production and Trade in Cork” (4).
With a few exceptions, the authentic
facts and figures listed in the publica-
tion are for the year 1936 and repre-
sent the latest available information.

Portugal is the largest producer of
cork, supplying 46.2 percent of the
world’s tonnage from 33.8 percent of
the total acreage.

Although the cork oak is distributed
throughout the entire country, the
major portion of its cultivation is con-
centrated in the south-central region.
The 1,720,000 acres of Portugese cork
oak forests are distributed as follows:
6.9 percent in the Province of Beja,
13.3 percent in Setubal, 27 percent in
Evora, 20 percent in Portalegre, 19.7
percent in Santarem, and 13.1 per-
cent in all other provinces.

Spain ranks second with respect to
cork production, furnishing 23.1 per-
cent of the world’s tonnage from 12.2

361

percent of the total acreage. The cork
groves of Spain are located principally
in southern Andalusia, in Extrema-
dura, and in northwestern Catalonia.
The 622,000 acres of Spanish cork
groves are distributed as follows: 6.8
percent in the Province of Malaga,
24.1 percent in Cadiz, 12.0 percent in
Huelva, 10.8 percent in Sevilla, 14.4
percent in Badajoz, 9.5 percent in
Caceres, 14.3 percent in Gerona, and
8.1 percent in other provinces.

Of the other provinces, Cordoba,
Ciudad Real, Toledo, Barcelona, and
Castellon possess mountain areas in
cork, while noncommercial quantities
are found in Granada, Avila, Sala-
manca, Coruna, and Santander.

France is one of the smaller cork-
producing countries supplying only 4.8
percent of the world’s production from
6.9 percent of the total acreage. The
distribution of the 350,000 acres of
French cork oak forests is 87 percent
among the Departments of Landes,
Lot-et-Garonne, Pyrenees-Orientales,
Var, and Alpes-Maritimes, and 13 per-
cent in Corsica. The Department of
Var is by far the richest cork area in
the country, furnishing about 75 per-
cent of the French cork. Corsica
ranks second in importance.

Italy is also one of the smaller cork-
producing countries, furnishing only
3.2 percent of the world’s supply from
4.9 percent of the total acreage. The
largest and best cork oak groves are in
Sicily and Sardinia; the smaller
groves are in Italy proper. Of the
247,000 acres of Italian cork groves,
14 percent are in Italy, 16 percent in
Sicily, and 70 percent in Sardinia.

In Italy, the largest commercial
groves are in the Districts of Tuscany,
Latium, and Compania; other isolated
growths are located in the Districts
of Apulia and Calabria and in the
provinces around Pisa and Salerno.
The Sicilian groves are around Tra-
pani, Palermo, Messina, Catania,
Syracuse, and Enna while the cork
oak areas of Sardinia are chiefly in the
Provinces of Sassari, Nuoro, and
Cagliari.
362

Tunisia is the smallest of the cork-
producing countries containing only
4.6 percent of the total acreage from
which 2.6 percent of the world’s sup-
ply is obtained. The approximate
235,000 acres of Tunisian cork oak
forests are situated in the north-
western coastal regions of Khrou-
miria, the Nefzas, and the Mogods.

Algeria is the third largest cork-
producing country. It furnishes 13.8
percent of the world’s tonnage from
21.6 percent of the total acreage. The
cork oak forests are located principally
in the shore zone and Tell regions
but there are some relatively small
areas in the highlands. The 1,100,000
acres of Algerian cork forests are dis-
tributed as follows among its three
Departments: Constantine, 89 per-
cent; Algiers, 9.3 percent; and Oran,
1.7 percent.

In the Department of Constantine,
the principal cork centers are LaCalle,
Bona, Philippeville, Collo, Djidjelli,
and Bougie. The cork oak forests are
situated in Souk-Ahras, Little Kabylia,
Sidi-Meroun, the Jebel (mountains)
of Babors near Bougie, the forests
of Bessombourg and Cheraia in the
Goufi Mountains, in El Melia and
Jemmapes near Philippeville, and in
l’Edough near Bona.

In the Department of Algiers, the
principal cork center is the city of
Algiers. The cork oak areas are
located in Bouira, in the forests of
Drael-Mizan, Yakouren, and d’Azazga
in Great Kabylia, and in the regions
of Cherchel and Militana.

In the Department of Oran, the
principal cork oak forests are in the
regions of the Sahel of Oran and
Tlemcen.

French Morocco is the fourth larg-
est cork-producing country, contain-
ing 14.6 percent of the world’s acreage
from which 6.3 percent of the total
tonnage is obtained. The cork-pro-
ducing regions constituting its 741,000
acres are located in the forests of Bab
Azhar near Taza, the Sehouls near
Sale, and the Mamora, Gharb near

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

Moulay Bou-Selham, and Boulhart;
and in the groves of Zemmour near
Tedders, Harcha, Oulmes, Ouldjet
Soltane, the Zaer near Marchand,
the M’Dakra near Boucheron, the
Achach, the Gnadis, and the region
of Moulay Bou Azza.

Spanish Morocco is not a cork-
producing country at the present time.
Its economic position is that of the
potential rather than the actual. The
cork-growing areas, which constitute
1.4 percent of the world acreage,
have not been put into production
since the second Riff war, owing to
disputes among tribes, individuals, and
the Moorish state, about ownership.
Its production potentiality has been
estimated at approximately 6,600 short
tons per annum which would be
equivalent to 2.3 percent of the world
production.

The approximate 74,000 acres of
cork oaks are distributed among some
eight forest patches mainly along the
line of the Riff Mountains.

Climatic Distribution of the Cork Oak

By reason of its being native to the
Mediterranean region the cork oak,
like all natural vegetation, grows in
response to the combined effect of the
three most essential climatic elements
prevailing in that region, namely:
temperature, rainfall, and _ soil.
Therefore, each of these elements was
studied separately in order to ascer-
tain its function in the distribution
and growth of the cork oak.

Temperature is perhaps the most
important of all the climatic factors
because it influences and regulates
every chemical and physical process
which is necessary for establishment
and survival. We know that there
are three cardinal growth tempera-
tures which vary in magnitude de-
pending upon the particular species
and variety of plant. There is the
minimum temperature below which
growth is impossible, the maximum
temperature beyond which growth
CORK OAK-——-RYAN AND COOKE

ceases, and the optimum temperature
at which growth is most rapid. The
optimum temperature lies somewhere
between the minimum and _ the
maximum.

Plants, unlike animals, do not gener-
ate their own heat and must, there-
fore, obtain the heat necessary for
their growth and existence from the
air surrounding them and from the
soil in which they are contained. It is
a generally accepted fact that the
temperature of plants and plant parts
is approximately the same as their
surroundings. Temperature, then, is
the limiting factor in the growth and
distribution of plants, and it deter-
mines to a great extent the character-
istic flora of the different regions.
A good example of a temperature-
determined agricultural area is the
Cotton Belt of the South which is a
region whose mean annual tempera-
ture is over 60° F. and whose frostless
season is between 180 and 200 days.
Another example is the Corn Belt
where the mean summer temperature
is always above 65° F. and the average
night temperature during the 3 sum-
mer months is never below 55° F.

Trees in general do not have the
characteristic short growing seasons
of the agricultural crops and, con-
sequently, their growth is a function

363

of annual rather than specific seasonal
temperatures. Consequently, an anal-
ysis was made of the mean annual
temperatures of the natural cork oak
regions with the following results:

The minimum cardinal growth mean
annual temperature was found to be
50° F. in regions where the average
temperature in January, usually the
coldest month, was not below 37° F.,
which appears to be the limiting tem-
perature of Poleward growth. Since
no cork in the Mediterranean region
is found beyond these temperature
limits, it appeared safe to set the Pole-
ward limit of growth for the potential
cork areas of the United States as an
imaginary line whose mean annual
temperature is not less than 50° F.
and whose average January tem-
perature is not below 37° F. Such a
limiting line is shown in map II (fig.
2). The region Equatorward of this
line constitutes the potential cork area
of the United States.

The maximum mean annual tem-
perature at which cork is growing in
the Mediterranean region was found
tojbe 70° &,

A complete analysis of the tem-
perature distribution of the natural
cork oak is presented in table 2, which
shows that the greatest amount (57.2
percent) of cork is growing in the
60°-65° F. region.

TABLE 2.— Temperature distribution of natural cork oak

Percent in temperature region of— Com-

posite
Country temper-

50°-55° | 55°-60° | 60°-65° | 65°-70°| (or)
ORC UaR AL Nea esedoiele +1-)> uaeiel als eee «isieiaia' sia 4 0.9 3451 Oda Ob iea. Steerer. 60. 7
POPPA ey ehel =) hay sucielalovsicfoieicic ae oit te eMireus oa ae 8.1 67. 6 DAS Sates averse 58. 3
Brance and. CorsiCag ses ocsviss oss'e o Lt ae ae 69.3 BOTA Ron ars ctershs 59.0
Italy, Sicily, and Sardinia.............. 355 3951 SY enc. sal | LR cee 60. 2
Pen CRIM ec tefeaemeay tera ec eie eis 6 oars © ie [sadism ee 4.6 6729 2715 63. 7
Brn Hy NEGrOCCO et <cavsisn cis s/eiere is exe cus: 5.404 lata secon die soles ere Vth v/ 22.9 63. 6
PARIS MNIOLOCCO alefei cies aca ete oie eae sacl h eibecidek LOOSO Me etauercrre 62.5
“TRESS tCLSs os COD tO US OOH SOC Cee (Cnet ea] Panes ried [ewe iad 100. 0 67.5
Mediterranean region... «25 e+ s ss; MAE) 2155 Bileez 13.8 Gis7

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

364

"$094) JO JOqUINU 913 0} JO Kore 0} SOUDIEJOI OU 2AvY Ao? ‘AyUO OTedO] ayeOIPUT s}op oY], ‘oSe Jo sea JIOUT JO GZ SYLO A109 pjojouonwcyT O
‘vole [etuaj}od-isen?) SS
‘eore [enuajod aansog [77]

‘S¥aIv YIOD TeNUD}0g = *sa}eIG poUQ—'z aunoL]

4

> 31 JF

Eg

WS Ym Gi
CORK OAK-——-RYAN AND COOKE

A study of the temperature regions
of the United States shows that no
cork trees are growing beyond the
established line of the Poleward limit
of growth and that both old and young
cork oaks are growing between the
Mediterranean limits of 50° and 70°
F. It is also shown that the United
States contains two regions which are
hotter than the Mediterranean maxi-
mum of 70° F. Although there are
no large old cork oaks in either of these
regions, numerous young cork trees,
planted during the past 7 years, are
exhibiting. healthy and vigorous
growth in the 70°-75° F. region of
Texas and Florida and in the 75°-80°
F, region of Texas. It is too soon to
tell whether or not these young trees
are growing more rapidly than others
of the same age in cooler regions and,
until this fact is determined by later
observations, it will not be known
whether the optimum cardinal growth
temperature has been reached or ex-
ceeded. The only known fact seems
to be that cork will grow at temper-
atures between the Mediterranean
maximum of 70° F, and the United
States maximum of 80° F., thereby
indicating that the maximum car-
dinal growth temperature is above
80° F.

The altitude at which the cork oak
grows depends entirely upon the sur-
rounding temperature. It will grow
at any elevation where the tempera-
ture is above the established minimum
growth temperature. The highest
cork oak tree on record for the Medi-
terranean region is the one, shown in
plate 7, which is situated at Teniet-el-
Had in Algeria and growing at an
altitude of 5,280 feet. The highest
on record for the United States is
the one, shown in plate 8, which is
growing at an elevation of 4,520 feet
and is situated on the Craig ranch in
Superior, Ariz.

When the effect of temperature on
the rate of cork growth under constant
rainfall in the same soil was studied,
the results were as follows:

365

Mean annual Rate o
temperature (°F.) growt
LT eat ain Oe che ino Seb DOO OORT 0.618
Co vecc rite enact Stee Boma ial! a ters PRL res .749
OO Sateen oberon .908
QQ trav araraiisi-etero otsel ayes fiterstareretonate 1.000
Ga iey eve /alershotelovoresc bslaveie ciate sorenanne 1.101
FAO ve vevator stesciore sor steve¥otor er etinstidavelncs 1-335
UD Mk cs chatercie’s ole varsral aie, okekert vel aievesus 1.619
BOM ere tiiressisue cla here erere a uaseteres Ge overens 1.962

Rainfall (a general term including
rain, snow, hail, and sleet) is almost
the coequal of temperature in deter-
mining the limit of growth of a par-
ticular species or variety of plant.
Within a given temperature region,
the distribution of native plants and
agricultural crops depends more upon
soil moisture than any other factor.

The amount of available water is
usually measured in terms of the depth
of rainfall over a_ specified time.
Therefore, the moisture requirements
of a given plant can be determined by
a study of its distribution in relation to
its annual rainfall in inches. In some
plants, the season, or time of year, in
which the bulk of rainfall occurs is
equally as important as the annual
quantity, but with trees the seasonal
amount appears to be of no partic-
ular consequence; the annual depth
is the issue of paramount importance.
On the annual basis, therefore, a
study was made of the rainfall dis-
tribution of the Mediterranean cork
areas and the result is presented in
table 3, which shows that natural cork
oak is growing between the mean
annual rainfall limits of 10 inches and
60 inches and that the greatest amount
(73.5 percent) of cork is growing in
the 20- to 40-inch region.

A study of the rainfall regions of the
United States shows that there is one
rainfall region below the Mediterra-
nean 10-inch minimum and another
above the 60-inch maximum. Large
old cork oaks are growing in both
regions. Cork growth in the region
having less than 10 inches of rainfall
is chiefly in Arizona. Although much
of it is under irrigation, there is a
sufficient quantity in the drier parts
366

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

TABLE 3.-—Rainfall distribution of natural cork oak

Country

POrtegall, sctsritsrotstsiate Gherat veto eieteienate tom ayaa a
S Pain hoch staarcesiar Malar atetersrenees a ctetsicresele rete

Hrance.and Corsican eo eso lee.

Italy, Sicily, and Sardinia...............
INIZSg Hoe Huan ARON o Cond VOUS On OUI
BrenchyMoroccoe.. sie ee eee

Spanish, Moroccoin. .02 ch ois cts tee eet ee i lo
SBumisia’ t= peaks ietoheys histone erate tse lies

Percent in rainfall region of—

Composite

rainfall

10’’-20"" 20/'-40/" 40/'-60"" (inches)
2205 299 4.6 27.6
39. 4 5I6 1. 0 24, 3
Bp ce cace 9559 4,1 30. 8
5ORZ 37. 4 3. 4 21. 8
3. 4 OG. G5 ls icte icy 2955
56. 8 AOD Ve hr cna neler oie
ieee Me 1OONO4). SIS 30. 0
era ae LOOMOT seek Ase 30. 0
24. 3 1329 Pos 22 26. 8

to indicate healthy growth under less
than 10 inches of annual rainfall. In
the 60- to 80-inch regions cork is
growing along the Pacific coast in
northern California and along the
Gulf coast in northwestern Florida.
The cork trees in these localities are
between 30 and 75 years of age, which
is sufficient evidence that cork will
grow between the Mediterranean
maximum of 60 inches and the United
States maximum of 80 inches of rain-
fall.

When the effect of rainfall on the
rate of cork growth at constant tem-
perature in the same soil was studied,
the results were as follows:

Mean annual

rainfall (inches) Rate of growth

sO) acca ee. hb Hom aero 0. 81
ZO rear arene taney onesies usec esr fens . 90
SORE huskies snavtuct sionswers tchanctadstet susners 1. 00
A Osrvesazelaidetigen chp eee ee ied tdothote se. 1.11
(as ome asedidcm eae a toe HutHe 56
Ver Aeterna dio pm ompordiaio Oh pinp o 1. 67

Soil is the medium in which all
plants grow, and its chemical com-
position and physical structure de-
pends upon the parent material from
which it developed. The parent ma-
terial, in turn, is largely character-
istic of the underlying rock of which
it was originally a constituent. There-
fore, soils vary considerably in com-
position, structure, and _ resultant
fertility, depending upon both their
lithic and climatic distribution.

The soils of the world have been
classified into nine primary groups
called the zonal soils. Many similar
soils, called intrazonal, are found in
all climatic regions; and within the
various zonal groups there may be
found many different soils on the
surface of the primary soil. These
comparatively shallow surface soils are
important for the growth of crops and
grasses. In the case of trees, espe-
cially the cork oak with its deep root
system and exceptionally long tap
root, it is felt that growth is a function
of the soil substrata rather than the
surface layers. For this reason, a
study was made of the Mediterranean
distribution of the cork oak in relation
to the zonal soils and the result is
presented in table 4, which shows that
the cork oak is growing in the follow-
ing primary soil groups, or regions:
Brown steppe soils (or steppe).

Gray-brown forest soils (or forest).

Tropical and subtropical red and yellow
soils (or tropical).

Complex soils of mountains and included
valleys (or complex).

Table 4 also shows that the greatest
amount (84.5 percent) of cork is grow-
ing in the brown steppe soil region.
These soils are usually in locations of
decreased rainfall, or water supply,
and are characterized as being semi-
arid and highly calcareous. In some
localities the lime is so concentrated
CORK OAK—RYAN AND COOKE

367

Tase 4.—Soil distribution of natural cork oak

Country

ROW up aly ere ets erhe cuss hy nore case ieeietoes Naren
SD aLIe si coc sy sekeeete retina tae. chanaieeree crate k
Rrance ands @orsicalc. 12sec ee ne ce
Italy, Sicily, and Sardinia..............-
MMAORIANG is opcucyat.cke, seis le ccasl 6 axe fonandial ereticus omace
Brenche Woroccomseacs acini a ie
SpanisheMioroccon acca acumen
MIRUITISt Aa chai iS he else Aa ey ee

in the surface that it forms a tough
hardpan layer. Despite this fact, the
bulk of the world’s cork is growing in
these types of soils.

The gray-brown forest soils are situ-
ated in regions of more abundant
rainfall and are considerably more
moist than the steppe soils. The
forest soils are well adapted to the
support of both deciduous and conif-
erous forests and have been supporting
cork oak growth for centuries.

The tropical and subtropical red
and yellow soils are on the wetter
side of the forest soils and are situated
in warm regions of high rainfall.
These soils are characteristic of the
rainy Tropics and the humid sub-
Tropics, such as the ‘‘South” of the
United States. The tropical soils are
well adapted to the support of all
types of forest vegetation and have
been supporting cork oak growth for
hundreds of years.

The complex soils of mountains and
included valleys are mixtures of many
kinds of soils, intermingled in such a
way that no particular type _pre-
dominates. They are situated in
mountainous regions where they re-
ceive rainfall in amounts adequate for
the support of forest vegetation. Since
time immemorial these complex soils
have been supporting cork oak growth
in the Mediterranean region.

A study of the soil characteristics of

Percent in soil region of—

Steppe Forest Tropical | Complex
Seed Ae Wrong torch iacatewele eee tetas
82. 6 as) TOS TAO 2 ieee
satay 10.5 OOPS Hil las Serene
Ce Pete ram eect ae aes S353 16.7
LOONOG ecru tom niserenhetevsvakel tee cers iene
HOONOSneta meet. ciltta cee Sere al ea ee oe
TOOKOD Reece ere tal ontecrctar: canal teases ners
LOOK OM ers semmccnialeeete starsars esl aspen eens
84.5 2. 4 1253 0. 8

the United States potential cork area
shows that there are three soil regions
in addition to the above-mentioned
four Mediterranean groups. They
are the desert, chernozem, and prairie
soils.

In the potential area of the United
States old cork oaks are growing in
the desert soils of southern California
and Arizona. The greatest numbers
of trees are in the regions which are
under irrigation and in which the
soils are receiving a moisture supply
equivalent to approximately 30 inches
of annual rainfall. However, there
are sufficient numbers in the normal
arid regions of low rainfall to confirm
the fact that desert soils, as a primary
group, are satisfactory mediums for
the growth of cork oaks.

The chernozem soils are usually
adjacent to, but on the wetter side of,
the steppe soils, while the prairie soils
are adjacent to, but on the drier side
of, the forest soils. Both are situated
in regions where the rainfall is ample
for crops but not sufficient for the
support of forest vegetation. They
are considered to be among the most
productive agricultural soils in the
world. From the point of view of tree
growth, however, these soils are less
fertile than forest and more fertile than
steppe soils.

Although there are no old cork oaks
growing in the chernozem and prairie
368

soils of the United States, there should
be no doubt concerning the ability of
these soils to support such growth. In
the Mediterranean region cork grows
in both forest and steppe soils. Forest
soil supports tree growth of practically
all kinds, while steppe soil is too dry to
support natural forest vegetation other
than drought-resistant trees like the
olive and the cork oak. If both forest
and steppe soils support cork oak
growth, it stands to reason that the
chernozem and prairie soils, which
are situated between them with respect
to moisture, are satisfactory and may
be considered potential soils.

The soils in which the cork oak is
growing vary widely in type ranging
from the arid desert soils to the moist
tropical soils. The range between the
respective extremes is so great that it
may safely be said that the cork oak
shows no preference for any particular
type of soil. However, it will not
grow in marsh and swamp regions or
in soils which are abundantly damp or
poorly drained.

The fact that the cork oak prefers
no particular soil does not imply that
the various types of soils are without
effect on the rate of growth. A study
of the effect of soils on the growth rate
of cork, when temperature and rain-
fall are constant, gave the following
results:

Soil region Rate of growth
1D YoYo ot ela seaen Oh an nieaedsichtin er Aineeue 0.95
Steppe: hi Gs. ae aileron tetera 1.00
Chernozem.aet cis steed eres socks 1.05
Prairie’ sy, costensrt ccs tileine opel iel voe 1.10
OLESER Sore wranrsie ee iehe kote wilt creer 5
Gomplexctise a ocestsrei sockets sate 1.18
Pro picaly sata terres se seronore tere 1.28

Having completed the study of the
independent effects of temperature,
rainfall, and soil in relation to the dis-
tribution and growth rate of the cork
oak, further studies were made on the
combined effect of these three climatic
elements. Under varying conditions
of temperature, rainfall, and soil the
composite total rate of growth of cork
will be the mathematical product of
these three respective rates of growth.

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

When a single composite, or cli-
matic, environment is taken as a com-
bination of one temperature region,
one rainfall region, and one soil
region, it is found that cork in the
Mediterranean region is growing, un-
der the 27 different environments
listed in table 5, at rates between the
limits of 0.58 and 1.45.

TABLE 5.—Climatic environments of natural cork

oak

Compos-

TemPer~) Rainfall Soil ite total

= vee region region rate of

8 growth
50-55 10-20 | Steppe...... 0. 58
50-55 10-20 | Tropical..... <5
50-55 | 20-40 | Steppe...... . 68
50-55 20-40 | Forest....... HY
50-55 20-40 | Complex.... . 80
50-55 20-40 | Tropical..... . 87
50-55 ||*40-60") Forests. . 2225 . 94
50-55 | 40-60 | Complex.... fO9
55-60 10-20 | Steppe...... wlll
55-60 10-20 | Tropical..... . 90
55-60 | 20-40 | Steppe...... 82
55-60 20-40" Rorest. seer: 95
55-60 20-40 | Complex.... OL.
55-60 | 20-40 | Tropical..... 1. 06
55-60 40-60 | Steppe...... 1503
55-60 | 40-60 | Forest....... 1.14
55-60 40-60 | Complex 1. 20
60-65 10-20 | Steppe...... . 86
60-65 10-20 | Tropical..... 1.10
60-65 | 20-40 | Steppe...... 1. 00
60-65 | 20-40 | Forest....... 1515
60-65 | 20-40 | Complex... 1. 18
60-65 20-40 | Tropical..... 1. 28
60-65 40-60 | Forest....... 1.39
60-65 | 40-60 | Complex 1. 45
65-70 10=205) ‘Steppe: arene 1. 04
65=70 |" °20=40 |e. dOssnror t21

A similar analysis of the United
States potential cork area shows that
it contains 38 different climatic en-
vironments whose rates of growth lie
between the limits of 0.55 and 2.31.

From the data contained in tables
2, 3, and 4, the composite total rate
of growth for the Mediterranean
region and each of its constituent
countries was computed with the
results shown in table 6.
CORK OAK-——-RYAN AND COOKE

369

TABLE 6.—Composite total rate of growth of natural cork oak

Composite rate of growth

Country

ROUEN SAN) oh .0 aie wksyess ie ufos, sidiose, suthore ¥.s adn: #\8
DAMN ctelenensr Coon ioke os ticle aitterseo otis ee e.s
Brance and Corsica 2 2+. 00/64 eke old vss
Ktaly; Sicily and Sardinia. .... 5. ..i0..05.
PAIS ERI Arde sioyhforeis Sole k <naftra Sm ors oon e aes ore eb
Bree O. NLOLOCCO' (3.52.5 913 st oiys #210 pois, 3 aint
DPAUISGVLOLOCEO \,.taiers' sci eee erties 0 alsa ss
PURTNISL AS a5 WR ht ST oa kee ktD sce wal ed evane's ae's

Tempera- | Rainfall Soil Total
ture
0. 9330 0. 9759 1. 006 0. 916
8509 . 9451 1. 047 . 842
. 8740 1. 0080 1. 260 1.110
fe 9192 1. 260 1. 060
1. 0470 9952 1. 000 1. 042
1. 0430 - 9166 1. 000 - 956
1. 0000 1. 0000 1. 000 1. 000
1. 2130 1. 0000 1. 000 1. 213
9696 9678 1.039 975

The final results of the climatic anal-
ysis show that in the Mediterranean
region the cork oak grows: (1) at
mean annual surface temperatures be-
tween the limits of 50° and 70° F.;
(2) under mean annual rainfalls be-
tween the limits of 10 and 60 inches;
(3) in a variety of soils ranging from
the semiarid brown steppe soils to the
moist tropical and subtropical red and
yellow soils; and (4) at rates between
the limits of 0.58 and 1.45.

The Cork Potential

The region within the United States
potential cork area, which embraces
all four of the above ‘‘Mediterranean
elements of growth” is graphically pre-
sented in figure 2 as the positive
potential area. This map also includes
an additional region, designated as the
quasi-potential area, which is non-
Mediterranean in its climatic elements.
It is to be noted that old cork oaks are
growing in both regions, despite the
fact that the quasi-potential area has
an average growth rate which is about
30 percent more rapid than the
Mediterranean maximum. This is
rather definite proof that the cork oak
will grow and thrive, within certain
limits, beyond the Mediterranean
climatic borders, and is sufficient evi-
dence to establish the botanic position
of the cork oak tree in this country as

being actual rather than potential.
Its potentiality lies solely in its economic
position with. respect to cork pro-
duction.

The positive potential area is ‘so
designated because it is felt that, if the
Mediterranean region has been turn-
ing out satisfactory cork for over
2,300 years, this positive area, whose
climatic elements and growth rates
are identically Mediterranean, can be
relied upon to produce cork of good
commercial quality. This confident
feeling is not only further strengthened
but is also actually confirmed by the
quality of cork obtained in stripping
over 500 American trees in the
positive potential area. These strip-
pings yielded about 15 tons of mixed
virgin and second-growth cork which
were sent to the McManus Cork Proj-
ect in Baltimore for evaluation. The
results of physical and chemical tests
showed the material to be suitable
for making composition cork products,
insulation blocks, and commonplace
articles. It was found to be compar-
able in all respects with Mediter-
ranean cork of similar character and
grade.

No stripping has been done in the
quasi-potential area, but specimens
have been sporadically cut from a
limited number of trees and, in all
instances, the cork has been found to
370

be of inferior quality to that in the
positive area. It did not compare
favorably with the poorest grades of
Mediterranean virgin growth. This
rather strongly indicates that the
quality of cork decreases as the rate of
growth increases and that commercial
grades are not obtainable from regions
in which the rate of growth exceeds
the Mediterranean maximum limit.
Therefore, in the United States, the
growth of cork for a national economy
should be restricted to the positive
potential areas.

All the cork coming from the
Mediterranean region is not of equal
quality; it varies considerably with
location. Only part of it can be used
for the highest type of manufacture,
such as champagne and wine corks
and composition cork liners for food
and beverage closures, while the bulk
is employed in the production of
thermal insulation, compositions, and
miscellaneous articles. ‘The finest-
textured and _ highest-quality cork
comes from Spain and Portugal which,
as is shown in table 6, have the slowest
rates of growth in the Mediterranean
region, namely 0.842 and 0.916, re-
spectively. From this it appears rea-
sonable to infer that cork quality is
a reciprocal function of the rate of
growth.

If rapid growth, especially that in
excess of the Mediterranean maximum,
is detrimental to the commercial
quality of cork, the quasi-potential
area should be limited to the planting
and growing of the cork oak tree
for its architectural and ornamental
beauty, its soil conservation properties
and, particularly, its acorn crops.
Therefore, what the quasi-potential
area loses in cork production is offset
by what it gains in landscaping and
hog-raising potentialities. Much of
the barren and uncultivated lands in
this area can be planted to cork oaks
and transformed into parklike groves
in which hogs can feed on the acorn
crops and ultimately produce pork
at the estimated rate of 30 to 40 pounds
per acre per year.

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

The geographic distribution of the
positive and quasi-potential areas is
also shown in figure 2. A study of this
map shows that there are 27 States in
the United States potential cork area.
Eighteen contain positive areas only;
they are: Arizona, California, Colo-
rado, Delaware, Illinois, Indiana, Ken-
tucky, Maryland, Missouri, Nevada,
New Jersey, New Mexico, Oklahoma,
Oregon, Tennessee, Utah, Virginia,
and Washington. The following seven
States contain both positive and quasi
areas: Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia,
Mississippi, North Carolina, South
Carolina, and Texas. The remaining
two, Florida and Louisiana, are wholly
quasi-potential.

The positive potential area presents
itself as the most suitable location in
which to build the Nation’s cork-forest
industry, because it is identical to the
Mediterranean region in climatic ele-
ments and growth rate. It embraces
an area of 888,050 square miles. If
over 90 percent of this area is already
occupied by cities, towns, roads, farms,
pastures, woodlands, and other uses,
there would still be more land avail-
able than is needed to produce this
country’s requirement of 160,000 tons
of cork annually. It will be shown
that no more than 1,000,000 acres
(1,562.5 square miles) will be needed
to produce cork at this rate.

In order to obtain a fair estimate of
what might reasonably be expected of
the tree with respect to its production
of cork, it is necessary to study sepa-
rately each factor that produces a
quantitative effect on the yield. Hav-
ing done this, it becomes apparent
that cork production is a function of
the combined effect of several contrib-
uting factors.

The amount of cork which a tree
will produce over a given period of
time depends upon the rate of growth
of its immediate environment and
upon the regularity with which strip-
ping operations are performed. After
the removal of the first (or virgin)
growth, a second growth begins within
a very few months and progresses at
CORK OAK-—-RYAN AND COOKE

a rate faster than the initial growth.
After the second stripping, a third
growth progresses at a rate faster than
the second. This apparent stimula-
tion repeats itself after each successive
stripping. ‘The phenomenon of stimu-
lation in relation to quantitative yield
was carefully studied during the 6-
year period of stripping. As a result
of this work it has been possible to
estimate, with a reasonable degree of
accuracy, the cork yield per tree at
various ages up to 100 years. Although
the life of a cork tree in the Mediter-
ranean region ranges from 150 to 200
years, or slightly over, we did not feel
justified in carrying the estimation to
the limit because we did not have the
fundamental data to support it. The
estimate, shown in table 7, is based
upon the results of stripping trees
between the ages of 20 and 90 years.

TasLE 7.—Relation between annual cork yield

per tree and age in the United States potential
cork area

Potential area

Positive | Quasi
Mean rate of growth. ..| 0. 9667 1. 8439
Pounds per annum per
tree at:
1Okyeaxs's crs. 2.10 - . 00 . 00
DON CATS |. 15 n.cls) 5 ls3 1259 3:65
BObyearsign serie oi 2305 6. 50
AQUI ECANSie cleieyeiicies 5. 04 abil 5)
SOhyearse--1.- = 8. 96 20. 54
GOlyearsime ste sell 15593 36. 54
OMyearsir. crs (cu. st 28. 32 64. 97
SOhyearsin oe «024 50. 39 5 s50
SOMES ocomoma ss 89. 60 205. 40
1OOkvearsey sper... 2.2 159. 30 365. 40

It is felt that the estimate is fairly
representative of average production
conditions and that it is sufficiently
accurate for the practical purposes of
comparison and estimation.

In addition to the rate of growth
and stripping regularity, the amount
of cork produced by a given tree is
greatly influenced by the shape of its

371

various parts, such as trunk, branches,
crotch, etc. During the stripping of
over 500 trees of all shapes, sizes, and
ages, it was determined that the shape
of an individual tree may cause it to
deviate as much as 21 percent from
the average values in table 7. How-
ever, when a number of trees of differ-
ent shapes are averaged, the cork
yield per tree agrees very closely with
the estimate.

In order to determine, for commer-
cial reasons, the cork yield per acre,
or any other unit, it is necessary to
know the number of trees an acre will
accommodate. Mediterranean ex-
perience has shown that cork yield
is at its maximum, quality at its
highest, and fruiting (acorn produc-
tion) at its best when the trees are
widely spaced so that they grow in
full light without crowding or touch-
ing. Therefore, as the trees grow and
their crowns spread, the acreage must
be systematically thinned in order to
give each tree room for free, un-
hampered growth. The rate at which
the crown spreads, or increases in
diameter, depends upon the rate of
growth of the region in which the
tree is located; and the number of
trees which an acre will accommodate
depends upon the diameter of the
crown.

Since the first and second strippings
are of no real commercial value and
the cork oak is not considered to be
commercially mature until it is 40
years of age and has yielded its third
stripping, there is no point in planting
more trees originally than an acre
will accommodate at 40 years of age.
On this basis, in conjunction with the
variations in crown spread with
growth rate and age, the number of
trees per acre in relation to age was
computed with the results presented
in table 8, wherein it is seen that, for
the first 40 years, the number of trees
per acre is constant and, after 40
years, the number is variable, de-
creasing by thinning as the age
increases.
372

TABLE 8.—Relation between the number of trees
per acre and age in the United States potential
cork area

Potential area

Positive | Quasi
Mean rate of growth...| 0.9667} 1.8439
Trees per acre at:
Initial planting.......} 43.53 8. 85
AOlveatsunce erent tlc 43. 53 8. 85
HOlyvearstersc ele srseatic SESH) 6. 09
GOlyearsi ares ill tee ae 22s Au 4.49
ORV GAarsh ti cuted 17.09 3. 47
SOlyearse. niente erect 13. 68 2. 78
OOtyearsiiysts a s.c sates es 11-23 2. 28
NOOkyearseea ce srt: 9. 43 1s On

The cork yield per acre per annum
at any given age may now be deter-
mined by multiplying the yield per
tree per annum (table 7) by the
number of trees per acre (table 8)
with the results shown in table 9.

TasBLe 9.—Relation between annual cork yield

per acre and age in the United States potential
cork area

Potential] area

Positive Quasi
Mean rate of growth. 0. 9667 1. 8439
Pounds per annum
per acre at:
1ORVEaCS tect cists . 00 . 00
20 years. isn... 69. 21 32. 30
SOF Var .tersrepeieiees 122. 89 Bio 2:
AOiveAaTSercuisilre 219. 39 102. 22
HOiveansasmtac isis 268. 53 125. 09
GO: yearsts3.5, fo: 352021 164. 06
WOWEAarSzrcicers of: 483.99 225. 45
SOtvearsh acco: 689. 34 321. 10
SOlivearsereyere- cree 1006. 21 468. 31
AOO0svearsneacte ts 15025207 |) 6975 91

A marked peculiarity shown in
table 9 is the fact that, at a given rate
of growth, the cork yield per acre in-
creases with age but, at any given age,
the yield decreases as the mean rate
of growth increases. In other words,
the region in which the cork tree grows
the fastest produces the least amount

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

of cork per acre. This phenomenon
is readily explained by the fact that
the number of trees per acre (table 8)
decreases at a faster rate than the
cork yield per tree (table 7) increases.

The net result of this situation is
nothing to cause undue alarm. It is
not only a perfectly normal condition,
but it is also a typical Mediterranean
characteristic. Table 6 shows that
Spain has the lowest rate of growth
(0.842) in the Mediterranean region,
while, in table 1, it is shown to have
the highest cork yield per acre (212
pounds).

This evidence considerably strength-
ens the argument in favor of limiting
the growth of commercial cork to the
positive potential area which is the
only region in the United States with
climatic environments and growth
rates identical with those of the
Mediterranean region. This does not
mean that the quasi-potential area
is to be neglected. In addition to its
hog-raising possibilities, this area can
render a valuable service to the Nation
by planting to cork trees the vast
amount of lands which it contains
that are now out of agricultural pro-
duction due to the depleted condition
of their soils. Since the scarcity of
food-producing land is a problem not
only in the United States but all over
the world, any land that has food-
producing potentiality should not be
planted to cork oaks.

The Cork Forest

The most desirable cork-forest in-
dustry for the United States is one
which will produce sufficient cork to
meet our yearly requirement of ap-
proximately 160,000 tons. A forest
which will produce at this rate must,
as will be shown, contain at least
28,000,000 trees planted on almost
1,000,000 acres. Such a planting,
however, could not be made in any
one year because the acorns are not
available. It would require 84,000,000
acorns, since common practice is to
plant three acorns to a hill in order to
assure the germination of one.
CORK OAK-——-RYAN AND COOKE

At present, about 1,200,000 acorns
are being collected yearly from ap-
proximately 1,000 California trees.
This permits planting for 400,000 trees
per year. At this rate, it would re-
quire 70 years to plant the forest.
But, there are upward of 4,000 trees
in California. Therefore, there is no
reason why collecting cannot be or-
ganized along progressive lines so that
the entire acorn crop of over 4,000
trees becomes available within a
period of 20 years.

A national forest could be started
with a moderate beginning of 240,000
trees the first year which would be
increased progressively each year by
a common difference of 80,000 trees.
For example, 320,000 trees would be
planted the second year, 400,000 in
the third year, and so on, for 20 con-
secutive years. At the end of 20
years, 20,000,000 trees will have been
planted. This will utilize the full
acorn capacity of California’s old
trees. Beginning with the twenty-
first year, however, the first planting
will have reached full fruiting matur-
ity and its acorn crop can be added to
that of California’s. Each succeeding
year an additional larger planting will
mature so that planting can be stepped
up to the rate of 3,200,000 trees for the
twenty-first year and 4,800,000 for the
twenty-second year. At the end of 22
consecutive years of progression plant-
ing, 28,000,000 trees will have been
planted, which is the number estimated
to fulfill the country’s requirements.

In such a progressively planted forest
as that suggested above, its age at any
time after the first year is composite
and its cork yield is cumulative.
Therefore, different methods had to
be used to estimate the forest yield
than those employed for the yield per
acre when all trees were of the same
age. After developing the proper
mathematical procedure for deter-
mining the yield of a progressively
planted forest, studies were made on
the basis of planting for 20, 22, and
25 consecutive years. It was shown
that the progressively planted forest

8173693—49——_25

373

would not clear itself of first and
second growths of cork and produce
100 percent of the commercial grades
of third and after strippings until the
sixtieth year in the case of planting on
the 20-year basis, and the seventieth
year for the remaining plantings.

It was also determined that on the
20-year basis‘of planting about 95
years would be required for produc-
tion to meet the country’s requirement
of 160,000 tons annually. This is
entirely too long a period to wait for
our cork independence. On the other
hand, the 25-year basis of planting
will meet the 160,000 tons per annum
requirement in the fifty-seventh year
but, with reproduction at the rate of
table 7, the yield of cork would be too
great for its own commercial good.
At the end of 100 years, the supply
would be so far in excess of the demand
that cork would inevitably become an
economic “‘bauble.”’

The 22-year planting, with 28,000,000
trees on 916,264 acres, presents itself
as the most economical basis on which
to build the Nation’s cork-forest in-
dustry. The production rate of such
a forest is presented in table 10 which
shows that the country’s requirement

TABLE 10.—Estimated rate of ‘‘stripped” pro-
duction for the 22-year forest planted with
28,000,000 trees on 916,264 acres in the positive
potential cork area of the United States

Yield in short tons per
annum for stripping of—

Age in years Third
First Ss oe

(icein) econd after

8 (com-
mercial)
AVG Scorer D20E eet eee
SOR Ma Sars cna: 7,053 SI0Cl eee
A.) Eee ea er 25,065 | 11, 860 694
SOR eae ce mcr 18, 619 | 30,579 15> 316
(310) Ses ite reregeed pera Rees 8 24, 391 60. 391
A Oi Raa eer aia oie eT All ie ees 116, 269
LTO) Sheesteteytea pt pele na We | I os ot 165, 477
S| Pee Cd Ma eS RY 2 ee 241, 710
NOOR EEE sey elo std ose 360, 367
374

of 160,000 tons per annum will be met
in the seventy-ninth year, and, at the
end of 100 years, the output will about
equal the present production of the
Mediterranean region, which is in the
neighborhood of 350,000 tons per
annum. The yield of this so-called
22-year forest is well within the bounds
of good economy and is adequate for
the Nation’s need in times of peace
and war.

These 28,000,000 trees should be
proportionately planted by States in
relation to their respective positive
potential areas. A suggested plan of
planting is presented in table 11.

TABLE 11.—Total number of trees after planting
for 22 consecutive years

Number of trees

in positive
State potential area
Alabama isi ie gine te: Soetaslas eee 551, 432
ATIZONA, ayy se arigci emit te eee 5, 141, 360
Arkansasistcac nos noe icualcastoe TSS 272,
@aliforniatyas cri orate a ree 4, 979, 688
@oloradowas ahora eA eee 160, 272
Delaware eietie sue detain Ae 51, 744
Georg iar ce iattncin susei se sto = 553, 840
HinGis een ee See ete 149, 016
Indiana Ae ee ee 60, 368
Kentucky dermictace tect een. 691, 544
Maryland: ists sic cian dee 137, 984
IMMISSISSIP Plime cla eich bys okey eee Se 349, 160
Missouri®s titan cei ey ae 247, 324
Nevadates cat ascites teenies 400, 680
INC WAJCISCY, <i ctseeat, Souci ac 34, 496
INewa Mexico e nm crcacare steric ages 3, 950, 464
INorth;Carolinaeei. ech 763, 896
Oklahomatervcn cies tesa 1,171, 688
Oregons iefereie ees ers ence cnens 749, 224
South? @arolinaty. sets a acre 373, 240
Pennessee ws 3 sikelele. 807, 044
MEXAS aati cole eee oer er 3, 815, 140
Witalacec ite trecossoacestolal ters earenenore 1,095, 192
Wiroimia's 2:53 caic iefan senses ere oes 578, 116
Washington: science cucks cee 431, 816
United States positive po-

tential areas. meio 28, 000, 000

Nore: The number of trees which each
State must plant the first year is 3/350th’s of
the corresponding numbers in the above
table.

SOME ESSENTIAL FACTORS

Having virtually established the lo-
cation of the forest, attention can be
concentrated upon proper plans for
the collection and distribution of
acorns, suitable processes for stripping

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

the trees without loss, and correct
methods for the management of the
many cork oak plantations which will
be scattered throughout .the 25 States
in the positive potential area. At the
same time, exhaustive studies must be
made of growth phenomena in order to
establish, for future use, the propaga-
tion requirements of the cork oak tree
in this country. Organized stripping
research must be continued and elab-
orated upon, so that additional funda-
mental data may be accumulated on
the relation between cork reproduc-
tion and age, and between cork qual-
ity and growth rate. These tasks of
planning, study, and research are the
present functions of the McManus
Cork Project and its cooperating mem-
bers. The ultimate aim of the project
is to firmly establish the essential
foundations for a cork-forest industry
in the United States.

In the national cork project, the
State of California occupies the key
position because it contains most of
the worth-while acorn-bearing trees
in the country and, consequently, all
the raw material needed to build the
proposed industry. During the first 20
years, California must furnish at least
60,000,000 acorns to permit the plant-
ing of 20,000,000 trees, and, at the
same time, must function as the ex-
perimental laboratory in which hun-
dreds of plantation workers from other
States can observe and learn the cor-
rect procedures for stripping and har-
vesting cork in order that operators
may realize a profitable return on
their investment in land and labor.

Usually the choice of a specific crop
for a given piece of land is based upon
comparison of its economic factors and
financial returns with other crops
adapted to the same land. The cork
oak tree will not be in competition
with agricultural crops because it is
not to be planted on land which has
food-producing potentiality. It is
competitive only with such tree, grass,
and other crops as are adapted to mar-
ginal lands and to soils that are non-
productive in the agricultural sense.
CORK OAK——-RYAN AND COOKE

It is only on these types of lands that
the cork oak is to be grown. Under
such circumstances it is felt that cork
will compare favorably with competi-
tive crops.

In order to give the potential planter
an idea of what to expect in the way
of a return on his investment, an analy-
sis of the present-day market prices of
Mediterranean cork was made and the
result is presented as an average value,
subject, of course, to reasonable com-
mercial deviations. ‘The average value
will serve as a basis of comparison in
determining the feasibility of growing
cork as a crop.

The total Mediterranean production
is comprised, on the average, of 35
percent of corkwood, or bark, and 65
percent of waste, strippings, shavings,
and refuse. Both the corkwood and
the waste are supplied in many differ-
ent grades. There are about 32
different grades of corkwood covering
the virgin, second, third, and after
strippings. Grading is based upon
thickness and quality. The waste,
etc., derived from cutting, trimming,
and processing the above grades of
corkwood is classified into some 12
different grades.

The present price of corkwood,
f. o. b. the Mediterranean region port
of shipment, ranges between $84.59
per short ton for the virgin growth and
$519.25 for the highest-quality, thick-
est, and finest-textured grade. The
composite price of all grades, based
upon proportionate production, is
$134.42 per short ton. The derived
waste runs from $38.18 for the lowest
grade of refuse to $92.73 for the high-
est grade of selected strippings. The
composite price of the waste cork is
$77.05 per short ton. Therefore, on
the basis of 35 percent cork wood and
65 percent waste, the present com-
posite price of Mediterranean cork
would be $97.13 per short ton.

The American manufacturer must
add to the above unit prices approxi-
mately $38.19 to cover the cost of
buyer’s fees, ocean freight, insurance,
and land freight on this side. Cork

817369—49—— 29

375

that is grown in the United States will
also have its transportation charges,
which will vary with respect to forest
location in relation to the point of ulti-
mate consumption. The bulk of cork
in this country. is consumed on, the
Atlantic seaboard, and, since it will
be grown from the Atlantic to the
Pacific coast, freight charges ranging
from $5 to about $40 per short ton
must be+taken :into consideration.
Based upon the proportionate planting
of each State in the positive potential
area, the composite cost of freight and
transportation will be $22.59 per ton.
This represents an average saving of
$15.60 per ton over the Mediterranean
freight cost which must be passed on
to the user as his incentive to buy
American-grown cork, Therefore, the
American planter can, at all times,
sell his cork at the prevailing Mediter-
ranean region prices.

With $97.13 per ton as the current
composite price of all grades of cork,
the annual income per acre for the
22-year forest of table 10 would be at
the rate shown in table 12.

TABLE 12.—Rate of annual income for the 22-
year forest with the composite price of cork at
$97.73 per ton

Annual Annual

At end of} dollar At end of dollar
year income year income
per acre per acre
NO 2B ese COO) Il (Oe eee ae 8. 98
AOR era A108) | OSs aaa e 12.33
BOMe sees Stel0) ll LOR Ree. 17. 54
Artes neo 3: OOF ILO Oaees 2c) 25562
5 Opa eee (Cprrei ell OG) se ga 38. 20

At the end of 100 years, the average
income for the entire period will have
been at the rate of $11.43 per acre per
annum. It is interesting to compare
this rate with that of the Mediter-
ranean region which has been produc-
ing for hundreds of year. Table 1
shows the annual cork yield for the
Mediterranean region to be 112
pounds (0.056 ton) per acre. With
376

cork at $97.13 per ton, this is ‘equiva-
lent to an annual income of $5.44 per
acre, which is about one-half that of an
estimated acre in the United States.
From the investment point of view,
it appears that the cork oak in this
country will compare very favorably
with that in the Mediterranean region.

The cork forest produces income in
addition to that derived from the
cork. For the first 20 years, while
the trees are young, the land provides
forage for sheep, goats, and other
cattle. When the acorns mature in
the twentieth year, the land may be
converted to hog pasture, and used as
such throughout the life of the forest,
so that cork and pork will be produced
at the same time. After the fortieth
year, thinning provides wood from
which additional income may be
derived. These augmentative com-
modities will probably more than offset
the cost of rent, labor, and overhead,
so that the return on the cork will be
all profit.

Cork production will remain profit-
able only as long as an economic
balance is maintained between supply
and demand. Any tendency to over-
produce will invariably prove to be
detrimental to the undertaking. There-
fore, if the proposed cork-forest in-
dustry is to be within economic

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

bounds, the total number of trees
should not exceed the 28,000,000
prescribed in the 22-year forest of
table 10.

It would be purely conjectural to
attempt a statement as to how long
and at what rate the 22-year forest
will continue to produce. These are
essential points which must be de-
termined by observation and study
of growth and production trends
during the earlier stages of develop-
ment, in order that reliable data
might be obtained concerning the
cycles in which subsequent forests
should be planted so that they arrive
at maturity when the preceding one
reaches exhaustion, and, thereby, per-
petuate cork production at a rate that
will satisfy the Nation’s need.

REFERENCES

1. Witiiams, Simon, Bull. Torrey Club,
vol. 66, pp. 353-365, 1939; ibid., vol. 69,
pp. 1-10, 115-129, 1942.

2. Mirov, N. T., and Cummine, W. C.,
Journal of Forestry, vol. 43, pp.
589-591, 1945.

3. Ryan, Victor A., Some geographic and
economic aspects of the cork oak.
Crown Cork and Seal Co., Inc.,
Baltimore, Md., 1948.

4. Bureau oF Foreicn and Domestic Com-
MERCE, Specialties Division, World
Production and Trade in Cork. U. S.
Department of Commerce, Washington,
D: C1937%
Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Ryan and Cooke PLATE 1

CHARLES E. MCMANUS, 1881-1946

Former president and chairman of the board of the Crown Cork and Seal Company, Inc., who initiated
the present cork-growing program in the United States and established the McManus Cork Project.
Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Ryan and Cooke PLATE 2

a) mpi tions

ae a

ae

1. THE LARGEST GROVE OF MATURE CORK OAK TREES IN THE UNITED
STATES, GHICO; GALEIF:

These trees supply many acorns every year for additional plantings.

2. A TRUCKLOAD OF ACORNS OF THE CORK OAK

Hundreds of thousands of cork acorns like these are collected and distributed annually throughout the
warmer half of the United States.
ONILNVI1d Y¥OS AGVAY
SONITIGSSS ANVO WYOD ‘1

8V6l “G HOYVW ‘ATIAHSYN Lv
SONNOYD WOLIdVD ALVIS AHL NO 3aBuL WMYHOD V ONI

-LNVW1d ‘SSSSANN3AL AO YONYHSAOD ‘GCHYODOW WILT “NOH ‘2 “SYANIVLNOD TAVNGIAIGNI NI

a
ne

a

93007) pue uedy —Sbol ‘yuoday ueIUOSY IWS

‘ZEEI UL pajgueyd “OOTAIOG JSOIOY SBXOT, ASOJINOD Ydeisojoyg “EPL UT

SUI[PIs WO, “Jooy SET “IUSIey ‘soyout ¢°% ‘puNoIs wo’, yooy | ‘IOJOUTeIC, pojuryd usl0oe WOIg “Jooy 6'OL “IYSIoy ‘soyour T’¢ ‘Ysty IsBoiq ‘soJaUIRICT
Lv6l 8761 ANN
YSaqEgwMn3aog”d “v1 ‘SONILSVH ‘33YL HYOD DNNOA nS “XSL ‘NOILVLS 3937109 ‘S33YuL WYOD SNAOK =

gy

v ALVi1d 23005 pure ueAyy—"gp6| ‘ys0dayy uelUOSYzIWIG
€rv6l LSNONY ‘“*SINVD ‘ALNNOD GS0yuaW NI 3S3yN 1. 3DYHV7] V WOU HYHOD NIDYIA ONIddlyls

G 31V1d ayood pure uekyj—"gp6| ‘qaoday ueiuosyyiUIC
Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Ryan and Cooke PLATE 6

——

SECOND-GROWTH CORK BEING REMOVED FROM A CORK TREE AT DAVIS, CALIF.,
JULY 1948

The virgin cork was stripped from this tree in 1942.
Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Ryan and Cooke PLATE 7

CORK OAK GROWING AT AN ALTITUDE OF 5,280 FEET AT TENIET-EL-HAD IN
ALGERIA

The trunk has recently been stripped. Note the thick virgin cork on the large branches.
“qo0] OZG‘F ‘UOTJBAD[Y “AOULUINS UT ,0ZT PUB IOJUIM UT O1ozZ JO SoINyRIod Ula} 0} poqoolqns Used sey 4 SeuTy AUBIN,

6Z81 NI GSLNV1d ““ZIYV ‘YOIMSdNS “HONVY SIVYHYD NO 4ey 1 HYOD

8 ALV1d ayo, pur uehy—"gp6| ‘Hodey uRiuOsyyTWIG
Remember the Chestnut!’

By AMANDA ULM

[With 4 plates}

During the summer of 1904, a num-
ber of American chestnut trees in
New York City’s Zoological Park
withered and died. Many attributed
the loss to the unusually cold winter
of 1903, but Herman Merkel, the
park’s chief forester, suspected some-
thing more. He sprayed the trees
with a fungicide and reported his
observations to the United States
Department of Agriculture in Wash-
ington. No one became alarmed,
however. Chestnuts were plentiful in
the woods about the city and there
was no evidence of anything wrong
outside the Zoological Park.

Yet within 7 years it was difficult
to find an unblighted American chest-
nut in the Empire State, and by 1940
healthy specimens of this great tree
had virtually disappeared from the
woodlands of the East. Only in
certain sections of Mississippi and
Tennessee were unblighted trees still
reported.

To the present generation of young
Americans the disappearance of the
chestnut from the eastern woodlands
is little more than a chapter of his-
tory. And to their great misfortune
they have been deprived of an asso-
ciation that is still deeply etched in
the memory of many of their elders.
Henry David Thoreau undoubtedly
spoke the minds of many when he
wrote of this magnificent tree:

When chestnuts were ripe I laid up half a
bushel for winter. It was very exciting at

1 Reprinted by permission from American
Forests, April 1948.

that season to roam the then boundless
chestnut woods . . . with a bag on my
shoulder, and a stick to open burs with in
my hand .. . amid the rustling of leaves
and the loud reproofs of the red squirrels
and the jays, whose half-consumed nuts I
sometimes stole.... Occasionally I climbed
and shook the trees. They grew also behind
my house, and one large tree which almost
overshadowed it was, when in flower, a
bouquet which scented the whole neighbor-
hood, but the squirrels and jays got most of
its fruit. . . . I relinquished these trees to
them and visited the more distant woods
composed wholly of chestnut.

Yet the story of the chestnut is one
every American should know and
ponder. For not only is it a tragic
reminder of what can happen to a
valuable resource when danger sig-
nals are ignored, but it points with
millions of dead and ghostly snags,
all that is left of one of the most
magnificent trees indigenous to our
woodlands, to the fallacy of the kind
of thinking that adds up to “‘too little,
and too late.”” And unless the Ameri-
can people show greater understand-
ing of the destructive power of tree-
killing diseases and insects, the tragedy
of the chestnut can be re-enacted.
The present plight of the American
elm is eloquent testimony to this.

The chestnut, of course, was more
than a sentimental loss to the Nation.
A superbly beautiful tree, often tower-
ing 100 feet or more in the forest,
it was of high commercial value, an
important part of the Nation’s econ-
omy. Its wood was durable and rot-
resistant, ideal for telephone poles,
shipmasts, and railroad ties. Great
quantities were used for interior wood-

377
378

work. And as a source of tannic acid
it was unsurpassed. Indeed, by the
time the blight had moved from New
York to Virginia, it was estimated that
the loss in timber alone was in excess
of $25,000,000.

The tragic part about our attitude
toward destructive diseases and in-
sects is that, because they work silently
and undramatically, we find it difficult
to become greatly concerned until
their deadly work is done. Then we
lick our wounds, total up our losses,
and indignantly ask each other,
*“Couldn’t it have been prevented?”

We are still asking this about the
chestnut disaster. The answer, how-
ever, is likely to be lost somewhere
in this pattern of reasoning: at the
time of the outbreak there was little
understanding of plant diseases; much
valuable time was lost after the out-
break in searching out the factors
responsible for the epidemic and in
vacillation and acrimonious debate;
the disease, once established, spread
like lightning; and finally the eastern
woodlands became so thoroughly per-
meated that no human control was
practical.

When Forester Merkel examined
the trees dying in New York’s Zoo-
logical Park, he found interesting
marks on their trunks and branches.
A sunken area of dried-out bark, a
sort of canker, was always present.
On the surface of the cankers he fre-
quently saw thousands of yellowish
pin-point projections. He immedi-
ately sent samples of this material
to the Department of Agriculture,
which reported that the bark was
riddled with a fungus, that the yellow
pin points were fruiting bodies, con-
taining millions of spores. When these
spores were released from the fruiting
bodies they could be blown miles to
infect other chestnut trees.

This particular fungus was a deadly
parasite. Only one infinitesimal spore
lodged in a fissure or slight abrasion of
the protective bark of the chestnut
could send out minute rows of rootlike
strands which would expand into a

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

fan-shaped, white or _ buff-colored
mass. The ‘‘fan’” would penetrate the
trunk of the tree, pushing its way into
the sapwood. Eventually, the fungus
would destroy the cells growing next
to the tubular conductors through
which water ascends from the tree’s
roots to its leaves, thus cutting off the
tree’s water supply. The net result of
this interior strangulation was iden-
tical with the effect of girdling a tree
trunk with knife or ax.

Despite these revelations regarding
the disease, protective action was in-
effective. Merkel’s attempt to control
the spread of the fungus with Bor-
deaux, a copper-sulfate spray which
the French had _ used _ successfully
in controlling a fungus disease of
grape, was a complete failure. So,
with nothing to block its progress, the
blight, by 1911, had spread from New
York to New Hampshire, Connecticut,
New Jersey, Pennsylvania, West Vir-
ginia, and Virginia.

A number of scientists believed the
disease would disappear of its own
accord, but generally there was rising
fear that it would sweep down through
the extensive chestnut forests of the
South. One of the first real stands
made against its march was in Penn-
sylvania where a Chestnut Tree Blight
Commission was created with $275,000
at its disposal. Believing the blight
controllable, the commission set about
making investigations of practical con-
trol measures, started research on the
peculiarities of the blight fungus, and
dispatched 200 scouts to locate and
destroy infected trees. Its peak effort
was a serious, if not desperate, attempt
to establish a 10-mile zone across
which, it was hoped, the blight
organism would fail to find its way.
Within this ‘immune belt,” as it was
called, all chestnuts, healthy and dis-
eased, were destroyed.

Previous investigation of the blight
fungus revealed that instead of one
type of spore, as supposed, the fungus
possessed two types. The first, called
ascospore by the researchers, was pro-
duced in microscopic receptacles with-
REMEMBER THE CHESTNUT—ULM

in the pin-point pustules. Extremely
small, it was easily blown by the wind
to infect new trees. The second was
contained in sticky yellow ribbons
extruded from the pustules more or
less as toothpaste is extruded from a
tube. These were called pycnospores.
Being moist, they adhered to the feet
and bodies of wild animals, and were
thus carried considerable distances to
other chestnut trees.

This apparent ability of the blight
fungus to spread under any conditions
played right into the hands of oppo-
nents of the “immune belt’? theory,
who could see no purpose in putting
thousands of dollars into what they
believed was a lost cause. The result
was that 2 years later the Chestnut
Tree Blight Commission ceased con-
trol work. Hastening its demise was
the failure of a number of other States
to cooperate. Later experience has
shown that the blight can be kept out
of certain localities, and there is reason
to believe that elimination of trees in
advance of the main progress of the
fungus in Pennsylvania deterred the
blight by at least 5 years.

From 1913 on, with practically no
human opposition, the blight spores
continued to be carried southward and
westward.

The severity of the disease made it
clear to most investigators that this
was no mere flare-up of an indigenous
parasite, though a few maintained the
pathogen to be a curious mutation of
a heretofore harmless fungus. Others
believed it had come from European
trees imported to this country. In the
80’s and 90’s of the last century there
had been a great wave of interest in
commercial chestnut orchards, and
large numbers of chestnut trees were
brought in from Europe by nursery-
men.

When a fungus, claimed by a num-
ber of experts to be identical with the
organism causing blight on our native
trees, was found on these European
chestnuts, the mystery appeared
solved. The reasoning was that this
fungus, termed Endothia  radicalis,

379

though apparently harmless to the
European chestnut, was deadly to
ours. This plausible hypothesis, how-
ever, was exploded when it was shown
that the European tree, when attacked
in this country by the fungus from one
of our blighted native chestnuts, also
withered and died. Eventually, the
two fungi were found to be different,
though related. The blight-causing
fungus, Endothia parasitica, was virulent
and definitely fatal in effect. The
other was innocuous and attacked only
dead tissue.

With Europe eliminated as a source
of blight, scientists began to look else-
where, notably to the Asiatic coun-
tries. They began with the Japanese
chestnut trees that had been brought
into this country in the latter part of
the nineteenth century, and it was
soon observed that some contained
cankers indicating infection from
blight. The Japanese tree often sur-
vived, however. It was this resistance
that gave investigators Haven Met-
calf and C. L. Shear the clue they
were looking for. Both scientists had
become convinced the blight had en-
tered this country from the Orient—
but they needed proof.

Dr. Shear’s first act was to send
a specimen of diseased chestnut bark
to Frank Meyer, the famous plant
explorer, then in China, who agreed
to search for comparative evidence
of blight in that country.

The American researchers did not
have long to wait. Within a short
time Meyer wired that he had found
evidence of what he believed to be
blight. Three weeks later the De-
partment of Agriculture received a
specimen of bark from a Chinese
chestnut which Meyer had located in
northern China. Metcalf immedi-
ately examined the material and re-
ported, “It looks like it.””. Then Shear
found the characteristic ascospores in
cultures made from the bark. Later
the scientist inoculated trees in this
country.

Thus, in less than 3 months, it was
definitely established that the chestnut
380

blight had been introduced from the
Orient. Undoubtedly it had come in
on Japanese nursery stock during the
90’s of the past century. Had it come
earlier, the disease would have made
its appearance long before 1904. Later,
Meyer found blight on Japanese chest-
nuts growing in Japan. Both the
Japanese and Chinese trees are highly
resistant to blight.

The virulence of the fungus on the
American chestnut is analogous to the
effect of tuberculosis on the Indian.
In each case an organism was sud-
denly introduced to a species which
had never had the opportunity to
build up resistance. Consequently,
in both the havoc was extensive.
Fortunately, many Indians survived:
unfortunately, not a single infected
American chestnut showed even mild
resistance.

With the discovery of the blight
and the built-up resistance to it by
oriental chestnuts, the Department of
Agriculture sent botanists to the Ori-
ent to select chestnut seeds for plant-
ing in this country. This was done,
even though at the time it seemed
that the oriental trees were in every
way inferior, except in resistance, to
Americanchestnuts. The oriental trees
appeared to be slow-growing and low-
branching. Furthermore, the oriental
trees could not be grown under the
various conditions in which the native
chestnut thrived. They required a
warmer Climate and more care.

For years there was hope that our
native trees would develop a resistant
strain. Microscopic studies of the cells
of the chestnut revealed that the living
tissue of the tree fought the fungus—
unsuccessfully, sad to relate—by in-
creasing the width and the strength
of the cell walls. What really kept
hope alive, however, was discovery
that the fungus never entered the
roots of the tree—or at least could not
survive there. Whether because of the
greater amount of tannin in the roots
or for other reasons, has not been
definitely determined. Anyway, the
root crown would continue to live for

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

a while, sending up young shoots
which frequently persisted long enough
to bear viable nuts.

The hope was that eventually one of
these nuts would indicate some change
in heredity, a mutation which would
bring resistance into the germ plasm
of the long-suffering species of native
chestnut. But despite numerous trials,
none was ever found to be resistant,
although many were planted and
tested either by natural or artificial
inoculation with blight spores. So, at
last, it was realized that the American
chestnut was doomed.

Revelation that much of the blight-
killed timber could be utilized—that
chestnut wood infected with blight
actually contained more tannin than
healthy wood—did not, of course,
soften this stunning blow to the Amer-
ican people.

There was nothing to do but find a
substitute for the American chestnut—
if one could be found. So with the
object of combining the best charac-
teristics of the American chestnut with
those of the oriental chestnuts, scien-
tists began to cross the two types.
Fortunately, they had access to early
research. Walter Van Fleet, known
especially among gardeners for his
rose crosses, had been breeding orien-
tal trees with native chestnuts in New
Jersey. Because of this experience, he
was selected by the Department of
Agriculture to head up chestnut-
breeding work at Bell, Md., where
several of his oriental crosses are still
in existence.

Luther Burbank was another well-
known plant breeder who had been
crossing oriental, European, and na-
tive chestnuts back in the 90’s. A
number of Burbank’s crosses have
found their way to Hamden, Conn.,
where Arthur H. Graves of the Brook-
lyn Botanic Garden has been crossing
chestnuts since 1930. Graves has been
aided in his investigations by the
Division of Forest Pathology, but the
main breeding work of this division
of the Department of Agriculture is
still carried on in Maryland.
REMEMBER THE

As early as the 1870’s Japanese
chestnuts had been imported to this
country, and even in colonial days
there had been imports of Euro-
pean chestnut seedlings. Therefore,
because they were available, the ear-
liest breeding work in the long search
for blight resistance was done with
Japanese, European, and native spe-
cies. The Chinese chestnut, though
superior to the Japanese and just as
resistant to blight, probably did not
enter the United States until 1903,
when C. S. Sargent brought a number
of specimen plants from Peiping to
the Arnold Arboretum in Boston. In
1906, from Tientsin, Meyer sent the
first Chinese nuts used for selection
and breeding.

Van Fleet died in 1922, and three
years later Russell B. Clapper, of the
Division of Forest Pathology, took over
the chestnut-breeding work. After
testing various possibilities of combin-
ing Japanese, Chinese, and native
species, Clapper found certain selec-
tions of the Chinese crossed with the
native chestnut produced trees that
were resistant, fast-growing, and up-
right. Graves, of the Brooklyn Botanic
Garden, found that a Japanese-Amer-
can crossed with Chinese produced
progeny showing much promise.

The crosses which Clapper has pro-
duced are decidedly encouraging in
that many possess the best character-
istics of both parents. In 5 or 6 years
the young resistant chestnuts begin to
bear nuts. The location of planting
and the type of soil are important fac-
tors in the quality of the resistance.
Trees which are carefully tended the
first few years and are planted in rich
deep soil are more likely to escape
blight and to resist it if infection does
occur.

One lot of these Chinese-American
hybrids is increasing in diameter
about one-half inch a year, and at 12
years they are now large enough for
farm poles. In about 25 years, if they
maintain resistance, they will be tall
enough for telephone poles.

Clapper and Graves are chiefly in-

CHESTNUT—ULM 381

terested in producing a disease-resist-
ant timber tree, though neither would
be adverse to bringing back the nut-
gathering parties of the old days.
Ever since Frank Meyer began send-
ing chestnuts back to the United States
from Japan, China, and Korea, the
Nut Investigations Division of the De-
partment of Agriculture has been
selecting the better varieties for or-
chard raising. Clarence A. Reed, who
has been working on this project for
many years, claims that special selec-
tions of the department are just as good
for nut purposes as were our native
chestnuts. The Chinese chestnut, es-
pecially certain strains, is sweet and
delicately textured. It is this type of
nut which will be grown in the future
chestnut orchards of the East.

American chestnuts have been grown
in California and a number of other
western States ever since the early gold
seekers introduced them. In the peri-
od 1914-34 blight was discovered in
British Columbia, Washington, and
California, but prompt action on the
part of pathologists prevented the in-
fections from spreading.

Only one type of fungus spore, pyc-
nospore, has so far been found in
California, but it is generally accepted
that the ascospore stage was prevented
from showing up only by prompt and
thorough control measures. Most of
the infections were detected at the
ground line of the tree trunks, and, as
pycnospores were found to live in irriga-
tion water for over a month, control
methods included building earthen
dikes about the bases of the trees.
The lower part of the trunks of some
of the trees was painted with shellac.
The orchards are inspected at least
twice a year, and all diseased trees
immediately destroyed.

In Europe it is another story. Just
before the last war, blight appeared
with a vengeance. In 1938, evidence
of the disease was found on trees about
20 miles north of Genoa, in Italy.
Later it appeared near the port of
Naples and at Tarcento, north of the
382

Udine. Until the war, control meas-
ures were enforced. Quarantine of
the infected localities and destruction
of diseased trees were exactingly
carried out.

Now the blight has full sway. War
and the consequences of war have
made it impossible to organize the
control necessary to check it.

There is an old Indian myth which
tells the story of an Iroquois boy who
braved the perils of a deep chasm in
the earth, wild animals, a serpent, and

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

a woman whose single penetrating
glance would kill, to find magic chest-
nuts. He brought back a bagful of the
precious nuts and, going up on the
side hills, scattered them over the
ground. Soon beautiful chestnut trees
grew up and, the story concludes,
“now all the world has chestnuts.”
This is no longer true, but perhaps if
our plant breeders can brave the perils
of governmental economy we may
some day give resistant chestnuts to
all the world.
Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Ulm PLATE 1

NATIVE AMERICAN CHESTNUT BEFORE BLIGHT, HOWARD COUNTY, MD.
Smithsonian Report, 1948 —Ulm PEATES2

—a
\

THE GRAY GHOST OF A BLIGHT-KILLED AMERICAN CHESTNUT

This old monarch of the eastern woodlands is magnificent even in death.
ONIM
SEL Ag NMO1G

A1ddNS YSLVM ANISVg SauOdS
4H4O ONILLAD ASG 3BYL AGATIIM QV3udS SNHL SYSM GNV SIVWINY SO 1334 GQ39NGOuNd HOIHM
HDIHM SNONNSA LHOIWG SAO ,,NV4,, “E AHL OL GSYHAHAY HOIHM SSNHOdS AMMINOSAlY °*2 S31NLSNd LHOINgG ‘1

€ 3AL1V1d Wi —"gp6| ‘oday uPIUOSY WIG
Smithsonian Report, 1948.—U]m PLATE 4

HYBRIDS
Selected Chinese chestnuts crossed with native chestnuts have produced blight-resistant trees.
The Numbers and Distribution of Mankind’

By C. B. FAWCETT

The problems presented by the dis-
tribution of the human population
over the surface of the land, and its
relations to the natural resources of
the earth, form the principal subject-
matter of human geography.” Our
knowledge of these matters is still very
inadequate. There are wide margins
of error in the available statistical
material,® and still wider gaps in our
knowledge of the earth’s resources.
Yet it seems worth while to attempt to
set out some of the facts bearing on
these problems as fully as possible.

In this address I shall attempt to
consider briefly only three of the
groups of factors in these problems:

(1) That of the actual magnitude
of the present human population, and
the main features of its distribution
over the land surface.

(2) The relation between the dis-
tribution of the population and that
of the fertile lands from which the food
of mankind is obtained.

1 British American Association Lecture
delivered at the Annual Meeting of the
American Association for the Advancement
of Science, in Boston, December 1946.
Reprinted by permission from The Advance-
ment of Science, vol. 4, No. 14, June 1947
(London).

2 E. g., Part I of F. Ratzel’s Anthropogéog-
raphie is given to this topic; so also is Part I
of P. Vidal de la Blache’s Principes de
Géographie humaine.

3 Because of these difficulties all the figures
used in these calculations are round numbers;
none of the resulting estimates should be
regarded as more than first approximations.
Cf. the general note on p. 13 of the Statistical
Yearbook of the League of Nations, 1940.

(3) On the basis of the first two
factors I have ventured to estimate
the population capacity of the world
on some existing standards of produc-
tion and consumption.

Numbers

The first question is “How many
people are there in the world today?”
It is not possible to answer this ques-
tion exactly. In most of the lands of
Western civilization, and in many
other lands under their control, fairly
reliable censuses* have been taken.
So we can state the numbers of the
inhabitants of Europe and North
America, of the countries of the South
Temperate Zone, and of Japan and
India, with some approach to ac-
curacy. But for the large population
of China, and for the intertropical
lands of the Americas and Africa we
have only estimates of very varied
value. Some of these estimates are
based on partial censuses, some are
hardly more than guesswork.

Thus there is necessarily a wide
margin of error in all estimates of the
world’s population, which should be
remembered in studying the following
figures.

‘Where most of the people can read and
write a census can be fuller and more
accurate than among an illiterate people.
Also great mobility among a people, as in
the United States, makes for less accuracy
in the census. No census is quite accurate;
but I have no data for a numerical estimate
of census errors.

383
384

Tasie I.—Estimates of the world’s population *

Authority Date Fopuratlon
PILE VASSCUT cys, sitelaicie excl oket= 1908 1, 626
Sir G.JH? Knibbs? oy... .2 1914 1, 649
skimesstAtlasiessricmenrcra: 1921 1, 646
International Institute of
ACrICUltUTe sey cee rete 1921 1, 820
Statistical Yearbook of the
League of Nations...... 1931 2, 025
WOR acetal necistetiees 1940 2,145

* Levasseur, La répartition de la race
humaine, in the Bulletin de I’Institut Inter-
national de Statistique, 1909, pp. 48-63;
Knibbs, The mathematical theory of
population—Appendix A to the First Census
of the Commonwealth of Australia, 1917,
p- 31; The Times’ Atlas, London, 1922,
plates 5 and 7; International Yearbook of
Agricultural Statistics, 1909-1921, published
in 1922 at Rome; Statistical Yearbooks of
the League of Nations, 11932—33; and 1939—
40. See also A. M. (now Sir Alexander)
Carr-Saunders’ World Population, Oxford,
1936. ae

These estimates do not form a con-
cordant series. In Europe and North
America the chief areas of doubt were
Russia and Mexico respectively. In
Asia the whole difference may be ex-
plained by various estimates of the
population of China; but there is equal
uncertainty as to the numbers of the
peoples of southwest Asia. There were
wide differences in the estimates of
the population of Africa, which illus-
trate the difficulty in respect to the
numbers of barbarian peoples.  Esti-
mates of the population of the Belgian
Congo have ranged from 30 millions
down to 8 millions.®

The next table (2) states some of the
recent estimates of the population of
China, to illustrate the differences in
regard to the principal area of doubt
in estimating the total numbers of
mankind.

5 E. M. East, Mankind at the Crossroads,
p. 100, London, 1924; Levasseur, op. cit.,
gives 20 millions. Philip’s Handy Reference
Atlas, London, gives 16 millions in 1900 and
20 millions in 1913. Annuaire de la Belgique
et de la Congo Belge, 1914, gives 15 millions,
and in 1945, 10 millions.

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

TABLE 2.—Population of China and its
dependencies *

Popula-
Authority Date tion in
millions
Mingchingpeng Census. ..} 1910 324
Government Gazette,

IRE yieoscletare cterataleeeeesie 1911 315
China Continuation Com-

INILTEE aihencteeree ree 1918 441
Chinese Post Office...... 1920 428
Ames? vAtlasinnia amie coe 1921 321
Chinese Maritime Customs | 1922 443
Chinese Post Office...... 1922 433
Statistical Yearbook of the

League of Nations..... 1931 450?
Ministry of the Interior

(Namking)) i inet setae io 1931 475
Statesman’s Yearbook. . 1931 486
Statistical Yearbook of the

League of Nations..... 1940 450?
Statesman’s Yearbook....] 1946 458

* The first and fourth figures are from the
China Yearbook, 1922; the second, sixth,
seventh, ninth, tenth, and twelfth from the
Statesman’s Yearbook, 1924, 1932 and 1946;
the third is from P. M. Roxby’s The dis-
tribution of population in China, in the
Geographical Review, January 1925; the
fifth is from plate 7 of the Atlas.

The census of 1910, which was the
basis of the estimate of 1911 and per-
haps also for that of the Times’
Atlas, was a census of households.
The multiplying factor (the assumed
average number of persons per house-
hold) was not the same in all the prov-
inces, and is open to doubt.

From the figures here given it ap-
pears that the population of the world
has increased by about 25 percent
since 1911, and that of China by
nearly 50 percent. But since 1911
China has suffered from revolution,
followed by years of internal disorder,
from civil war, and from foreign in-
vasion on a very large scale. There
have also been floods and famine and
pestilence. The extent of these dis-
asters and their persistence over more
than 30 years make it unlikely that
there has been any considerable in-
crease in the population of China over
this period. In India the influenza
epidemics of 1918-20 almost canceled
NUMBERS AND DISTRIBUTION OF MANKIND—FAWCETT

the natural increase of population for
the intercensal decade 1911-21, in
which the net increase was only 0.9
percent. Europe has undergone two
great wars, and the resulting famines
and pestilence, since 1914; while
Russia has also suffered revolution,
civil war, and further famine. These
facts taken together make it improb-
able that there has been any large
increase in the total world population
since 1914, in spite of the growth in the
New World.

In view of these doubts and of the
variations in many of the estimates
which have been quoted, it is im-
possible to give an exact figure for
the world’s population. The total
is probably somewhat less than 2,000
millions (210°).

Growth

The experience of the civilized lands
during the last two centuries has ac-
customed us to the conception of a
continually increasing population.
From 1801 to 1921 the population of
England and Wales multiplied more
than fourfold ° in spite of a considerable
emigration. Since 1800 the total popu-
lation of Europe has increased from
175 millions’ to 500 millions, in spite
of the emigration of not less than 40
million® people. Under specially
favorable conditions some smaller
populations have increased even more
rapidly. The French Canadians now
number about 4 millions. Practically
all of them are descended from the
5,800 immigrants who reached Canada
before A. D. 1680 when immigration
from France ceased.’ This gives more

6 From 9 millions to 38 millions; figures
from the Census Reports.

7 Estimate of Levasseur, op. cit.; and see J.
Haliczer’s The population of Europe, 1720,
1820, 1930, in Geography, 1934.

8'To the United States alone more than
33 millions. F. J. Warne in Annals of the
American Academy of Political and Social
Science, January 1921.

9G. E. Marquis on p. 7 of the volume
Social and economic conditions in Canada,
published by the American Academy of
Political and Social Science, May 1923.

385

than six-hundredfold-increase in 260
years.

During the first decade of this cen-
tury the mean rate of increase in the
countries which had ;regular censuses
was 1.159 percent per annum.” At
this rate the numbers would be
doubled in a little more than 60 years.
If this had been the average rate of
increase in the past, the whole of the
present population of the world would
be descended from one couple living
near the end of the first century B. C,
(the date of the expulsion from the
Garden of Eden?). If it could be
maintained in the future, then in
another thousand years the earth
would have about 25 million millions
(2510!*) of human inhabitants,
i. e., more than one to every square
yard of land. Such calculations make
it very obvious that the recent average
rates of increase among the civilized
peoples are far greater than those
which existed in the past; and also
that such rates of increase cannot be
maintained for any considerable time.

Evidently we have been living in a
period of exceptionally rapid increase
of population. But it is clear that we
are approaching the end of that pe-
riod; for the birth rates are now falling,
more rapidly than the death rates, in
a large part of the civilized world.
While in the past the direct check to a
too rapid increase in numbers was
usually the existence of a high death
rate, in particular of high rates of
infant mortality, it is now attributable
chiefly to a fall in the birth rate.
Mankind is now able to choose which
of these two checks shall be applied;
but one of them must be. If the
naturally rapid increase in numbers is
not controlled by human acts, the
appeal will be to the ancient trinity
of ‘“‘war, pestilence, and famine.” For
the surface of the earth is incapable
of expansion; and its resources, though
great and capable of much fuller uti-
lization, are limited.

10 Knibbs, op. cit., p. 31. See also article

by F. Shirras, in the Economic Journal,
March 1933.
386

Recent Expansion

We may note very briefly the condi-
tions which made possible the great
and sudden expansion in the numbers
of the European peoples in the nine-
teenth century. Evidently these con-
ditions affected the English-speaking
peoples to a greater extent than any
others; for their numbers have in-
creased ninefold since the beginning
of last century. They now form more
than a fourth of all the peoples of
European origin, whereas in 1800 they
were less than one-eighth.

It is clear that this particular expan-
sion is chiefly due to the peopling of
North America; for that continent now
contains two-thirds of the English-
speaking peoples, whereas it contained
only one-fifth of them in 1800. The
growth began with the industrial revo-
lution, when the application of me-
chanical power increased the produc-
tion of manufactured goods and so led
to an increase in the populations of
the industrial areas. The increased
demand for food was at first met by a
more intense cultivation of the home-
land; but the insufficiency of this
source of food was shown in the
“hungry forties” of last century. The
pressure of a hungry people removed
fiscal barriers which had hindered the
free import of food, while the im-
provements in transport made the
virgin lands west of the Appalachians
accessible, and the population of
Great Britain multiplied on a food
supply obtained from oversea. The
demand stimulated the colonization of
North America and the even greater

11 Populations of the English-speaking peo-
ples in millions (Whites only):

USOteBritisheisless 4 a0. eerie sae 529)
Ganadate stn ete a oe On
niS{OXO ee] Ogee nev Gace toccuriines. Gat becee aceon bite 4.3
PROtaleeccse mee crores te meinen ere 20. 3
19ST British\ isles sc. sateen 49
1941 Australia and N.Z..... | 59
SouthvAtricaisercracten ee 1
Canada and Newfound-
NANG ss cVetevereretes store oaks | 127
TOA MUS Ae iets nals tontaee areie 119
AOtal Ad cesar ersten 186

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

increase of its population. But there
is little likelihood of the discovery of
another New World to allow an-
other such expansion of numbers until
man conquers the equatorial jungles.

Distribution

The final limiting factor to the
growth of population is that of the
food supply; and since man must
obtain practically the whole of his
food from the land,!* the next im-
portant questions in this study are
‘‘What is the extent of the available
land?”? and “‘How much of this land
is capable of being used for the sup-
port of mankind by the production of
materials for food, shelter, and tools,
with which to satisfy human wants?”

The area of the lands outside the
polar regions is known to a fair degree
of accuracy. Omitting the perma-
nently icebound lands, the total area
of the remainder, the available land,
is about 50 million square miles.¥
Thus the average density of popula-
tion is nearly 40 persons per square
mile, a figure which may be of some
interest as a basis for comparisons;
though in fact the density varies very
widely, and the most characteristic
feature of the distribution of popula-
tion is its extreme unevenness.

Of the total of 2,000 million people
the greater number live in three com-
paratively small regions of particularly
favorable environment (see fig. 1). In
the northwest of the Old World the
populous region of Europe is limited
on the north by the parallel of 60° N.
latitude and the upper valley of the
river Volga, on the east by the Ural
Mountains and the Caspian and Per-
sian Deserts, and on the south by the

12 It is not possible to determine with any
precision what amount or proportion of
human food is obtained from the sea. This
does not affect the value of our estimates of
population capacity, since these supplies are
included in the resources of the existing
populations on which those estimates are
based.

13 C. B. Fawcett, The extent of the cultiv-
able land, in Geographical Journal, Decem-
ber 1930.
NUMBERS AND DISTRIBUTION OF MANKIND—FAWCETT

387

o
¢

Sahara-Arabian Desert.* This region
contains more than 500 million inhabi-
tants on less than 3 million square miles
of land. In the Far East the similarly
populous region which includes most
of China and Manchuria, the Japa-
nese Empire south of 40° N. latitude,

14 See also Sir H. J. Mackinder, Democratic
ideals and reality, London, 1919; and C. B.
Fawcett, Centers of world power, in the
Sociological Review, April 1926, and The
changing distribution of population, Scottish
Geographical Magazine, November 1937.

ig
Pee,

8
~
i9]
3
je)
n
—_
oO
We)
o
HEED -
: ahilpe
ae
3 f
eal
a8
9
“ Die
o
ier Bilan Lisktare
Sus & +0
or oS se) id
=OTn = na
: Sees 3 3
3: ots a
CSate a 4a
oy q
Sar al eetiks
7 any
b, w 2g 2 Oo
06 ° > 2d
ss > Ss & &
— ey on
lJ n 2s
eee 5 6
4 hesea:. ne) aaTpe
‘ wE Ss - INO
: “20 =O 100
w~ LR x 2 ©
(Sipe oO S36
@5s~HL = o>
oS 2 os
tr ry | n®
cS 3° and
i) . y Ts
O wo a
: a Speiee
oO rs)
= ] me OO
=) mo,
wep -mane o
= ‘3
am
uo
25
Bg
“= 4
oe
™
q
a
E
o
ae]
~
~~
CS
fe,
_—
o
~
(2)
Zi

60°S.

and Tonkin, is occupied by nearly as
many people on an area of barely
1,700,000 square miles. And in India
and Ceylon, between the Thar Desert
and the eastern edge of Bengal, there
are 400 million people on about a
million square miles of land. Thus in
these three major populous regions of
the Old World there are crowded to-
gether nearly two-thirds of the world’s
population oa one-eighth of the availa-
ble land.
388

There is a fourth region of the same
type in eastern North America, which
is comparable in extent. But, since it
has been accessible to civilized man
for only a few generations, it is not yet
fully occupied; and it carries only the
moderate population of about 130
millions on a little less than 2 million
square miles of land.

Nowhere else on the earth is there
any similarly large mass of dense popu-
lation; though the island of Java is as
densely peopled as England, and parts
of West Africa have more than 40 in-
habitants per square mile. In other
regions there are a few dense clusters
on small areas around large cities, es-
pecially in South America and Aus-
tralia. But outside the four great
populous regions which have been
noted the remaining six-sevenths of
the available land is very thinly
peopled.

Tas_Ee 3.—The four major human regions

Area in Population
Continuous habit- nfiious Central
able region square : ; Hews latitude
. mill uar
miles | jions eite
Europes... 2.8 | 520 186 | 50°N
Eastern North
America.... 120530 52 | 40° N
Harbasteeaee 17, | 500?) 2927). 35o Ni
Indiacar oer 1.0 | 400 400 | 25°N

Next we may briefly consider the
reasons for this, at first sight peculiar,
distribution. Rather more than three-
fourths of mankind dwell in the Old
World, by which is meant that part of
the earth which has been accessible to
civilized men during all the historic
period, in contrast to the New World
which has been similarly accessible
only since the Age of Discovery at the
end of the fifteenth century. The Old
World, as thus defined, includes most
of Asia, Europe, and Africa north of
the Sahara, and nearly half of the
available land.

Over this vast area the population is
in fact distributed in general accord-

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

ance with the food-producing capacity
of the various regions. The fertile
areas are densely peopled—the barren
lands are comparatively empty. All
the oases of the deserts are, or have
been, occupied; and many of them are
crowded. By a process of trial and
error, which has already extended over
some thousands of years, men have suc-
ceeded in establishing themselves in
all the parts of these lands which can
be made to provide subsistence.
Though the knowledge and equip-
ment gained by Western civilization
in the last two centuries has made it
possible to utilize lands which could
not be occupied by civilized man be-
fore, as for instance in Siberia, yet the
general adjustment of population to
natural resources in the Old World is
the best available guide to the possi-
bilities of maintaining any compara-
ble masses of population in the newer
lands of the earth.

Elsewhere ® I have estimated the
extent of the cultivable land of the
world at 30 percent of the total land
area, i. e., about 16 million square
miles or 10,000 million acres. Hence
I assume in the rest of this address
that that area, less than a third of the
available land, is cultivable. Another
30 percent may be classed as produc-
tive but not cultivable; and the rest
(40 percent) is occupied by the deserts
(cold and dry). (See fig. 2.)

The productive but uncultivable
third of the land is mainly divided be-
tween areas of forest and poor grazing
land, such as the mountain and hill
pasture of northwest Europe and the
semiarid range or bush of North
America and Australia. The wetter
areas of this land are often suitable for
forest; so are some considerable areas
on the margins of the tundra, where
the hardier conifers can grow although
the lack of sufficient summer heat
prohibits agriculture. The semiarid
regions, and the summer pastures of
the tundra and the high mountains,
are likely to remain grazing lands.

15 Geographical Journal, December 1930.
389

NUMBERS AND DISTRIBUTION OF MANKIND—FAWCETT

fay} ySnoy) ‘saSequeApesip [edo] J9y10 Jo sdurems

‘

sjios 100d

‘purl Suizei3 100d 10 ysa103 Aq pordnooo aq Avur
‘sadoys doojs yo asnvoeq a[qeAT}[NoUN are YOIYM svoie os[e pue ‘puel Iq

-PAl][ND 9Y} SPNPOUI YM Yo] Svare oyJ, ‘suoIser aTqeay[NouN os pue “Wosep oy} ose svore popeYys oYL, “PURT eYqeAy[Nd jo uolNNquasIgG—’Z ANNOY

Buu sapnaigyy mo] 3p wwayf suariffasuy fo svauy

SS uy quan ffnsyy fo svssy-
390

The wet forested lands of the hot
belt, which are included in the culti-
vable land of our estimate, offer the
chief possibilities of any considerable
extension of the cultivated land.
Everyone who has studied the matter
must have been impressed by the con-
trast between the island of Java,
which supports a population as dense
as that of England, and the unculti-
vated wastes of forest and savanna
which occupy the greater part of the
hot lands. A few other small tracts of
these lands are relatively well culti-
vated and populous, as in parts of the
African Lakes region, the Benue
Valley of Nigeria, and parts of Upper
Guinea. In South America there
seem to be no correspondingly popu-
lous patches, though the vast Amazon
lowland is a region very favorable to
vegetable life. Here the chief obsta-
cles to cultivation appear to be (a) the
combination of heat and humidity,
which forms a most enervating cli-
mate, (b) the very marshy character
of much of the region, which is deltaic
in character and can only be re-
claimed for cultivation by a great
expenditure of labor, (c) the density
of the jungle and the rapidity of
plant growth, (d) the scarcity of labor,
and (e) the lack of any immediate in-
centive strong enough to induce any
civilized people to attempt the task of
colonizing in this region.

It is significant that the chief crops
which are now under cultivation in
the hot lands are broadly divisible into
two distinct categories. The one in-
cludes the trees or shrubs of the plan-
tations whose produce forms a money
crop for export to the populous lands
of the midlatitude zones, such as tea,
coffee, rubber, bananas, oil palms.
These are usually grown on well-
drained slopes in the hilly areas. The
other consists of local food plants, such
as the rice and associated annuals of
the wet irrigated flat lands of the deltas
and valley bottoms of the East Indies.

Up to the present, the efforts of
European and North American
planters in the hot lands have been

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

directed mainly to the first group of
products, and therefore to areas of
considerable relief. Their plantations
and habitations avoid the wet and
marshy lowlands. Only incidentally,
through the growth of a local food
supply for their work people, have
they developed cultivation of the
second type, as in the rice fields of the
Guiana coast. Yet the experience of
the planters has sufficed to show the
nature of many of the obstacles to be
overcome in bringing the fertile lands
of the hot belt under cultivation. It
justifies the prediction that these lands
will only be reclaimed for man under
great economic pressure, and at the
cost of enormous amounts of labor.
The peoples of the temperate regions
are not likely to migrate to the hot
lands in any considerable numbers so
long as they can find room in the more
attractive lands of their own climatic
zones. ‘Therefore, man’s effective con-
quest of the equatorial regions will be
postponed until necessity drives him
to the task.

Population Capacity

In discussing the numbers of the
people who can be supported on the
world’s resources, which we may call
its population capacity, we are in fact
studying the possibilities of the food
supply. ‘There are three sets of con-
ditions on which we may base esti-
mates:

(1) We may assume that the prin-
cipal foods and the methods of pro-
ducing them will remain much as they
are today, and that the increase of
supplies will only be that due to raising
the standards of cultivation in back-
ward areas, using improved strains of
food plants and animals, and making
full use of all the cultivable land.

(2) We may make the additional
assumption that man will, in the near
future, overcome the difficulties of
cultivation in the wet lands of the hot
belt and add them to his area of
cultivation.

(3) We may guess at more or less
NUMBERS AND DISTRIBUTION OF MANKIND—FAWCETT

speculative advances in the develop-
ments of science applied to food pro-
duction, which may enable man to
increase the food supply very largely.

Also we should bear in mind that the
number of people who can be main-
tained at any given level of production
varies inversely with their standards of
living. It seems probable that the
civilized peoples will prefer to check
the increase in their numbers rather
than accept a lower standard of living.

On the first assumption, that the
present methods of food production
will be extended but not greatly modi-
fied, we may calculate the world’s
population capacity on the basis of
France and the area formerly known
as British India. These lands are
chosen because (a) both of them
ordinarily produce sufficient of their
staple foods for their own needs, on
their present standards, (b) both are
old lands, and are fully peopled under
present conditions, (c) fairly reliable
statistics are available for both, and
(d) they offer a contrast in type of
climate and have different staple food
plants.

France is a fair instance of conditions
in one of the long-civilized countries
of Europe which is still, under normal
conditions, self-supporting in respect
of her necessary foodstuffs; and the
standards of living of the French are
probably a little above the average of
those of the rest of Europe. In France
no less than 90 percent of the land is
classed as productive and half of it as
cultivated.'® The density of the popu-
lation is a little over 400 persons per
square mile of cultivated land. At
this rate the cultivable land of the
world would be able to provide food
for 6,500 million people (65108),
more than three times the present
population.

In former British India the mean
density of the population is more than
600 per square mile of cultivated land,
so that on the present standards of

16 International Yearbook of Agricultural
Statistics.

817369—49——30

391

India the world might maintain nearly
10,000 million (10!°) inhabitants, five
times the present population.

But it should be remembered that in
bad years neither France nor India is
able to produce all the food needed
by her people. After a bad harvest
France must import wheat; and a
failure of the monsoon rains may
bring famine to large areas of India.
If the whole world were peopled up to
its full normal capacity on these
standards of production and _ con-
sumption of food, it would in fact be
overpeopled, and the surplus popula-
tion would be periodically removed
by famine.

On the estimate that 2% acres of
cultivable land is, on the average,
needed to support one person at the
standards of the advanced countries,!”
the 10,000 million acres of such land
could support only 4,000 million peo-
ple at this standard of living.

Our second assumption is that the
pressure due to an increasing popula-
tion and a falling standard of living
may compel mankind to utilize all
the cultivable lands of the hot belt at
least as fully as those of some small
areas in it are now used. At this rate
that portion of the cultivable land
which lies in the hot belt, nearly a
quarter of it, or 4 million square miles,
might be capable of producing food '8
for a population as dense as that of
Java. That island contains 42 million
people on 50,000 square miles of land,
of which a little less than 60 percent
is cultivable, so that the density per
cultivable square mile is about 1,200.
If we take France as our basis for the
midlatitude lands and Java for the
hot lands the possible population
becomes 9,600 millions (96> 108),
which is nearly the same total as our

17 See, e. g., E. M. East, op. cit., and others.

18 It is well to note that the possibilities of
transporting perishable foods are likely to
improve still more. Hence such an increased
amount of food might be used to feed the
people of the temperate lands as long as
their economic and military power enabled
them to take it.
392

second figure based on Indian stand-
ards.

In relation to the third assumption
we should note the existence of such
views as those put forward by the late
Prince P. Kropotkin,'® who could see
no limits to the productivity of the
land and claimed that the food pro-
duction of England, and other coun-
tries, could be easily doubled by the
application of intensive methods of
cultivation. Such an increase would,
however, more than double the labor
cost of the products and so tend to
lower the standards of living. It is
true that agricultural productivity can
be increased by such expenditure of
labor and capital, and still more by
the application of the results of
scientific investigation into its prob-
lems. Many optimistic forecasts have
been made; but I know of no data
sufficient to justify even an intelligent

19 P, Kropotkin, Fields, factories and work-

shops, London, 1898, and several later
editions.

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

guess at the limits of such productivity.
It is clear from the estimates here
given that the world, as a whole, is
capable of supporting a population
much more numerous than that which
it carries today. ‘The immediate prob-
lems of overpopulation are limited to
some few areas; and the present-day
pressure of population *° is not against
the limited resources of the earth but
against the various barriers, natural
and artificial, which hinder access to
those resources. Yet the fact that the
size and natural resources of the earth
are fixed and limited ensures that its
human population cannot increase
indefinitely. With our present powers
of production the world may be able
to support three times its present
population in reasonable comfort.
But if the present rates of increase are
maintained that number will be reach-
ed in less than a century from now.

20 C. B. Fawcett, Pressure of population,
in the New Commonwealth Quarterly,
London, January 1943.
Mexican Calendars and the Solar Year’

By HERBERT J. SpINDEN, The Brooklyn Museum

[With 7 Plates]

Then the face of the sun was eaten; then
the face of the sun was darkened; then its
face was extinguished. They were terrified
when it burned on high, at the word of their
priest to them, when the word of our ruler
was fulfilled at the word of their priest to
them.

Book of Chilam Balam of Chumayel.

The calendar and the dictionary
are always with us, for bad counting
of days and bad spelling of words are
besetting vices—expensive ones, too!
Yet what we need most in the way of a
business timetable was invented in
Central America 26 centuries ago: a
year cut up into 13 months of 28
days, or exactly 4 weeks each, and
at the end, where it would do most
good, an extra day or two of festival.

Quite different, however, from our
likely uses of such a formal calendar
were the original ones of the Maya.
For them this was a standard cal-
culator to use with a 13-part zodiac in
measuring movements of the moon
and planets from star to star. Its
natural period, then, was the side-
real year and the recession of its
short scale was checked by reference
to the eternal chronometer of distant
stars.

Long before it became smart to name
the moons of a luni-solar calendar,
primitive man clocked the changing
appearances of nature against rising
and setting constellations. He thought
the sidereal year was one with the
tropical year. But really it is the

1 Fifteenth Arthur lecture, given under the

auspices of the Smithsonian Institution March
3, 1948.

swinging points of sunrise and sunset
which correlate vitally with those
changes in solar light and heat neces-
sary to life. These regulate our
earthly calendar of life and death.
Yet the stars and planets which attest
the glory of the Lord embody ulti-
mate natural law. The difference
between the sidereal and tropical year
amounts to only 1 day in a long
lifetime. On the other hand, at-
tempts to use the obvious moon leads
to headaches.

A Fateful Eclipse

Safely settled as farmers in lowland
Central America, the people we call
Maya thought their medicine men
or shamans should find a way to
regulate the weather. It seems those
shamans accepted the suggestion.
Ultimately they learned to prophesy
celestial events and assumed the status
of theocrats. It seems a crisis had
come on November 10, 752 B. G.,
when a terrifying solar eclipse crossed
northern Central America, to be
followed 177 days later by a second
solar obscuration just as portentious.

That first fateful eclipse is now recog-
nized as the ceiling date of Maya
science and the first credible time
point in New World history. For
then and there the Maya shamans
began to keep a careful count of suns
and moons to learn the why and
wherefore of eclipses.

Much water passed under bridges
before that date could be written in

393
394

Maya numerals and hieroglyphs. It
seems that notations of numbers did
not yet exist, nor names and symbols
applying to such a chronological prob-
lem. Ultimately they wrote with bar-
and-dot numerals in place values the
date which we transcribe as 6—-12-19-
4-8 and reduce to 957328 in Arabic
figures. It was completed by the day
name and month place which we
write 12 Lamat 1 Muan. My Cor-
relation A converts this Maya Day
957328 by the addition of 489384 into
Julian Day 1446712.

The crucial eclipse was a starting
point or zero and out of that count
came a simple numerical relationship
which conceals a thoughtful reduction
out of a hurly burly of events. It did
not lead the Maya to our materialistic
concept of the universe. Perhaps our
celestial bodies were celestial souls to
the Maya, spiritual powers not given
to capricious acts. Perhaps to them
natural law was supreme intelligence
to which gods most of all were bound.
The Maya deified the sun, moon, and

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

planets, it may be the stars as well.
Also they deified their priests and
rulers, if not during life, then after
death.

That first ephemeris was probably
made of strung beads. If the shamans
added a bead a day, using colored
ones when occasion warranted, and if
they kept the record open with con-
tinuity unimpaired, then order would
be discernible. We have the Dresden
Codex to help us with its full calendar
of eclipses while the numbers of its
preamble can be used to reach pre-
cisely that first eclipse. 12 Lamat is
one of many eligible days for eclipses
which cluster about three foci. A
single pattern of intervals in the table
I now give may be applied to any
eligible date with expectations of
eclipse recurrence. Adding 7280 days
to a solar eclipse probably gets a lunar
one, then 4680 days more carries for-
ward to a second solar phenomenon.
This is 11960 days after the first, com-
pleting the ancient eclipse cycle of the
Maya.

TasiE 1.—Derivation of tzolkin, tun, and zodiacal year by eclipse correlation

O=MD 957328=JD 1446712, the solar eclipse on 12 Lamat 1 Muan. Starred items were
visible to the Maya. Rule applies to many series.

Solar eclipse +7280 days
* 0
11960
#9923920
35880
47840
* 59800
* 71760
4680= 9 x 520=13 x 360
7280=14 x 520=20 x 364
11960=—25) x520— 5x 2992

The point I emphasize is that these
intervals touch the very heart of Maya
mathematics. The tzolkin, peculiar
cycle of 260 day names; the tun of
18 20360 days, incongruous place
value in a system otherwise purely
vigesimal; even the 364-day timetable
which I have recommended to the
modern businessman, appear as fac-
tors. Of these, the,tzolkin’.is most-im-
portant. Itis half of 520 days, which
in turn equals three ,eclipse seasons

+4680 day

Lunar eclipse

* 7280
* 19240
31200
43160
5 51'20
* 67080
* 79040
(18 tzolkin=13 tun)
(28 tzolkin=20 zodiacal years)
(46 tzolkin=1 eclipse cycle)

with a minute error. Now the eclipse
season, or draconic half year, concerns
placing of lunar nodes indispensable
to eclipse calculations, and its discov-
ery required a touch of genius.

Invention of the Maya Time Machine

In 1930 Ludendorff, writing in
Germany but using my Correlation
A, explained the tzolkin as an eclipse
derivation with 1 Imix as a focus of
eclipses before the establishment of
MEXICAN CALENDARS—SPINDEN

the Maya day count on August 6,
613 B. C. This basic date was part
of my original explanation in the
reduction of Maya chronology in
1924. Ludendorff’s results coincide
with those of the table given above,
although his method of derivation
might seem too sophisticated for use
by the early Maya.

The invention of the tzolkin and the
decision to use the tun as third place
value in numerical notation was made
before the establishment of Baktun 7.
The word baktun itself means 400 tun.
The chronological establishment al-
lowed 7400 tun for the unknown
past and gave a formal starting point
for historical reckoning. Actually
Baktun 7 was not the first authentic
Maya date, for a tenuous counting
system extended back to the first
eclipse of the Maya ephemeris already
discussed. I write these eras:

Era of the World: 13-0-0-0-0, 4 Ahau 8
Cumhu, October 15, 3373 B. C.

Era of History: 7-O—0-0-0, 10 Ahau 18 Zac,
August 6, 613 B. C.

Contemporary documentation is
lacking. Nevertheless, I located in
1930 two considerable sequences of
eclipses on 12 Lamat. These were
alternately solar and lunar, the first
series containing the data in the
break-down of the 11,960-day cycle
shown above. The first series ran
from “November 10.7752" B. 3) to
May 2, 555 B. C., as regards eclipses
of the sun. The second series began
after a lapse of 1,508 calendar years,
as the equivalent of 1,507 tropical
years, on May 2, A. D. 952. A grand
round of the Maya civil calendar
served here as an eclipse interval!
This second series of 12 Lamat
eclipses ran to January 15, A. D.
1247, embracing the time when the
Dresden Codex most probably was
compiled. The explanation of these
two widely separated historical places
for eclipses on the same tzolkin days
is seen in the recession of lunar nodes
in respect to the double tzolkin.
When this recession plus an eclipse
half year amounted to 260 days,

395

eclipses were reestablished on their
old day names. This is why term 10
of the Lunar table, 31> 11960-+-260,
makes it possible to handle eclipse
matter across so many centuries. It
was Dittrich who showed how the
Maya themselves could reach the 12
Lamat 1 Muan eclipse from Maya
zero.

Most probably counting days at the
establishment of Baktun 7 merely
combined tun numbering with tzolkin
designation. The days of these eras
are 4 Ahau and 10 Ahau, respectively.
These days fall 140 and 160, positions
after 1 Imix. When the tzolkin was
established is uncertain. There were
several eclipses on 1 Imix and others
on 13 Ahau, one day earlier.

But almost certainly month positions
were not assigned to 4 Ahau and 10
Ahau until after 580 B. C. When the
Maya organized their civil calendar
of 365 days, this was arranged to
depart from the winter solstice, as
O Pop.

I return to the construction of 13
and 7 seen in the names of the eras.
Seven and thirteen are prime numbers
which added together make 20, second
place value in Maya notation of num-
bers. This combination had a mysti-
cal connotation for the Maya. The
word for the 20-day period is uznal,
derived from wo meaning moon. Sim-
ple pictures of the moon have the
value 20 or zero. Undoubtedly the
moon or month gave rise to the second
place value in some standardization
of counting the bead-a-day record.
It seems likely that the days of the
sun were registered in shell beads of
golden color and that white beads
applied to the moon, Jade beads
probably were used to mark the year.

In the Song of the Uinal preserved
in the Book of Chilam Balam of
Chumayel, the uinal is given prefer-
ence in the creation of time and
matter.

The uinal was created, the day, as it was
called, was created, the heaven and earth
were created, the stairway of water, the

earth, rocks, and trees; the things of the sea
and the things of the land were created.
396

Thirteen entities, seven entities, one. So it
spake when the word came forth at the time
there was no word.

The uinal was created, the earth was
created; sky, earth, trees, and rocks were set
in order; all things were created by our Lord
God the Father. Thus he was there in his
divinity, in the clouds alone and by his own
effort, when he created the entire world,
when he moved in the heavens in his divinity.
Thus he ruled in his great power. Every
day was set in order according to the count,
beginning in the east as it is arranged.

Semantics of the Maya uinal follow
in part from the circumstance that
Imix is beginning and Ahau is end in
numerous implications. The Maya
combination Ahau Imix was old end-
ing and new beginning. What is true
of the uinal in this regard is true also
of the tun, katun, baktun, pictun—
always they begin with Imix and end
with Ahau. But the 20 names which
compose the uinal have a continuous
association with 13 numerical coeffi-
cients, all combinations running out
in 1 ><n20—260) days. siiihis msicthe
familiar Maya tzolkin. The cycle of
13 uinal finds its counterpart in cycles
of 13 tun, 13 katun, etc. Always
there is a basic construction of
13+-7=20, in the days of the uinal,
the uinal of the tun, the tun of the
katun, etc. The 20 names and 13
numbers combine in the invariable
table of the tzolkin which enters into
and classifies all measures of time.

Baktun 13, Era of the World, is
construed as the end of one baktun
numbering cycle and the beginning
of a fresh one. But the seven periods
of 144,000 days each which carry on
to Baktun 7 really established the
end of a pictun.

What One Ancient Date Reveals

Even though no inscriptions actu-
ally survive from early centuries when
the Maya were laying the founda-
tions of their science of astronomy,
we do have one date which I venture
to call an astronomical bench mark.
It is recorded with other much later
dates and connected with one of these
by a distance number which amounts
to more than a thousand years.

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

Morley was first to decipher the
inscription on Altars H’ and I’ at
Copan in abstract terms of Maya
chronology. Later, Teeple examined
the intervals just as abstractedly, con-
cluding properly enough, that they
dealt with the Copan formula, 149
lunations=4,400 days. On Moon
day 22 it could be carried back to
Maya zero. But Teeple might have
gone farther. The long interval of
the inscription amounts to 365,820
days which is 1,407 times the tzolkin
as well as 1,005 zodiacal years and
therefore 201 times 1,820, their com-
mon multiple. The pictured zodiac of
13 constellations each trimmed to 28-
day sections is found in the Peresianus
Codex. Below the pictures the 1,820-
day round displays day names across
5 years of 364 days each.

The Maya, lacking angle-measuring
instruments, fell back on the 360-day
tun, the 364-day zodiacal year and the
365-day civil year to effect better
divisions of the uneven tropical and
sidereal years of nature. With their
pictured zodiac they could define
stars along the ecliptic. Compare
365820 with departure of three planets
from three positions:

Star A to Star A..:.. 34 sidereal revolutions
of Saturn 365812.18 days.
Star’ Boto' Star Bo... 1628 sidereal revolu-

tions of Venus 365812.76 days.
Star C to opposite... 53844 sidereal revolu-
tions of Mars 365816.85 days.

Could this be accidental? And
what about the distance from Maya
zero leading to the ancient date?

11597 Mercury sidereal +0.0279

10201804 3796 Mercury synodical —4.6296

This looks as though some Maya
calculator thought he could use 100
times the sidereal period of Mercury
multiplied by the synodical period, as
a preface. The hundredth multiple
smoothed out the difficult decimals.
An error remained, since the periods
of Mercury were about 87.9693 days
and 115.8779 days.

But why grope in the dark? The
bench-mark date on Altars H’I’
MEXICAN CALENDARS—-SPINDEN

becomes December 11, 580 B. C., in
our Gregorian calendar and _its
365820-day addition leads to July 11,
A. D. 422, which is just 3850 tun after
Maya zero. At the outset all five
planets known to the Maya were
standing within 63° in the morning
sky. Mercury and Venus were in
close conjunction, and Mars nearby;
all three at heliacal rising, or
first appearance before the sun,
Jupiter and Saturn were higher in the
sky: but what a send-off! It justifies
the sidereal measurements deduced
abstractly for Saturn, Venus, and
Mars. I append Muses’ calculation:

TasLe 2.—Planetary positions for 7D 1504564,
GMT noon +0.5

Longitudes
SUWpeele a sicieale. stalin tities afolts ce 260.3°
INTOOM a vatieiclsciolsitelsiee oles let sFate AMEOL
IMIGRebInVE agua Doe ube OnoRe 242.0°
WENO. Sto So cHQoodnomocmon scot 240.7°
IMPATS EP eee tel cots ciel sveters a] atetaterel s 250.8°
B)UPILEEEL etecrevsien cist seletel etelaselet ofa 212.4°
Saturnbyre tee rctotertel eine eehiat 187252

Configurations

1. Venus, Mercury, and Mars (the first
two exact within 2°) in conjunction at
heliacal rising.

2. Jupiter in conjunction with North
Scale (B. Librae) within 1°.

3. Moon in opposition to Saturn within
1° at Yucatan noon.

Norte: At Yucatan noon, the moon changes
longitude approximately to 8.5° instead of
11° as given.

We must pass on, although many
corridors lead out from that planetary
rendezvous. One concerns the Sup-
plementary Series, old enigma now
solved down to the last legible ex-
ample. Suffice to say that the Copan
formula is concerned but not as
Teeple thought. Its 18th multiple
amounts to 11 katun which produces
a good eclipse interval when 1 day is
added. Priestcraft intentionally re-

10-18-8-16-— 4 3 Kan
1-16

19-18-9-,0— 0 13 Ahau
16- 0

10-18-9-16- 0 1 Ahau

18 Uo
18 Kayab

397

tained the error in counting forward
from ancient eclipses of the moon
presumably to get a thaumaturgic
anticipation of contemporary ones.
The warped lunar days vary in rela-
tion to the number of times 11 katun
is employed.

The first Supplementary Series oc-
curs on April 5, A. D. 97 recorded on
Stela 18 at Uaxactun. A visible solar
eclipse preceded this Katun 16 of
Baktun 8 by 7 days and a visible lunar
eclipse followed it in 8 days.

A New Date at Dzibilnocac

The bench-mark date plus 11 days
puts O Pop, Maya New Year, close
to the winter solstice. The assemblage
of planets had its bearing on the
establishment of the Maya calendar
equipped with month positions. The
meanings of month names and the
symbolism of month signs at this time
make the calendar conform with the
seasons. At this time, also, a Venus
calendar was being organized.

The grand round of the Maya
calendar returning months to their
original places in the tropical year
requires 29 calendar rounds of 52
years each, or 1,508 calendar years
as the equivalent of 1,507 tropical
years. Now Venus repeats her phases
in 251 tropical years; six of these
cycles are 1,506 tropical years or 1
year less than the grand round
mentioned above.

The only reasonably certain date on
a Maya building of the Intermediate
Period is the abbreviated one on a
capstone of the fine Two-towered
Temple at Dzibilnocac. The paint-
ing shows a Venus god emptying a
bag of maize. I read this date as
Year-bearer 3 Kan in Tun 9. A
reference to the opening date of Venus
Calendar A is assumed.

2 Pop Dec.23; A. D..933:

Jan. 26, A. D. 934.
Nov. 24, A. D. 934.
398

The splendid structure at Dzibilno-
cac was built, I think, to celebrate
this concordance and the opening of
Venus Calendar A featured in the
Dresden Codex. Carried back to its
beginning, the year is O Pop at sunset
December 21, 574 B. C. The Venus
dates also repeat at 6X251=1,506
tropical years.

The Tropical Year

We think of the tropical year as
something in nature which compels
us to correct our calendar by inserting
extra days. For the Maya, the tropi-
cal year was one of several natural
cycles equally deserving of attention.
To measure all these without fear or
favor, days were numbered, named,
and given places in the 365-day
calendar which in itself could not be
amended. In this way the Maya, long
before the time of Christ, obtained the
same kind of control over diverse
phenomena that Scaliger gave to
European historians and astronomers
in his Julian Period and Julian Day.

The Maya calculated rather closely
the recession of 365 days from a tropi-
cal year of approximately 365.2423
days, corresponding to about A. D.

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

200. Mostly they did this by restating
for any current year the anniversary
of Maya zero, October 15, 3373 B. C.
Obviously they could not do this with-
out previously acquired knowledge ac-
cruing after Baktun 7, August 6, 613
BoC:

Instead of trying our method of
intercalations, they preferred year
dials. These give better adjustments,
everything considered, than are possi-
ble with any leap-year system. We
glance at evidence of their skill in using
the tropical year, for this had an im-
portant reaction on the year dial
itself. At Palenque in the Temple of
the Cross, a series of dates indicate
betterment as time goes on in reaching
the anniversary of Maya zero. As an
earnest of their ability in astronomical
matters, the earliest date, placed 20
days before the initial series, strikes a
lunar eclipse. The initial series, also
placed before Maya zero, strikes a
close conjunction of Venus and Mars.
After this; zero ‘is itselfiideclared:
Among some 30 dates, 7 deal with
Maya zero and the tropical year meas-
ured from it. I think the one record-
ing October 10, A. D. 162, especially
interesting for on this day took place
a lunar eclipse visible at Palenque.

TABLE 3.—Anniversaries of Maya zero, Temple of the Cross, Palenque
The Tropical Year is 365.2423 days for all parts of this table.

Date Maya day number Maya calendar Gregorian calendar Error
Acie cossieta sla eeniereres 0 4 Ahau 8 Cumhu Oct. 15, 3373 B.C. 0.00
IB terre neat oes renter 295482 9 Ik 0 Yax Oct. 15, 2564 +0.98
Cie saath yan sauces 1291128 11 Lamat 6 Xul Oct. 10, A. Di 162, 1 —St53
ID ieetiranee tants cere 1295878 2 Caban 10 Xul Oct. 11; 175 —1.68
Bias resets stsceas Pet oyate 1295879 3 Eznab 11 Xul Octs12; 175 —0.68
Bia yateicehic es 1366007 7 Kan 17 Mol Oct. 12; 367 +0.80
(CORIt Om Gaya 1385365 11 Chicchan 13 Chen Oct. 14, 420 -+0.96

References to the place of Maya
zero are concentrated at Palenque on
the tablet of the Temple of the Cross.
I will not comment on three other
possible ones. This tablet like those
of the Foliated Cross and of the Sun
probably were carved about A. D.
430 although mounted in buildings
of the seventh century.

Other statements which give ap-

proximately the place of Maya zero
in historic times occur at most of the
important cities on monuments of the
first order. At Naranjo, Stela 32 has
such a date which combines with
others in the year-dial complex yet
to be explained. On this monument
a theocrat is seated above several tiers
of stars and planets.

The most accurate measurement of
MEXICAN

the tropical year on the basis of
365.2423 days occurs on Stela 12 at
Piedras Negras. This is perhaps the
most magnificent piece of Maya
sculpture. It pictures a_ theocrat
seated high above bound captives

9—18-—5—0-0} 4 Ahau
1-13,

9-18-4—16-7,

CALENDARS—SPINDEN

10 Manik 0 Zac Oct.

399

and protected by his own warriors.
He wears as headdress the Moan
bird or Owl patron of Baktun 13 and
operates under other mandates as
well. The important part of the in-
scription is:

13 Ceh Nov. 16, A. D. 535

14, A. D. 535.

lima Ra Ga

uanaual ae
pp BL ;

Ficure 1.—Celestial throne of a Theocrat on Stela 32, Naranjo.

corm sal

=

The calculation concerns

October 15, A. D. 553, also August 28 and 29, 554, with New Year on the Winter Solstice.

The Theocrat was responsible, then, for a Year Dial Adjustment.

The Owl Patron of

Maya Zero terminates the three Celestial Bands.

Here 4 Ahau is the day of Maya
zero, 13 Ceh is the month position of
Baktun 9, associated with the New
Fire Ceremony, and November 16
finds significance as a Venus position.
The error on 3,908 tropical years is
reduced to .09 of a day—close
enough! The superb theocrat is now
a dictator using military power to
enforce his will. Perhaps a moral
could be drawn that when society
raises a human being to the skies it
runs the risk that egoism will ruin
ethics. At any rate, during the sixth
century Maya rulers became a war-

ring lot.
new cult.

Head hunting is seen as a

Rules for the Tropical Year

Temple 44 at Yaxchilan has 15
dates on inscribed steps and lintels.
Here was a structure which the Maya
thought worthy of signal honors.
The original temple had light rubble-
and-mortar walls, a thatched roof,
and three doorways provided with
inscribed steps. Later, stone lintels,
carved in an advanced style, were
put in place; at this time the upper
400

tes :

weet

Ficure 2.—Block Six, Hieroglyphic Stairway Naranjo.

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

The three glyphs at top right

record a heliacal rising of Venus on 7 Akbal 16 Muan,February 26, A. D. 372. Two dis-
tance numbers carry backward to December 5, 370, and forward to Katun 10, March
B13.

30, A.D

step of the middle doorway was
removed and set up as an altar while
the doorways were narrowed. Fi-
nally, the temple walls were built to
support a two-walled roof crest pierced
by windows.

Morley deciphered the dates which
I have transcribed. The subject mat-

ter is the true length of the tropical
year. Two 4 Ahau dates are multiples
of the tzolkin from Maya zero, in one
case at the winter solstice. A 10
Ahau date is similarly a tzolkin mul-
tiple from historic Baktun 7, but here
it reaches October 16, as the anniver-
sary of Maya zero.

TABLE 4.—The tropical year on Structure 44, Yaxchilan

Day ee ie name Gregorian date
EravAd cts tebe oteeioianins melon Ahau Oct, 155 33/33Bae:
DACs A aievecerserottele state teach crksreus ere 1354320 10 Ahau Oct. 16, A. D335
(18 209 tun) = (18 X 206 tropical years) = 365.2427 days
TAs Bcd ,shosieneins aiagolerctetlapenetsr eens 1008000 10 Ahau Aug. 6, A. D. 613
TAtenE Zia. Move aparece revere teen seers eee 1377260 5 Ahau Aug. 6, A. D. 398

369260 days=1011 tropical years (365.2423 days each)

The first formula, 209 tun=206
tropical years, is an improvement over
the simple approximation, 70 tun=69
tropical years. This taken three times

over shows a discrepancy of more than
5 days, which the subtraction of 1 tun
from one side and 1 year from the
other, balances.
MEXICAN CALENDARS—SPINDEN

The second formula, 369260 days
equal 1011 tropical years, cannot be
reduced by common divisors, but the
manner in which it was constructed
is not far to seek. Formula Two is
simply the fifth multiple of Formula
One from which is subtracted one
Metonic cycle. This celebrated luni-
solar period of the Greeks was much
used by the Maya, being 1 katun
minus 1 tzolkin.

Five times Formula
= 376199, 5690 days

6939. 6037 days

One Metonic cycle of

19 tropical years... =
Formula Two, 369260
= 369259. 9653 days

For comparison Serpent Number G
in the Dresden Codex records 12,454,-
761 days; this is 34100 tropical years
at the value 365.24225833 days, meet-
ing the situation between A. D. 800
and 900 or about the time the Dresden
Codex was compiled. All the Serpent
numbers run into the future from
March 7, A. D. 481. Since Serpent
Number G is approximately a com-
mon multiple of the synodical revolu-
tions of all five visible planets, it is
used here with the tropical or synod-
ical year. Serpent Number E,
12438810 days, is very close on the
sidereal year exemplifying, as well,

401

the conformity of sidereal and synodic
revolutions of the same five planets
with surprisingly minute errors.

Once Again the Year Dial

Old conclusions on Maya chron-
ology eclipsed by the controversy of
the ’30’s over Correlations A and B
are rejuvenated in dramatic fashion
by the discovery that the axis of the
splendid Temple of the Magician at
Uxmal recovers the base line at Copan
within 3 minutes of arc and with
conformity of dates. Places in the
tropical year and Venus places as well
are recorded in a careful recapitula-
tion of First Empire Maya astronomy
in Second Empire times.

The House of the Magician at
Uxmal, the eastern facade of the
Nunnery and the Snail at Chichen
Itza are traditionally linked to Nacxitl
Quetzalcoatl, famous Toltec conquer-
or, reformer, and astronomer, who
flourished in the twelfth century. In-
scriptions in these cities of northern
Yucatan, Mexico, parallel others at
Copan, Honduras, and Uaxactun,
Guatemala, of a much earlier epoch,
in that all belong to the same year-
dial complex.

The axis of the Temple of the

FicurEe 3.—Venus mask on the House of the Magician at Uxmal. Note the sign for 8 days
on the upper part of each eye. These are the 8 days between April 4 (evening) and April
13 (morning) when Quetzalcoatl was in the underworld. ‘For eight days he was bone,”
says the legend. The underside of the eyes have a design constructed of bones.
402

Magician is 9°17’ north of west ac-
cording to readings I made in 1947
with the assistance of Lorenzo Salas
Canto and Antonio Canto Lopez,
respectively astronomer of the Univer-
sity of the Southeast and director of
the Museum of the State of Yucatan.
The Astronomical Base Line at Copan
was read as 9°14’ by George Byron
Gordon on an expedition sent out by
Harvard University 50 years ago. That
Maya year dial was intended to fix
the ceremonial beginning of the Maya
agricultural year as the ‘reciprocal’
of Maya zero: that is, the line points
to sunset on April 13 and to sunrise
on October 15. Two other dates are
also reached by the two-way observa-
tions, namely, August 30 and Febru-
ary 28, more or less. The August
date presumably fixed the planting of
a second maize crop.

The year-dial method of the Maya
has many advantages over the Euro-
pean method of intercalating extra
days in the calendar: it can be applied
from any doorstep or fixed place of
observation simply by marking the
point of sunrise or sunset, as the case
may be. With minor adjustments
two-way observations give four dates
with sunrise or sunset approximately
the same angular distance north or
south of the east and west line of the
equinoxes.

Solar conditions in A. D. 1208 when
the Maya year began on the anni-
versary of Maya zero were checked
for me by Charles A. Muses. The
death of Quetzalcoatl, or his ritual
suicide, occurred as Venus disap-
peared on April 5 (really the evening
of April 4 since the Maya day begins
at sunset) and his apotheosis as God
of Venus 8 days later when the planet
made its first appearance as the
Morningstar on April 13.

The Temple of the Magician virtu-
ally buries an original temple of the
twelfth century under memorial struc-
tures. The so-called Annex at the
head of a fine stairway has an ornate

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

facade rich with symbolic designs and
emphasis on the 8-day visit of the cul-
ture hero to the underworld. The
apotheosized ruler is supported over
two naked figures who have the typical
ear ornaments of Quetzalcoatl as
identifying adornment. This tableau
is in the center of a Venus mask.

At Chichen Itza the eastern facade
of the Nunnery again pictures this
ruler raised to the skies. A band of
zodiacal symbols shows Venus in con-
junction with star groups.

The Snail at Chichen Itza is an
architectual conventionalization of a
sea snail shell. One deciphered date
on this facade is April 4, 1280, the
seventy-second anniversary of Quet-
zalcoatl’s death. An inscribed stela in
the stairway has Venus calculations
which reach back to the First Empire.
Baktun 10 is recorded when Venus
and the Sun were in conjunction, and
other dates which Morley has deci-
phered and I have transcribed.

Quetzalcoatl established the Toltec
era on August 6, 1168, exact restate-
ment of Baktun 7, the Maya Era of
History. It seems he reconstructed
the Maya plan for the duration of the
universe, reducing baktun to 52-year
calendar rounds. An inscribed tablet
found by Edward H. Thompson at
Chichen Itza concerns the New Year
at the time of Quetzalcoatl’s death.
This New Year is the anniversary of
Maya zero. A_ second statement
appears on the rings of the Ball Court
at Uxmal. Perhaps Quetzalcoatl’s
estimate of the length of the tropical
year was a bit too long. It agrees,
however, with dates inscribed at
Copan on monuments associated with
the Base Line.

The data on Quetzalcoatl in Mixtec
codices covers more than 90 dates
which connect Quetzalcoatl with
Venus phenomena. In closing I ap-
pend a statement of important dates
in the life of this great American
astronomer who brought to life the
art and science of the early Maya.
MEXICAN CALENDARS—SPINDEN 403

=<. Pr cL
SES iv,
ts: Kr VY

By
»

FTN
RAKE

Ficure 4.—The Seven Caves of the Mexican origin myth. ‘These seven caves are the
7 x 144,000 days after Maya zero and before Baktun 7, August 6, 613 B. C. Quetzalcoatl
rearranged Maya chronology which allowed 20 x 144,000 days for the duration of the
universe. He called the four historical periods of the Maya after Baktun 7, four suns or
ages each ending in a general destruction. A fifth sun or age was in progress. He estab-
lished the Toltec era departing from August 5 A. D. 1168, just 1,781 years after Baktun 7.
In this illustration, from a Toltec history, the Year 1 Knife initiating the Toltec year
count is in the cave.
404 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

TABLE 5.—Important Quetzalcoatl dates

THe Maya ERAS:

Gregorian calendar Maya calendar Name of era
1) '@ct.5£55.33732Bu:C: Baktun 13, 4 Ahau 8 Cumhu Era of the World
11 Aug. 6; 613 B.C. Baktun 7, 10 Ahau 18 Zac Era of History
1d Febsally e176 A.D: Baktun 9, 8 Ahau 13 Ceh Era of Sacred Fire

Ficure 5.—Nacxitl Quetzalcoatl’s temple. Ground plan and elevation of the building
enshrined in the pyramid and memorial structures of the magician, Uxmal, Yucatan.
Only the western facade was known as entrance to the sanctuary of the annex till walls
were breached in 1947. The top of the roof comb is discernible on the floor of the
topmost structure.

DATES OF THE SNaIL (Morley readings, Spinden reductions):
A 10- 0- 0- 0- 0, 7 Ahau, 18 Zip, May 16, A. D. 570.
4000 tun after Era 1 Inferior Conjunction, Venus and Sun.
B 10- 0-15- 0- 0, 12 Ahau, 8 Cumhu, Feb. 26, A. D. 585.
3960 calendar years after Era 1.
C 10- 0-16- 0- 0, 8 Ahau, 3 Cumhu, Feb. 21, A. D. 586.
586 tzolkin after Era 111.
D 10- 0-17— 0- 0, 4 Ahau, 18 Kayab, Feb. 16, A. D. 587.
(a) 4 Ahau of Maya zero.
(b) Venus date, Calendar A, 7 calendar rounds later, is the latest date on the Dresden
Codex.
(c) 609 tropical years before establishment of Toltec New Fire Ceremony.
E 11-16- 0- 4~ 1, 3 Imix, 9 Yax, April 4, A. D. 1280: seventy-second anniversary of the
death of Quetzalcoatl, evening of April 4, 1208.

CHICHEN Itza, CAPSTONE THOMPSON’s TEMPLE:
4 Ik 0 Pop, Oct. 14, A. D. 1209. New Year Day.
5. :Chicchan- Ty Pop; Oct..15, A..:209.

11-12— 8-13-14 6 Kan 2 Pop, Oct. 16, A. D. 1209. Year-bearer.

UxMaAL, BALL Court Rincs:

Aone 16 Pop, Oct. 14, A. D. 1276.
hal I Ix{ 15 Pop, Oct. 15, A. D. 1276.
This inscription documents calendar change to Mexican style.
MEXICAN CALENDARS—SPINDEN 405

To.tec ERA:

Year 1 Tecpatl, Day 1 Tecpatl Aug. 6, 1168 A. D.
Baktun 7, Maya Era 11 Aug. 6, 613 B. C.
Difference in tropical years oma. i/o

This is Mexican date of emergence from the Seven Caves.

ToLTEc SCHISM:

11-10-16-11- 3, 2 Akbal 1 Yaxkin Feb. 21, A. D. 1178.
Chumayel date for institution of human sacrifice by Toltec opponents of Nacxitl Quetzalcoatl,

Tortec New Fire CEREMONY:

11-11-14-15-13, 7 Ben 1 Yaxkin Feb. 17, A. D. 1196.

The last two dates concern the New Fire Ceremony, originally a Quetzalcoatl feast celebrated
with feather banners. It was stolen by his Tezcatlipoca opponents: Panquetzaliztli is the
corresponding Mexican feast.
ie an

; :
7 a a” aa
Cue
")

mS ". Aaa, a,

a
= - = OAKGce
ian = 0 eo oa
1. t 7 _
i hag : ee Lot
a - - ‘

= 7

'
i ibd Aine
ve. dyna Abi, PPR

= F 7
: an “ik oF mit Tet
Saen lays ijueoe Hiessideis gd or
< HES apts aa

Sais ahi a sical Steet Bie clr

es Teas tf
Smtr ary vas nee

ae

y

var : - aot iy verti hace aivpy

5

se lest te :

) Ps Poe

re ina + Ly as
pred wi fa ee mh

; Ts
4 Wi =
1 we
o ¢ 7
a
oe 7 ; -
eer oe
7 7 a
” 5 -
: A -
_ -
- - 7
7 i 7 =i ¥
7
, ~ De -
7 te
5
- — ae -_ oo
a
— n f “|
Uy . a)
7 a 7 ee
Fea’ Coe 7 i
i i 7 a
a @ : - 7
- a eu ,
= ‘ _
a => Sat)  } : oe - i “4 eee
a ‘F a? 7 oe 7 i - -
_ ae 4 Tv o , , = a
} + 7 al i S _ my
ial > a = = ‘f
1 a a 5
a : ete ‘| reuat mr .f _ , ;
am : ss
ae eo
7 i, ny: > T i
: je .
+ 1 a
7 : eo : a
: , : is . vy cy wr :
- -
7 - = ih =
eat OE i
, Fe 7
7 ; = = :
= 7 La he “us a= Son
c ; rh =
‘ ; - a ee . :
Oo hea ry ‘Ape -
: a) 7 - aoan § in _
' — = =
: - = 7 id _ _
= q 1 : 2 y
. - =~
. r a: 1 - har wd
' ° << *e Sire are
; a _ - _
i
_ a — el ;
-
i
- 7
7 ’ :
= Ay
_s a i
’ ies =
7 en a i
DY oa : i. ee
= — =
a De Ye ONS — wae i =
Doe -
= a ' nf
i

ey a ee
Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Spinden PLATE 1

re ERC 2

Pie i .

STEP OF THE MIDDLE DOORWAY, STRUCTURE 44, YAXCHILAN

The dates of this temple handle the tropical year. The bottom panel shows the sun and a jaguar sun god
; inside; below this is the owl of Maya zero; to the left of the sun is the front head of the sky monster, the
|. rear one occupying the lower right-hand corner of the panel. In the lower right-hand corner is the moon
{. containing a rabbit.
PLATE 2

Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Spinden

TEMPLE AT DZIBILNOCAC

A. D. 934.

in

apstone as dedicated

uted by painted ce

ite Period now dé

Building of the Intermedi
Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Spinden PLATE 4

1

1. THE HOUSE OF THE MAGICIAN AT UXMAL, WESTERN FACE
Although apparently in ruinous condition, good data exist for the reconstruction of this composite edifice.

2. HOUSE OF THE MAGICIAN AS RESTORED IN A MODEL IN THE BROOKLYN MUSEUM

The earliest building with its pyramidal substructure is completely enclosed by three later ones. On the
ground level is the second phase, a long building completely covered with Venus masks. The third
stage is represented by an elaborate stairway leading up to an ornate temple. The enlarged pyramid is
crowned by the fourth building.
NJgJur) UoUaMIOUOYd snus A JUOTOUR YILM [Bop ABMITVIS UL JUSUINUOU pod Wosul
[Udy sl SUIP[ING UO 9B “[IBOOTVZIONY [JIXOVN 04 [VMOUTOU PUB AIOJBAIISGO [BOI

“seio BART JO SaliVsIoATuUR PUR (OT UNIYR_ 18 UOTOUN!UO.
UO S2IVBC ‘“YIVAP S,[JBOITRZJON| JO ATVSIOATUUB PUODAS-AJUIAS “OST “CV

NVLVONA ‘WZL] NAHOIHD UTIVNS SHL

ouolIsS V

uapuldg—"gp6| ‘yoday uetuosyyIWG

G ALV1d
“Sod1p0d J94XT IA Ul UOULULOD 94Bp SNUDA ‘OPZT CA “V ‘¢ [dy SUISTI [BoRI[aY “[RIUUA}00 YANO} UO poyRorpop sdeysed
[BLOW SIU, “SUOT}R[[O}SUOD [BOeTPOZ YALM UOTJoUN!UOD UT snUGA JouRld YIM pu [BIJSoT9O BAOGB pos snuaA SB pauoIyyUo [BOI VzJON [TXOBN,

VZLI] NAHOIHD ‘AYANNON 3O 30VOV4H NYSLSVA AO ONIMVYC S,GQOOMYSHLYD

Pent e Cae

bei

SIPIITSITIT IZ?

9 ALVW1d uapurdg—gp6| ‘J4oday ueiuosyyWS
Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Spinden PLATE 7

THE NATIONAL STONE FOUND IN MEXICO CITY

This may illustrate how the Calendar Stone was set up. The Olin sign in the center of this and other
Aztec suns represents a year dial: Olin means movement. One rabbit and two reeds are the years A. D.
1507 and 1508.
eS Se

errs

int
Surviving Indian Groups of the Eastern United
States

By WitttaAM Haren GILBERT, Jr., Library of Congress, Washington, D. C.

Introduction

The following paper was prepared
for the purpose of indicating the extent
to which Indian blood still remains
noticeable in our eastern States popu-
lation in spite of the depletions arising
from over 300 years of wars, invasions
by disease and by white men from
Europe and black men from Africa.
Any attempt to estimate the total
amount of this Indian and mixed
population must be based on an
arbitrary classification of mixed-bloods
as Indian who may frequently be
more white or Negro in appearance.
Anywhere from 75,000 to 100,000
persons may be included in the groups
described in the following pages.

The census returns of “blood purity”
are of course not to be taken as in any
way biologically accurate. These fig-
ures are much better used as indica-
tions of the character of local opinion,
Throughout the following discussion
the term “‘blood” is to be understood
as relating to opinion and not to
actual biological fact.

It will be noted that not all the
Indian mixed groups have kept their
original tribal names because in a
considerable number of cases the only
distinguishing terms are nicknames
given them by white people. Where
the native Indian speech is retained,
some notice of the fact is given. In the
same way the survival of other Indian
customs and traits is noticed as addi-
tional evidence that Indian blood may
survive.

817369—49——31

The material in the following discus-
sion is presented by States in geo-
graphic order, beginning with the
northernmost part of the Atlantic sea-
board and ranging down to Florida,
thence across the Gulf coast to Texas,
and finally concluding with some com-
ments on certain midwestern States.
In each State an effort is made to
note the evidence for Indian survivals
especially through cases of separate
social groups found claiming an Indian
descent. It will be noticed that the
census figures are often below the un-
official estimates of these population
remnants. All too often the census
ignores their existence. The 1930 cen-
sus figures have been used in this
discussion since they give the tribal
break-down, whereas the 1940 census
does not.

1. Maine

According to the census, the Indian
population of Maine totaled 1,012 in
1930. Of these, 76 were in Aroostook
County on the northern borders
(Malecite Tribe), 444 were in Wash-
ington County on the eastern border
(Passamaquoddy Tribe), and 354 were
in Penobscot County in the central
part of the State (Penobscot Tribe).
of the total, full-bloods were 46.3
percent, mixed-bloods 42.4 percent,
and not recorded 11.3 percent.

Penobscot.—The Penobscot Tribe re-
tains ownership of a number of islands
in the Penobscot River from the falls
at Old Town north to Mattawarnkeag.

407
408 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

)  \PoTowecs * Swerrirony
\ RAPPABANOCKS XX x PAMNKET (“WAXSEWORD
= x
; CHICKAROUDY

MAP SHOWDNO LOCATION OP GROUPS 1) THE RASTER
_ BTATES OP TEDIAN AMD PART INDIAN DESCENT

FicurE 1.—Map showing location of groups in the eastern States of Indian
and part Indian descent, 1946.
SURVIVING INDIAN

These islands total around 4,481 acres
and the land is under family allot-
ment. The State has encouraged agri-
culture by payments in past years, but
the Indians are reluctant to engage
in it. The principal settlements are
at Old Town on Indian Island, some
12 miles north of Bangor, and on Old
Lennon and Lincoln Islands. In 1915
the Penobscot totaled 22 families,
and in 1939. there were 580 persons in
the tribe. Considerable intermixture
has taken place with the other two
Indian tribes of Maine, the Passa-
maquoddy and Malecite.

The Penobscot have a tribal gov-
ernment of their own, which is subject
to the State of Maine, but have no
Federal relationship. There are two
political parties among these people,
the Old Party and the New Party,
each of which has an alternate term
of 2 years in power with its own gov-
ernor, lieutenant governor, represent-
ative to the State legislature, con-
stable, council members, and minor
officials.

Passamaquoddy.—This tribe, residing
mainly on the south side of Passa-
maquoddy Bay and on nearby Lewis
Island, now numbers around 500
members. Their principal settlement
is at Point Pleasant and there is
another near Princeton (in Princeton
Township) to the north of the first.
They also have their own tribal gov-
ernment and representative in the
State legislature.

Both the Penobscot and Passama-
quoddy are mostly Roman Catholics,
and the two Indian schools at Point
Pleasant and Old Town have teachers
supplied by the church, while the
financial support is supplied by the
State. Health conditions are good in
both tribes, and where necessary the
State provides payment for physi-
cian’s care. Basketmaking, garden-
ing, and poultry raising are prominent
industries). The Algonkian Indian
speech is retained by these two major
tribes.

409

GROUPS—GILBERT

2. New Hampshire

No important surviving social groups
of Indians are recorded for New
Hampshire. There are a few Penna-
cook Indians near Manchester, how-
ever.

3. Vermont

No surviving social groups of Indians
are recorded for Vermont, although
the census records a few scattered
individuals.

4, Massachusetts

In 1930 the census recorded 874
Indians in Massachusetts, 356 in
Barnstable County (Cape Cod), 178
in Bristol County (along the eastern
border of Rhode Island), and 83 in
Worcester County (in the east-central
part of the State). The Cape Cod
Indians are centered at Mashpee,
Yarmouth, and Waquoit, while those
in Bristol are near Fall River. At
Gay Head, the westernmost part of
Martha’s Vineyard Island (Dukes
County), there is a considerable group
of pottery-making Indians (178 in
1930), mainly Wampanoags. In Plym-
outh County there are Indians at
Assawompset Pond, while in Norfolk
County there is a group located at
Canton.

Only 2.5 percent of Massachusetts
Indians are reported as full-bloods
and the rest are mixed with white
blood and to a great extent with
Negro blood, and with the Portuguese
‘‘Bravas.” These Indians are Bap-
tists, attend public schools, and only
2.3 percent of those 10 years old or
over were returned as illiterate in the
1930 census.

Two groups that stand out among
the Massachusetts Indians are the
Mashpee and the Nipmuc. ‘The
Mashpee live by fishing, making and
selling of baskets, oystering, and cran-
berry picking. Like the Indians of
Gay Head they are an organized
**tribe” with an elected chief.
410

The Hassanamisco Band of Nipmuc
are still to be found scattered in var-
ious towns of central Massachusetts
(Grafton, Worcester, Boston, Gardner,
and Mendon), and there are a few at
Mystic, Conn., and Blackstone, R. I.
The present-day family names of this
group are Barber, Belden, Brown,
Cisco or Sisco, Curliss, Gidger or
Gigger, Gimbey, Hamilton, Hector,
Heminway, Lewis, Moore, Peters,
Scott, Tony, and Williams. The Nip-
muc still cling tenaciously to their
Indian identity and are set apart from
Whites of the underprivileged class
and also from mulattoes and Negroes.
Apart from their traditions there is
nothing in their manner of life which
would set them apart. They are em-
ployed in skilled crafts and industries
and in government offices.

5. Rhode Island

The census for 1930 records 318 In-
dians in Rhode Island, 170 in Wash-
ington County (along the southern
coast near Kingston), and 138 in
Providence County (in the northern
parts of the State). Of the total, 19.5
percent were recorded as pure-bloods,
13.2 percent as mixed-bloods, while
67.3. percent were not recorded.
There is said to be considerable mix-
ture with both white and Negro blood,
the lighter-skinned holding aloof from
the darker group. ‘These people at-
tend the public schools, and about 2
percent of those 10 years old and over
are recorded as illiterate. As in the
case of the Massachusetts Indians,
most of the Indian traditions and
customs are lost, including the native
speech. The Narragansett Associa-
tion was incorporated under charter
from the State in 1935 to include all
tribesmen and now claims around 260
members. ‘The dark mixed-bloods are
said to have their own organization.

6. Connecticut

In 1930 the total number of Indians
recorded for Connecticut by the census
was 162. ‘These were mostly scattered

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

in a few settlements along the sea coast
and inland in New London County.
The largest concentration is in the
Groton area near the town of New
London, where the Mohegan and
Pequot tribesmen still survive.

There are about 75 members of the
Pequot Tribe located on two State
reservations at Ledyard Town and
Stonington Town in New London
County. These groups own their own
lands. A distinct tribe are the Mohe-
gans who are located on the west bank
of the [Thames River 4 miles east of
Norwich at the village of Mohegan
and at Mohegan Hill. The Schaghti-
coke are a small handful of families
located in Fairfield County on. the
western border of the State where the
Housatonic bends westward almost to
the New York border. There is a
small group of Indians at Niantic,
west of the town of New London, and
a similar small group on land of the
Paugusetts near Bridgeport. All these
various groups are under the State of
Connecticut Park and Forest Com-
mission. Some survivals of Indian
arts are to be found such as basketry,
woodcarving, beadwork, and nature
lore, especially among the Mohegan
and Pequot.

The census reports 9.3 percent of
Connecticut Indians as_ full-bloods,
30.2 percent as mixed, and 60.5 per-
cent as not recorded. As in Rhode
Island and Massachusetts, there has
been mixture with both white and
Negro blood, and Indian traditions
and speech have been almost entirely
lost. About 2 percent of those 10
years of age and over were reported as
illiterate in 1930. When the Mohegan
Association was formed by a State
charter in 1920 to include all tribes-
men, a total of 122 members were
claimed.

7. New York

A total of 6,973 Indians was recorded
for New York State in 1930. The ma-
jority of these were Iroquois tribesmen
concentrated up-State on reservations
in northern, central, and western New
SURVIVING INDIAN GROUPS—GILBERT

York. There were also a few other
tribes of Indians located at certain
points in eastern Long Island. In
Orange and Rockland Counties, on
the borders of New Jersey, are the
Jackson Whites, a mountain people
with a strongly marked Indian back-
ground. ‘The latter are not included
as Indians in the census reports, how-
ever. In 1930 some 11.6 percent of
New York Indians 10 years old or over
were illiterate.

Troquois—The Iroquois Indians of
New York are mainly located on six
reservations, namely, Cattaraugus, Al-
legany, Tuscarora, Tonawanda, Onon-
daga, and St. Regis. On these reser-
vations they have retained to a re-
markable degree their native speech,
their native religion, and many abo-
riginal customs and traditions. There
has been considerable admixture of
white blood with these Indians. ‘The
census of 1930 reported 4,365 mem-
bers of this group, 36.1 percent full-
blood, 62.8 percent mixed-blood, and
1.1 percent not recorded.

The Cattaraugus Indian Reserva-
tion includes some 21,760 acres in
Erie, Chautauqua, and Cattaraugus
Counties, from the mouth of Catta-
raugus Creek on Lake Erie to a point
10 or 12 miles from the mouth. Here
live 2,000 Indians, mainly Senecas
with a few Cayugas and Onondagas.
They are steel workers, mechanics,
farmers, trappers, and fishermen, and
they lease some of their land to white
market gardeners and to operators of
gas wells. The Federal Government
pays these Indians an annual treaty
stipend. Flowers, sassafras, baskets,
beads, and handiwork items are sold
in the nearby cities. The Longhouse
people of Newton keep up the annual
cycle of thanksgiving festivals, being
followers of Handsome Lake, the Sen-
eca prophet (1750?-1815). Method-
ists and Baptists have long maintained
missions here.

Along the Pennsylvania border in
Cattaraugus County is located the
Allegany Indian Reservation. ‘This
domain extends along both sides of the

411

Allegheny River from the point where
it enters Pennsylvania, in a long thin
arc for 30 miles, and comprises 26,880
acres. This reservation borders the
northern edge of Allegany State Park
and adjoins the Cornplanter Reserva-
tion in Pennsylvania. A number of
white communities are found within
the bounds of this reservation, includ-
ing the city of Salamanca, and whites
hold the land on long-term leases.
There are about 900 Senecas, of whom
at least half speak Seneca, and a scat-
tering of Cayugas living on small
farms. The State appoints an attorney
to guard the legal interests of these
Indians under the Federal New York
Indian Agency with superintendents
in Buffalo. The Longhouse religion
predominates, but Presbyterian and
Baptist missions have been maintained
here. Near the Allegany Reservation
are some 640 acres of land owned by
the Senecas in Allegany County at Oil
Springs (near Cuba, N. Y.), which are
leased to whites.

The Tuscarora Indian Reservation
is located in Niagara County about
4 or 5 miles to the northeast of Niag-
ara Falls, N. Y. ‘This area comprises
about 6,249 acres and has some 430
Tuscaroras living on it as farmers.
There is a community house, a Bap-
tist church, a school, and the State
furnishes visiting supervisors. These
Indians are all Christians but still
retain their old-time language, coun-
cil, and many old tribal laws. They
are under the New York Indian
Agency at Buffalo.

The Tonawanda Indian Reserva-
tion comprises 7,549 acres in Erie and
Genesee Counties along Tonawanda
Creek, 20 miles northeast of Buffalo,
N. Y. On this reservation live about
600 Senecas of the Tonawanda Band
of whom a third at least are Longhouse
followers. Life chiefs govern through
council. There are Baptist and Meth-
odist missions among these people
and the State Department of Public
Welfare maintains a community house.
Over half speak or understand Seneca.
These Indians find employment in
412

the gypsum plants of nearby Akron,

. Y., and also work on the roads and
on nearby farms, and in Buffalo fac-
tories. A New York State attorney at
Batavia represents them, and _ they
come under New York Federal Agency.

In Onondaga County a few miles
south of the center of Syracuse, N. Y.,
is located the Onondaga Indian Reser-
vation, a tract of 6,100 acres, valley
and highland. Here live 700 Onon-
daga Indians along with some 200
Oneidas, Cayugas, and other Indians.
Onondaga is still spoken. Less than
100 of the Onondagas are said to be
full-bloods. Rental is paid by white
men for use of sand, stone quarries,
and pipe lines. There are three
churches, a public school, two council
houses, and an office of the State
department of health. One council
house is used by the Longhouse group,
who adhere to the Code of Handsome
Lake and constitute about 30 percent
of the total, the other by the Christian
Indians. A council of life chiefs
governs the tribe. Episcopalians and
Methodists have maintained mission
work here. Many of the Onondagas
find employment in Syracuse factories
and homes. About 30 miles eastward
there are a few Oneidas settled on
some 30 acres outside of Oneida, N. Y.

St. Regis Indian Reservation is
located on the Canadian border in
Franklin and Lawrence Counties
where the New York line reaches the
St. Lawrence River. It comprises
16,640 acres, and is 9 miles long by
3 miles wide. Part of the St. Regis
Reservation is on the Canadian side.
There are 2,800 Indians here, mostly
Mohawks. Of the entire group 100
are full-bloods, whereas the rest are
mixed with white blood. These In-
dians are governed by three elected
chiefs (a minority adhere to the life-
chief system) and as wards of the State
pay no taxes and receive free medical
care and schooling. Some are makers
of baskets and moccasins, but the
majority are dairy farmers, steel
workers, and lumbermen. Both Meth-
odist Episcopal and Roman Catholic

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

mission workers have labored among
these people, and none of them are
pagans. They are under New York
Federal Indian Agency at Buffalo.
The Mohawk language is still spoken.

At Lake George, in the northeast
of the State, there is a small band of
Abenaki Indians.

Long Island Indians—In eastern Long
Island there are five remnants of
Algonquian Indian groups, namely,
the Shinnecock, the Poosepatuck,
Montauk, Setauket, and Matinecock.
The Indians in Suffolk County totaled
about 266 according to the 1940
census. The Shinnecock are located
on Shinnecock Bay near Southampton,
N. Y. They occupy about 50 acres
on a neck of land running out into
the Bay and number about 150 per-
sons, have a Presbyterian church,
lease for cultivation about one-tenth
of the land, do fishing, hunting, and
clamming, and have lost most of their
Indian culture, being much mixed
with whites and Negroes. Their land
is tax free, and they are governed by
three trustees elected annually. The
Shinnecock do beadwork and make a
kind of brush for scouring pans. Their
family names are Arch, Beaman, Bunn,
Cuffee, Davis, Harvey, Kellis, Scud-
der, and Thompson.

The Poosepatuck occupy 50 acres
near the mouth of the Mastic River
about 15 miles west of the Shinnecock
and are in the southern part of the
town of Brookhaven. ‘They have
three trustees elected annually to
manage their affairs, and have their
own church and State-supported
school. ‘They have held this land since
1693 and now number about 10
families.

The Montauk have two settlements
located on Montauk Point about 40
miles east of the Shinnecocks. Like
the latter and the Poosepatuck they
are largely mixed with white and
Negro blood and have lost most of the
Indian culture.

The Matinecock are a few Indians
located near Cold Spring by Long
Island Sound in Nassau County. The
SURVIVING INDIAN

Setauket are a remnant located be-
tween Stony Brook and Wading River
in Suffolk County.

Other New York mixed-bloods.—Along
the banks of the Hudson River in
New York State the country is well
developed and modern in every re-
spect. But.on the upper edges of the
hills whose slopes can be seen from the
river live a border people, independ-
ent, primitive, and often of Indian
mixed blood. They make a living of
sorts by scanty cultivation, by fishing,
by hunting, and by basketmaking.
North of Albany in Rensselaer County
these people are known as Van Guild-
ers. In Columbia County live the
*‘Bushwhackers,”? whose chief family
names are Hotaling, Simmons, and
Proper. These are also known as
*‘Pondshiners.”” ‘To the west of the
Hudson, from Newburgh southward,
are other Bushwhackers. ‘Those east
of the Hudson are Indian and white,
those to the west partly Negro.

Estabrook and Davenport in 1912
described a group of Indian mixed-
bloods, under the pseudonym of
**Nams,” who were living in up-State
New York. They characterized this
group as alcoholics, ambitionless, and
defective in both physical and mental
inheritance. According to tradition
they were descended from the issue of
a Dutchman and an Indian “princess”
some time before 1760 in western
Massachusetts. These people, half
vagabonds, half fishermen and hun-
ters, left Massachusetts in 1800 and
settled in New York State. The
famous “‘Jukes,” a group first de-
scribed by Dugdale in the nineteenth
century, were also an up-State New
York group of mixed Indian and other
descent.

In the Schoharie Valley, not far to
the west of Albany, there are a number
of isolated or submerged groups who
seem to be of Indian mixed-blood de-
scent. Such are the Slaughters of
Slaughter Hill, a clan supposedly de-
scended from a governor of Colonial
times, the Honies of the southern part
of Schoharie County, the Clappers of

413

Clapper Hollow, and the ‘‘Arabs”’ of
Summit. The Slaughters spend the
summertime in berry picking, hunting,
and fishing.

Jackson Whites—These people are
located in an area roughly extending
from Goshen to Nyack along the New
Jersey borders in Orange and Rock-
land Counties. In some parts they
show a predominance of Indian physi-
cal characteristics and in others of
white or a mixture of white and Negro.
The Indian blood is said to be derived
from the Tuscarora and Munsee tribes,
but the traditions and customs of the
Indian are now difficult to find. A
Negro Presbyterian church at Hill-
burn, N. Y., has carried on mission
work among the Jackson Whites. The
total number of these people in both
New York and New Jersey is estimated
at 5,000. Some of the principal family
names among them are Cassalony,
Cisco, De Groat, De Vries, Mann, and
Van Dunk. Living on the margins of
society, as they have been forced to do,
the Jackson Whites have been a some-
what neglected class of people.

Some of the Jackson Whites have
migrated to the industrial areas and
the cities. Likewise some of the St.
Regis Mohawks of up-State New York
have taken up occupations such as
ironwork and structural stee] erection
and have migrated to Brooklyn to
form a colony there.

In Brooklyn there is an area called
“the Gowanus District”? which in-
cludes parts of Nevins Street, Atlantic
Avenue, Pacific Street, and Schermer-
horn Street. In this area there is at
present a settlement of over 500 In-
dians, representatives of about 17 dif-
ferent tribes. Primary in importance
among this group are the Mohawks
already referred to, steel workers and
welders from up-State New York.

8. New Jersey

In 1930 the census reported 213 In-
dians in New Jersey, mainly located in
Essex County (Newark). However,
there were several groups of mixed-
bloods not listed as Indians, such as

GROUPS—GILBERT
414

the Jackson Whites of the northern
counties, the Pineys of the central pine
barrens, and the Moors and Gould-
town people of Cumberland County
in the southern part of the State.

Near Eaton Town in Monmouth
County, N. J., a band of Indians set-
tled before the Revolutionary War.
They were supposedly descended from
Tuscarora or Cherokee migrants from
North Carolina. At a somewhat later
date they located at Asbury Park upon
a site called Sand Hill. They came to
be known as the Sand Hill Indians of
Monmouth County and their home
was called “‘The Reservation” or
‘Richardson Heights” after the name
of one of their prominent members.
Within the last 30 years the members
of this group have largely scattered to
other locations. Indian traditions and
arts have survived among this group
until the present time. Beadwork and
basketry have been made in recent
years.

Jackson Whites.—As already noted,
the Jackson Whites totaling 5,000 or
more, are scattered over parts of New
York and New Jersey. As such they
form an interstate population. They
are a mixed-blood group, descendants
of white, Indian, and in some areas
Negro ancestors. They live by culti-
vation of the hillsides with a patch of
corn or potatoes here and there, by
hunting, and by keeping a few pigs,
chickens, and now and then a cow.
They are mainly located in the
Ramapo Valley and the adjoining
hills in Passaic, Bergen, and Morris
Counties along the northern border.
Wherever possible they are encour-
aged to enter local public schools.
Split basketry and carved wooden
utensils are manufactured as domestic
industries.

Pineys.—The Pineys in Burlington
and adjacent counties are partly pure-
blooded whites in some sections and
mixed-bloods in others. At New Lis-
bon, about 25 miles directly east of
Philadelphia, the colored or mixed-
blood Pineys are most prominent, and
these are said to contain a considerable

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

contingent of Indian blood. Not far
to the south of New Lisbon was the
site of the last Indian reservation in
New Jersey. The number of the
Pineys has been estimated at 5,000.

Like the Jackson Whites, the Pineys
are a neglected group who make a
living by cranberry picking, weaving
baskets, manufacturing ax handles,
trapping, bootlegging, and doing odd
jobs for nearby farmers. A few raise
chickens and vegetables for home con-
sumption. Like the Jackson Whites
and certain Indian groups in southern
New England, the asserted presence of
Hessian blood may be a factor in
stigmatizing these people.

Moors.—Around Bridgeton in Cum-
berland County, southern New Jersey,
is a colony of the so-called Moors who
seem to have come from central Dela-
ware across Delaware Bay. These
people appear to have Indian, Negro,
and white antecedents and will be
mentioned in more detail in the sec-
tion on Delaware. Like the Jackson
Whites, they constitute a part-Indian
unorganized division of the popula-
tion who are differentiated from their
white and Negro neighbors. Also
similarly to the Jackson Whites, they
constitute an interstate population.

Near Bridgeton is a settlement called
Gouldtown which is inhabited by a
mixed people like the Moors but who
seem to be of separate origin from
them. The Gouldtown people have
been regarded as light mulattoes by
their neighbors.

9. Pennsylvania

The Seneca Indians of the Corn-
planter Reservation in Warren County
present an interstate Indian popula-
tion just as the Jackson Whites do
farther east. The Cornplanter area
is close to the Allegany Reservation
just over the line in New York State.
There are about 30 Senecas and a
few Onondagas living on the 800
acres of the Cornplanter Reservation.
According to the 1930 census, of
Pennsylvania’s 523 Indians, 40 per-
cent were pure-bloods, 29 percent
SURVIVING INDIAN GROUPS—GILBERT

mixed, and 31 percent not recorded.
Practically all these Indians are Chris-
tians, and there is a Presbyterian
church and a_ school. Seneca is
spoken by the old people.

The census records a few Indians in
certain other counties of Pennsylvania,
in Alleghany (Pittsburgh), in Bucks
(North Philadelphia), and in Phila-
delphia. The Indians of Philadelphia
have their own association.

“The Pool Tribe.’—In and about
Towanda, Pa., and in various parts
of Bradford County there is a sub-
merged group which is referred to
locally as ““The Pool Tribe.” There
are over 500 members of this inbred
group whose chief family names are
Van der Pool, Johnson, Vincent,
Heeman, and Wheeler. They are
farm laborers, and a large section
have the reputation of being sub-
normal and addicted to petty crime.
Traditionally they are descended from
Sir William Johnson who in 1744 left
over 100 half-breed children by women
of the Oneida, Mohawk, and other
tribes.

Cherokees —There is a small group
of Indians, apparently of Cherokee
descent, residing in the mountains
near Harrisburg. ‘Traditionally they
are descended from a group of Chero-
kees who went northward with the
Tuscarora in 1710 and stopped in the
Cumberland Valley of Pennsylvania.
They then took up homesteads in the
Blue Mountains from Doublin Gap
to directly north of Chambersburg.
Since the papers and land titles of
this group were burned recently
during a quarrel between factions,
the neighboring whites have been
said to be “‘moving in” on the lands of
these Indians.

10. Delaware

There are two groups in Delaware
who are probably of part-Indian ori-
gin, the Moors of Kent County in
the central part of the State and the
Nanticokes of Sussex County in the
southern part of the State. The
census does not return either of these

415

groups as Indians, and no official
data are gathered regarding them.
Moors——This group, which here
numbers about 500 persons according
to private investigators, is located
mainly around Cheswold, about 5 or
6 miles north of Dover, the State
capital. As we have already noted,
there is another colony of these people
in southern New Jersey at Bridgeton.
They show a variety of physical traits
and vary as to complexion from rather
blond to very dark. It is thought that
they may represent a cross of some
dark race (not necessarily Negro) with
Indians and whites. In common with
the Nanticokes farther south, they are
farmers, fishermen, carpenters, truck
drivers, poultry raisers, storekeepers,
gas station attendants, and common
laborers. Unlike the Nanticokes, how-
ever, they have not organized them-
selves in a corporation for mutual
betterment. They have their own
churches, a Methodist and an Ad-
ventist group being represented, and
seem to segregate in particular ele-
mentary schools. There is no pro-
vision for high schools for them locally,
and they would have to attend Negro
schools for this level of education.
Moors are characterized by certain
family names, the principal ones being
Carney, Carver, Coker, Dean, Dur-
ham, Hansley, Hughes, Morgan, Mos-
ley, Munsee, Reed, Ridgeway, Sam-
mons, and Seeney. Some of these
names are shared by the Nanticokes.
Nanticokes—The Nanticokes are lo-
cated primarily around Millsboro on
Indian River, but their settlements are
somewhat scattered in the nearby
area. They present more of the phys-
ical characteristics of the Indian than
do the Moors and seem to have di-
vided themselves socially into two
groups, a darker group called the
Harmony Group and a lighter group
who cling to the name “Nanticoke”
Indian. Altogether both groups are
said to total about 700 people. First
incorporated under State laws in
1881, they were reorganized and rein-
corporated in 1921 as the Nanticoke
416

Indian Association. They are Metho-
dists in the main and have their own
churches.

The chief Nanticoke family names
are Bumberry, Burke, Burton, Clark,
Cormeans, Coursey, Davis, Drain,
Hansor, Harmon, Hill, Jackson, John-
son, Kimmey, Layton, Miller, Morris,
Moseley, Newton, Norwood, Reed,
Ridgeway, Rogers, Sockum, Street,
Thomas, Thompson, Walker, and
Wright. They have separate schools
from whites, and to some of these
schools Negroes are admitted. They
are required to attend Negro high
schools, if any. Many have obtained
a higher education in spite of segrega-
tion. Most of the Indian customs are
lost.

11. Maryland

The census does not recognize any
Indians in Maryland, just as in the
cases of Delaware and New Jersey,
yet there is a fairly large-size group
called the Wesorts in southern Mary-
land, in Charles and Prince Georges
Counties, who claim a part-Indian
descent. In addition there are cer-
tain small groups of ‘‘Nanticokes” on
the eastern shore in Dorchester County
and vicinity, and a few very small
groups in the Blue Ridge area on the
borders of Frederick and Washington
Counties.

Wesorts.—The Wesorts are scattered
in rural areas about Bel Alton and
Port Tobacco in Charles County, and
at Brandywine, Upper Marlboro, and
Oxon Hill in Prince Georges County.
They are tenant farmers and truck
farmers on the borders of Washington.
Many have settled in Washington,
Pittsburgh, and other cities as artisans,
salvagers, and small tradesmen.
Their total numbers are estimated as
upward of 5,000.

These people show physical traits
reminiscent of whites, Indians, and
Negroes. Some of them carry tradi-
tions and a few customs which may be
of Indian origin. Locally they are
considered in the same status as mulat-
toes and their children are required to

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

attend Negro schools. They are Ro-
man Catholics and generally tend to
sit with or near the colored sections in
churches. Although thrown into con-
stant contact with Negroes they have
mainly married only within their own
group. They are characterized by
these family names: Butler, Harley,
Linkin, Mason, Newman, Proctor,
Queen, Savoy, Swan, and Thompson.
In spite of the fact that they have
never organized themselves as a dis-
tinct minority, they have been recog-
nized in parish and county records as
separate from the Negro. They have
a high birth rate.

12. West Virginia

As in previous cases mentioned, the
census does not recognize any Indian
groups in West Virginia. However,
there is a fair-size group of people
centering in northern Barbour and
southern Taylor Counties in the north-
eastern part of the State who may lay
claim to at least part-Indian ancestry.
These are the ‘Guineas’ whose num-
bers may range up to 6,000 or 7,000.
Small groups of these people are to be
found in six or seven other counties in
northern West Virginia, in parts of
western Maryland, in cities of eastern
and northern Ohio (such as Zanes-
ville) and in Detroit.

The Guineas present the usual vari-
ety found in mixed-bloods, but the
white and Indian seem to be most
prominent. They have their owa
Methodist churches and attend segre-
gated schools which are locally classed
as ‘‘colored.” As a class they stay
apart from both whites and Negroes
and are characterized by the following
family names: Adams, Collins, Cros-
ton, Dalton, Kennedy, Mayle, New-
man, Norris, and Prichard. Their
racial classification has furnished con-
siderable difficulty to the local au-
thorities.

13. Virginia
The census of 1930 records only 771

Indians in Virginia, mostly in the
Tidewater area, such as Pamunkey,
SURVIVING INDIAN GROUPS—GILBERT

Chickahominy, Rappahannock, and
others. Of this total 19.3 percent are
recorded as full-bloods, 53 percent as
mixed-bloods; 27.7 percent are re-
corded as illiterate.

There are two schools of thought in
Virginia regarding the mixture of
blood in the Tidewater Indian tribes.
One school holds that all, or practical-
ly all, the members of these tribes are
mixed in some degree with the Negro.
This opinion requires that birth cer-
tificates, marriage licenses, and mili-
tary draft papers of the Indians take
note of their classification as Negro
and obliges public officers to treat
them accordingly. This school of
thought has been in the dominant
position in the State administration.

The other school, apparently in the
minority, holds that most of the ‘Tide-
water Indian groups have little or no
Negro mixture in their blood and that
they should be recognized as Indians
or as Indian-white half-breeds. Evi-
dently no accurate opinion can be
rendered on the subject until a scien-
tific investigation is made by physical
anthropologists.

Chickahominy.—This tribe is divided
into two sections: (1) the Upper Chick-
ahominy who reside principally in
Charles City County at White Oak
Swamp on the Chickahominy River
near Roxbury, Va., and number about
357; (2) the Lower Chickahominy who
live on the lower Chickahominy River
on the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad
between Newport News and Rich-
mond, in the neighborhood of Boule-
vard, Va. The latter group is about
55 miles from Newport News and 40
miles from Richmond. They number
about 100 persons, and are situated in
James City County. Both of these
groups have intermarried with the
Pamunkey Indians, their near neigh-
bors to the north. The main Chicka-
hominy family names are Adkins,
Bradby, Colman, Holmes, Jefferson,
Jones, Miles, Stuart, Swett, Thomp-
son, and Wynne.

The people of this tribe live by fish-
ing and hunting in the river swamps

417

and by cultivating patches on the
nearby higher land. They were reor-
ganized in 1908 as a tribe with a chief
and other officials but have had no
specially recognized reservation of long
standing as have the Pamunkey and
the Mattapony.

Pamunkey.—This group resides on a
State reservation of about 800 acres in
King William County at a bend of the
Pamunkey River. They are hardly
more than 20 miles due east of Rich-
mond, the State capital. There are
about 150 Pamunkey on the reserva-
tion with about 150 more scattered
elsewhere. ‘They derive a living by
fishing, bird catching, and by culti-
vating their fields of corn and beans
with the help of hired Negro labor.
This reservation has been in existence
since 1677. The Pamunkey neither
vote nor pay taxes but are governed
by an elected chief and council sub-
ject to supervision by trustees ap-
pointed by the State. The main fam-
ily names current among these people
are Bradby, Collins, Cook, Dennis,
Hawkes, Holmes, Langston, Miles,
Page, Sampson, and Swett. They are
mostly Baptists. The Indian blood of
the Pamunkey is variously estimated
at from one-fifth to three-fourths.

Mattapony.—The next tribe to the
north of the Pamunkey is the Matta-
pony. Like the Chickahominy the
Mattapony are divided into two
groups, both in King William County:
(1) the Lower Mattapony group is
located on a State reservation of 50
acres situated on a bend of the Matta-
pony River not over 10 miles north of
the Pamunkey; (2) the Upper Matta-
pony or Adamstown Indians, live
about 20 miles west of the first group
and about 38 miles northeast of Rich-
mond (near Central Garage).

The Lower Mattapony number
about 150 persons, the Upper group
about 170. Both live by lumbering
and farming. The chief family names
in the Lower group are Allmond,
Collins, Costello, Langston, Major,
Reid, and Tuppin; in the Upper group
Adams, and Holmes. The Lower
418

group has been organized as a reserva-
tion since 1658, whereas the Upper
Mattapony have only been organized
since 1923.

Rappahannock.—To the north of the
Mattapony are the Rappahannock
who are rather widely scattered in the
area to the south of the Rappahan-
nock River in Caroline, Essex, and
Upper King and Queen Counties.
They are centered especially around
Indian Neck, Va., and are estimated
to number from 400 to 500 persons.
This group was incorporated under
State law as The Rappahannock
Indian Association in 1919. ‘They are
unlike the previous groups mentioned
in the great amount of dispersion
which they have undergone as small
bands. The area inhabited extends
roughly about 15 miles south and
west, about 25 miles north and south,
and in this section the whites consti-
tute not more than a third of the
population.

The Rappahannock are fishers,
farmers, hunters, and some are expert
basketmakers. They are undoubtedly
a mixed group with a varying per-
centage of Indian blood. A band in
Upper Essex County has Nelson as
the most common family name.

Miscellaneous Tidewater Indians —In
addition to the important groups just
mentioned there are a number of other
Indian remnants in the Tidewater of
Virginia. The Potomac Indians, for
example, are a small band of 150 to
200 persons situated in Stafford
County about 8 miles due north of
Fredericksburg, Va., on a small branch
of the Potomac River. They engage
in farming and fishing, and their mem-
bers appear on back roads of Prince
Wliliam and Fairfax Counties right
up to Alexandria, across from Wash-
ington, D. C.

There are also Indian groups in
Northumberland County at the mouth
of the Potomac River estimated to
number around 300 persons. These
are thought to be the remnant of the
Wicomico Tribe of Colonial times.

Across the Chesapeake Bay on Vir-

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

ginia’s eastern shore there are still to
be found remnants of the Accohan-
nock Tribe among the colored popu-
lations of Accomac and Northampton
Counties. The number of these mixed
folk is unknown, but they are said to
be located at Accomac County Court-
house (Drummondtown) and_ near
Fisher’s Inlet in southern Northamp-
ton County. In the latter place they
bear the family name of Miles.

Along the shores of the York River
are also to be found small Indian
remnants. A band in York County,
on the south shore of the river to the
northwest of Hampton, have the
family name of Wise. On the oppo-
site or north shore of the York River
are certain small groups centering in
Allmondsville and Gloucester Point in
Gloucester County. The Gloucester
County groups are said to number
about 100 persons. At Allmondsville
the family names are Allmond, Norris,
and Langston, while those at Glou-
cester Point are Sampsons. ‘The
Gloucester County groups are thought
to be remnants of the Werowocomoco
Tribe of Colonial times. In the east-
ern part of Gloucester County is an
area called Guinea Neck once inhab-
ited by people called Guineamen who
may have had an Indian connection.

Crossing over the James River to the
southern shore one finds remnants of
the Nansemond Tribe in Norfolk and
Nansemond Counties. Their chief
center is at Deep Creek in Norfolk
County not far to the southwest of
Norfolk, Va. Located on the northern
and eastern edges of the Great Dismal
Swamp they number about 200 souls
dispersed rather widely. They are
widely mixed and have a large num-
ber of family names. The principal
names originally were Boss and
Weaver. They are truck farmers, and
ship produce to Norfolk commission
houses. The Nansemond have been
reorganized as a tribe since 1923.
Allied to these may be the Skeeter-
town Indians on the edge of the Great
Dismal Swamp in Nansemond County.

The Nansemond, along with the
SURVIVING INDIAN GROUPS—GILBERT

Chickahominy, Pamunkey, Matta-
pony, Rappahannock, and the Nanti-
coke of Delaware have for some years
been organized as the revived Pow-
hatan Confederacy of Indians.

West of the Nansemond in South-
ampton County between Sebrell and
Courtland, there are asserted to be
still remaining remnants of the Not-
toway Tribe.

Piedmont and Blue Ridge Indian mixed-
bloods.—Beginning with Rappahan-
nock County in the north and contin-
uing southward along the Blue Ridge
through Rockbridge and Amherst
Counties and striking directly south-
ward to Halifax County on the North
Carolina border we find small colonies
of mixed people who claim Indian
descent and are most generally called
Issues.

Amherst County Issues——This group of
about 500 or 600 mixed-bloods is lo-
cated in the central part of Amherst
County about 4 or 5 miles west of the
county seat. The principal settle-
ments are on Bear Mountain and
Tobacco Row Mountain in the Blue
Ridge. At the extreme western end of
the county is another mixed group of
similar origin derived from Indian,
white, and, in some localities, Negro
blood. An Episcopal mission for the
Issues is located 3 miles west of Sweet
Briar College and comprises a school
and other facilities.

The typical Issue is a very rich
brunette with straight black hair and
Caucasian features. The chief family
names are Adcox, Branham, Johns,
Redcross, and Willis. In the bottoms
the Issues raise tobacco, while on the
slopes corn and oats are cultivated.
They are mostly renters and truck
farmers. ‘The white neighbors of these
people are said to regard them as
mulattoes. The term ‘‘Issue” is ap-
plied to mixed-bloods of the same type
in many of the counties of Virginia.

Rockbridge County Brown People-—To
the northwest of Amherst County in
Rockbridge County is a small group
located on Irish Creek, not more than
12 miles east of Lexington, Va., and

419

called Brown People. Their number
is estimated as over 300 and they show
a mixture of white, Indian, and oc-
casionally Negro blood. Like the Is-
sues of Amherst County they are a
group apart from both whites and
Negroes.

Melungeons or Ramps.—In the coun-
ties located in the extreme western
corner of Virginia are to be found
scattered groups of mixed-bloods
called Melungeons or Ramps. ‘These
people rozm the mountain regions of
Virginia, southern West Virginia,
Tennessee, and Kentucky, and origi-
nally claimed Portuguese descent.
The Virginia Melungeons are found
on the mountain ridges such as Copper
Ridge, Clinch Ridge, and Powell
Valley in Lee and Scott Counties, in
the vicinity of Coeburn and Norton in
Wise County, near Damascus in Wash-
ington County, and in the western
Dismal area of Giles County. No esti-
mate of their numbers is available but
they probably amount to several
thousands. They show dark skins
with straight or curly black hair and
high cheek bones. Formerly they
lived by raising a little corn, hunting,
fishing, digging roots, gathering herbs,
and doing odd jobs for their neigh-
bors. In recent years they have taken
to mining and cultivation in the better
areas of bottom lands. The chief
family names of Melungeons in this
area are Bolen, Collins, Gibson or
Gipson, Freeman, Goins, and Sexton.

Summary on Virginia Indians.—The
remnants of Indian blood in Virginia
can be divided into the Tidewater
group and the Piedmont-Blue Ridge
group. Both have lost the Indian
languages and traditions almost en-
tirely, but the former still maintains
tribal organization and in some in-
stances territorial reservations. ‘The
upland group shows no tribal organ-
ization but tends to retain traditions
of Indian origin,

14. North Carolina

This State probably has the greatest
number of pure-blood Indians of any
420

of the Atlantic-coast States between
New York and Florida. The total
number of Indians reported for North
Carolina in 1930 was 16,579. Ofthese
37.9 percent were reported as full-
bloods, 54.8 percent as mixed, and 7.3
percent were not recorded. ‘The chief
concentrations of Indian population
were in the extreme western counties
where the Cherokees are centered and
in the southern border county of
Robeson where the Croatans are
centered. The policy of the State
has been rather liberal in the matter
of recognition and special provision
for its Indian population. About 29.6
percent of these Indians 10 years of
age or older were illiterate in 1930.

Cherokees.—The 1930 census reported
1,963 Cherokees in North Carolina.
Unofficial estimates give a total of
3,700 Cherokees in this area. The
census reported 38.7 percent pure-
bloods in 1930, and 61.3 percent mixed.
There is apparently very little Negro
blood in this group. Most of the
Cherokees are in Swain County where
they have five “‘towns,” Big Cove,
Yellow Hill, Birdtown, Wolftown,
and Painttown. Other groups are
found in Graham and Cherokee
Counties nearby and in Jackson Coun-
ty. The term ‘“‘Qualla Reservation”
denotes the five towns above men-
tioned plus certain other properties
and covers about 55,784 acres. At
Cherokee (Yellow Hill) the Federal
Indian Office maintains an agency, a
school, and certain medical facilities.
Most of the Cherokees are small culti-
vators who raise a little corn in bottom
lands and hillside patches. A few
own a little livestock.

The Eastern Cherokee Band was
incorporated under State law in 1889.
The tribal government includes a
chief elected every 4 years, and
councilmen elected from each of the
five towns and from the Graham
County group. The Cherokee vote
in some elections and pay State taxes.
They still employ the native tongue
and possess many of the magical
practices, dances, games, and myths

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

of their forefathers. Like their white
neighbors they are Baptists and Meth-
odists. In dress, diet, and houses they
differ but little from the mountain
whites.

Siouans or Croatans.—This group is
estimated to number upwards of 16,000
persons and is thought to be increasing
with greater rapidity than either
whites or Negroes. Physical measure-
ments indicate the presence of Indian,
white, and Negro types. There is
said to be a tendency for the lighter
individuals and families to hold aloof
from the darker ones just as in the
case of the Nanticokes and the Narra-
gansetts. They are found in greatest
concentration in Robeson County but
occur in considerable numbers in the
nearby counties of Bladen, Columbus,
Cumberland, Harnett, Sampson, and
Scotland. Across the border in South
Carolina they occur in Marlboro,
Dillon, Marion, and Horry Counties.

The family names of these people
are Allen, Bennett, Berry, Bridger,
Brooks, Brown, Butler, Chapman,
Chavis, Coleman, Cooper, Cumbo,
Dare, Graham, Harris, Harvie, Howe,
Johnson, Jones, Lasie, Little, Locklear,
Lowrie, Lucas, Martin, Oxendine,
Paine, Patterson, Powell, Sampson,
Scott, Smith, Stevens, Taylor, Vicars,
White, Willes, Wilkinson, Wood, and
Wright. Their culture bears little of
the Indian, but they claim partial
descent from the ‘‘Lost Colony” of
Raleigh at Roanoke.

Originally dwellers in the swamp-
lands of the Lumbee River, they have
become successful tenant farmers cul-
tivating cotton, tobacco, and corn.
The State has recognized their special
status and they are endowed with a
separate school system from both
whites and Negroes. They have their
own churches. Intermarriage with
either Negroes or whites is forbidden
by law and custom.

There are two factions today: one,
calling itself the ‘““Lumbee Indians,”
is located west and south of the Lum-
bee River; the other, calling itself
**Cherokee,”’ is located east and north
SURVIVING INDIAN GROUPS—GILBERT

of the Lumbee River. The first group
is poverty-stricken and lives under
primitive conditions, while the second
is more advanced, more numerous,
and is economically as well off as its
white neighbors.

Miscellaneous Indians of North Caro-
lina.—In northeastern Person County
on the Virginia border is located a
group called Cubans who number
about 400 persons. They also occur
just across the State line in Halifax
County, Va., around Christie and Vir-
gilina. The chief family names are
Coleman, Eps, Martin, Shepherd,
Stewart, and Tally. The State of
North Carolina maintains an Indian
school for these pecple near High
Plains. Near the school the Cubans
maintain their own Baptist church.
They also maintain their own social
lodge. Marriage with either whites
or Negroes is unusual on the part of
these people.

These Person County Indians may
be descendants of a small band of
Saponi Indians who, according to
early census reports, inhabited Gran-
ville County, N. C. (from which Per-
son County was later set off).

In northeastern North Carolina in
Dare and Hyde Counties and in Roan-
oke Island are to be found a few Indian
remnants of the Machapunga Tribe
mixed with white and Negro blood.
Their family names are Pugh, Daniels,
Berry, and Westcott. Just outside the
town of Hertford, N. C., in Perqui-
mans County there is a group of mixed-
bldéods who are called the Laster Tribe
from their most common surname.
They have a tradition of descent from
a Moorish or Indian mixed-blood sea
captain who long before the Civil War
married a white woman and settled in
this location. They maintain that
they were never slaves and have held
themselves somewhat aloof from the
neighboring Negroes. At the present
time they number several hundreds
and many have gone westward to
Indiana, Nebraska, and other States.
In their original settlement they have
their own school, church, and stores.

421

Somewhat to the west of Person
County in Rockingham County the
census of 1930 reports a considerable
body of Indians. The identity of this
group is not known. Likewise in
Nash County, eastward of Raleigh, a
small Indian group is recorded in the
census of 1930. In Macon County
near the Cherokee country some
Croatans are said to have settled.

15. South Carolina

The 1930 census reports 969 Indians
in South Carolina, primarily in Marl-
boro, Dillon, and York Counties along
the northern borders, and in Sumter
and Orangeburg Counties of the cen-
tral part of the State. About 23 per-
cent were reported as mixed-bloods,
26 percent as full-bloods, and the rest
were not recorded. About 38 percent
of the Indians were reported as illiter-
ate. The census apparently reported
only a small part of the population
claiming Indian descent, and locally
the mixed groups are often regarded
as light mulattoes. There are some
seven or eight groups distinguished by
different names in the various counties
of the Coastal Plain and Piedmont
areas of the State. These are shown
in the following table.

TABLE 1.—Indian groups in South Carolina

Counties where found

Marlboro, Dillon, Mar-
ion, Horry, along
northeastern borders
of the State.

Chesterfield, on north-
ern border of the
State.

York, on northern bor-
der of the State.

Charleston, Colleton,
Dorchester, Berkeley,
Orangeburg, and
Clarendon, coastal
and adjacent areas of
the State.

Richland, around Co-
lumbia, the State
capital.

Bamberg, southern part
of the State.

Group
te@roatans= ee ie

2. Marlboro Blues.

3: Catawba. o.. Js
4. Brass Ankles... .

Tepe UEkS sosaeceueteseks Sumter, east of Colum-
bia, the capital.
RledtWegsiy 2 ite Orangeburg, north of

Bamberg.
422

Four major geographical groups may
be distinguished, namely, (1) Ca-
tawba, on northern border, (2) Croa-
tans, also on northern border, (3)
Red Legs and allied groups about the
capital, and (4) Brass Ankles in coastal
areas. Altogether these groups may
total over 10,000 persons. In general
they are similar to each other in man-
ner of living and social status. They
have lost almost everything that would
distinguish them as Indians except the
physical inheritance. The latter is of
course greatly modified by mixture
with white and Negro blood, yet these
people are recognized locally as being
distinct from both whites and Negroes.
They have their own mixed-blood
schools (locally classified as white),
churches, and lodges.

The chief family names among these
mixed bloods are Boone, Braveboy,
Bunch, Chavis, Creek, Driggers,
Goins, Harmon, Russell, Scott, Swett,
and Williams. Formerly isolated by
geographical factors they have, in
recent years, been increasingly brought
into contact with the world about
them. They are hunters, fishers, and
tenant farmers.

Catawbas.—The remnants of this
tribe are located at a small settlement
on the banks of the Catawba River in
York County, about 9 miles southeast
of Rockhill, the county seat. The
settlement is about 1 square mile in
area, or 630 acres. The 1930 census
returned 159 Indians in York County.
Their blood seems to be mostly a
mixture of white and Indian.

Although they are directly under the
laws of South Carolina they maintain
a semblance of tribal government,
electing a chief every 4 years. Condi-
tions have long been unsatisfactory
with respect to economic and social
matters. The State has annually ap-
propriated a sum of money to support
the local school, but there are no local
social agencies to assist the Catawbas.
These Indians cut and haul wood and
are employed as day laborers. The
women often make clay pottery and
pipes. Federal assistance has been

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

given to these Indians in recent
years.

16. Georgia

In most of the counties along the
northern border of this State are to be
found many hundreds of people of
part-Cherokee descent, but these do
not constitute a distinct social class.
However, it is reliably reported that
a small group of about 100 or more
Cherokees and Creeks are at present
located in a settlement near Shellbluff
Landing in Burke County, about 10
miles south of Augusta and almost on
the Savannah River. The family
names are Clark, Woods, Shafer, and
Deal. Their settlement is sometimes
known as ‘‘Shaffertowan”’ or “‘Shaffer-
ville” after the most common surname
to be found there. A recent account
carried by northern newspapers por-
trayed these Indians as living under
rather primitive conditions, hunting,
fishing, and cultivating in the manner
of their early forefathers. In earlier
days Yuchi, Shawnee, Apalachee, and
Chickasaw Indians clustered in the
vicinity of Augusta where the Savan-
nah River crossed the fall line.

17. Florida

The census recorded 587 Indians in
Florida in 1930, of which 53.3 percent
were reported as pure-bloods, 0.4 per-
cent as mixed, and 46.3 percent as not
recorded. About 85 percent were re-
ported as illiterate. The chief group
is the Seminoles, whom we find scat-
tered in half a dozen or more counties—
Collier, Dade, Broward, St. Lucie,
Glades, Hendry, Monroe, Okeecho-
bee, and Osceola. This is the Ever-
glades region from Lake Okeechobee
southward, which constituted in the
past century an ideal refuge for Indian
hunters, living in a state of perpetual
hostility to the white man.

The Seminoles speak their own
language or languages and retain
many of their aboriginal customs in-
tact. They are largely self-governing
and do not mix with other races.
Legally they are entitled to send a
SURVIVING INDIAN GROUPS—GILBERT

representative to the Florida State
Legislature. The Federal Indian Of-
fice maintains an agency at Dania,
just north of Miami, with a school for
the Seminole.

Satisfactory knowledge about the
Seminole is difficult to obtain owing
to the wide dispersal of these Indians
and the difficulty of access to the
swamp country. Most of them have
retreated to the inner recesses of the
Big Cypress Swamp in the extreme
south. When they emerge from the
swamps they are treated as whites in
most public places and facilities. In
recent years, writers have become in-
terested in the many survivals of
Indian customs to be found among
these people.

Aside from the Seminoles there are
certain other small mixed groups of
possibly Indian descent in Florida.
Around Pensacola are to be found the
Creole mixed people of Escambia
County and in the same area are
certain groups of Creeks from across
the border in Alabama. Some 100
miles to the east near Blountstown in
Calhoun County there is said to be a
colony of Melungeons from Tennessee.

18. Alabama

According to the 1930 census there
were 465 Indians in Alabama. Of
these 1.7 were reported as full-blood,
74.4 percent as mixed-blood, and 23.9
percent were not recorded. About 36
percent of these 10 years of age or
over were reported as illiterate. Per-
sons of Indian blood are concentrated
in certain counties, notably Mobile,
Monroe, and Washington in the south-
western part of the State, where they
are known as Creoles and Cajans; in
Escambia and Covington Counties on
the Florida border where they are
known as Creeks; in Jackson County
at the northeast corner of the State
where they are Cherokees; and in
Autauga County, just west of Mont-
gomery, the State capital.

Creeks —There are over 200 Indians
of this tribe in Escambia County. An
Episcopal mission has been maintained

8173694982

423

for these people at the town of Atmore,
and there is also an Indian school.
The title to the land on which these
Indians live is in dispute. It was ap-
parently sold some years ago to lumber
companies for nonpayment of taxes,
but the Indians have continued to live
on it. Recent suits have been insti-
tuted in State courts to recover title
for the Indians. The social status of
these people is intermediate between
that of Negroes and whites, and they
are recognized locally as a distinct
race.

Creoles—The Creoles of Alabama
are a mixed people who are possibly
part Indian in blood. They are cen-
tered in Baldwin County and Mobile
in small colonies numbering several
hundred people. They are a separate
social class intermediate in racial
status between the whites and Negroes.
They have their own schools and in
Mobile their own fire department.
Their family names are mainly French
and they are all Roman Catholic in
religion. Their occupations are farm-
ing, oyster shucking, and similar work.
Some are found in the Pensacola area
of Florida and others along the Missis-
sippi coast. Educationally they have
made considerable progress. Their
chief family names are Allen, Andry,
Belasco, Ballariel, Battiste, Bernoudy,
Cassino, Cato, Chastang, Collins,
Gomez, Hiner, Juzang, Lafargue,
Laland, Laurendine, Laurent, Ma-
zangue, Mifflin, Nicholas, Perez, Pon-
quinette, Pope, Reid, Taylor, and
Trenier.

Cajans —These people are centered
in the area of heavy woods and hills
about Citronelle in upper Mobile and
lower Washington Counties, and num-
ber 3,000 or more. They are reputed
to be part Indian and part white, while
a certain number are also said to show
Negro blood. Some show rather blond
complexions while others are swarthy
and black-haired. They live in small
isolated communities which are very
difficult of access. They subsist by
lumbering and turpentine extraction,
and are as a class rather poor. The
424

chief family names are Byrd, Carter,
Chestang, Johnson, Jones, Rivers,
Smith, Sullivan, Terry, and Weaver.
Baptist and Methodist groups have
missions among these people.

19. Mississippi

The 1930 census reported a total of

1,458 Indians in Mississippi, and of
these, 11.2 percent were reported as
pure-bloods, 75.1 percent as mixed,
and 13.7 percent were not recorded.
The figure for illiteracy of those 10
years old and over was 63.4 percent in
1930.
- Choctaws—The Mississippi Indians
are almost all Choctaws and they are
scattered through half a dozen coun-
ties in the central parts of the State.
The greatest concentration is in
Neshoba County around Philadelphia,
but a large number are also found in
Newton, Jasper, and Jones Counties
to the south, in Leake and Scott
Counties to the west, and in Kemper
County to the east. The Federal In-
dian Office maintains an agency at
Philadelphia, Miss., which includes a
hospital and day school.

The native speech is employed
among these people. Mission work
has been carried on among them by
the Methodist Episcopal and Roman
Catholic groups. Cultivation of the
soil and hunting, along with simple
craftsmanship, help these Indians to
make a living. They have been in
bad straits economically and are
looked down on by their white neigh-
bors. It is said that these are the only
Indians of the south who have been
compelled as a class to use the Negro
accommodations in railway, travel.

20. Loutsiana

The 1930 census reported 1,536 In-
dians in Louisiana, of which 11.2 per-
cent were reported as full-bloods, 75.1
percent as mixed, and 13.7 percent as
not recorded. Some 64.5 percent
were recorded as illiterate. The prin-
cipal groups are the Choctaw, Houma,
and Chitimacha of the coastal areas,

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

the Tunica of the lower Red River,
the Red Bones of the southwest, and
the Coushatta, a little to the south-
west of the Tunica.

Houma.—These Indians, of very
mixed blood, number upward of 1,000
and are increasing rapidly. They are
located on Bayou Grand Caillou,
south of the town of Houma, in Terre-
bonne and La Fourche Parishes.
They are Roman Catholic, French
speaking, dwell in palmetto huts and
on houseboats; the men derive a living
by fishing and trapping, and the
women and children work in shrimp-
canning factories nearby. The family
names are Billiot, Verdin, Diane or
Dean, Parfait, Gregoire, and Verret.

Chitimacha.—This group numbers
some 240 members situated at various
points in St. Mary’s Parish, just west
of Terrebonne. Some are settled
around Charenton and although clas-
sed as Negroes refuse to attend colored
schools. ‘They number upward of 100
and are Roman Catholic in religion.
They raise corn, sugarcane, and sweet
potatoes. They speak both English
and French. Marriage with Negroes
is forbidden and some claim to be
full-blood Indians. Two bands, num-
bering 150 persons in all, live at
Verdonville, some 10 miles from
Franklin, and are of mixed blood.

Tunica.—It is unofficially estimated
that from 50 to 100 of this tribe,
greatly mixed in blood, still live in
Avoyelles, La Salle, Catahoula, and
Rapides Parishes near the mouth of
the Red River and the Yazoo. Near
Marksville, La., there are 40 or 50 of
these Indians living on a tract of 170
acres. ‘Their property is not a reser-
vation and they are not under any
Federal supervision. They are not
taxed, however. A few still speak the
native language.

Coushatta or Koasati.—These people
number about 250 and live in Allen
Parish near Kinder, La. They own
1,050 acres of land. They claim to
have no Negro blood and attend white
public schools. There is a Congrega-
SURVIVING INDIAN

tional Mission among them. This
group has resided in the locality since
about 1800, when it migrated from
Alabama.

Miscellaneous Louisiana Indians —The
Choctaw of Bayou Lacomb on the
north shore of Lake Pontchartrain (St.
Tammany Parish) formerly numbered
some 50 persons. Small groups of
Indian blood are also said to exist in
Orleans (New Orleans) and Jefferson
Parishes. The ‘Cane River Mulat-
toes” located on Cane River in Natch-
itoches Parish in the northwestern part
of Louisiana may be of part-Indian
descent as may be also the so-called
mulattoes of Washington in St. Landry
Parish, to the south of the Tunica
country. Finally there are the mixed
Indians of Calcasieu Parish on the
Texas border, sometimes referred to as
‘‘Sabines,” who were prominent in the
border troubles of early days. Any of
the mixed-blood Indians of this part of
Louisiana may be referred to as “‘Red
Bones,” but this use of the term is not
to be confused with the mixed people
of the same name in South Carolina.
The Red Bones probably number over
3,000 persons scattered about through
the cut-over pine country of Calcasieu,
Vernon, Allen, Rapides, and Beaure-
gard Parishes. ‘They have lived in
’ this country for well over a hundred
years, and a century ago they were
classed as persons of color. Their fam-
ily names are English (Ashworth,
Perkins, etc.), and they are mostly
Baptists. ‘The occupations followed
are small-scale farming, forest indus-
tries, or work in towns. Although
they are now officially ‘“‘white” and
not segregated in schools, the whites
proper do not intermarry with them.
Members of this group are said to re-
sent intensely the name “‘Red Bone.”

In general, the Indians of Louisiana,
like those of Alabama, have lost most
of their Indian culture and Indian
speech. In contrast with the Choc-
taws of Mississippi they are much
more adapted to the white man’s way
of life.

GROUPS—GILBERT 425

21. Texas

The 1930 census reported 1,000 In-
dians in Texas. Of these 29.2 percent
were reported as pure-blood, 26.2 per-
cent as mixed-blood, and 44.6 percent
were not recorded. About 18 percent
of those 10 years of age and over were
illiterate.

In some of the counties around
Houston there were small groups of
Indians, according to the census (Fort
Bend and Harris Counties). A num-
ber are also recorded for Bexar County
(San Antonio) and one or two other
points.

Alabama and Coushatta Indians—This
group of over 300 Indians resides in
Polk County some 80 miles northward
of Houston, Tex. ‘They are concen-
trated on an area of 14,321 acres near
Livingston on Big Sandy Creek. They
have lived here since 1854 when a
grant was made by the State of Texas.
They are farmers but still maintain
many of the Indian customs, orna-
ments, and dances. The native speech
is also retained. The State maintains
an agent here, and there is a federally
supervised school. There are two
Presbyterian churches, a hospital, and
a cemetery. ‘These Indians elect a
tribal chief and maintain the old clan
system.

22. Arkansas

Some 408 Indians were recorded for
this State in 1930 by the census. Of
these 5.6 percent were reported as
full-blood, 54.9 percent as mixed, and
39.5 percent were not recorded. The
Indians in Arkansas are chiefly in
counties along the border of Okla-
homa (Benton, Sebastian, and Wash-
ing), in the State capital (Pulaski
County), and in Garland County
(Hot Springs).

23. Missourt

The census of 1930 reported 578
Indians in Missouri in 1930. Of these,
6.7 percent were reported as full-
blood, 35.5 as mixed, and 57.8 as not
426

recorded. Most of these were in the
counties bordering or nearest to Okla-
homa (Newton, Jasper), and the
counties of Jackson (Kansas City),
and St. Louis (city of St. Louis).

24. Tennessee

The Indians of ‘Tennessee numbered
161 in 1930. Of these, 0.6 percent
were full-blood, 26.1 percent mixed-
blood, and 73.3 percent not recorded.
These were probably either mixed-
blood people such as the Melungeons,
or the purer-blooded Cherokees. ‘The
Cherokees are very few and are prob-
ably located exclusively in the eastern
mountain counties. ‘The census figure
is thought to be an understatement.

Melungeons.—This interesting minor-
ity comprises several thousand persons
who were originally centered in Haw-
kins County (now Hancock County)
on Newman’s Ridge in the extreme
northeast of the State. They have
also been reported from various other
counties in the Appalachian Great
Valley area, especially Rhea and
Hamilton Counties, and also in the
Nashville area. The chief family
names in ‘Tennessee are Collins,
Fields, Freeman, Gann, Gibson, Goins,
Gorvens, Graham, Lawson, Maloney,
Mullins or Melons, Noel, Piniore,
Sexton, and Wright.

Originally ridge cultivators, they
have had to resort to additional
means of living in recent times, includ-
ing basketmaking, cooperage, chair-
making, and charcoal burning. Their
manner of life is emphatically out-
of-doors in character. Their physical
type shows the usual range of mixed-
blood between lighter and darker
types. Indian, white, and especially
Portuguese blood are said to be prom-
inent.

Socially they have been recognized
as white in the courts and now attend
white schools. Illiteracy is widespread
however. They have no separate
organizations except churches, and
they are gradually merging with the
remainder of the population.

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

25. Kentucky

Some 234 Indians were recorded for
Kentucky in 1910. Later census fig-
ures do not enumerate as many. Most
of the Indians enumerated were in
Magoffin and Floyd Counties in the
eastern part of the State.

In southern Kentucky on the Ten-
nessee border (in Cumberland and
Monroe Counties) is the Coe Clan,
a mixed group of part-Indian descent.
These people live on Pea Ridge along
the Cumberland River in an area
bounded partly by that river on the
south and west, by Kettle Creek on
the east, and Gudio Creek on the
north.

26. Ohio

There were 435 Indians in Ohio in
1930, 6 percent pure-blood, 20.9 per-
cent mixed, and 73.1 percent not re-
corded, according to the census. ‘These
returns show their presence mainly in
the cities of the State, as in Cleveland
(Cuyahoga County),Columbus (Frank-
lin County), Cincinnati (Hamilton
County), ‘Toledo (Lucas County), and
Akron (Summit County). There were
also a few Indians in rural Hardin
County who may represent a survival
from early times (a few refugees), in
the Scioto marshes, and the settlement
at Carmel.

There are a number of mixed-blood
groups of part-Indian descent in Ohio
who are not recorded in the census.
The most notable of those is the Darke
County mixed-blood group located
near Tampico on the Indiana border
about 40 miles northeast of Dayton,
Ohio. This settlement dates back to
the early nineteenth century, and
members of the group still hold them-
selves apart from both Negroes and
whites. At present they are said to
number about 60 families, and they
have their own schools and churches
(Methodist).

Near the village of Carmel, Ohio,
about 65 miles east of Cincinnati,
there is a small group of mixed-blood
SURVIVING INDIAN

Indians. They dated back to 1858,
when a white man moved here from
Virginia with a dozen Negro retainers
about the time of the Civil War. The
latter mixed with other people who
had arrived not long before from Mag-
offin County in eastern Kentucky and
who were reputedly of Indian descent.
The present-day Carmel Indians live
in shacks on the farmers’ lands, where
they provide occasional labor and sub-
sist by hunting, sale of ginseng and
yellow root, and by their scant stock
of chickens and pigs. A few own small
plots but the rest have been said to be
on relief recently. Many migrated
from the area during World War II,
but about 50 still remain in the neigh-
borhood. The family names are
Nichols, Gibson, and Perkins.

27. Indiana

Although the census of 1930 enum-
erates only 285 Indians in Indiana in
1930 the number of Miami Indians in
the State have been variously esti-
mated in recent years as from 500 to
1,000. ‘These Indians chiefly center
in Miami County, 50 or 60 miles di-
rectly north of Indianapolis, but they
also occur in some numbers in Wabash
County east of Miami, and in Marion
County (Indianapolis). Several con-
gressional hearings have been held in
recent years on the matter of land
claims by these Indiana Indians. The
1930 census returns 7 percent as pure-
blood, 28.8 percent as mixed-blood,
and 64.2 percent as not recorded.

28. Illinois

The 1930 census reported 469 Indi-
ans in Illinois. These were chiefly in
Cook County (Chicago), Alexander
County (Cairo), and in Peoria County
(Peoria). No data are available on the
condition of these Indians. The pro-
portions of mixed- and pure-bloods re-
ported in 1930 are about the same as
those for Indiana.

There are also reported to be a num-
ber of Creek Indians from the south

GROUPS—GILBERT 427
along the route of the Illinois Central
Railroad. In southern Illinois, not far
from Centralia, a mixed-blood group
of such Indians is said to exist.

Condition in General

The names by which the groups of
surviving Indians in the eastern United
States are known are of several origins.
In the first place we have the survival
of older tribal names such as Seneca,
Cherokee, Nanticoke, and so on. In
several instances it seems that the old
tribal name was practically forgotten
until anthropological investigators re-
instilled an interest in the original
name. About one-half of the surviv-
ing eastern groups of Indians are still
known by historic tribal designations.
The remainder of the groups are
known by names derived from places,
color terms, nationality or race terms,
family names, ancestors, or from tradi-
tional origins or manner of living.

Places figure prominently in several
instances. In South Carolina we hear
of the Summerville Indians, in Louisi-
ana of the Sabines (from the Sabine
River), and in West Virginia of the
G. and B. Indians (after the Grafton
and Belington’ Railroad). The
Guineas of West Virginia are supposed
to derive their name from the district
called Guinea on the Tygart River.
Reservation or place names, with the
word “Indian” attached, may serve
as handy designations as in “Carmel
Indians” (Indians of Carmel, Ohio)
or ‘‘Cornplanter Indians” (Indians of
Cornplanter Reservation, Pa.).

The use of color terms is rather in-
frequent except where mulatto blood
is suspected. In Virginia we hear of
the “Brown People” in Rockbridge
County; in Chesterfield County, S. C.,
of the Marlboro Blues; and in several
places of Red Bones and Yellow
People. The term ‘Brass Ankle’’ is
thought by some to refer to a toasted
brown color (Spanish abrasado).

Nationality or race terms are more
frequent than color terms, and we hear
428

of “Greeks,” ““Turks,” and “Cubans,”
in the Carolinas, of ‘‘Moors”’ in Dela-
ware and New Jersey, and “Arabs”
in New York. More confusing still is
the use of the term “‘Cajan”’ to refer to
a mixed-blood group in Alabama.
Brewton Berry has proposed that the
term ‘‘Mestizo” be adopted from
Spanish-American terminology in re-
ferring to all mixed-blood groups with
an Indian element.

Family names characteristic of small
groups of mixed-blood descent may be
used to designate the groups them-
selves. Thus we have the Laster
Tribe, the Coe Clan, the Pools, the
Slaughters, the Van Guilders, the
Goins, and the Maleys. The last
term mentioned is used for the
Guineas of West Virginia owing to
the frequency of that surname. Of a
similar sort are the names from an-
cestors such as the Cornplanter Seneca.

The traditional origin or the cur-
rent manner of life is prominent in
such names as Croatans, Issues, Jack-
son Whites, Wesorts, Bushwhackers,
Pondshiners, Pineys, Melungeons, and
Clay-eaters. In some instances writers
have used pseudonyms for groups such
as the Win Tribe (Issues of Amherst
County, Va.), the Nams, Jukes, and
others.

Mixed-blood groups which have lost
most of the Indian cultural heritage
yet continue a caste-like habit of in-
breeding, are characterized by certain
fixed sets of family names. Most of
the groups average anywhere from 10
to 14 characteristic family names.
Curiously enough a number of these
families are found in more than one
group and this would point to a
possibility of some degree of inter-
marriage between them at various
times in the past. The Croatans, for
example, share names with the Cubans,
Issues, Melungeons, Brass Ankles,
Cajans, and Nanticokes. Not only do
such nearby groups as the Nanticokes
and Moors share names but we find
such sharing by groups rather remote
from each other, as for example, the

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

Cajans and Moors, Brass Ankles and
Nanticokes, or Melungeons and Brass
Ankles. On the other hand, the
Jackson Whites and the New England
mixed groups show little if any evi-
dence of sharing family names with
the other groups.

The size of most of the eastern groups
of Indian mixed peoples is not accu-
rately known. Since membership in
these groups may be somewhat elastic,
estimates are bound to be rather arbi-
trary. In general it may be said that
the number of specific groups range
from a hundred individuals up to
several thousands. In fact this com-
pares very well with the western tribes
of Indians as may be seen from the
fact that in 1930 the average Indian
tribe ranged between 1,000 and 2,500
in size. Out of 90 western tribes 43
were less than 700 in number, 40 were
between 700 and 7,000, and 7 were
from 7,000 to 45,000. The Croatans
may be compared with the Navajos, in
terms of numbers and relative size to
the rest of their neighbors. Both are
the largest groups of their respective
areas.

In contrast with the western Indians
the eastern groups do not have any
major settlements of their own. Al-
most all the concentrations of eastern
Indians are in close connection with
white or Negro centers of population.
In many instances the Indian popula-
tions are widely scattered in remote
and inaccessible areas in both East
and West. In tracing the location
of the eastern Indians it is often
necessary to relate theic populations
to minor civil divisions of the county
such as townships and election dis-
tricts. The eastern Indians are well
on the way to becoming a caste rather
than localized territorial groups, and
hence their distribution follows that
of the population in general. Migra-
tory habits are confined to the neces-
sity of seeking economic subsistence in
cities or manufacturing areas.

The more isolated and primitive
mode of life is pursued by certain
SURVIVING INDIAN GROUPS—GILBERT

groups who do hunting, fishing, lum-
bering, turpentine extraction, and col-
lecting of herbs and roots. Basketry
and beadwork still survive among these
groups. Others more advanced are
cultivators, truck and dairy farmers.
Still other groups have gone farther
along the road to adjustment to mod-
ern civilization. This group is com-
posed of migrants to cities or industrial
areas who labor as miners, domestic
servants, oyster shuckers, cigar makers,
cotton samplers, artisans, petty trades-
men, junkmen, repairmen, cannery
workers, iron and steel workers, and
the like.

The history of the eastern Indians
subsequent to the Colonial Period is
to a great extent unknown. It was
not until the latter part of the nine-
teenth century that an interest in the
mixed-blood Indian groups began to
reawaken; especially with the first
census of the United States Indian
population in 1890. ‘The group known
as the Croatans, for example, were
known as far back as the Civil War
period, but it was only when the in-
vestigations of Hamilton Macmillan
about 1885 led to the formulation of
the “Lost Colony” theory that the
groups became generally known.
About the same time (1889 and 1891)
Swan M. Burnett and Miss Drom-
goole called attention to the hitherto
unnoticed Melungeons in eastern Ten-
nessee, and Babcock described the
Nanticoke Indians of Indian River,
Delaware (1889).

In 1889, also, James Mooney, an-
thropologist of the Smithsonian In-
stitution, sent out a set of questions on
Indian survivals to local physicians in
certain counties of Maryland, Vir-
ginia, Delaware, and North Carolina.
One of the questions read as follows:
“Please give the names and addresses
of any individuals of pure or mixed
Indian blood in your vicinity, and
state to what tribes they belong. If
any considerable number live in one
settlement please give the names of
one or two who may be able to afford

429

information.” The replies to this
circular letter may still be seen in the
archives of the Bureau of American
Ethnology. From these documents it
is apparent that a great number of
local groups of Indian extraction were
in existence at that time in the four
States mentioned. Although no pub-
lication resulted from this study it is
quite evident that both Mooney and
William H. Holmes, the latter then
Chief of the Bureau of American
Ethnology, continued an interest in
the eastern Indian survivals because
we have the report that in 1912
Mooney, in addition to his work
with the eastern Cherokees, made a
trip to southern Maryland to investi-
gate the Wesorts.

It was shortly after the first Indian
census that George P. Fisher, in 1895,
published the first account of the
Moors of Delaware, close neighbors
of the Nanticoke who had been first
noticed a few years previously.

The date of the second major census
of Indians in 1910 was marked by the
discovery of still more mixed-blood
groups of Indian descent in the East.
These groups were: (1) the Jackson
Whites (described by Frank Speck in
1911); (2) the Issues of Amherst
County, Va. (described by Rev. A.
P. Gray in 1908); and (3) the Wesorts
(existence first noted under that name
by Mooney in 1912, as has been indi-
cated above). In 1912 Paul Converse
published his excellent report on the
Melungeons, adding numerous data
to the material first collected by
Dromgoole.

The third major census of Indians
in 1930 was the occasion for the
“discovery” of two more Indian
mixed groups, (1) the Brass Ankles of
South Carolina and their relatives
of the same State (later studied in
detail by Brewton Berry in 1944), and
(2) the Cajans and Creoles of Ala-
bama, described in the same year by
Horace Bond and Car! Carmer (1931).
If a major study of Indians is made a
part of the coming census of 1950 it
430

may be expected that still more
groups of this sort will appear in the
literature.

Some of the mixed-blood Indian
groups have attracted the attention of
fiction writers. In Shelby and Ston-
ey’s “Po’ Buckra” (1930), the central
figure is a Brass Ankle who attempts
to adapt himself to the life of a south-
ern (white) planter but in the end
finally returns to the hunting and
fishing life, the carefree existence of
his forefathers. In their romantic
novel, “The King of Scuffletoun”
(1940), Lucas and Groome tell a
melodramatic story woven about the
life and adventures of the famous
Croatan outlaw of Civil War times,
James Lowrie. Albert Payson Ter-
hune, in a boy’s book entitled ““Treas-
ure” (1926), describes the Jackson
Whites with considerable vividness.

A somewhat different approach to
mixed-blood Indians is taken by
James Aswell and E. E. Miller in their
series of fantastic tales about ‘Ten-
nessee Melungeons, which form a sec-
tion of the volume entitled ‘“‘God Bless
the Devil’ (1940). In this work the
local dialect is used with remarkable
effect to tell about the Melungeons
the impossible and exaggerated oc-
currences so frequently recounted at
country courthouses by local story-
tellers. In a somewhat similar vein
but of far more serious intent is
Mildred Haun’s ‘“The Hawk’s Done
Gone’”’ (1940), a series of local dialect
biographies of the whites and Melung-
geons of a section in eastern Tennessee.
Roy Flannagan, in his novel, “Am-
ber Satyr’’ (1932), describes the recent
struggle for Indian status on the part
of members of the mixed-blood groups
in coastal Virginia, while Lyle Saxon’s
“Children of Strangers” (1937) por-
trays a similar situation in Louisiana.

Aside from the literary notices of
these mixed Indian groups there are
evidences of a considerably longer
historical background than one might
at first expect. In most of the Atlan-
tic-coast groups (Brass Ankles, Croa-

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

tans, Wesorts, Moors, and Nanticokes)
for example, it is evident from the
early censuses that as far back as
1790 the ancestors of these groups were
living in the same locations as we find
them today and were classified as
mixed-bloods then also. The family
names of the groups in 1790 were prac-
tically the same as they are today.
How much earlier than 1790 these
families were in the same locality
has not been ascertained.

For the groups farther away from
the east toast, Melungeons, Guineas,
Cajans, and Jackson Whites, the
family names appear in the census
records at various times from 1830
through 1870. The census records
can therefore be used to demonstrate
a rather early appearance of the
mixed-blood Indian communities in
the eastern States in most cases long
before any literary notice of these
groups.

The names or nicknames, however,
by which these groups are known
today may be of comparatively recent
origin. The term ‘‘Croatan’? came
into use about 1885 owing to the
promulgation of the theory that this
group was descended from Sir Walter
Raleigh’s lost colonists on Roanoke
Island. The name ‘“‘Wesort”’ first ap-
peared in local parish records about
1896.

At the present time the Indian
mixed groups of the eastern States
are in a process of transition. Up
until about 20 years ago, for example,
the Brass Ankles of South Carolina
lived in the isolation of river swamps
and pine barrens, in small clearly
marked-off racial “‘islands.” Since then
improvement in the means of com-
munication and programs of the
W. P. A. and F. S. A. during -the
thirties have broken down this iso-
lation. The members of mixed-
blood communities are now tending
to disperse and many of these groups
have decreased in size, a few almost
becoming extinct. ‘This process re-
sults in two sections, (1) a group of
SURVIVING INDIAN GROUPS—GILBERT

stay-at-homes, frequently the con-
servative, more Indian-like and older
people; and (2) the migrants, often
younger persons, who settle in cities
or industrial areas. ‘The members of
the first section continue to exist as a
caste apart with their own racial
schools, and often their own churches,
clubs, and stores. They continue to
confuse the selective service on racial
classification although many go as
white, and they continue to have a
rather high birth rate. ‘This latter
feature casts doubt on the prediction
that these groups will soon disappear.
The migrants, on the other hand,
who go to northern and _ western
cities are absorbed partly by the white
and partly by the colored commu-
nities.

The fertility of these Indian mixed
groups is a matter worthy of some
emphasis. In this respect the Indian
mixed-bloods of the United States
resemble the Caboclos (mainly
Indian-white crosses) of Brazil who
show a relatively greater reproduction
rate than other elements of the
population. According to a study by
Roland M. Harper, the Croatan
birth rate in 1933 was 35.4 per
thousand as compared with 22.3 for
the whites and 24.5 for the Negroes.
Similar rapid rates of increase are to
be found, to all appearances, among
the Houma, Wesorts, Guineas, and
other such groups. This increase, if
continued, means that the Indian
mixed-blood groups will play an
important part in the future popu-
lation make-up of their respective
States and may also influence future
State politics.

Certain hereditary physical pecu-
liarities are exhibited occasionally
by the inbred eastern Indian mixed-
bloods. The occurrence of albinos
has been noticed among the Wesorts
and the Jackson Whites. A similar
occurrence of albinism was noted
by Hrdlitka for the inbred Hopi
and Zuni of the Southwest. Among
the Wesorts, cases of microdontism

431

or short teeth run in certain families,
while among the Nanticoke Weslager
reports a thickened condition of the
upper eyelid which results in droopy
eyes (ptosis) in some families. Heredi-
tary deformities in the joints are
reported as occurring among the
West Virginia Guineas. Hereditary
diseases of the nervous system such
as congenital deafness and blindness,
and speech defects are reported among
the Wesorts.

Some writers have associated dysgen-
ic qualities generally with certain
of the mixed-blood Indian groups of
the eastern States. Whether these
alleged traits are due to inbreeding
or not is difficult to establish. Many
of these mixed-bloods have lived
under social conditions that are not
calculated to bring out their more
admirable traits. The South Carolina
mixed-bloods are spoken of as hyper-
sensitive, shy, furtive, self-conscious,
hypercritical, and obviously suffering
from an inferiority complex.

Where it is strongly established,
the attitude of negativism on the
part of Indian mixed-bloods is shared
by the neighboring whites with the
result that the whole subject of
race relations is taboo. Any at-
tempt by outsiders to investigate the
situation often meets with silence
or even violent response. Brewton
Berry notes that mixed-bloods in
South Carolina are virtually never
the subject of conversation in white
society and are not mentioned in
newspapers and histories. ‘These out-
castes have no written history, no
family genealogies reposing in State
historical archives, no part in the
social register, and so on. In this
respect they resemble preliterate so-
cieties and offer a fertile field for
anthropological research.

The Indians of the eastern States
represent today the results of the
solution of the Indian problem by
the individual States with a minimum
of Federal interference. With the
partial exception of the various Iro-
432

quoian groups in New York, and
in recent years the eastern Cherokee,
eastern Seminole, eastern Choctaw,
and perhaps one or two others, the
eastern Indians have not in general
had any direct assistance or guidance
from Federal sources. In a few in-
stances State reservations, asin Maine,
Connecticut, and Virginia, have fur-
nished a smali amount of security to
small Indian remnants. But in the
main the results are all too obvious.

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

These unassisted Indian groups have
in general sunk to a rather low level
of society indeed and have come to
form, so to speak, a sort of vaguely
marked caste separate from both
whites and Negroes. All in all they
appear to have lost in becoming
“civilized” far more than they have
gained. And, most portentiously of
all, does this not point out the possible
future fate of the present-day Indians
of the western States as well?

APPENDIX I. INDIAN SURVIVALS, EASTERN STATES

1. MaIneE:
Penobscot.
Passamaquoddy.
Malecite.

2. VERMONT.
None described.

3. NEw HampsHIRe:
Pennacook.

4. MASSACHUSETTS:
Wampanoag.
Nipmuc.

5. Ruope IsLtanp:
Narragansett.

6. ConneEcTICUT:
Pequot.
Mohegan.

‘Schaghticoke.
Paugusett.
Niantic.

7. New YorRK:

Cattaraugus Seneca.

Allegany Seneca.
Tuscarora.

Tonawanda Seneca.

Onondaga.

St. Regis Mohawk.
Oneida.
Shinnecock.
Poosepatuck.
Montauk.
Matinecock.
Setauket.
Bushwhackers.
Pondshiners.

Van Guilders.
Slaughters, Honies,
Clappers, Arabs.
Jackson Whites.

New York City groups.

8. NEw JERSEY:

ibe

SoutH CAROLINA:

Jackson Whites. Croatans.
Pineys. Brass Ankles.
Sand Hill Indians. Red Bones.
Moors. Buckheads.
9. PENNSYLVANIA: Turks.
Cornplanter Seneca. Red Legs.
Pools. 16. FLoripa:
Philadelphia groups. Seminole.
Cherokee (Cumberland Creole.
Valley). 17. ALABAMA:

10. DELAWARE: Creek.

Moors. Creole.
Nanticoke. Cajans.

11. MARYLAND: 18. MiussissipPt:
Wesorts. Choctaw.

12. West VIRGINIA: 19. Louisiana:
Guineas. Houma.

13. VirGINIA: Chitimacha.
Chickahominy. Tunica.
Pamunkey. Coushatta.
Mattapony. Choctaw.
Rappahannock. Red Bones.
Potomac. 20. TEXAs:
Wicomico. Alabama and Coush-
Accohannock. atta.
Werowocomoco. 21. ARKANSAS:
Nansemond. None described.
Nottoway. 22. TENNESSEE:
Powhattan. Melungeons.
Issues. 23. KENTUCKY:
Brown People. Coe Clan.
Melungeons. Magoffin County.

14. NortH CAROLINA: 24. Onto:

Cherokee. Darke County.
Croatans. Carmel Indians.
Cubans. Guineas.
Rockingham County. 25. INDIANA:

Nash County. Miami.
Machapunga. 26. ILxinots:

Laster Tribe.

None described.
APPENDIX II.

Ue

10.

SURVIVING INDIAN GROUPS—GILBERT 433

MAINE:
Aroostook.
Penobscot.
Washington.

. MASSACHUSETTS:

Barnstable.
Bristol.
Dukes.
Norfolk.
Plymouth.
Suffolk.
Worcester.

. Ruope IsLanp:

Newport.
Providence.
Washington.

. CONNECTICUT:

Fairfield.
New London.

. New YORK:

Cattaraugus.
Chautauqua.
Columbia.
Erie.
Franklin.
Genesee.
Jefferson.
Kings (Brooklyn).
Madison.
Monroe,
Niagara.
Onondaga.
Orange.
Rensselaer.
Rockland.

St. Lawrence.
Schoharie.
Suffolk.

. New JERSEY:

Bergen.
Morris.
Monmouth.
Passaic.

. PENNSYLVANIA:
Alleghany (Pittsburgh).

Bradford.
Bucks.
Cumberland.
Philadelphia.
Warren.

. DELAWARE:

Kent.
Sussex.

. MARYLAND:

Charles.
Prince Georges.
Talbot.

WEsT VIRGINIA:
Barbour.
Taylor.

11. VirGInia:
Accomac,
Amherst.
Caroline.
Charles City.
Chesterfield.
Elizabeth City.
Essex.

Giles.
Gloucester.
Halifax.
Hanover.
Henrico.

King and Queen.

King William.
Lee.
Nansemond.
New Kent.
Norfolk.
Northampton.

Northumberland.

Rockbridge.
Russell.
Scott.
Southampton.
Suffolk.
Washington.
Wise.

12. Nortu CaROLina:
Bladen,
Cherokee.
Columbus.
Cumberland.
Graham.
Harnett.
Hertford.
Hoke.

Hyde.
Jackson.
Macon.
Marion.
Nash.
Perquiman.
Person.
Richmond,
Robeson.
Rockingham.
Sampson,
Scotland.
Swain.

13. SoutrH CAROLINA:
Bamberg.
Berkeley.
Charleston.
Chesterfield.
Colleton.
Dillon.
Dorchester.
Horry.
Marlboro.

COUNTIES OF THE EASTERN STATES IN WHICH INDIAN
GROUPS OCCUR

13. SoutH CaroLtinAa—Con.

Marion.
Orangeburg.
Richland.
Sumter.

York.

14. GeorGcIA:

Evans.

15. FLoripa:

Broward.
Collier.
Dade.
Escambia.
Glades.
Hendry.
Lee.
Martin.
Okeechobee.
Monroe.
Osceola.
St. Lucie.

16. ALABAMA:

Autauga.
Baldwin.
Clarke.
Covington.
Escambia.
Jackson.
Mobile.
Monroe.
Washington.

17. Mississippi:

Greene.
Jasper.
Jones.
Kemper.
Leake.
Neshoba.
Newton.
Perry.
Scott.

18. LoutsIANa:

Allen.
Avoyelles.
Calcasieu.
Catahoula.
Jefferson.
La Fourche.
La Salle.
Orleans.
Rapides.

St. Landry.
St. Mary.
St. Tammany.
Terrebonne.
Vernon.

19. TrExas:

Bexar.
Ft. Bend.
434 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

APPENDIX II. COUNTIES OF THE EASTERN STATES IN WHICH INDIAN

GROUPS OCCUR—Continued

19. Texas—Continued
Harris.
Polk.

20. ARKANSAS:
Benton.
Garland.
Pulaski.
Sebastian.
Washington,

21. Muissourt:
Jackson.

Jasper.
St. Louis City.

22. TENNESSEE:

Campbell.
Cannon.
Hancock.
Hawkins.
Shelby.

23. KENTUCKY:

Cumberland.
Floyd.
Magoffin.
Monroe.

24. Onto:

Cuyahoga.
Darke.

24. Ounto—Continued

Franklin.
Hamilton.
Hardin.
Highland.
Lucas.
Summit.

25. INDIANA:

Marion.
Miami.

26. ILLINOIs:

Alexander.
Cook.
Peoria.

APPENDIX III. FAMILY NAMES OF EASTERN INDIAN GROUPS

1. AcCOHANNOCK (VIRGINIA):
Miles.
2. Brass ANKLES, ETC. (SOUTH
CAROLINA):
Boone.
Braveboy.
Bunch.
Chavis.
Criel.
Driggers.
Goins.
Harmon.
Russell.
Sammons.
Scott.
Shavis.
Swett.
Williams.
3. BUSHWHACKERS (NEw
YorK):
Hotaling.
Proper.
Simmons.
4. Cayans (ALABAMA):
Byrd.
Carter.
Chastang.
Johnson.
Jones.
Rivers.
Smith.
Sullivan.
Terry.
Weaver.
5. CARMEL InprAns (Onto):
Gibson.
Nichols.
Perkins.
6. CHICKAHOMINY (VIRGINIA):
Adkins.
Bradby.
Coleman.
Holmes.
Jefferson.
Jones.
Miles.
Stuart.
Swett.

6. CHICKAHOMINY (VIR-

Ginta)—Continued
‘Thompson.
Wynne.

7. CREOLES (ALABAMA):

Allen.
Andry.
Belasco.
Ballariel.
Battiste.
Bernoudy.
Cassino.
Cato.
Chastang.
Collins.
Gomez.
Hiner.
Juzang.
Lafargue.
Laland.
Laurendine.
Laurent.
Mazangue.
Mifflin.
Nicholas.
Perez.
Ponquinette.
Pope.
Reid.
‘Taylor.
Trenier.

8. CroaTans (NortH Caro-

LINA):
Allen.
Bennett.
Berry.
Bridger.
Brooks.
Brown.
Butler.
Chapman.
Chavis.
Coleman.
Cooper.
Cumbo.
Dare.
Graham.
Harris.

8. Croatans (NorTH CarRo-

LINA)—Continued
Harvie.
Howe.
Johnson.
Jones.
Lasie.
Little.
Locklear.
Lowry.
Lucas.
Martin.
Oxendine.
Paine.
Patterson.
Powell.
Revels.
Sampson.
Scott.
Smith.
Stevens.
Taylor.
Viccars.
White.
Willis.
Williamson.
Wood.
Wright.

9. Cupans (NortTH Caro-

LINA and VIRGINIA):
Coleman.
Epps.
Martin.
Shepherd.
Stewart.
Tally.

10. HassANAMISCO NIPMUG

(MassACHUSETTS) :
Barber.
Belden.
Brown.
Cisco (Sisco).
Curliss.
Gidger or Gigger.
Gimbey.
Hamilton.
Hector.
Hemingway.
APPENDIX III.

SURVIVING INDIAN GROUPS—GILBERT 4385

FAMILY NAMES OF EASTERN INDIAN GROUPS—Continued

10. HassANAMisco Nipmuc 17. MELUNGEONS (ViR- 21. PamuNKEY (VirGINIA)—

Ne

12:

3:

14.

15:

16.

AW

( MASSACHUSETTs ) —
Continued

Lewis.

Moore.

Peter.

Scott.

Tony.

Williams.

Guineas (WEsT VIR-

GINIA):
Adams.
Collins.
Croston.
Dalton (Dorton).
Kennedy.
Male or Mayle.
Miner or Minear.
Newman.
Norris.
Pritchard.

Issues (VIRGINIA):
Adcox.
Branham.

Johns.
Redcross.
Willis.

Jackson Wuirres (NEw
York and New JER-
SEY):

Casalony.
Cisco.

De Vries.
De Groat.
Mann.
Van Dunk.

MACHAPUNGA

CAROLINA):
Berry.
Daniels.
Pugh.
Westcott.

Matrarpony (VIRGINIA)

Lower Group:
Allmond.

Collins.
Costello.
Langston.
Major.
Reid.
Tuppin.

Matrapony (VIRGINIA)
Upper Group:

Adams.
Holmes.

MELUNGEONS (VIRGINIA
and TENNESSEE):

Bolen.
Collins.
Denham.
Fields.
Freeman.
Gann.
Gibson.
Goins.
Gorvens.
Graham.

(NortH

GINIA AND ‘TENNES-
sEE)—Continued

Lawson.

Maloney.

Mullins.

Noel.

Piniore.

Sexton.

Wright.

18. Moors (DELAWARE):

Carney.
Carter.
Carver.
Coker.
Dean.
Durham.
Hansley.
Hansor.
Hughes.
Morgan.
Moseley.
Munce.
Reed.
Ridgeway.
Sammons.
Seeney.

19. NANSEMOND (VIRGINIA):

Boss.
Weaver.

20. NANTICOKE (DELAWARE):

Bumberry.
Burke.
Burton.
Clarke.
Cormeans.
Coursey.
Davis.
Drain.
Hansor.
Harmon.
Hill.
Jackson.
johnson.
Kimmey.
Layton.
Miller.
Morris.
Moseley.
Newton.
Norwood.
Reed.
Ridgeway.
Rogers.
Sockum.
Street.
Thomas.
‘Thompson.
Walker.
Wright.

2A. PAMUNKEY (VIRGINIA):

Bradby.
Collins.
Cook.
Dennis.
Hawkes.
Holmes.

Continued
Langston.
Miles.

Page.
Sampson.
Swett.

22. Poors (PENNSYLVANIA):

Heeman.
Johnson.
Van der Pool.
Vincent.
Wheeler.

23. RAPPAHANNOCK (Vir-

GINIA):
Nelson.

24. Rep Bones (Loulstana):

Ashworth.
Bedgood.
Butters.
Buxton.
Clark.
Cloud.
Doyle.
Dyess.
Hyatt.
James.
Johnson.
Maddox.
Nelson.
Perkins.
Pinder.
Strother.
Sweat.
‘Thompson.
Ware.
Willis.
Wisby.

25. SHINNECOCK (NEW YorK):

Arch.
Beaman.
Bunn.
Cuffee.
Davis.
Harvey.
Kellis.
Scudder.
Thompson.

26. WeRowocomoco’ (Vir-

GINIA):
Allmond.
Langston.
Norris.
Sampson.
Wise.

27. Wesorts (MARYLAND):

Butler.
Harley.
Linkins.
Mason.
Newman.
Proctor.
Queen.
Savoy.
Swan.
Thompson.
436

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

BIBLIOGRAPHY

ANONYMOUS.

1872. A community of outcasts. Apple-
ton’s Journ., vol. 7, No. 156, pp.
324-329. (Jackson Whites.)

ARMSTRONG, H. G.

1930. History of Escambia County,
Florida, pp. 137-140. St. Au-
gustine. (Creoles.)

ASWELL, JAMES R.., et al.

1941. God bless the devil! Liar’s Bench
Tales, pp. 207-243. Chapel
Hill, N. CG. (Melungeons.)

Bascock, WILLIAM H.

1889. The Nanticoke Indians of Indian
River, Delaware. Amer. An-
throp., vol: 1,;pp. 277—282.

BALL, Bonnie S.

1944. America’s mysterious race. Read,
vol. 16 (May), pp. 64-67.
(Melungeons.)

BAXTER, JAMES P,

1895. Raleigh’s Lost Colony. New Eng-
land Mag., n. s., vol. 11, No. 5
(Jan.), pp. 565-587. (Croa-
tans.)

BERRY, BREWTON.
1945. The mestizos of South Carolina.
Amer. Journ. Sociol., vol. 51
(July), pp. 34-41. (Brass Ank-
les.)
Bonp, Horace M.

1931. Two racial islands of Alabama.
Amer. Journ. Sociol., vol. 36
(Jan.), pp. 552-567. (Cajans
and Creoles.)
BuRNETT, Swan M.
1889. A note on the Melungeons.

Amer. Anthrop., vol. 2 (Oct.),
pp. 347-349.
CaARMER, CARL L.

1931. Stars fell on Alabama, pp. 255-

269. New York. (Cajans.)
Carr, Ltoyp G., and WEsTEz, CaRLos.

1945. Surving folktales and herbal lore
among the Shinnecock Indians
of Long Island. Journ. Amer.
Folklore, vol. 58, No. 228 (Apr.-
June), pp. 113-123.

Cor, SAMUEL.

1930. Chronicles of the Coe Colony.

Kansas City.
Converse, Paut D.

1912. The Melungeons. Southern Col-
legian (Washington and Lee
University), December, pp. 59-
69. Lexington, Va.

CRAWFORD, BRUCE.

1940. Hills of home, Southern Lit.
Mess., vol. 2, No. 5 (May), pp.
302-313. (Melungeons.)

DromMcGoote, WILL ALLEN.
1891a. The Malungeons. The Arena,
vol. 3 (Mar.), pp. 470-479.
1891b. The Malungeon family tree and
its branches. The Arena, vol. 3
(May), pp. 745-775.

Dunuap, A. R., and WEsLAGER, C. A.

1947. Trends in the naming of triracial
mixed-blood groups in the eastern
United States. Amer. Speech,
vol. 22, No. 2 (Apr.), pp. 81-87.

EARLE, JoHN M.

1861. Report to the Governor and Coun-
cil concerning the Indians of the
Commonwealth under the act of
April 6, 1859. Massachusetts
Senate Doc. No. 96. Boston.

EsTABROOKE, A. H., and Davenport, C. B.

1912. The Nam family. Cold Spring
Harbor Eugenics Record Office
Mem. No. 2.

EsTABROOKE, A. H., and McDoucte, I. E.

1926. Mongrel Virginians, the Win
Tribe. Baltimore. (Issues.)

FIsHER, GEorGE P.
1895. The so-called Moors of Delaware.
Milford (Del.) Herald, June 15.
FLANNAGAN, Roy C.
1932. Amber satyr. New York.
ginia Indians.)
FRAZIER, E. FRANKLIN.

1940. The Negro family in the United
States. Racial Islands, pp. 215-
245. Chicago.

GARDNER, EMELYN E.
1937. Folklore from the Schoharie Hills,
pp. 42-43. New York and
Ann Arbor. (Slaughters.)
GILBERT, Wituiam H.,, Jr.
1943. The Eastern Cherokees.
Amer. Ethnol. Bull.
Anthrop. Pap. No. 23.
1945. The Wesorts of southern Mary-
land, an  outcasted group.
Journ. Washington Acad. Sci.,
vol. 35, No. 8 (Aug.), pp.
237-246.
1946a. Memorandum concerning the
characteristics of the larger
mixed-blood racial islands of
the eastern United States.
Social Forces, vol. 24, No. 4
(May), pp. 438-447. (Com-
prehensive bibliography.)
1946b. Mixed bloods of the upper
Monongahela Valley, West
Virginia. Journ. Washington
Acad. Sci., vol. 36, No. 1
(Jan.), pp. 1-13. (Guineas.)
Gray, A. P.

1908. A Virginia tribe of Indians.
Southern Churchmen, vol. 72,
No. 53 (Jan. 4), p. 6. (Issues.)

GREENE, FRANCEs E.

1941. The Tobacco Road of the North.
Amer. Mercury, vol. 53, No.
211( July), pp. 15-22. (Jackson
Whites.)

GRINNELL, GEORGE B.

1911. The Indian of today. Remnants,

pp. 342-551. New York.

(Vir-

Bur.
1335
SURVIVING INDIAN GROUPS—GILBERT

Hate, W. T., and Merritt, D. L.
1913. A history of Tennessee and Ten-

nesseans. 2 vols. The Me-
lungeons of East Tennessee,
vol. 1, chap. 16, pp. 179-196,
Chicago.

Harper, Rovtanp M.

1937. A statistical study of the Croatans.
Rural Socicl., vol. 2, No. 4
(Dec.), pp. 444-456.

1938. The most prolific people in the
United States. Eugenical News,
vol. 23, No. 2 (Mar.-Apr.),
pp. 29-31. (Croatans.)

Harrincton, M. R.

1903. Shinnecock notes. Journ. Amer.
Folklore, vol. 16, pp. 37-39.

1908. Among Louisiana Indians.
Southern Workman, vol. 37,
pp. 656-661.

Haun, MILprep.

1940. The hawk’s done gone,

York. (Melungeons.)
Jounson, Guy B.

1939. Personality in a White-Indian-
Negro community. Amer.
Sociol. Rev., vol. 4, pp. 511-
523. (Croatans.)

Kite, ELIzABetu S.

1913. The Pineys.
INO an
38-40.

LAWRENCE, ROBERT C.

1939. The state of Robeson, pp. 111-120.

Lumberton, N. C. (Croatans.)

Linpgusst, G. E. E.
1923. The Red Man in the United
States, pp. 91-118. New York.

Lucas, JOHN P., Jr., and Groome, B. T.
1940. The King of Scuffletoun, a
Croatan romance. Richmond.

MaxweELt, Hu.
1899. The history of Barbour County,
pp. 510-511. Morgantown, W.
Va. (Guineas.)
McMiiian, HamILTon.
1888. Sir Walter Raleigh’s Lost Colony.
Wilson, N. C. (Croatans.)
McPuerson, O. M.
1915. Indians of North Carolina. Senate
Doc. 677, 63rd Congr., 3rd
Sess., Washington, D. C.,
(Croatans.)
MELTON, FRANcEs J.
1885. Croatans: The Lost Colony of
America. Mid-Continent Mag.,
vol. 6 (July), pp. 195-202.
Mooney, JAMEs.
1907a. Croatan Indians. Handbook of
American Indians, Bur. Amer.
Ethnol. Bull. 30, pt. 1.
1907b. The Powhatan Confederacy past
and present. Amer. Anthrop.,
n.s., vol. 9, No. 1 (Jan.-Mar.),
pps 129-152.

New

The Survey, vol. 31,
(Oct. 4), pp. 7-13,

437

Moore, J. T., and Foster, A. P., editors.

1923. Tennessee, the volunteer State,

1769-1923. 5 vols. Vol. 1, pp.
790-791, Chicago. (Melun-
geons.)

New JerRsEY CONFERENCE ON SocrAL Work.

1932. Report of a survey of the Inter-
racial Committee in coopera-
tion with the State Department
of Institutions and Agencies.
Trenton, (Jackson Whites and
Pineys.)

Norment, Mary C,

1873. The Lowrie history. Wilmington,

N. C. (Croatans.)
Nunn, Loutse Vircinia.

1937. A comparison of the social situa-
tion of two isolated Indian
groups in northern North
Carolina. M. A. thesis, Colum-
bia University, New York, N.Y.

POLLARD, J. G.

1894. The Pamunkey Indians of Virgin-

ia. Bur. Amer. Ethnol. Bull. 17.
Poot Trine, THE.

1904, How aristocratic and Indian blood
was mixed. Saturday Globe,
Oct. 22, Utica, N. Y.

Rocers, J. A.

1942. Sex and race. 3 vols. Vol. 2, pp.
352 and 354. (Melungeons and
Guineas.)

Saxon, Ly Le.
1937. Children of strangers.
SHELBY, GERTRUDE, and Stoney, S.

1930. Po’ Buckra. New York.

Ankles.)
SHEPHERD, LEwis.

1913. Romantic account of the cele-
brated Melungeon case. Wat-
son’s Mag., vol. 17, No. 1
(May), pp. 34-40.

Suucc, Rocrer W.

1939. Origins of the class struggle in
Louisiana, pp. 43-45. Baton
Rouge, La. (Red Bones.)

Speck, FRANK G.

1911. The Jackson Whites. Southern
Workman, February, pp. 104-
107.

1915. The Nanticoke community of
Delaware. Heye Foundation,
Contr. Mus. Amer. Indian, II,
No. 4. New York.

1916. Remnants of the Machapunga
Indians of North Carolina.
Amer. Anthrop., n.s., vol. 18,
pp. 271-276.

1918. Remnants of the Nehantics.
Southern Workman, vol. 47,
February, pp. 65-69.

1922. Indians of the Eastern Shore of
Maryland. (Nanticoke.)

1925. The Rappahannock Indians of
Virginia. Heye Museum,
Indian Notes and Monogr.,
vol, 5, No. 3. New York.

Boston.

(Brass
438

Speck, FRANK G.—Continued
1928a. Chapters in the ethnology of the
Powhatan tribes of Virginia.
Heye Museum, Indian Notes
and Monogr., vol. 1, No. 5.
New York.
1928b. Native tribes and dialects of
Connecticut, a Mohegan-Pe-
quot diary. 43d Ann. Rep.
Bur. Amer. Ethnol., 1925-
1926, pp. 199-287.
1940. Penobscot man. Philadelphia.
1943a. A note on the Hassanamisco
band of Nipmuc. Bull. Massa-
chusetts Arch. Soc., vol. 4,
No. 4 (July), pp. 48-56.
1943b. A social reconnaissance of the
Creole Houma Indian trap-
pers of the Louisiana bayous.
America Indigena, vol. 3,
Nos. 2 and 3 (Apr., July),
pp. 135-146 and 211-220.
Mexico City.
1947. Notes on social and economic
conditions among the Creek
Indians of Alabama in 1941.
America Indigena, vol. 7, No.
3 (July), pp. 195-198.
Spiess, MATHIAS.
1933. The Indians of Connecticut. New
York.
Storms, J. C.
1936. Origin of the Jackson Whites of
the Ramapo Mountains. Man-
uscript. Park Ridge, N. J.
SwANTON, JOHN R.
1934. Siouan Indians of Lumber River.
U. S. Congress, House Rep.
No. 1752, 73rd Congr., 2d Sess.
6 pp. (Croatans.)
TANTAQUIDGEON, GLADYS.
1935. New England council fires still
burn. Indians at Work, vol.
2, No. 12 (Feb. 1), pp. 20-24.

TERHUNE, ALBERT P.
1926. ‘Treasure.
Whites. )
Tuompson, B. F.
1943. The history of Long Island, 2d
ed., 2 vols. Indian tribes, vol. 1
pp. 93-96. New York.

TOWNSEND, GEORGE A.
1872. The swamp outlaws or the North
Carolina bandits. New York.

(Croatans.)

UniTED STATES CENsuUs, BUREAU OF THE.
1894. Report on Indians taxed and
Indians not taxed in the United
States at the 11th Census, 1890.
Croatans, pp. 199-500; Me-

lungeons, p. 391; etc.
1937. The Indian population of the
United States and Alaska, 1930.

New York. (Jackson

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

Unitep States Concress, Housz or REp-
RESENTATIVES.
1872. Reports of committees for the 2d
Session of the 42d Congress.
Rep. No. 22, pt. 2, testimony
taken by the Joint Select Com-
mittee to Inquire into the Con-
dition of Affairs in the Late
Insurrectionary States. North
Carolina, pp. 283-304. (Croa-
tans.)
UniTEeD STATES CONGRESS, SENATE.
1930. Catawba Indians of South Caro-
lina. Senate Doc. No. 92, 71st
Cong., 2d Sess.
1931. Seminole Indians. Senate Doc.
No. 314, 71st Cong., 3d Sess.
UnirepD STATES WRITERS PROGRAM (FED-
ERAL WRITERS PROJECT).
1937. Maine, a guide ‘Down East,”
pp. 241, 295. Boston.
1938. Mississippi, a guide to the Mag-
nolia State, pp. 465-467. New
York.

1940a. Texas, a guide to the Lone Star
State, pp. 584-585. New York.

1940b. New York, a guide to the Empire
State, pp. 391, 424, 437, 531,
650. New York.

1941a. Alabama, a guide to the Deep
South, pp. 367-368. New York.
(Cajans and Creoles.)

1941b. Louisiana, a guide to the State,
pp. 390, 425-427. New York.

1941c. New Jersey. Bergen County pan-

orama, pp. 171-180, 305. Hack-
ensack, N. J. (Jackson Whites.)
VAN DE WatTER, FREDERIC F.

1922. Grey riders. ‘‘Bushwackers,” pp.

239-260. New York.
Wales, BErTHA N.

1928. Virginians—a further study of the
Win tribe. M. A. thesis, Uni-
versity of Virginia.

WELLER, GEORGE.

1938. The Jackson Whites. New
Yorker, vol. 14, No. 31 (Sept.
17); pp. 29-39:

WESLAGER, C. A.
1943. Delaware’s forgotten folk. New
York. (Nanticoke and Moors.)
WuHuiTE, ROXANA.
1939. They stand alone: The Wesorts of
Charles County. The Sun, Nov.
12, sect.’ 1;, 7p. (2: Baltimore,
Md.

Witson, E. Y.
1895. Lost Colony of Roanoke. Cana-
dian Mag., vol. 4 (Apr.), pp.
500-504. (Croatans.)
WILson, GOODRIDGE.
1934. The southwest corner. Roanoke
(Va.) Times, Feb. 25. (Me-
lungeons.)
Recently Published Greek Papyri of the New

Testament’

By Bruce M. MeEtzcEr, Princeton Theological Seminary

[With 8 plates]

How does an editor know what
words to print in an edition of the
Greek New Testament? In other
words, what is the textual foundation
of the New Testament?

Three main sources of information
exist for our knowledge of the text of
the books of the New ‘Testament.
They are the Greek manuscripts, the
early translations into other lan-
guages, and the quotations from the
New Testament made by early eccle-
siastical authors. The earliest ver-
sions of the New Testament, prepared
by missionaries to assist in the propa-
gation of the Christian faith among
people whose native tongue was
Syriac, Latin, and Coptic, are of
exceptionally great value to the tex-
tual critic of the New ‘Testament.
Scarcely less useful are the quotations
from the New Testament in the com-
mentaries, sermons, and miscella-
neous treatises written by early Church
Fathers for the explanation and de-
fense of their faith. Indeed, so exten-
sive are these citations that, if all
other sources for our knowledge of the
text of the New Testament were de-
stroyed, they would be sufficient alone
in reconstructing practically the en-
tire New Testament.

Of these three main sources in the
transmission of the words of the New
Testament, the chief is, of course, the

1 Reprinted by permission from The Bibli-

cal Archaeologist, vol. 10, No. 2, May 1947,
with several minor additions.

817369—49——33

mass of Greek manuscripts, and it is
with certain of these that the present
article concerns itself. Before con-
sidering in some detail all the Greek
papyri of the New Testament pub-
lished during the past 15 years, it will
be necessary to refer to (1) the mate-
rials on which they were written, (2)
the external forms in which they have
been preserved, (3) the scholarly
methods of dating and editing such
documents, and (4) statistics regard-
ing the classification and number of the
Greek sources of the text of the New
Testament.

The Materials of Ancient Books

Clay tablets, stone, bone, wood,
leather, various metals, potsherds (os-
traca), papyrus, and parchment (vel-
lum) were all used in antiquity to
receive writing. Almost all the Greek
sources of the New Testament are
made of either papyrus or parchment.

The manufacture of papyrus was a
flourishing business in Egypt. The
papyrus plant grew plentifully in the
shallow waters of the Nile at the Delta
(Sceuplal)) About 12or. 15) fect. in
height, the stem of the plant, which
was triangular in cross section and as
thick as a man’s wrist, was cut into
sections about a foot long. Each
section was split open lengthwise and
the pith cut with a sharp instrument
into thin strips. A layer of these was
laid down on a flat surface, all the
fibers running in the same direction,

439
440

and on top another layer was laid,
with the fibers running at right angles
to the lower layer. The two layers
were then fastened together by mois-
ture, glue, and pressure until they
formed one fabric—a fabric which,
though now so brittle that it can easily
be crumbled into dust, probably had
a strength nearly equal to that of
good paper.

The manufacture of parchment for
writing purposes has an interesting
history. According to Varro, the
learned Roman encyclopedist of the
first century B. C., as reported by
Pliny the Elder,? it was Eumenes of
Pergamum, a city in Mysia of Asia
Minor, who promoted the manufac-
ture and use of parchment. This
ruler, probably Eumenes II, who ruled
from 197 to 159 B. C., planned to
found a library in his city which would
rival the famous library of Alexandria.
This ambition did not please his rival,
Ptolemy of Egypt (probably Ptolemy
Epiphanes, 205-182 B. C.), who
clamped an embargo on the export of
papyrus sections. It was this embargo
which forced Eumenes to develop the
production of vellum, which from the
place of its origin received the Greek
name pergamene (whence our English
word “‘parchment” is derived). What-
ever may be thought of the details of
this story, the core is doubtless true,
namely, that a high quality of parch-
ment was developed at Pergamum, so
much so that the city became famous
in the manufacture and export of this
writing material and gave its name to
the product.

Parchment or vellum—the two words
are often used interchangeably, but
exact writers restrict the word “vel-
lum” to describe a finer, superior
quality of parchment *—was made
from the skins of cattle, sheep, goats,
and antelopes, and especially from the

2 Pliny, Natural History, XIII, 21. (The
whole section down to 27 deserves careful
reading.)

8 W. Lee Ustick, ‘‘Parchment and Vellum.”
The Library, a Quarterly Review of Bibliog-
raphy, 4th ser., vol. 16, pp. 441-443, 1936.

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

young of these animals. After the
hair had been removed by scraping,
the skins were washed, scraped with
pumice, and dressed with chalk. De
luxe editions, according to St. Jerome,
who did not approve of such extrava-
gance,* were made of vellum dyed
purple and written with gold and
silver inks. Ordinary editions were
written with black or brown ink and
had headpieces and initial letters
colored with blue or yellow or (most
often) red ink—whence the word
“rubric,” from ruber, the Latin word
fOLe reds

Vellum or parchment continued to
be generally used until the late Middle
Ages. At that time the use of paper
made of cotton, hemp, and flax, having
been introduced into Europe from
China by Arabian traders, became
popular and supplanted other writing
materials.

The Form of Ancient Books

The manuscripts of the New Testa-
ment have been preserved chiefly in
two forms, the roll and the codex (that
is, the book form with leaves). The
papyrus roll or scroll was made by
gluing together, side by side, separate
sheets of papyrus and then winding
the long strip around a stick, thus pro-
ducing a volume (a word derived from
the Latin volumen, “something rolled
up”). The length of such a papyrus
roll was limited by convenience in
handling the roll; the normal Greek
literary roll seldom exceeded 35 feet
in length. Thus an author was dis-
couraged by factors beyond his control
from writing a very long book. Each
of Luke’s books, the Gospel and the
Acts, would have filled an ordinary
papyrus roll of 31 or 32 feet in length.
Doubtless this is one of the reasons why
Luke—Acts was issued in two volumes
instead of one (Acts 1:1).

On the roll thus formed the writing
was arranged in a series of columns,
each about 2 or 3 inches wide. The

4 See his Preface to Job, and his Epistle
XXII, 32 (to Eustochium).
GREEK PAPYRI—METZGER

height of the columns, which ran
parallel to the stick on which the roll
was wound, varied of course with the
height of the original papyrus sheets.
Sometimes, but not very often, the roll
was written on both sides (see Revela-
tion 5: 1); this was called an opistho-
graph.

The roll was relatively inconvenient
touse. The reader had to employ both
hands, unrolling it with one hand and
rolling it up with the other as the read-
ing proceeded. Moreover the Chris-
tian community soon discovered how
laborious it was to try to find certain
passages in their sacred books when
written in roll form. Early in the sec-
ond century the codex, or leaf form of
a book, began to come into extensive
use in the Church. This was made by
folding one or more sheets of papyrus
in the middle and sewing them to-
gether. Christians found that this
form had a number of distinct advan-
tages over the roll: (1) it permitted the
four Gospels or all the Epistles of Paul
to be bound into one book, a format
which was impossible so long as the
roll was used; (2) it facilitated the con-
sultation of proof texts; (3) it was
better adapted to receiving writing on
both sides of the page, thus keeping the
cost of production down.°

In about the fourth century the fash-
ions of bookmaking changed. ‘The
less fragile vellum came to be substi-
tuted for papyrus as the material for
the best books in codex form. Quite
an art and a science of manufacturing
books developed. Since the hair side
of vellum is darker than the flesh side,
it was discovered that the most pleas-
ing effect upon the reader was obtained
only when the separate sheets were not

5 C. CG, McCown, in his helpful article,
“The Earliest Christian Books,’’ Biblical
Archaeologist, vol. 7, p. 21, 1943, supplies a
table of figures showing the relative number
of extant codices and rolls of Christian and
pagan works from the third and fourth cen-
turies. Peter Katz suggests that the adop-
tion by Christians of the codex instead of the
roll was part of a deliberate attempt to dif-
ferentiate Christianity from Judaism (Journ.
Theol. Stud., vol. 46, pp. 61-63, 1945).

441

indiscriminately bound together in
quires, but when the hair side of one
page faced the hair side of the opposite
page, and the flesh side faced the flesh
side, wherever the book was opened.
In writing on papyrus the scribe was
accustomed to utilize the horizontal
fibers on the recto side of the sheet as
guide lines for his script. In writing
on vellum he would score the surface
with a blunt pointed instrument, draw-
ing not only horizontal lines but two
or more vertical lines as well for the
margins of each column of writing.
In many manuscrips these guide lines
are still visible, as are also the small
pin pricks which the scribe made first,
thus outlining the ruling pattern on
the vellum.*® Different schools of scribes
would employ various procedures of
ruling and it is occasionally possible
for the modern scholar to identify the
place of origin of a newly discovered
manuscript by comparing its ruling
pattern (as it is called) with those in
manuscripts whose place of origin is
known.

In times of economic depression
when the cost of vellum increased, an
older manuscript would be salvaged
and used over again. The original
writing was scraped and washed off,
the surface resmoothed, and the new
literary material written on the sur-
face. Such a book was called a
palimpsest (which means in Greek,
“re-scraped”’), One of the half dozen
or so most important vellum manu-
scripts of the New Testament is such
a palimpsest; its name is codex Eph-

6 There is even a science of pin pricks! See
E. K. Rand, “Prickings in a Manuscript of
Orleans,” Trans. and Proc. Amer. Philol.
Assoc., vol. 70, pp. 327-341, 1939; and L. W.
Jones, ‘‘ ‘Pin Pricks’ at the Morgan Library,”
ibid., pp. 318-326; ““Where Are the Prick-
ings?” op. cit., vol. 72, pp. 71-86, 1944; and
*Pricking Manuscripts: The Instruments
and Their Significance,” Speculum, a Jour
nal of Mediaeval Studies, vol. 21, pp. 389=
403, 1946. Rand had earlier dealt with
various methods of ruling manuscripts in
vogue during the Middle Ages; see his study
entitled ““How Many Leaves at a Time?”
in Palaeographica Latina, vol. 5, pp. 52-78,
1927.
442

raemi (see pl. 2). Originally written
in the fifth century, this Greek Bible
was erased in the twelfth century and
many of the sheets rewritten with the
text of a Greek translation of 38
treatises or sermons by a Syrian Church
Father of the fourth century, St.
Ephraem. (This was not the only time
when the text of the Scriptures has
been obscured by sermons.) By the
application of certain chemical re-
agents scholars have been able to re-
store with some success the almost
obliterated underwriting, although the
task of reading it is most trying to the
eyes. Sometimes palimpsests can be
read by photographing them under
infrared rays or with special fluorescent
lamps.

The Dating and Editing of Manuscripts

How does a scholar determine the
date when a Greek manuscript of the
New Testament was written? In some
medieval manuscripts the scribe would
occasionally include certain personal
and chronological information which
enables the modern editor to reckon
the scribe’s date. But most manu-
scripts Jack such scribal colophons, as
they are called. Scholars are then
compelled to judge the age of the docu-
ment on the basis of its style of hand-
writing and artistic decorations (if the
manuscript has such).

Until about the ninth century most
books were written with large letters,
quite like our capitals, called uncials.
In the course of the centuries, however,
these uncial letters became thick and
clumsy. Then, in the ninth century,
Theodore the Studite, or some of his
associates in the monastery of the
Studium in Constantinople, popular-
ized a bookhand of small letters (mi-
nuscules is the technical name) as we
write, in a running or cursive script.
Because this script was adopted almost
at once throughout the Greek world,
manuscripts of the New Testament fall
into two well-defined groups, the older
being those written with uncial letters
and the later with minuscule letters.

It is possible, however, to date manu-

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

scripts within much more narrow
limits than is afforded by the distinc-
tion between large and small letters.
Styles in handwriting change from age
to age. Tables of typical letters of the
alphabet have been drawn up from
dated manuscripts of each century and
even half century, and by comparing
the script of an undated document
with these it is possible to estimate its
age with tolerable accuracy.

In addition to dating a manuscript,
the editor of a newly found document
will describe fully its external appear-
ance and physical dimensions and con-
dition. Further, he will make its text
available to other scholars. ‘This is
done either by publishing the entire
text as it stands or, more frequently, by
publishing only those words or phrases
which differ from a generally accepted
norm. ‘This process of comparing the
text of the manuscript word by word
and letter by letter with a printed text
accepted as a standard is called col-
lating the document, and the resulting
collation supplies material for a critical
apparatus of variant readings. When
it has been observed that a number of
manuscripts of the New Testament
consistently agree in adding, omitting,
or otherwise altering various words
and phrases, such manuscripts are said
to be related to each other in families
or types of text. The final task of an
editor is to seek to determine to which
of the previously isolated families his
newly discovered document belongs.

Statistics of Greek Sources of the New
Testament

It is customary to classify the Greek
manuscripts of the text of the New
Testament into several categories,
partly according to the material out of
which they are made, partly according
to their script, and partly according
to the use to which they were put.

At first, editors of the New Testa-
ment used abbreviations of cumber-
some titles to designate Greek manu-
scripts. Since no one system was
agreed upon by all editors, it was
exceedingly confusing to compare the

GREEK PAPYRI—METZGER

evidence in one critical apparatus
with that in another. The first step
in the direction of standardization of
nomenclature was taken by a Swiss
scholar, J. J. Wettstein, who, in his
handsome edition of the Greek Testa-
ment published in 1751-52, employed
a system of capital letters to designate
uncial manuscripts and Arabic nu-
merals to designate minuscule manu-
scripts. The system now in general
use was elaborated by Caspar René
Gregory, a native Philadelphian who,
after receiving his theological training
at Princeton, went to Germany where
he became the world’s foremost au-
thority on New Testament paleog-
raphy. His task of assigning official
numbers to newly discovered manu-
scripts was taken over after the first
World War, during which he lost his
life fighting in the German army, by
Ernst von Dobschiitz ’ (see pl. 3), who
has published various lists of newly
assigned numbers in Zeitschrift fiir
die neutestamentliche Wissenschaft.®
Since the death of von Dobschiitz in
1934, his successor, Walther Eltester,
has continued to act as a clearing-
house and to assign numerals to
manuscripts, but has not yet published
any lists.

The fragments of manuscripts made
of papyrus are commonly listed sep-
arately from those made of vellum or
paper. So far, 54 numbers have been
assigned by Gregory, von Dobschiitz,
and Eltester, but actually only 51
Greek papyri are known. It is cus-
tomary to refer to papyri by the letter
“Pp”? followed by a small superior
numeral. In some _ unaccountable
way the number P* was given by von
Dobschiitz to a Coptic fragment

7 Professor von Dobschiitz’? complete re-
working of Nestle’s Introduction is remark-
able for its comprehensive scope and concise
treatment (Eberhard Nestle’s Einfiihrung in
das Griechische Neue Testament, 4te Aufl.,
Gottingen, 1923).

8 Vol. 23, pp. 246-264, 1924; vol. 25, pp.
299-306, 1926; vol. 26, p. 96, 1927; vol. 27,
pp. 216-222, 1928; vol. 32, pp. 185-206,
1933.

443

published by Carl Wessely in 1914.°
Likewise P*5, which Grenfell and
Hunt had published as P. Oxy-
rhynchus 1353, being made of vellum,
was erroneously listed among the
papyri by von Dobschiitz but later
was assigned another number by him
(0206). In its place, according to
Kenneth W. Clark’s Catalogue,!! von
Dobschiitz assigned a papyrus frag-
ment of the Epistle of James. But in
a letter dated November 28, 1946, Sir
Frederic G. Kenyon kindly passed on
to the present writer the disconcerting
information which he had just received
from Eltester in Berlin that this same
fragment of James was designated
p*, Finally, P*! is still vacant.

The vellum manuscripts are divided
into uncials of which 212 have been
cataloged,’® and minuscules, of which
2,429 have been cataloged. The un-
cial manuscripts which have been
known for the longest time are com-
monly designated in a critical appa-
ratus by capital letters of the Roman
and Greek alphabets, and by one
Hebrew letter (aleph). Thus, the two
oldest vellum manuscripts, codex Vati-
canus and codex Sinaiticus, both of
the fourth century, are referred to,
respectively, as B and aleph; codex
Ephraemi is C. For uncial manu-
scripts discovered since the last letter
of these alphabets had been assigned,
Arabic numerals are used, preceded
by a zero. The minuscules, since the
time of Wettstein, as was mentioned
above, are referred to by Arabic
numbers.

A subsidiary class of Greek manu-
scripts, both uncial and minuscule
(though the latter by far predominate
in quantity), is devoted to lectionaries.

® Studien zur Paléographie und Papyrus-
kunde, vol. 15, No. 233b, pp. 102-103, 1914.

10 Zeitschrift fiir die neutestamentliche
Wissenschaft, vol. 32, p. 192, 1933.

11 A descriptive catalogue of Greek New
Testament manuscripts in America, p. 79.
Chicago, 1937.

12 Only one of these, however, is entirely
complete; it is codex Sinaiticus of the fourth
century.
444

These are Church reading books con-
taining the text of sections of the
Scriptures which were appointed to be
read on the several days of the ecclesi-
astical and the civil year, comprising,
respectively, the synaxarion and the
menologion (see pl. 4). Scholars have
only recently begun to realize the
importance of lectionaries in tracing
the history of the text of the New Testa-
ment during the Middle Ages. Inas-
much as the form of the citation of the
Scriptures in official liturgical books
always tends to be conservative and
almost archaic, lectionaries are valu-
able in preserving a type of text which
is frequently much older than the ac-
tual age of the manuscript would lead
one to suspect. Although 1,678 lec-
tionaries have been cataloged, only a
comparatively few have been critically
studied. They are usually referred
to by the letter “I preceding an
Arabic numeral.

Short portions of six books of the
New Testament have been preserved
on ostraca, or broken pieces of pottery
used by the poorest people as writing
material. Those which have been
cataloged are 25 in number and are
referred to by the Old English or
Gothic letter ‘‘O” followed by a nu-
meral. Thus, the treasure of which Paul
wrote (II Cor. 4: 7) has been commit-
ted, in a quite literal fashion, to
“earthen vessels’’; worthless, castaway
potsherds have been inscribed with the
imperishable words of the Gospel
(see ple.5).

13'Thus, for example, the Psalter in the
Anglican Book of Common Prayer retains a
translation of the Psalms which derives from
the Great Bible of 1539, having resisted all
efforts to make it conform to the King James
Version of 1611.

14The University of Chicago has been
sponsoring the study of this long-neglected
source of information about the text of the
New Testament; President E. C. Colwell has
projected a series of publications under the
general title “Studies in the Lectionary
Text of the Greek New Testament’”’ to which
the most recent contribution was made by
the present writer under the title ““The Satur-
day and Sunday Lessons from Luke in the
Greek Gospel Lectionary’? (Chicago, 1944).

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

Finally, a curious but quite unim-
portant source of our knowledge of the
Greek text of the New Testament is
comprehended under a group of nine
talismans, or good luck charms. These
amulets range in date from the fourth
to the twelfth or thirteenth century
and are made of vellum, papyrus,
clay potsherd, and wood. The super-
stitious use of talismans, so prevalent
in the ancient world, was scarcely
less popular—if we may judge from
repeated remonstrance against them
by ecclesiastical authorities—among
the faithful than among the pagans.’®
Four of those cataloged contain the
Lord’s Prayer and the others include
scattered verses from other parts of the
Old and New Testaments. They are
referred to by the letter ““T”’ followed
by a numeral.

In evaluating the significance of
these statistics of the amount of Greek
evidence for the text of the New Testa-
ment, attention ought to be given, by
way of contrast, to the number of
manuscripts which preserve the text
of the ancient classics. The “Bible”
of the Greek nation, and for which the
largest number of manuscripts are
available today, was Homer’s Iliad.
The most recent figures for this work
are 288 papyri, 2 uncials, and 188
minuscule manuscripts.® Next in
quantity of evidence are Plato with
23 manuscripts, ‘Thucydides with 21,
Hesiod with 20, and so on down to
many authors who are represented
today by only one manuscript. In
contrast to these figures, the textual

146 'Thus, in addition to remonstrances by
Eusebius and Augustine, the Synod of
Laodicea issued a separate canon proscribing
the manufacture and use of amulets: * .
and those who wear such we command to be
cast out of the Church.” For these and other
references, see ‘“The Fever Amulet,” edited by
the present writer in Papyri in the Princeton
University Collections, under the general
editorship of A. C. Johnson, vol. 3, pp.
78-79, Princeton, 1942.

16 For further details, reference may be
made to my article, ‘‘Trends in the Textual
Criticism of the Iliad, the Mahabhfrata, and
the New Testament,” Journ. Biblical Lit.,
vol. 65, pp. 339-352, 1946.
GREEK PAPYRI—METZGER

critic of the New Testament is em-
barrassed by the wealth of his material.
Furthermore, the work of many a
pagan author has been preserved only
in manuscripts which date from the
Middle Ages (sometimes the late
Middle Ages), far removed from the
time at which he lived and wrote.
On the contrary, the gap between the
composition of the books of the New
Testament and the earliest extant
copies is relatively quite short. In-
stead of the lapse of a millennium or
more, as in the case of not a few classi-
cal authors, we shall see below that
only a century and a half separates the
Apostle Paul’s writing from the earliest
copy of his letters extant today.

The Chester Beatty Papyri of the New

Testament

Undoubtedly the most momentous
news of the discovery of any New
Testament manuscript, since ‘Tischen-
dorf in the middle of the last century
came upon part of codex Sinaiticus
in a wastebasket in the monastery of
St. Catherine on Mount Sinai, was
the preliminary announcement in
The (London) Times, Nov. 19, 1931,
pp. 13-14, that three of the oldest
codices of the New Testament had
been acquired by A. Chester Beatty
from a dealer in Egypt. Each of the
three documents has suffered from
the ravages of time, but New Testa-
ment scholars are exceedingly thankful
for the portions which remain.”

The first, to which von Dobschiitz
assigned the number P*, comprises
portions of 30 leaves of a papyrus
book, which originally contained all
four Gospels and Acts, measuring
about 10 by 8 inches. Matthew and
John are the least well preserved,
each being represented by only two
fragmentary leaves. Six leaves of
Mark, seven of Luke, and 13 of Acts
remain of these books. A part of this
codex (fragments of the second leaf of

17 These were edited by Sir Frederic G.
Kenyon, The Chester Beatty Biblical Papyri,
Descriptions and Texts (London, 1933-1937).

445

Matthew) was discovered in a col-
lection of papyri at Vienna.'®

The second, designated P**, com-
prises 86 leaves (all slightly mutilated)
of a single quire papyrus codex which
originally contained on 104 leaves 10
Epistles of Paul in the following order:
Romans, Hebrews, I and II Corin-
inthians, Ephesians, Galatians, Philip-
pians, Colossians, I and II Thes-
salonians.!® ‘Today portions of
Romans and I Thessalonians, and If
Thessalonians in its entirety, are miss-
ing. The Pastoral Epistles were ap-
parently never included in the codex,
for there is not room for them on the
leaves missing at the end. (Since it
is a single quire codex, the number of
leaves lacking at the end can, of
course, be computed with precision).

It will be observed that, in addition
to the reversal of the present order of
Galatians and Ephesians, the Epistle
to the Hebrews is among the genuine
Pauline Epistles,”° which are arranged
in a general order of their decreasing
lengths. P*® is noteworthy, likewise,
in that the doxology to Romans
(16:25-27), which in the earlier
manuscripts stands at the end of
chapter 16, and in the great mass of
the later manuscripts at the end of
chapter 14, is here placed at the end
of chapter 15 (see pl. 6).

An instance of a variant reading in
this third-century codex which has
modified critical opinion as to what

18 Edited by Hans Gerstinger, “Ein Frag-
ment des Chester Beatty-Evangelienkodex
in der Papyrussammlung der National-
bibliothek in Wien,’ Aegyptus, Rivista
Italiana di Egittologia e di Papirologia, vol.
13 5pps O71 72,1933;

19 Thirty of the 86 leaves of this codex are
at the University of Michigan and were
edited by Henry A. Sanders, A Third-
Century Papyrus Codex of the Epistles of
Paul (Ann Arbor, 1935).

20'This papyrus, however, contrary to
common opinion, is not alone in placing
Hebrews immediately following Romans;
in six minuscule manuscripts and in a
Syrian canon composed about A. D. 400
it occupies this position (see W. H. P.
Hatch, ‘The position of Hebrews in the
Canon of the New Testament,’ Harvard
Theol. Rev., vol. 29, pp. 133-151, [1936]).
446

Paul actually wrote is found in II
Cor. 1:17. The revisors of the Amer-
ican Standard Version were undoubt-
edly influenced by P** at this point and
rendered the verse, ““Did I make my
plans like a worldly man, ready to say
Yes and No at once?” Except for
three other pieces of scattered evi-
dence, the whole mass of manuscripts,
versions, and Church Fathers read,
“Ves; yes and, No, 0.7?

The third Chester Beatty papyrus of
the New Testament, designated P*,
comprises 10 slightly mutilated leaves
of a codex of the book of Revelation.
Of the original book, estimated to have
been 32 leaves in length, only the
middle portion remains, containing
the text of 9: 10-1722:

As was mentioned above, these
papyrus codices of parts of the New
Testament are of exceptionally great
importance, for they antedate the
oldest vellum codices of the New
Testament by about a century. Ex-
pert paleographers date P*® and P*®
early in the third century, and P*
somewhat later in the third century.
Thus, to make it very concrete, we
have today a fairly complete copy of
Paul’s letters to seven Churches written
perhaps 140 years after the Apostle’s
death.

The question may be asked, How
does the discovery of these three
manuscripts modify our knowledge of
the history of the transmission of the
New Testament text? It may be said,
first of all, that they emphatically con-
firm the general soundness of the text
of the Greek Testament. They agree,
by and large, with the text which the
Church has always regarded as canoni-
cal. ‘Their importance, moreover, is
of the highest in shedding more light
upon the vexing problems concerning
the distribution and antiquity of

21 Simultaneously with the publication of
the Revised Standard Version, a Jesuit
scholar in Madrid, José M. Bover, came to
the same conclusion in his “El ‘SV y el ‘NO’:
Un Caso Interesante de Critica Textual,”
Estudios Biblicos, segunda época, vol. 5,
pp. 96-99, 1946.

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

certain types of variant readings.
The papyri do not support whole-
heartedly any one of the previously
isolated types of families of New
Testament text. To use the termi-
nology popularized by Westcott and
Hort, the text of P* and P* is inter-
mediate between the Neutral and
Western families of text of the New
Testament, standing somewhat closer
on the whole to the former than to
the latter. The most recent textual
analyses, refining those made by the
editor of the papyri, regard P* as
belonging to a type of text current in
the Fayyum-Gizeh region of Egypt
and designate it the “‘pre-Caesarean”
type of text.27. With regard to P** the
latest scholarly opinion * holds that
its text is to be classified in the sub-
group of manuscripts which von Soden
designated I**. The most exhaustive
investigation of the textual affinities of
P*’ reveals it to be quite closely related
to codex Sinaiticus of the fourth
century and to the ninth- or tenth-
century minuscule 1841, both of which
represent a type of text current at
Alexandria.

Four Other Small Fragments of Papyri

In 1933 Yale University purchased
a leaf of Egyptian papyrus which
offers more than one intriguing prob-
lem. The leaf, which has been as-

22 See Tedfilo Ayuso’s thorough and pains-
taking study “Texto Cesariense o Pre-
cesariense?” Biblica, vol. 16, pp. 369-415,
1935. For a recent survey of investigation
dealing with the Caesarean text of the
Gospels, reference may be made to my article
on this subject, Journ. Biblical Lit., vol. 64,
pp- 457-589, 1945.

23 See José M. Bover, ed., Novi Testamenti
Biblia Graeca et Latina, pp. xlix sq., Madrid,
1943.

24 José M. Bover, “‘iE] Cédice 1841 (=127)
es el Mejor Representante del Apocalipsis?”’
Estudios Eclesiasticos, vol. 18, pp. 165-185,
1944. For a summary and evaluation of the
work done by the Hispanic scholars men-
tioned in the last four footnotes, reference
may be made to the present writer’s
article in Journ. Biblical Lit., vol. 65,
pp. 401-423, 1947, entitled ““Recent Spanish
Contributions to the Textual Criticism of
the New Testament,”’ which deals with about
40 books and articles published since 1925.
GREEK PAPYRI—METZGER

signed the Greg.-Dob. number P®,
contains a rather careless transcript of
two portions of Acts (8: 26-32 and
10: 26-31), neither of which consti-
tutes a well-rounded and complete
pericope. Apparently the _ scribe
wrote no more than this one sheet,
folding it into a booklet of four pages.
What was the purpose for which it
was written and why were these por-
tions of Acts chosen? After consider-
ing various possible reasons for the
selection of these two Scripture pas-
sages—which are parts of the narra-
tives of Philip and the Ethiopian
Eunuch, and Peter and Cornelius—
the editor, Carl H. Kraeling, con-
cludes that perhaps it “was written
in service of missionary or homiletic
purposes or both. It may be the
work of a Christian preacher culling
from a New Testament codex—or for
that matter a lectionary—materials
for the instruction of his parishioners
on the character and scope of Christian
missions.”*> The editor dates the
fragment in the middle of the fourth
century.

The Rylands Fragment of John’s Gospel

From many points of view the small
fragment designated by the symbol
P* is of exceedingly great import.
Measuring only 2! by 3% inches
and containing but a few verses from
the Fourth Gospel (18: 31-33, 37-38),
it is the oldest fragment of the New
‘Testament which has been preserved
(see pl. 7). Although it had [been
acquired by Prof. Bernard P. Grenfell
as long ago as 1920, it remained un-
noticed among hundreds of similar
shreds of Egyptian papyri until 1934.
In that year C. H. Roberts, Fellow of
St. John’s College, Oxford, while sort-
ing over the unpublished papyri in
the John Rylands Library of Man-
chester, recognized that this scrap pre-
served sentences from John’s Gospel.
Without waiting to edit the fragment
along with others of a miscellaneous

25 “P50, Two Selections from Acts,”
Quantulacumque, Studies Presented to Kir-
soppriuake <".<, p; 1:75) London, 1937.

447

nature, he immediately published a
booklet setting forth a description of
the fragment, its text, and a discus-
sion of its significance.”

From the style of the script, Roberts
dated the fragment in the first half of
the second century.” It is, therefore,
older by a century than the Chester
Beatty papyrus of John and older by
two centuries than the most ancient
vellum codices, Hort’s “heavenly
twins,’ Vaticanus and Sinaiticus.

Although the papyrus is torn ver-
tically so that more than half of the
column of writing has perished,
enough remains to enable scholars
to restore with practically complete
assurance the missing portion of each
line. By comparing what remains
with the printed text of the passage,
it was soon discovered that each line
had an average of 29 or 30 letters.

One of the first questions asked when
reference is made to P*? is, How does
the text of this earliest fragment com-
pare with what editors have been accus-
tomed to regard as the true text of
John? Of course the paleographer,
unlike the paleontologist who recon-
structs a prehistoric man from a few
molars and a piece of shin bone, can-
not answer for what he does not have,

26 An Unpublished Fragment of the Fourth
Gospel in the John Rylands Library (Man-
chester, 1935). After republishing the frag-
ment with minor alterations in the following
year in the Bulletin of the John Rylands
Library, vol. 20, pp. 45-55, 1936, Roberts
published it a third time in his Catalogue of
the Greek and Latin Papyri in the John
Rylands Library, Manchester, vol. 3, pp.
1-3, Manchester, 1938, providing a bibliog-
raphy of reviews and opinions expressed
since the first publication of the papyrus.

27 Although not quite all scholars are
agreed that it can be dated within so narrow
a range, Kenyon, W. Schubart, H. I. Bell,
Deissmann, and W. H. P. Hatch have ex-
pressed themselves as being in agreement
with Roberts’ judgement. Indeed, Deiss-
mann believes that it certainly was written
within the reign of Hadrian (117-138) and
may even date from the time of Trajan (died
117); see his “Ein Evangelienblatt aus den
Tagen Hadrians,”’ Deutsche allgemeine Zeit-
ung, No. 564, Dec. 3, 1935, English transla-
tion in the British Weekly, Dec. 12, 1935,
pa219:
448

but as far as these few verses are con-
cerned, their text agrees almost ex-
actly with that of printed editions.
With the exception of several variants
which amount to no more than the
difference between “‘honor” and “‘hon-
our’ or “theatre” and! ‘theater;?? the
only significant variant which does not
appear in any other witness is the
probable omission in verse 37 of the
Greek words meaning “‘for this cause.”
This omission is almost certain, for if
the two words involved in this variant
had been originally present in the lost
portion of the fragment, the number of
letters in that line would be 38,
whereas without them the number of
letters is 30. The scribal omission (for
thus it must be regarded) can be ac-
counted for by supposing that the
presence of the same two words in the
preceding line confused the scribe who,
overlooking the second occurrence of
the phrase, copied only once what
should have been copied twice (called
technically, haplography).

Although the extent of the verses
preserved is so slight, in one respect
this tiny scrap of papyrus possesses
quite as much evidential value as
would the complete codex. As Rob-
inson Crusoe, seeing but a single foot-
print in the sand, concluded that
another human being, with two feet,
was present on the island with him,
so P®? proves the existence and use of
the Fourth Gospel in a provincial
town along the Nile, far from its tra-
ditional place of composition (Ephesus
in Asia Minor), during the first half of
the second century. Had this little
fragment been known during the
middle of the past century, that school
of New Testament criticism which
was inspired by the brilliant Tubingen
professor, Ferdinand Christian Baur,
could not have dated the composition
of the Fourth Gospel in about 160.

In 1934 the University of Michigan
acquired two leaves of a Greek papy-
rus from a dealer in Cairo. One leaf
contains Matt. 26:29-35, 36-40, and
the other Acts 9:34-38; 9:40-10:1.
The editor, Henry A. Sanders, thinks

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

it probable that the two leaves ‘‘were
once parts of the same manuscript,
which in that case perhaps contained
the four Gospels and Acts” (as does
P *).% The text is without any spe-
cially noteworthy characteristics, be-
ing, in the opinion of the editor, a
typical third-century text of Egypt.
The number assigned to it is P ©.

Finally, to complete this list of all
the Greek papyrus fragments of the
New ‘Testament which have been
published since 1933, there is a fifth-
or sixth-century leaf from Oxyrhyn-
chus, acquired in 1928 by Robert
Garrett, a banker of Baltimore, and
containing some verses from the
Epistle of James (2:16-18, 22-23, on
one side, and 2:24-25; 3:2-4, on the
other). The owner deposited the frag-
ment in the Library of Princeton
University where it was edited in
1936 by Edmund H. Kase, Jr.” As
was mentioned above, this leaf has
had the singular misfortune of having
been assigned two different numbers,
P% by von Dobschiitz and P™* by
Eltester.

Along with this confusion of num-
bering, the fragment offers an inter-
esting opportunity for detective work.
A Greek numeral on each side of the
leaf indicates that it was once pages
29 and 30 of a codex. What pre-
ceded it? Assuming that this codex
contained the Catholic (or General)
Epistles alone, the editor points out
that ‘the fourteen missing leaves
(pages 1-28) would have provided just
enough space (making allowance for
titles) for the three Johannine Epistles
and the opening section of James
(1:1-2:16),” but that “this space
would be insufficient to accommo-
date the two Epistles of Peter in addi-
tion to the missing portion of James.”
In other words, it is likely that this

28 “A Third Century Papyrus of Matthew
and Acts,” Quantulacumque, p. 151. Sand-
ers recognizes that the small size of the leaf
would require some 250 leaves for the four
Gospels and 75 for Acts (ibid., p. 153).

29 Papyri in the Princeton University Col-
lections, vol. 2, pp. 1-3, Princeton, 1936.
GREEK PAPYRI—METZGER

codex presented the Catholic Epistles
in a most unusual sequence, one
which is almost never met with else-
where: I, II, III John, and James.”

Although the fragment now to be
described is made of vellum and not
papyrus, its intrinsic interest and great
importance for one part of the textual
criticism of the New Testament almost
demand that it be included in an
enumeration of the recently published
papyri of the New Testament. Be-
cause of the special nature of the text
of this fragment, a few words must be
devoted to setting forth something
about the origin of an early Christian
document whose suspected influence
upon the text of the Gospels in the
course of their transmission has been
investigated and variously assessed by
many textual critics.

Tatian’s Diatessaron *!

Every attentive reader of the Gospels
has observed that sections in each of
the Four Gospels resemble more or
less closely sections in one or more of
the others. Particularly close in
phraseology are parts of the Synoptic
Gospels. In a day when books were
not produced so rapidly or so cheaply
as today, more than one early Chris-
tian scholar must have lamented the
high cost of separate copies of all
Four Gospels. Although many may
have been distressed about this cir-
cumstance, the first, so far as we know,
who did anything about it was a
Syrian from Mesopotamia, Tatian by
name. Deciding to make a harmony

30 Kase incorrectly supposes that this
sequence is unique; a Sahidic manuscript
at Rome (Propag. Borg. 63) has the same
order, and apparently does not contain any
of the other Catholic Epistles (C. R. Gregory,
Textkritik des Neuen Testamentes, vol. 2,
p- 857, Leipzig, 1902).

31 A staggering amount of literature has
grown up dealing with problems involving
Tatian’s Diatessaron; the most complete re-
cent survey is Curt Peters’ 235-page treat-
ment, ‘‘Das Diatessaron Tatians, seine Uber-
lieferung und sein Nachwirken in Morgen-
und Abendland sowie der heutige Stand
seiner Erforschung,” Orientalia Christiana
Analecta, vol. 123, Rome, 1939.

449

of the Four Gospels, he arranged the
several sections of each Gospel into
a more or less logical and chrono-
logical order, combining phrases pre-
served by only one Evangelist with
those preserved by another. By omit-
ting a very few sections (such as the
genealogies of Jesus in Matthew and
Luke, the former of which traces our
Lord’s lineage from Abraham down-
wards and the latter of which traces
it backwards to Adam), Tatian pre-
served practically the entire contents
of four separate books woven into one.
Scholars have debated at great length
whether the work was composed first
in Tatian’s native tongue, Syriac, or
in Greek. The name by which it came
to be known, Diatessaron, involves a
Greek phrase meaning “through [the]
four [Gospels].”

Tatian’s work became quite popular.
As late as the fifth century Theodoret,
who became bishop of Cyrrhus or
Cyrus on the Euphrates in upper Syria
in the year 423, found that more than
200 copies of this harmony were in
use within his diocese. Because
Tatian had become heretical in his
later life, and because Bp. Theodoret
believed that orthodox Christians were
in danger of being corrupted by using
Tatian’s harmony, he destroyed all of
the 200 copies and put in their place
the separate Gospels of the four
Evangelists. *?

As a result of Bp. Theodoret’s zeal,
and doubtless others like him, today
the complete Diatessaron exists only
in translations of the original. One of
these is a commentary written by St.
Ephraem (who was mentioned earlier
in connection with a Greek palimp-
sest) on the Syriac text of Tatian’s
work, and in which he quoted exten-
sively from the lost harmony. Unfor-
tunately the Syriac text of St.
Ephraem’s commentary has also been
lost, but in 1836 the Armenians of the
Mechitarist monastery of San Lazzaro
at Venice published a copy of an

32 Theodoret, Treatise on Heresies, Book I,
Chap. 20.
450

Armenian translation of the com-
mentary. This has been made avail-
able for the use of scholars who are
not expert in the Armenian language
by a Latin rendering prepared by J. B.
Aucher and edited by Georg Moe-
singer in 1876. Again, early in the
sixth century Bp. Victor of Capua in
Italy found an anonymous Latin har-
mony of the Gospels which he thought
a descendant of that made by ‘Tatian.
The Bishop edited it, substituting,
however, a Latin Vulgate text for that
which he found. Bp. Victor’s work is
still extent in codex Fuldensis, written
at the monastery of Fulda in 541-546.
In addition there are Arabic and
Persian translations, several medieval
Dutch, Old High German, and Low
German harmonies, a Middle English
and two medieval Italian forms of
harmonies, all more or less closely
related to Tatian’s work.

In the light of the foregoing it is not
surprising that scholarly interest was
aroused when it was announced in
1933 that a Greek fragment of Tatian’s
long-lost Diatessaron had been dis-
covered. In an expedition conducted
under the collaboration of Yale Uni-
versity and the French Academy of
Inscriptions and Belles Letters on the
site of the ancient fortress town of
Dura-Europos on the lower Euphrates,
a tiny scrap of the Diatessaron was
unearthed (see pl. 8). Situated on
the frontier of the Roman Empire,
Dura-Europos fell to the Persians un-
der King Shapur I in the year 256-
257. During the few years prior to
that date the Roman garrison within
the city prepared for a siege by
strengthening the city walls; they
threw up against the inner face of the
western city wall a huge embankment
of earth, ashes, and rubbish. Covered
by a layer of mud bricks and later
by the desert sand which eventually
spread over the entire city, various
documents, most of them merely waste
paper, have been preserved from the
elements during the centuries. One
of these is a vellum fragment measur-
ing 3% by 4 inches and containing 14

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

imperfect lines of the Diatessaron in
Greek. The date of the roll of the
Diatessaron from which this shred
came must, of course, be prior to 256,
and it may be assigned with certainty
to the first half of the third century.

The text of the fragment contains
the narrative of the coming of Joseph
of Aramathea for the body of Jesus.
A literal translation will show how
words and phrases from all four Gos-
pels are woven together. Since the
left-hand margin of the vellum has
suffered damage, the first half dozen
or so letters at the beginning of each
line are lacking. They can be re-
stored, however, with almost perfect
confidence. In the following render-
ing the restorations are enclosed within
square brackets and the modern
Scripture references (which are not,
of course, in the fragment) are en-
closed within parentheses.

“[... «dhe mother of. the sons#or
Zebadjee (Matt. 27:56) and Salome
(Mark 15:40) and the wives [of those
who] had followed him from [Galile]e
to see the crucified (Luke 23:49b-c).
And _ [the da]ly was Preparation; the
Sabbath was daw{ning] (Luke 23:54).
And when it was evening (Matt.
27:57), on the Prep[aration], that is,
the day before the Sabbath (Mark
15:42), [there came] up a man (Matt.
27:57), be[ing] a member of the coun-
cil (Luke 23:50), from Aramathea
(Matt. 27:57), a city of Judea (Luke
23:51), by name Jo[seph] (Matt.
27:57), good and rif[ghteous] (Luke
23:50), being a disciple of Jesus, but
se[cret]ly, for fear of the [Jew]s (John
19:38). And he (Matt. 27:57) was
looking for [the] kingdom of God
(Luke 23:51b). This man [had] not
[con]sented to [their] p[urpose]...
(Luke 23:51a).”

Evidently Tatian went about com-
posing his Diatessaron with great
diligence. Probably he worked from
four separate manuscripts, one of each
of the Gospels, and, as he wove to-

83 The fragment was edited by Carl H.

Kraeling in Studies and Documents, vol. 3,
London, 1935.
GREEK PAPYRI—METZGER

gether phrases, now from this Gospel
and now that, he would cross out these
phrases in the four manuscripts from
which he was copying. Otherwise it
is difficult to understand how he was
able to put together so successfully a
cento of very short phrases from four
separate documents.

The most spectacular reading pre-
served in this fragment is near the
beginning. Although it rests partly
on a restoration, and although none
of the translations of Tatian which
were known hitherto exhibits the
reading, it is probable that Tatian
referred to “the wives of those who
had followed” Jesus from Galilee.
This statement and the information
which it conveys are without parallel
in the text of the separate Gospels in
any manuscript or version.**

Not long after the Dura fragment
was discovered another leaf believed
to be from an ancient Greek harmony
was edited. It is a page from a
papyrus codex acquired by Professor
Carl Schmidt in 1937 in Egypt and
placed by him in the Berliner Staat-
lichen Museum. It measures only 4
inches high and 8% inches wide, and
at least one half of the page has been
lost. The editor dates the fragment
at the turn of the fifth or sixth cen-
turies. Although the text is from only

84 Another minor difference is the absence
of Matthew’s characterization (27:57) of
Joseph as “a rich man.” The Arabic and
Latin forms of the Diatessaron do not omit
this trait. Have they added it to complete
the harmony? Did Tatian have some sort
of special antipathy against wealth?

85 Otto Stegmiiller, ‘Ein Bruchstiick aus
dem griechischen Diatessaron (P. 16,388),”
Zeitschrift fiir die neutestamentliche Wissen-
schaft, vol. 37, pp. 223-229, 1938.

451

one Gospel (it is Matt. 18:32-34;
19:1-3, 5-7, 9-10), the editor was led
to suspect that it goes back to Tatian
because of the presence of so very
many unusual variant readings within
so few verses, many of which agree
with readings in the Latin, Arabic,
and other forms of the Diatessaron.*®

Conclusion

The study of the Greek papyri of the
New Testament is part of the work of
the textual critic. His work is funda-
mental to every other Biblical or theo-
logical inquiry. Before a text can be
interpreted, systematized, or applied,
it must first be made available in as
pure a form as can be recovered.
Moreover, besides being absolutely
basic, the work of the textual critic is
also more permanent than that of
many other theological scholars.
Unaffected by the ebb and flow of
philosophical tides and the changing
winds of doctrines, the painstaking
labor of an accurate collator of Biblical
manuscripts remains a lasting con-
tribution to scholarship. In this field
“the harvest truly is plenteous, but
the laborers are few.” ,...

36 The veteran polyglot investigator of the
Diatessaron, Anton Baumstark, agrees with
the opinion of Stegmiiller; see his ‘‘Ein
weiteres Bruchstiick griechischen ‘Diates-
saron’ Textes,”’ Oriens Christianus, ser. 3, vol.
14, pp. 111-115, 1939 (he is not yet convinced
that Greek was the original language of
Tatian’s harmony). On the other hand,
Curt Peters, “Ein neues Fragment des
griechischen Diatessaron?” Biblica, vol. 21,
pp. 51-55, 1940, maintains that, although
the Berlin fragment may show the influence
of the Diatessaron, it is not itself a descendant
of Tatian’s harmony; so also in his ‘“‘Neue
Funde und Forschungen zum Diatessaron,”
ibid., vol. 23, pp. 68-77, 1942.
i. ae SO

=
kG! (ists: He Sy Vee

Sey pels erty bemite var) Bina iit oer

| Te EE» “aevel Fagy'ie ee gar nmey yp eva

Ah art Se t-  Fraceeh aT ede, Theat
nf) Pe oe eee Sa? pp rery: fae

oe tbae ar Lowey ey ret hf CR Peele

% oe [at “eae car: a a | ag | Sour a ir trod

hier: cad ulead ) Tasos 1th eeRiP

;

afi. Arigna 3a
Rh :
BORA oy p elk ‘x See gaa
Creda) tates kh) Ay NO, Teese fie war Mage

4 , . , , ; f Sebo y
vr, its iby j } reer pe, Of fi ij i “) Aha tea ee liats 5, is bee A
; . 7 ld a”) S ae
it : ¥ ] i] LAAT stl “aita¢? ue i ta at
iF an ee cane ton ar 7 3.4 Vai
Tay : ‘ 5 on : hepa }
a Leeacieh Ok ae Up + esa ti} fair Aras oe Mee Tay \

re F ae weet ; ” iy} : v¥s tn! xl A ii : ere libiaGin fii “a
, ’ ee ae : + S27 Ae ae “ 7 F 7 ;
: ; é ia OCLs Va ‘be &

7 Ls war
Ts hal fe i" Ci teat bie! ay, sits
spel bs : ci 7 if 4 Beane a Lstigte inGATiv; Re Pine Z

i + vee ies bs, ea tele ea Heth he 1a) shales {34 at 1
to) ok i 13: !

j " ; Ce
, Dba iJ eka) raya OLOoOUs a :
j 1%. ot? r i >
ie (fasteu. 4 ji "ny res f nibh Pega
i‘ ' ee vdeo aha bisier jones iy swes
J : et a5 rs z a
? ee 3 ix.
ano ve OU aE
igi] , se
5 “Tt tc ia ie a
sue rll: Fee eaals ee
ai) re ‘4
ij ' wi ak rep be # prec
. a4 . 4 -
yo nis bo PEL rit ia
BLE LA oe i 7 14 or i *
Jit pie = oleae, A
4 ee Loe Pe 2th) SUBer ore
i ae *), -e
fous varie har ie Lees et ee, 1 1 Sb eteata. IE sw Sy
BAY ASSN iri ACY oe Tks s(CRAR CE TAN i ilbiciz 1) IU a
a eee gang |B cite’ gf : 7. art aa
a eee eile vies VRURS teh! eler echt a guienp des:
<valty id} (eo b> Were ye rreu
; -
avi . #
ore ay a At 4ths, FAA aca
vet) » Ae A &) giortaxtietak
Ficsed Airis . seclastlt DEE bath oth
+ $fisicx torr gi: roar
MOAT. stoi? os ede by
Qeltiis tert wis tide Clie rte AGRA: &
dihod aut henton th eect Shiney liege Vi
aT) BARI S win Soi siv ee ake
pay shlo mie Gone 14 a St ot!) Oe yer
nity wl erty vam, ot eee
: CLE; ‘SeCH Cia
‘
» “+ -
; j A eT) © ay
-

Pe eo

7 yoo Openiine aya lie
Jo 91n{Ysuy [e

MIO 94} JO Asaqinoy))

-Iod SuluBaUT fyoRit

L ALW1d

Tl

TTT

}

UM plomM UBIdCAS A 1
{ 10} pIOM Yoo1

9} ULOIJ [BI19} BUT FUTAIIM JO OINQORINUBUT [BAOI 9} 0}

{2 Jo Arvuol
p1OM Ys

CoszeRdIqC Jo Aq
BULMOJaI IOYYVI I

198Z}2]\ —"9b5] *‘qaoday ueruosy yg
Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Metzger PLATE 2

a ‘
on eae POE VALOR CON ATRUOE, I CUTE DAGS QUOTED ae 2s owe
yor DA ROLE AY Nis ee ee IS AQLIR TE tie
; rr hare OC DAS’ ADG dts Ol sMNand+f&
pat BND y, sh Sade: Tt ad Jeb ALL. ta. ”
me sine ccna mad Jane AP PNY, Corre irs
prep ay eee Sz ners sd savi»sro
RUNS roms DiS NGS Lib g spor! Abiok dye) 8
cast ah cy ner Nee: peveecsael ’ ees. eae ey) .
a cree ral . <a

ce lormet Pu) dsb o'd dit aT Shee

ti ap ovis pire few VNU aL dere a Fo. ATT UME ay
4S “ON fad ead. nek he Di .«: Rota bie ba err FT
mis a )} M5 ws} Ai (35 nao’! < Arey a ONC mE \i

aa wot eles AKLIAGQIAC

NI \quivadper sume sa3@: CaN ery art APSR AMPHL +
SULT peice a aS agi ai bbe dt dps

CQotaige

ae re hog nekaM Yann trogen Ac Isa PeAg os yond 09 Ody
fod ax yeas HePeR ane Wh ate Baal tinenes,
nal Carnet CePA Ca 1th PAP GAR RHA CPR *

GS A Beet Seg pag ips ‘lod ta e>| RW 12m. MOL.

aay ieee TA i ean 1
es cet Ye ip Sa oR ep ee
aes ‘ ‘Vea tins bap Bie ied rey: EK 1 asap Rn oebh ute
“4 epee PN ay ei! sq: tg Bie a
seh a ees MM AACE AM de SMEPAC PGth
a Co A ktyhetey oF zamena “ANS Sner: fr ees
Bs iy kf wpa wi.
Fu Veoed Oy Raga ES sR rer pow AJ bey ooeerceer gee a
serps Gaia geet heed ap 2 1s | rer NEE DN EAP
wen aye 384 i- 3 (3 I< 72 HT ES pi RRS hh ‘
SRB aSIg A SORIA c, ) VE EZ eam bo
"i ‘tes GROW SRG TE tethe borm 44.8 - -poigrh

at st al) nid’ 2 Bho OTE *
} AB nt: 1d Gia.
wl ~ “apy WAS & pny ee ane eh

poaba yg

ae vata a bear AY Tana tyees :
VN anarpe Lem 28 SHS oS a a oats SP: ba aS Minibasy-e,

Sivageda emp ye ato raiered |
é. ong oi *? ivan eroded Sg

. A there 19 ros
25 abr mate a0, ihe, OA Sen sao

ee ‘

A page from codex Ephraemi rescriptus. The uncial text of the Bible was written in the fifth century but
later was almost totally effaced to provide writing material for a twelfth-century transcription in minu-
scule script (which is upside down) of some treatises of St. Ephraem. (From Henri Omont, Facsimilés
des plus anciens Manuscrits Grecs, pl. III, Paris, 1892.)
Smithsonian Report. 1948.—Metzger PLATE 3

Prof. Ernst von Dobschiitz, who succeeded Caspar René Gregory in the task of assigning official numbers
to newly found manuscripts of the New Testament. (From Erich Stange, Die Religionswissenschaft
der Gegenwart in Selbstdarstellungen, vol. 4, facing p. 31, Leipzig, 1928.)
Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Metzger PLATE 4

Ay

om

' , ° \
laine mea

> np rUpe cr TOpOp. are U EYSY FO Ow
Karndolweroye 7 Sas PX 7
op

Illumination and text of the opening page of the Greek Gospel Lectionary 303, dating from the eleventh or
twelfth century, now in the Library of Princeton Theological Seminary. The ornament, typically
Constantinopolitan, is delicately colored with red, blue, green, yellow, and gold which have lost but little
of their original brilliance. The gold title reads: ‘‘The Gospel of the Holy and Great Sunday of Easter,
from the [Gospel] according to John.’”’ Then follows the pericope regularly read on this day, John 1:1-17.
(A collation, prepared by the present writer, of the text of the Gospel lections for each day of the ecclesi-
astical year, called the synaxarion, is available on microfilm in the libraries of Princeton Theological
Seminary and the Divinity School of the University of Chicago.)
CTI6T ‘uopuoT ‘og ‘d Zupory “Ysvq JUsIOUY 9} WOW YYSIT ‘uURUISSIAC JJOPY WOly) ‘OMTeO ‘a[VJUOIIO oISO[O9YDIY,p sTeduBl gy
ynqyysuy ey} Ul MON ‘dvoy ysiqqni oy} WO poseafvs A19}}0d UseHOIg UvY} [CMOJVUT ZUIIWIA J9140q OU P1OYe pfnod sy 4eyy
Jood os Juvsead uvysiyO 8 Aq AIN}Ud) YIUGAS 9Y4 UT U9} A[QVqolg °J OL:7Z OAN’T YIM poqtiosur 4dAsy toddgQ woI uosesjso

G 3ALV1d 4193Z]2]\]—"Qp6| ‘140dey ueiuosyzWIG
Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Metzger PLATE 6

: ra
OM DAOL PY EhEY COMAY ey

MAC OY }e i
Y AVAVOV ICT toawat pe Poy Aba as

‘

= y

& Ke yy KE

Tyee TERT Mey ovrthice Cyt 1 U9. PCAL GDA
EN 24 erty

2X MAY © eb Rh Salam pepe OPO alot TON

~~ -

O? 4 3 Ni ap ¥ COs oD TO TRUOWM De nag — Gory PLT WKS
c

EMATHY OY ArT»
Tepoyrwsr “TUPOCRER TS Ay
ATOM PENN TAS YK AERIAL TOPE
Y BAC A TAB EAMMATOOSP ORE OS THCY PH
NH CLETOTTAN PEN WOR OA ENE EE
BI v WAL CE PHP US 6S At KAD AY wey a Lee * RINKL
SOY RAR ITORNTY PUAHY KPT KT Ax 8B. es
ay THay orem ay Ot} oMbare Rrecsepore CESARE! :
rR MSA Ory “RAM SPROE EM TOS WAI” HA TAF: sor ae aS
radwrirere dart ae Fea Beat re BREE
NY WRT AY: Oy. yey TROL RN Re oe: roa eae iat oe
TMT AC OMIA Ftw PC OEN TOC LON TES: P Be ee
UY PY ws OSA Sigg RSE ESS ae
AMR Oe Cpa eCry PATI a are dice
TTHALAS Renders y ee ee Sa eS
LORVTRE EIKNKRUACT: Rees - a TS AE ag
TPhet BREW NCOC EN KY AS t :
Pt D> ercher c.. aye »{ G45 54
FE Ty PPP aT 1 ek PAP

PAOD ETT aR!

A leaf from the earliest known copy of Paul’s E pistles, the Chester Beatty Biblical Papyrus II (P 46), dat-
ing from the early part of the third century. This leaf contains the text of Romans 15:30-33: 16: (23) a
sequence not found in any other witness. The horizontal lines extending over groups of two or three-
letters mark the customary contractions of the nomina sacra, that is, the names of the deity and similar
words. (From H. A. Sanders, A Third-Century Papyrus Codex of the Epistles of Paul, facing p. 35,
University of Michigan Press, Ann Arbor, 1933.)
Jojsoyounyy ‘ooo1dstuoy ‘Todsory YINOT oy} Jo JuoUIsRIT poystqnduy Uy ‘swoqoy “HO Wolly) “WUWourejsaL MON oyy JO Yoo Aue
UMOUY JSIP[O oy} SULog ‘OST PUB OOT U9aAjoq A[QRqoid Ud}ITLM ‘UYOL 0} BUIP1OINB [ods04) oY} JO xo9poOd B UOJ] JRO, AIBJUIUISBI B JO Si

1S OM) oqL

*OJDIY

CNSWAC
sa 5, ae
exe 7
= ey Pr
Ke . v eng.
Dos Ts wast
ie. otsuji bee ey jut
itd eRe
|

‘ . }

ZALV1d 193Z739|\J—"8p6| ‘40day UeruOsyyIWIG
Cez6r ‘sted ‘AX ‘1d
‘selly ‘(€%-Z26T) Sodoiny-vinog op se[iMog “WWouNnD zURIY WIOLY) °99783 94} JO YIIOU Yoo[q A410 B UB SSO] [[BA IOLIOJUL 9} VdIOJUTOI 0} Posn 9[QqnI oY} UL PaloAodsip SBM
MWOIBSSO}VIC, SHOW] 3,URIYB], JO JUOUISBIJ WAIN][OA VY *L¢7-9GZ Ul BISJog JO JT ANdvyg sury o10joq [[9J YOY ‘sodoing-BiN JO [[VM W1o}soM OY} UL YVH BIATHTVY OY} JO MOTA LOTIOIXA

|
|

8 ALV 1d 123Z3}2J\J—'Qpo} ‘Woday ueruosyzwg
Japanese Art—A Reappraisal’

By Rosert T. Pang, Jr., Assistant Curator, Museum of Fine Arts, Boston

[With 4 plates]

Most westerners are inclined to see
in Japanese art a mere reflection of
influences from the art of China. The
Chinese, on the other hand, feel that
Japanese art is disagreeably different.
Common sense should indicate the
natural conclusion that Japanese art
is something distinctive, that its roots
may have been transported from
China, but its blossoms have developed
a new variety in a new environment.

The seventh- and eighth-century
Japanese became fully aware of the
greatness of China. At the same time
they realized their own national unity
and power. They analyzed and imi-
tated the Chinese administrative
organization. They adopted ideas
wholesale. In name they sought to
follow the Chinese educational system,
but whereas this was one of the demo-
cratic elements in Chinese life, in
Japan it developed into an appendage
of the aristocratic governing class.
The artists of China may assuredly be
grouped together as products of a
rigid university training who, though
they were philosophers, statesmen,
and poets, also became painters. The
biographies of the artists of Japan
reveal origins among soldiers, aristo-
crats, churchmen, and craftsmen.
The last group is in many ways the
most important. Before the days of

1 This article was first written in relation
to an exhibition of Japanese art held at the
Boston Museum of Fine Arts, and was pub-
lished in the Bulletin of that Museum, vol.
46, No. 263, February 1948. It is here
revised for a more general public.

the direct imitation of Chinese insti-
tutions the artisans in Japan were
organized into hereditary corpora-
tions. These craftsmen were made to
fit into the feudal system of the Japan-
ese. Their knowledge was that of
technique and medium rather than in
profundity of thought or charm of
sentiment. When called upon, they
illustrated the highest ideals of the age
of their patrons, but they could seldom
be classified as scholar-officials. Their
traditionalism was handed on from
generation to generation.

The first important history of Far
Eastern art, Fenollosa’s “Epochs of
Chinese and Japanese Art,” was
written at a time when artists of the
Kano family were still living in Japan.
Fenollosa saw that there was a con-
tinuous tradition from his friend Kano
Hogai back to the days of Wu Tao-tzu,
the most famous Chinese artist of the
eighth century. Here wasa single line
stretching back for more than a thou-
sand years. The school descends from
the earlier ink monochrome painters
of the fifteenth century, who in turn
had done their utmost in Japan to
revive the glories of the Sung period
(960-1260) of Chinese art.

But, in the very study and apprecia-
tion of this backbone tradition which
runs through the art of both China
and Japan, much that is being praised
today was omitted or undervalued by
Fenollosa. This is particularly true of
the later periods of Chinese art when
the so-called literary man’s art flour-
ished. This school was influential in

453
454

Japan, too, in the eighteenth and nine-
eenth centuries. These developments
in China and Japan seemed to
Fenollosa ‘“‘to lie below the level of
mention.” 4

On the other hand, the comparative
scarcity of paintings belonging to the
native Japanese tradition, types of art
which, if their origin can be found in
China, cannot be said to have devel-
oped there to any corresponding
degree of importance, was not a result
of inadvertence. Works of the medie-
val period, when this school was most
predominant, have the intrinsic rarity
of age.

The disproportion in quantity
between the paintings of the “‘native”’
school and the ‘‘Chinese”’ school has
facilitated the erroneous opinion that
Japanese art is a mere imitation of
Chinese art. Such medieval scrolls
as the Burning of the Sanj6 Palace
or the Kibi’s Adventures in China
(details in pl. 1, figs. 1 and 2) are of
immense importance not because they
are especially old or rare, but because
in them can be appreciated the art
traditions of Japan when Chinese
influence is not apparent.

In examining paintings of this class
two facts stand out. They deal with
history, fiction, biography, or some
combination of these themes. They
depict figures generally in lively
action and exhibiting a wide variety
of emotions. The interest created by
the artist for his audience begins and
ends with the human being and his
emotions. This illustrative and figure
art stands in marked contrast to the
figure-in-landscape setting which dom-
inates Chinese academic art or to
the staid figure compositions which
deal with Chinese moral or historical
subjects.

The Japanese point of view is nar-
rative and not philosophical, and the
story-telling element is accompanied
by incidental humor, lively detail,
and a keen perception of the sub-
jective relationship of one figure with
another. To enhance the rendering

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

in pictorial form active line work is
enriched by strong color.

This same tendency reaches its
climax in the popular prints of the
Ukiyoé School. The productions are
plebian and limited under the feudal
regime to subjects which deal with the
pleasures of life to the nearly absolute
exclusion of any content which could
have a political interpretation. With-
in this restricted field is the same
characteristic of active line, strong
color, and human interest which had
expressed itself in the Yamatoé paint-
ings of the medieval period. Indeed,
many of the later print artists prefixed
the words Yamato or Japanese-style
painter to their signatures.

The print by Kiyomitsu (pl. 2,
left) shows a woman dressing. It
is one of those rare subjects in which
the Japanese and Western attitudes
nearly coincide. There is a suggestion
of the physical beauty of the feminine
figure quite apart from the usual
charm of rhythmic drapery line.
The response here subtly evoked
appeals to our emotions, not to our
heads. The interest is direct, not
based on an _ intellectual compre-
hension backed by academic learning.

Between the medieval scroll paint-
ing and the mature print came the
decorative school, another phase which
expressed itself in art forms of purely
Japanese development. The major
works of Kéetsu, Sdtatsu, and KGrin,
which roughly cover the seventeenth
century, present a tradition in the use
of brilliant color, flatly applied in
large areas, which is hardly to be
found in any other artistic heritage.
The use of gold grounds for screen
paintings became common. Both in
physical form and manner of treat-
ment there has been created one of
the great original art traditions which
has graced the culture of a people.

The pair of flower screens by Sdtatsu
(detail in pl.2, right, upper) and the fa-
mous wave screen by KGrin reveal an
interest in nature which seems par-
ticularly Japanese. It would be dif-
JAPANESE ART—PAINE

ficult to find in Chinese art a seascape
thus treated for its own sake. In the
same way these flower paintings are
decorative transcriptions from nature
without any admixture of the animals
or insects which so generally appear in
Chinese paintings of this kind. Again,
the Japanese love of nature, that sense
of joy in the actual world around them,
presents itself without the addition of
elements dependent on a_ foreign
philosophy.

Too frequently the question of the
origin of an art has been emphasized
more than that of the meaning of the
art to the people for whom it
was made. When one considers the
amount of Buddhist art which has
survived in Japan even from the eighth
century and contrasts this fact with
the scarcity of extant Buddhist paint-
ings from Central China, the idea ari-
ses that for long periods the Japanese
were more pious believers than the Chi-
nese. Religious art is definitely emo-
tional. In China its thoughts were
opposed by the dominant Confucian
tradition. Again, one finds in Japan
the emotional preferred to the rational
or philosophic attitude. The great
paintings of the Shingon sect are
difficult for us to appreciate just be-
cause they are dominated by foreign
dogmas about the magical powers to
be attached to word or form, yet these
beliefs harmonized closely with the
ritualistic attitudes common from the
ninth to the twelfth centuries.

In the later Pure Land sects of
Buddhism in Japan in which the
doctrine of salvation by faith, and
faith only, was insisted upon, one finds
a favorite subject of Buddhist sculp-
ture and painting in the descent of
Amida from heaven(pl. 2, right, lower).
His attendant bears a lotus throne,
symbol of the believer’s place in the
heaven in the west. This type can
be traced back to episodic details on
the border of an early Chinese paint-
ing, but as an independent subject
China does not seem to have produced
any rendering so illustrative of single-

817369—49——34

455

hearted faith as do the Japanese repre-
sentations.

In any discussion of Japanese art
as a whole it would be impossible to
omit the influence of the Zen religion.
This was known especially in certain
parts of South China. In Japan its
influence extended through much of
the aristocratic and samurai classes
for centuries. This religion discards
reason entirely in favor of intuition.
Meditation, concentration, immediate
apprehension, the acceptance of this
world as it is, dominate any logical
interpretation of life. The religious
art of Japan furnishes another indica-
tion of the importance of emotion in
the arts which seem particularly to
express Japanese character.

The painting in ink monochrome
attributed to Geiami (detail in pl. 3,
fig. 1) is a type which can be fully
traced back to China, but whereas
the tradition was localized and short-
lived in China, it evoked some pro-
found trait of the Japanese soul and
became for centuries an influencing
factor in the official schools of painting.
Such a painting reflects the thought
of complete religious understanding
in the body of a humble attendant.
Most of the arts of this Renaissance
period can be described as idealistic.
The themes of the painters treat of
Chinese scenes, of compositions in
terms of Chinese philosophy, and of
modes of rendering which have been
stimulated by the study of ancient
Chinese originals in collections which
had only recently been formed.

If this appraisal of the major arts
is true, then the same characteristics
should be found in the minor arts,
too.

The Ashikaga period (1392-1568)
saw the rise and development of the
No dances and as part of their equip-
ment the creation of a new type of
mask. For these, in direct contra-
diction to most of the arts, there is no
counterpart in China. The taste of
the Japanese, unhampered by conti-
nental influence, can here be traced.
456

The masks, carved of wood and
covered with gesso and lacquer, por-
tray characters often chosen from the
traditions of Japan, in plays written
by Japanese authors. In them are
frozen particular features or particular
emotions. ‘The jolliness of age, the
jealousy of woman (pl. 3, fig. 2), the
sorrowing spirit of a ghost are repre-
sented not in the realistic spirit of
western individuality, but in a more
classic balance. A typical human
feeling is weighed against traditional
ethic values whether they be Buddhist
karma, feudal loyalty, or family
responsibility. These sculptured por-
traits of emotional types, often too
subtle for us in the West to recognize
with ease, became in the hands of the
Japanese carver an art form not paral-
leled elsewhere and one also superbly
illustrative of a national esthetic
attitude. The face of the human
being, beautiful, manly, happy, or
suffering, has a worldly value in plays
of ethical content.

On a minor scale the netsuké of
Japan illustrate to perfection the nar-
rative style of figure treatment as
opposed to the more symbolic Chinese
method.

The costumes which the No actors
wore also reveal a taste in elaborate
textiles which for gorgeousness of color,
freedom of patterning, and elabora-
tion of technique mark a distinct
departure from any produced on the
continent. The No robe (pl. 4, fig. 1)
impresses one first by its brilliant color,
next perhaps by the effective quartered
background. Cloud designs are woven
with various colored extra wefts. ‘The
gold waves are done in gold brocading.
The ship sails and pine branches are
long floats of flossy silk. ‘The quarter-
ing effect is achieved by the use of pre-
dyed warps. Sumptuous patterning
is brought about in the ground itself,
in brocading and especially in the
loose embroidery-like floats of bright
silk threads. Technical mastery com-
bined with a feeling for materials gives
a special character to the No robes.

The nationalism of Japan’s so-called

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1948

minor arts has never been questioned
or compared disparagingly to those of
China in the fields of sword making or
of lacquer work. The virtue of a
comprehensive exhibition of many of
the arts of Japan lies just in this fact
that the more varied the arts studied,
the clearer becomes the picture of the
original aspects of Japanese achieve-
ment.

Only after one has analyzed for
oneself the salient Japanese charac-
teristics can one look at works of art
painted by Japanese in the Chinese
manner and perhaps see them with
Chinese eyes, so that these paintings
appear distinctly different. To take
an example, the epitomizing, staccato
manner of Naonobu (detail in pl. 4,
fig. 2) reveals a tenseness of approach
which runs counter to the attitude so
often expressed about Chinese
pictures—that painting is poetry and
poetry painting. It is the emphasis on
and the interest in visualization which
gives a peculiar charm and power to
these sages. Ink values, reduced
nearly to dark and medium tones,
become a mode of interpretation. The
imagination which produced these
values is close cousin to that displayed
by the great decorative school painters
of Japan.

For a long time people have tried to
explain Japanese art in terms of
Chinese culture. The art of any na-
tion which has had a true renaissance
period may justifiably be compared
with that of its prototype, but are the
arts of Italy belittled because there
was a time when the arts of ancient
Rome or of Greece seemed of para-
mount importance in forming a new
style? If one insists that only a people
who have produced a great philosophy
can produce a great art, then perhaps
it would be possible to claim a superi-
ority for the art of China. Yet to all
who believe that art itself is a kind of
vitalizing intuition, the art of Japan
will appear in its proper original
aspects and will measure against the
other great art traditions of the
world.
Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Paine PEATE 1

1. The Burning of the Sanjo Palace (detail). Thirteenth century.

2. Kibi’s Adventures in China (detail). Twelfth century.
Smithsonian Report, 1948.—Paine PLATE; 2

Left: Woman Dressing After a Bath. Kiyomitsu (1735-1785). Right, upper:
Poppies (screen, detail). Sdtatsu (died 1643); lower: Amida and Twenty-
five Bodhistattvas (detail). Thirteenth century.
“AINJUOD YYUSZYSIo oJVT “BAUUBY—YsSRI *Z *(Aunjuod YJUoe}JY) Turetory = ([IBJop) NYOWLL *T

8 ha

3LVvV1d
auled—"gp6| ‘Woday uetuosyziUG
‘(O¢9T-LO9T) NqouoeN
‘((rejep ‘usvedds) [ Og °%

ET: ees

y ALV1d

“AIN}U9) YAU} YS

“([IBJop) VqoL ON “T

suled—'gr6l ‘quoday ueluosyzIWig
INDEX

A
Page
Abbot, Charles G______ ix, 121, 123, 124
(The Astrophysical Observa-
tory of the Smithsonian
Imstiguiion) aes 167
Abbott. Lucker! 02 fx2oce2 2 vi
Abbott, W. L., fund expeditions__ 20
PNG CESSIONS oo oo Noe ees ee 15,

25, 39, 40, 41, 45, 83, 96, 127
Bureau of American Eth-

NOLOGY ee SA = ee 83
Freer Gallery of Art__-_---_- 45
Wibranye oJ aees ape et ee 145, 147
National Air Museum__---_-_- 127
National Collection of Fine
PPG Se Be jt 05, 0 ge ae Bos ee 30, 40, 41
National Gallery of Art_-_--- 25
National Museum__---__-_---- 15
National Zoological Park _ __- 96
ACKER We h. Doo once ts. ee viii, 131
Administrative accountant of the
Institution (Thomas F. Clark) __ Vv
Age of the earth, The (Holmes)__ 227
Aldrich, Loyal B., Director, Astro-
physical Observatory____----- ix, 126
Aldrichy William ‘Tes 2 55-22 2._ 39
Algal pillars miscalled geyser cones
(Brown) Pee oe ee ere ee 277
SN Src Ta 6S ae et a be
American Historical Association,
TODOLLGtess oes es ee Se 154
JN STGD RES pos Oe a ee vi
Antarctic Development Project___ 19
Appropriations___ 5, 24, 93, 127, 144, 154
Canal Zone Biological Area__ 144
National Air Museum__-____-_ 127
National Gallery of Art_____ 24
National Zoological Park ____ 93
Printing and binding_____~__- 154
Smithsonian Institution _ - -_- 5
AT CLOWsits JOT Pengo 2 oe oe ec 123
Army, Department of the__-_---- 31, 60
Army Medical Center_________-- 20

Page

Arnhem Land, expedition to-_--__- 19

Arthur lecture, Fifteenth —_--_-- 6, 393
Assistant Secretary of the Institu-

tion’ @Wohnb: (Grats 2 v, 4

Assistant Secretary of the Institu-
fon Welaekeddy,) 2 se — ae Vv
Astrophysical Observatory._- ix, 10, 121

Division of Astrophysical Re-

ET eYSY a(S) 0 Os ena eg er We AS 121
Work at Washington___. 122
Work in the field______-_ 123

Division of Radiation and

Oreanisms=s 6 == ee 124

Rublications==25-= 5-4. 42== 126
RORObUE =. 4 eee HPA
Stalin se obs cae see ee ix
Summary of year’s activities_ 10

Astrophysical Observatory of the

Smithsonian Institution, The
(AbDOD e235 <seeeeee ea 167

Astrophysical Research, Division
Ol meee oe see eee ix, 121
Atomic Energy Commission---- -- 20

Atomic energy in _ industry
CWrinne) © 22 ace, at Se ili 6?

Attorney General (Tom C. Clark,
member of the Institution) _----- Vv
Australian Commonwealth-_------ 19
AveryiolsA.<o2 222 Pee Se See eae vii
Awi:eAime: Mio: 2s Soho ea vi

B

Barkley, Alben W. (regent of the
ImstitWtion) a= eae Vv
DATNeS Wi ordcs eee eee ee ee vi
Bartsch eau eae see a vi
iBassletw Keio =) So. = Se ee ee vii

(Glacial varved clay concre-
tions of New England)__-- 269
Bauxar J. vOsephe 2s esc o> = (AOA:
Bayer, Brederek M__-= == 2. vi, 19
‘Beach: Jessie: Ge=. 2seness52=2== vii, 17
IBECIB As lisse =o eae ee ee ales ix
458 INDEX

Page Page

Beggs, Thomas M., Director, Na- Cannon, Clarence (regent of the
tional Collection of Fine Arts___ viii, Institution) eo. 222.2] ee ee v, 4, 163
8, 39, 43, 44 | Carey, Charles_____..__._.______-_- vii

Belin, Ferdinand Lammot, Vice Carwithen, B. T., personnel officer
President, National Gallery of of the Institution. =~ 22 eee v
13 Fao ee ER TS Nn Vill, 25, 24 | Cassedy, Edwin Goo. 222222222 viii
‘Bell Robertals 2h ase ee ee ee 64>| "Chace? A. Jr. 2. ee vi

IBelotel bee Deo fen ee vii | Chancellor of the Institution (Fred

Benny ye Ese cee ey a oe vii M. Vinson, Chief Justice of the
Bent. cArthur.@: 2s = nee er vi United\States)/225 22-422 v
Berlin Museums paintings- -_-_-___- ol | (Chapin, Hdward A2-=*2 "22. vi
Bikini Scientific Resurvey__-- 16, 17,19 | Chase, Agenes.-_-_-_ 2-202 eee Vii
Blackwelder, Rib 22252 ee vi | Chestnut, Remember the (Ulm)____ 377

BlakersMEiCr 20s (hebrew Ls vi | Chief Justice of the United States

Bliss, Robert Woods____________ 39, 40 (Fred M. Vinson, Chancellor of
Bliss, Wesley ito eas Tay (ope thes Institution) = 222224 v, viii, 23
Boss, Norman Hi. ire en ee ae vil}. ‘Clark Austin 372° = =2— 22ers vi
Boy ines eee Se eee oe Wiel (Clark. Bou 2. eS eee 121

Bowsher: At. 2s eso eh es vii | Clark, Leila F., librarian of the
Brannon, Charles F., Secretary of Institution== 2 v, 148
Agriculture (member of the In- Clark RoSos 522-220 oss. vi

stitution) sss see as eee Vv
brown, Onn «Nee ses et soe 39
Brown = Meo W 2 eo, rete oe vii

Brown, Roland W. (Algal pillars

miscalled geyser cones)___-____ 277
Brown cit oe ees ee ees 137
BOW Wily er ee area eae vi
Bryant ee. 0 soot ae er viii
Buchanan lees aee ees ee eee vi
Bunn Viaje Ral phew eae 140
Bureau of Reclamation_________-_ 60, 61
Burgess: Charles 22255222 oa 131
Bush, Vannevar (regent of the In-

SEG UGLO MN) eye eee ne ee v, 4, 163
SAS Wit cae. sees epee eee cee vi

Cairns, Huntington, Secretary-Treas-
urer and General Counsel, Na-
tional Gallery of Art___- viii, 23, 37

Caldwell, Joseph’ R.=2_-----2=-- 61, 62

Canal Zone Biological Area__ ix, 11, 137

Buildingss2 eG swiss a eae 142
Hiscalireports2 eae. es oe seee= 144
Improvements made-_--__------ 142
Raintallitablessse= = see 143
TRE DOR a ees ee ee ee 137
Scientists and their studies__--- 137

Studies on deterioration and

COLTOSION Seat ae = a e 141
Summary of year’s activities___ 11
Twenty-fifth anniversary - ---_-- 137

Urgent needsssss= 5. one

Clark, Thomas F., administrative
accountant of the Institution_ v, viii,

4, 141
Clark, Tom C., Attorney General
(member of the Institution)_-____ Vv
Clarke.-Gilmore..D= == 2222 ae 39, 40
Coale; George =. 2>: 22 eee 80
Cochran), Doriss M22 2322 ae vi
Collins, Hi. B.. Jr --- eee viii, 9, 54
Commerford, L. E., chief, publica-
tions division===2= =--2 =e Vv
Compton, Arthur H. (regent of the
Institution) 22224225 52-- 4. v
Concretions, Glacial varved clay,
of New England (Bassler) _----- 269
Congdon; Charles: E._ 2: 2 2222=e = 55
Conger, PauliS:._ 22. 5222 22oeeeeoee vii

Conservation of land, water, and

wildlife, Concepts in (Gabriel-

son) 2.222.222... eee 283
Cook, 0! Fa. = ee vi, vii
Cook; Mrs. Roy Bird. —-* == 22 ——— 62

Cooke, Giles B., Victor A. Ryan
and (The cork oak in the United

States) 2222622 222 355
Cooper, Gustav. A-- === vii, 17, 20
Cooper; Paul-l2--=-- = s-— Glia, (4, 00
Cork oak in the United States, The

(Ryan and Cooke)=> => -==- saa a2= 355
Corps of Engineers.__ 22 ee 60, 61
Crook, Maj. Gerard B---- 22-22 32
Cross, Whitman... =... -2225s=== vii
Cumming, Robert B:, Jro222-2222— 74
INDEX 459
Page | Ethnology, Bureau of American— Page
Cushman, Joseph A__-_----------- vi Continued
@ushmpn) Robert Ajoe..2--22- 2 vi tN ed ee RE CR ER TN viii
D Summary of year’s activities_ 9
Systematic researches-_-~_---- 53
Male, Chester --..----_+-.-,5-- 23,24 | Ettinghausen, Richard_-___- viii, 49, 50
Daugherty, Richard D-_......-. 29" Hinvers, Jaa bag mest Sa a nd SS vi, 19
Daughters of the American Revo- Executive Committee of the Board
lution, report___-------------- 154 of ‘Regents=2_ 25222-2525 v, 157, 163
Davis, Harvey N. (regent of the Members: . se tae ee v, 163
Hnshivduion) 2.2255 oet See ete v, 4 Reports sic oe bet 157
Weardorii,, M.-H__--=—-~----=- = - 55 Appropriations. ____-_-- 162
Prenat: Gs ok mn 3s AR vi, 19 Asaetgue. «80.2 na 161
Delano; Frederic Az. -..-L--.=. 4 7c \t ee es 163
De Noonjeh. M_2---2---2e 202i 123 Cash balances, receipts,
Densmore, Frances--------- viii, 58, 84 and disbursements dur-
Mick; Herbert, W-----=-==-2=-.- 67 ing fiscal year 1948____ 160
Director of the National Museum Classification of invest-
(A. Remington Kellogg) ----~--- Vv Tit cee ee Tay 159
Donaldson, Jesse M., Postmaster Freer Gallery of Artfund. 158
General (member of the Institu- Giftentacc th a ets oe iio 162
POU) ee ea Vv Smithsonian Endowment
Donohoe. sobn COC). see (i FING oe estetcn o oti bee 157
Worseyeiarry Weoeseseok tee 3
ean eee wi 9) 56. 157, 78-79
Dine wi ee Vil. 202) || Hairchild; Davids: =< 25--=252 2 vii
Fawcett, C. B. (The numbers and
E distribution of mankind) ______- 383
BaspyADuGley Uae a 32>), Henega, Pranklin« 22.22.2522. 79
Baseman Donalds. SS G716S) |) wenton. W.. IN2 = soo 46 se—- viii, 9, 55, 56
Bice leer ee ee S2eG00 | weld, Wag 2 abs = eee vi
Editorial division, chief (W. P. MAnANCES 522 See be sol see se ewes 5
STIG) Pe we ee Pe Vv Appropriations =2..62-~=sss=- 5
Eisenmann, Eugene___---------- 140 | Finlayson, John A. and Richard
ldereive As de e's c = tre ae vi IG Re 5 ne an ee 47
swine See SY vi | Finley, David E., Director, Na-
SCAG ee Vie eae ere = errs = Se WO ix tional Gallery of Art.--------- viii,
ZAMAN INS Ga ae se ee 137 23, 24, 32, 39, 40
PCAN ices eee WIT 20) fl] ten Pao aes ook poem oe vii
Basex voles 0a! 27h MOEA 77 | Fleming, Robert V. (regent of the
Establishment, Phe ove oe 262s 3 Institution and chairman of the
Ethnology, Bureau of American__ villi, Executive Committee) -_---- v, 4, 163
9, 53, 153 | Forrestal, James, Secretary of De-
Archives sean so0 taal taste) 83 fense (member of the Institu-
Collections #=242 Meeeas. aaten 83 OD) ee ee es ee Vv
Editorial work and publica- Horsytne., William- He 2-- === 122
GlONSiSs Seb rer ein cee 82°153 | boshags Wa Pee eoe ee: eee vii
Timgtrations vs 2226 otige2 2 82 | Foster, G. M., Jr., Director, Insti-
Institute of Social Anthro- tute of Social Anthropology_ viii, 9, 58
pology=2.. Ssilas. eis: 58.4 Moster James, W,, Jr 2! s_ sate 32
MabTaARY 222 as -oo 82] Fraser;Jdmes:Halscesus-te. see. 39
Miscellaneous____.__----.--- 84 | Freer Gallery of Art_..------ viii, 8, 45
Repertiziton 2's nec. sa 5564 53 Attendances .= eos) eee 48
River Basin Surveys--~-_----- 60 Changes in exhibitions- - - --- 47
Special researches___-------- 58 Collections==- = a2 = sesso eee 45
460 INDEX
Freer Gallery of Art—Continued Page Page
Docent service, lectures, meet- Hess, Prank: U_-__ 21 (emo ae vii
Tae eal uh Brae Vat etka 49 | High-altitude research with V-2
Repairs to collections. __-__- 47 rockets (Krause) = "== 22) aa== 189
Reports. ele etRUbite iy eee A5. |-Hildt Jc Ms 3A ue. ee 123
WS Gen Rie 2 ee oe CET ad oe vill, |, Hobson; Dorothy==2=* 22s. 138
Summary of year’s activities__ 8:|) Holmberg, Allan: =— =" oe eee ee 59, 60
Friedmann, Herbert_---~-------- vi | Holmes, Arthur (The age of the
Garth) 2202 Ao ee eee ee 227
; - ; Hopkins, VA) 227 eee vi
ee i ihe us HosttPer] tc hole =e ee 140
are ae eee, 9g3 | Hoover, William H__ ix, 10, 121, 122, 124
Garber PVEiss iL. A ix, 21 Howard, J. D., Treasurer of the
Gazin .OGIMOT « croak, TNE! << vii, 20 Institution__--~-------------- y,
Gazin--Hhsabeth®hHeouss. wae see viii) oOwald ub. O22 = eee vi
Gellatly Collection_______-_____- 5 | Howell, A. Brazier. -...%¢ 923322 vi, 139
Genes, The evolution and function Howell, Mrs. A. Brazier_________ 139
Of (Sturtevant)== see ee 293...) Hughes; Jack (iho 22 = See 74, 75
George, Walter F. (regent of the Hurst; C. fel eae 68
Institution)2-2= 2-2 22232222; Vv
Gilbert, William Harlen, Jr. (Sur- I
viving Indian groups of the Mle. atinecet na ee vi
eastern United States)---_-__-_ 407 | Indian groups of the eastern
Glacial varved clay concretions of United States, Surviving (Gil-
New England (Bassler) --- ---_-- 269 bert).2iocc ee 407
Glance, Grace H_____---_---- aa vi | Insect control investigations of the
Glaze, Francis W. (The optical Orlando, Florida, laboratory
glassindustry, past and present). 217 during World War II (Knip-
Godwin, Blake-More___________- oo fngyes se 331
Gottschalk, Fred W..s..-...... 189 | Istute of Social Anthropology=_ sqaie
Graf, John E., Assistant Secretary Pgh he " , 58
of the Institution___.....--+ v, 4, 141 EGsiomtin 58
Graham DiC re ewe A ese vi Ve oer ie 59
Greek papyri of the New Testa- Pere. ee 59
ment, Recently published Publications.__________ 60, 82, 154
(Metzger) --...--------------- 439 Washington office_____-___-_- 58
(Greenes(Charlesmi 22 a ee vi :
Cuca Cuneo asl viii Interdepartmental Committee on
s Scientific Research and Develop-
H Ment. 2-2 sees = eee 3
Halli Robert We eat ae le 77 Interior, Department of the== = 60
Handley, Charles 0., Jr________- 19 International Exchange Service. ix, 10, 85
: oe Foreign depositories of gov-
Harrington; Jonni es viii, 9, 54
é ernmental documents _ - __- 86
LBL Abraham J_------------- ee Foreign exchange agencies___ 90
Senge . Kies SA SEG ie aes . Interparliamentary exchange
Haught, Osean .c 382-2.) 55 hs 1 of the official journal______ 88
Henderson, Hho 42 NS cea te Vii Packages received and for-
(American meteorites and the warded 22.205 ee ee 85
National Collection) - _ --_- 257 Report... .-.= =.= ee 85
Hermie... Mirssee ate 141 Summary of year’s activities_ 10
INDEX 461
J Page
Page | Lewton)}Bvlies. 22. 200i vii
James, Macgill, Assistant Director, Librarian of the Institution (Leila
National Gallery of Art--_--- viii, 23 P< Clark). 2222222205 Vv
Japanese art—a _ reappraisal Eibrary set: G02 58a sam pilelay 12, 145
(Paine) _--------------------- 453 Bureau of American Eth-
VK fais he ee eee 32 nology = =6 eee tae 82
Jellison, W. L__------.------+-- vi National Collection of Fine
ennimes: Jesse DU. 2b 5. 73 Artateiters.6 Get. take see 42
Johnson, D. H__-----_--------- vi, 19 National Gallery of Art_--_-- 35
Si@hinrOi He Ao ono e ee eae 138 Smithsonian! 22 422s. = 12, 145
Johnston, Marl S---- 5252522 10, 121, 124 ‘AaGésaions. Sf) WoL). 147
Judd, Nel SMe es eee Serer vi Report br Rios ety fs ek A 145
Judson, Sheldon---------------- 67 Summarized statistics_-._ 147
K 1 OFT] am § eA (ce ee eae eee wm ae 8 122
Mano, GaAs. 22oeis Ose. vii
Kainen, J_--------------------- Wale) ocblich Ae. Radnicc. 2. vats vii, 17, 20
Keddy, J. L., Assistant Secretary oening,+Grover__ =) 22 ix, 128, 132
ofthe Institution=—_---------= Vol Toughnan® Doni. 2. ead sebal 138
Kell, Walter V----------------- 140 | Lowe, Frank O., Head Keeper,
Kellogg, A. Remington, Director National Zoological Park _ ---_- ix
of the National Museum- ---- v, 7,22 | Lundberg, Karl R---_-_--___--- 140
Kelly, Isabel_------------------ 59 | Lundelius, Ernest..._._-._--_--- 77
estners tii. ose ete ete viii
Ketchum, Miriam B_______-__-- viii M
Killip, E. P___-------------- vi, vii, 21 | Mankind, The numbers and dis-
Kimball, Fiske - ---------------- 32 tribution of (Fawcett) --_------ 383
King, Edward S___-_----------- 32 | Mann, W. M., Director, National
Kane William’ Sirs. 22s: 80 Zoological Park____------- vi, ix, 120
Kinzer, Maj. Osborn A___---=-.- 14200 “Manning, C.1y. 5. 2.-cc ee ee Vii
iivett; Marvin: Wes 05. le22 2 7Ton76,.70 |) Manship,. Paul. 222 suse. 2 se 39, 40
Knight, J. Brookes_.-2....-22 2. Vila plarvlen dd... 22-225 aan ee vii
Knipling, E. F. (Insect control in- Marshall, George C., Secretary
vestigations of the Orlando, of State (member of the Institu-
Florida, laboratory during World tion) ------------------------ v, vill
Vere Ste? cto. hath Lae 331 | Marshall, W. B_-.-------------- vi
Krause, Ernest H. (High-altitude Martin, G. J-_~.--------------- vill
research with V—2 rockets) ____- 189 | Mayer-Oakes, William_--------- 64
Kress, Samuel H., President, Na- McAlister, E. D_--------------- 125
tional Gallery of Art-__--- viii, 23, 24 | McBride, Harry A., Administrator, _
eriocer at e e N ay National Gallery of Art___---- viii, 23
Krug, Julius A., Secretary of the McBryde, Webster_------------- 60
Interior (member of the Insti- McClure, F, A____------------- vii, 20
CGI GH Pee eens te ee vy | McConnell, Samuel K. (regent of
Weuehnel Irene. 2 on 32 thesnstitution) -2-=2----— 22-2 — v, 4
McKenzie, Gordon F______------ Ciel
Li SET ei Oty ae eee 23, 24
Manm> Gen. Wrank-<--2225- 2252. 130 | Members of the Institution -__-_-__ Vv
Me ADIGy AV ned == eee ae vii | iMetcalftsGeorgest asile 6 Aneaate 76
eonard, H.. C2 sie eeehealas vi, 17 | Meteorites, American, and the
Levorsen, A. I. (Petroleum re- National collection (Hender-

sources of North America) -____
462 INDEX
Page | National Collection of Fine Arts— Page
Metzger, Bruce M. (Recently Continued
published Greek papyri of the Library US. !08 Rise hy J 42
New Testament) __---.---2-2+ 439 Loans accepted_____________ 40
Mexican calendars and the solar Loans returned_____________ 41
year (Spinden)}-22-- --2. +2220 393 Loans to other museums and
Miller, Carl Fo 2-22. --seeter 61, 62 Organiza tionss=2 == ee 40
Miller, Gerrit S., Jr--i.-2-is-022 vi Paintings ‘copied==2==5= ae 42
Miller, to W< oe Joe ee 22s ose vi, 19 Presenvation==2222- ee 42
Milliken, William M____________ 32 Report:=22:2-227-225 2h" 39
Mitman, Carl W., Assistant to the Smithsonian Art Commission _ 39
Secretary for the National Air Special exhibitions__________ 43
WSIS G0 eee eee ix, 22, 136 Summary of year’s activities_ 8
Mohr, “Albert #D2s< ts2te nee = 80 Withdrawals by owners_____- 40
IWIGOTG, 200 hye a ee ele eer 124 | National Gallery of Art_____- viii, 7, 23
Moore, Clara Almas 22220 2 ses 138 IAGGESSIONS 3 eee 25
Moore ja. Perey == -- sso See vi Acquisitions committee______ 24
Moore;/Lamonte.- 42 S292 & 24 Appropriations____-.--____. 24
IMoorehouse, Fred) Hi. - 222222. 2a. 138 Attendances === = == assaaas PAs ae |
Morrison, Joseph Pj B__L. 223. vi; 19 Audit of private funds of the
Morton; iC2Vissn0 sc enieaton teas vi Gallery. 20 ee eee 37
Nuelle;Jorse = S25 38 tae Soe 60 Care and maintenance of
Murray... Ose oe eer ot vii, 21 building: :=+5-==< sae ees 36
Myer, Catherine Walden, fund Curatorial activities__.______ 33
ACCESSIONS 2 ee ee cock aaae 40 Educational program________ 35
Myers, George Hewitt_-_..._.-_- 39 Executive committee________ 23
Exhibitions==<22<222===—e 30
N Index of American Design - __ 35
National Air Museum__----_-- iol D127 Inter-American Office______-_ 36
IAiccessionS=2 22 === 22325. ewe 1382 Library... 4 a eee 35
Acknowledgments_-______---- 131 Loaned works of art returned_ 29
Advisory Board 2—=...-222- ix, 128 Officials: — 325. sees vili, 23
Appropriations >.-228 4222_ Us 127 Organization =.=-*~ 4 St 23
Curatorial activities_____.-_- 130 Other. activities:.£—— 72see= 36
Ebi Dition see 130 Other, gifts 2205. 3222 oe ee 37
Informational services... 181 Paintings from the Berlin
Survey -2s2225-505e-e 132 MUSEUMS tyes. ee 31
Hstablishmentee2 22 o sas a0 127 Publications = = 5. 2" 42 ae 33
ecturessoo 2 so 3 ei Cee a at 132 Reportasos..525--pee eee 23
Planning 24). 2 i a2 oa eee ee 129 Restoration and repair of
Museum site and build- works of art=._== 25 33
TN Se St aegis 129 Summary of year’s activities_ 7
Storage of Museu:n mate- Traveling exhibitions_____-__- 30
yt) Bee ee NS Are a 129 "Prusteest secs tee ae ee viii, 23
| RH 2) 0 0) Ma eae a atalino 127 Works of art loaned___-__--- 29
RGAE Sa ee eae ene ix Works of art on loan_______-_ 28
Summary of year’s activities_ 11 | National Geographic Society _-_--- 19, 53
National Collection of Fine National Geographic-Smithsonian
Arte 4 Go Ae EOLA viii, 8, 39 Expedition ---2 ee 15
Catherine Walden Myer fund_ 40 | National Museum_------- v, 7, 15, 152
Change in directorship - - ~~ ~~ 43 Administrative staff_______-- viii
Henry Ward Ranger fund Changes in organization---- 21
PUNCH ASS eae een eee 41 Collectionsai3 4 20 2322 Ss 15
Information service.__._.--- 42 Exploration and field work-_- 19
INDEX 463
National Museum—Continued Page Page
Publicntions =. 21,152 | Petroleum resources of North
Reporte> (oes th ad oth 15 America (Levorsen)~---------- 241
Scientific shafee. 2000 ene vi | Enillips,;Duncan=_—---2-b-—-2--- 23, 24
Summary of year’s activities_ 7 | Phoble, Maj. J----------------- 140
National Park Service_________-- 60, 61 Pichetto, Stephen S_------------ 32
National Zoological Park__-- ix, 10, 93 Pierce, H. G_------------------ 17
Acquisition of specimens-_--_- 96 | Pierson, Donald---------------- 58, 59
Animals in the Park, June 30, Pittier, Henri ------------------ vi
TAR ER Bw leo tanh oe oe ge t02°| Elimpton, Russell A=- 2-22-2422 32
Appropriations_____-------- 93 | Pope, J. A., Assistant Director,
Births and hatchings_-___---- 101 Freer Gallery of Art__--.-- viii, 49, 50
Depositors and donors and Popham, W. L. (The golden nem-
their pittase ON ah 97 atode invades New York) ------ 349
Txhibite.) Ue. fh esee 95 | Postmaster General (Jesse M.
Nesdat wan ates eit)” oo. 94 Donaldson, member of the In-
Reporbs-222 22222 — 2 93 StIbUbION) pasee ee eee v
Status of collection._______- 96 | Potter, S. L-.------------------ ix
Summary of year’s activities_ 10 | Powers, Maj. Gen. E. M_-___--- ix
Waniorscn: cant alae POT: 94 | President of the United States
Navy, Department of the-_-____- 19 (Harry S. Truman, Presiding
Navy Antarctic Expedition__-_-_- 17 Officer ex officio of the Institu-

Nematode, The golden, invades

New York (Popham)_-__----- 349
ewaian: Vis To se = 5 Soe he te vi
Newman, Stanley==2:2--:-.2.2-- 59
Nutt, Commander David C___-_-- 19

O
Obero Kalervo 2... +s ==. 58, 59
Ochser Pauly. 6 es sak on viii, 152
Officials of the Institution______- Vv
Oliver plows sss So = eee viii
Oliversas sree e282 eee se vii

Optical glass industry, past and

present, The (Glaze)____.__--- 217
Osborne; Douglass. ..-2-0_3.2-. 80
Ospinam Gabriel ==se aan ae oe 59

E
Paine, Robert T., Jr. (Japanese

art—a reappraisal)_________..- 453
Palmer? My Helen = 2 2) 2.2 2 viii, 153
Palmers 0). 25228. s)o2 22255-2250 vi
parker arthur Clee.) fo 24 22 55
Pearce Ws 22255 4-e5ecc ll vii
Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co___ 163
ROTrsy a sES I bie Sh ade ea ets vii
Perny ii. Heo re eee vii
Perrygo. We) M22en3rs =< Wi cs 141
Personnel officer of the Institution

(BE Carwithen)_ = == 8 2s v
Pecerson aN ii= oe 2 fe ae lee vii

tion) ee Sea ees See Vv
Presiding Officer, ex officio, of the
Institution (Harry 8. Truman,

President of the United States) - Vv
Price, Leonard ==. 2..===-:2. ix, 124, 125
Price, Waterhouse & Co__------- 37
Pride, Rear Adm. A. M--.-=---< ix
Publications=22=5>s2222 12, 33, 126, 149

American Historical Associa-

tions ees eae oe BI 154
Appropriation for printing

and: bindinge= == 222222" 154
Astrophysical Observatory_._. 126
Bureau of American Eth-

NOGY 222-25 See eee 82, 153
Annual Report-------- 82, 153
‘Bulletins=23435222 522 82, 154
Publications of the Insti-

tute of Social Anthro-
POC ss 552— 60, 82, 154
Daughters of the American
Revolution=- 2-22 22s 2-o- 154
Distribution === 2" 22—- = 149
National Gallery of Art__-_-- 33
National Museum___-_------ 152
Annual Report==-=22£22 152
Bulletins=2220_ 22122 = 153
Contributions from the
United States National
Herbarium__________- 153
Proceedings. ..-==-_-1~- 152
Reporter sass oa 149
464 INDEX
Publications—Continued Page Page
Smithsonian Institution..__ 12,149 | Roberts, Frank H. H., Jr., Asso-
Annual Reports__-_---_- 151 ciate Director, Bureau of Ameri-
Miscellaneous Collec- can Ethnology, and Director,
tions tes Gackitey shes 149 River Basin Surveys_--- viii, 9, 53, 61
Special publications_____ 152 | Roebling gift---_ ==" == =32e eae 4
Publications division, chief (L. E. Roentgen rays against cancer
Commerford))-— = 12 +5 See Vv (Trump) 2222232224 3 ee 209
Pumphrey, R. J. (The sense organs Rogers)iG. Guo2 27 =. tee vii
Of birds) ass as eee 205 | Rohwer, S Au. .-- 2.2222 =") ae vi
Purchasing officer of the Institu- Rosen, Davisi2o2222- 2 ee 32
tion (Anthony W. Wilding) ---- y | Rourtelot; HA 2 2 eo 18
Pathan Ry Beles vie tk See ae 189: || Rowe, JohnH --_ 7222-22 59
Russell, J. Townsend_--------_-- vi
Q Ryan, Victor A., and Giles B.
Quartermaster General, Office of Sait i Se ee 355
CHG Eee nt ee a eee ee ee 122
s
R :
Saint-Gaudens, Homer_------__-- 32
Radiation and Organisms, Division Sawyer, Charles, Secretary of
Of Sk ET bw SE ced 9 ix, 124 Commerce (member of the In-
Ranger, Henry Ward, fund pur- stitution) <4_“8 2342). Vv
CHASES 2 A427 (eat aed ae ge ee AN SchallerWirte seas ee eee vii
Rawiley Wis Nao. 2 ets rae 50 | Schmitt, Waldo L_..___ =—3 Vi Zito
ReberholtsByObekals 62! Sec te vil | Sehneirla, VC 22222 es eee 137
Rec Ge ee oe Pa ee vit. + SehultzLeonard Bo= ee vi, 19
need. W.. Doyletsco 4-22-2245 140 | Schwartz, Benjamin___-_-_------ vi
Reeside,7J)) Bi dP ke a tee ee wit | Scrimshaw. Nevinioe.--=- === 139
Revsents) Boardiofs 22s 22 224-22 v, 4 | Searle, Harriet Richardson_---_-- vi
Executive Committee_------ Vv; 163° | Secrest; Hes Css2ssss2""-ee eee 139
Reporbe< ne s2isae eee 157 | Secretary of Agriculture (Charles
IMembers=. aos = 8 ee Vv F. Brannon, member of the In-
Proceedings 245 ee 4 stitution) Saco oe eee see Vv
RehdermilaraldeAs- eesti sce ee vi | Secretary of Commerce (Charles
Rich; Daniel’ Catton.) 2 2a = 32 Sawyer, member of the Institu-
Richardson Hdgar iss .s ase 32 tion) se see ee ee Vv
Riddell’ Krancis*Aj.- 22. case. 2 5- 79 | Secretary of Defense (James For-
RiddellHarryeosnols == 80 restal, member of the Institu-
Riggs, Col. 1. Scott. 222-355. 5 32 tion) 32: ee ee eee Vv
River Basin Surveys_ viii, 9, 53, 56, 57,60 | Secretary of the Institution (Alex-
@oloradone 22-52-24 ee 67 ander Wetmore) - ---- v, viii, 4, 22, 23
Cooperating institutions_ - - -- 80 | Secretary of the Interior (Julius
Missourl Basing 223-2234 o22e 68 A. Krug, member of the Insti-
New MexiCOs esse] ee aaa 67 tution) 2.0822 Vv
Oklaghomaees sos sere 64 | Secretary of Labor (member of the
Pacific coast areas. =.=. = THE Institution) 22] 22s. ee Vv
Hl Wf e5. 2 ¥s bpp ete tie oie a ht eres og 3 65 | Secretary of State (George C.
Washington) office: 2212232" 60 Marshall, member of the Insti-
Report of the Secretary of the SUtION) 2 2.32 eee v, viii, 23
Smithsonian Institution _ - — ---- 1 | Secretary of the Treasury (John
Retirement system__-_---------- 5 W. Snyder, member of the In-
Robbins, Hdna: 2226-24 139 stitution) “=. 12. 4 ee v, viii, 23
INDEX 465
Page T
Bellman, John.- 222-2 2us 139 Page
Sense organs of birds, The albert AD Gs 2 sss 8 = vA OIE. xiao
(Pumphrey) 2 2-~- 1 22 sbi. B05) | “aylor* Frank Av 2 = 2-0 37) ee vii, 32
Setzler) Prank'M 222! 2-2-3202 vitro | “Taylor-Wo Wardre oe. te vi
phalkop; Robert.------.-.---22- 62a) Sbhomasy Gr Soe eee eee See ees vii
shepard, Donald -Di=22 2s! 24- 2° 23°}. Thompson; Ws Wee. 2 e002 2). A 68
piippeesd. Mo-.<=-2 co Lies o 10,000) 6 Loman uel hen eee oe 8, 39, 43
Shoemaker C. Reo Se vi | Treasurer of the Institution (J. D.
Sinclair.»Charles C__-.-.-=<.2-< = viii Howard) sn< ss05 = = Ob ae Vv
Sirlouis, J.-mussell_.--22/ 3422 vii | True, Webster P., chief, editorial
SuilunerAge@ 222-2 See Sates vi division =*-2tceesncse noe awe v, 155
Smith. Clarence Hi .....-.-.--<- 79,80 | Truman, Harry §8., President of
ont oyman Bos os vi the United States (Presiding
Smithsonian Art Commission___-- 8, 39 Officer ex officio of the Institu-
Smithsonian-Yale Expedition___-__ 16 Pilon) ets eG att See ae v
Snyder, John W., Secretary of the Trump, John G. (Roentgen rays
Treasury (member of the Insti- againsticancer)': 2") =" 3 209
(ECPILETCO) ) ee ea So v, Viii, 23
Solecki, Ralph S______-_____- 61, 62, 63 U
Soper, Cc C_-.----------------- 140 Ulm, Amanda (Remember the
Spinden, Herbert J. (Moxicone ies ohestnut)\...co2--- 2-2-2 377
calendars and the solar year," | United States Armed Forces Spe-
fifteenth Arthur Lecture) -_---- 6, 393 pial Weapons Proicch. 0k oe 19
Staedeli, Jerry H-------------.- fel United States Public Health Sery-
SUEDE ae Sa er v, vi, viii ;
raped aie MCCS eee se Sa ew ake Pr ae ee 20
IMIUISC UI sets oe vi, viii
Administrative-_-_------- viii Vv
DSCICNtIGGE Heese oe S vi

Smithsonian _..____.._____. y | V-2 rockets, High-altitude re-
Spots. aD | a a vii search with (Krause)___._.___- 189
Stephenson, Robert L__________- 65,66 | Vaughan, I. W.._--_---_..4--2< vii
Stevenson John Aj. 22 25. ee Witt Merville #Alired 2 2c 6e 2325 oa e 131
Stewart) beosG.. = 200. ee 77 | Vice President of the United States
Stewart, Richard_______________ 141 (member of the Institution) ____ Vv
Stewart. © Dales. -...-..-2..-- yi | Vinson, Fred M., Chief Justice of
Stirling, Matthew W., Director, the United States (Chancellor

Bureau of American Ethnology. __ viii, of the Institution) - --__-__- V, Vili, 23
OWi5e55 Sful4ia) Vsitors..-- oe eee 6, 25, 45, 94
Stirling, Mrs. Matthew W_-__.-_- 141 Freer Gallery of Art_------- 45
Stites, Raymond S______________ 24 National Gallery of Art___-_- 25
Stone, Marshall H______________ 139 National Zoological Park____ 94
Stone, Mrs. Marshall H________- 139 Smithsonian Buildings______- 6
Stout, George._..__.-_________- 39 Vorys, John M. (regent of the
Stout, William B___.._________. jx | Institution) ---------------_-- v, 4
Strobell, Lt. Robert__.__.______- 131 Ww
Sturtevant, A H. (The evolution Salute ea -
and function of genes)__.______ 293 2 ‘

: Walker, Ernest P., Assistant Di-
Sullivan, M. P_-—-------------- ce rector, National Zoological Park_ ix
Swallen, Jason R____---_--____- vii | Walker, John, Chief Curator, Na-
Swanton, John R_-___-...----- vili, 84 tional Gallery of Art______ viii, 23, 32
SUT Ah Gad Ee aes epee Vil) Waring A. Jro.--2-.— 2. viii, 84
Switzer, G, Sci eaitesd Jemez. Vin Watkins Ws Nua siiveeces tJ. vii
466 INDEX
Page Page
Wedderburn, A. J., Jro2-=-=--222 Vilv)|\ Williams, ©7320 = 2 22 eee ix
Wedel, Waldo R_-_-------- VION FOr a3 | Wilsons Jo0yCes nee. - 42] === 123
Weintraub, (Holos se se 121).125) | Walson, Mrs, M. S22. 2 fea vi
Wenley, A. G., Director, Freer Winne, H. A. (Atomic energy in
Gallery of Art_-.:.=~-- viii, 39, 50, 51 industry)io=-- 822255 S eee 177
Wenner, David J. dros 64 | Withers; Arnold M.-<-!<-.-45-8 68
Wiest-obert: Coo 2 A eee 59 |) (Withrow, Robert B.---- eters 10, 121
Wetmore, Alexander, Secretary of Wittry, Warren. === _4. 33S oae 77
the Institution=s.-22225— VeVi. viltzix;. | Woods, Li. Pi 23-220 53 eee vi
A 13225233940), 141 | Wright, Orville: 9-2 _-e ees 130, 131
Wheat Joe Bens- =>-s32o-22 5-5 s=5 65
White, Theodore E______- 66, 70, 76, 77
White, Wallace H., Jr. (regent of Yochelson, has 2. 2 -o <2 eee ali!
the Institution) os--J4s22s2 2. v |) Young, Mahonric._... 924555 -5eee 39
Wilding, Anthony W., purchasing Nundt; Gary lis 3455 =a 67, 68
officer of the Institution ------- V, Vili
Willey, G. R__-- viii, 9, 53, 57, 58, 63, 64 4
Williams, D. G., Acting Chief, In- Zetek, James, Resident Manager,
ternational Exchange Service_-_ ix, 91 Canal Zone Biological Area_ ix, 141, 144

O

For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U. S. Government Printing Office
Washington 25, D.C. - Price $2.50
Ss

IMUM

3 9088 0 421 7541

RIE

ON LIBRA

NSTITUTI

HSONIAN |

ll

T

=
o

——

“Eas
aan

ee ee oe ee ca
eee or oe oe ae ee ee ae
La ae a: @ ae oR soe - ae a* Pa
oe & & a a) Ba — ah We ap
¢ # € S ;

ee ee ee ee ee

a al ow ow. 4 a a Sy We a) We ah ak

q- « 6! oe a. Bi he etd aS ah as. E

{al s "aD GB. he wh ah as ae an
| a 8 eo Em 6 aS as ap os a

tata Pct?
Sl SG) Oy a) a ae) Ge eB eb of ap
ae, A a Py Pe, < - fst -" tae 2 ee oe

= _—_ woe Se Se =

on) i = pera ene’ er = seen |
—— 2 — en as
fa png \ er — aS Poe ea
a aca a reo Leet —— 5 . eh — . ~ —
pea | casa - yatal po cle i i

}
qs
4

oer : Ree, mad, F < png 2 ok sees ee! ; —x« .* . af peseetat r

=
he
it
*
fe Ey
Pree a, 7 aya Be te pa ax) pone ioe
comm *% - aa 4 Sigiene ne . & ae . f a .--
. ee rn p— & aon ee eet Bes: S oe

aS

=
_— —_ - — =
ss. = ik SN J -
| ins > ee: . _
. = - — - —
~- —_— - — >
“ - -
~ — re -
_ ~ “ = — —
— — — > —
peony == — —_— ~ — _—
: a < r
= — — — — _— ~
> -_- — + —— ra
> en. _ “ —- me
*
= — — _-~ “a al poo
one — > = _
—~ —_ — — — —— ”
— -— « -— -_—— ps
- <= — — - -
— —~ — = — ~ —
=
3-4 = _ —_ — _ © .
w mens 4 oe =
*
_ * 3

‘
* ‘
= ad x
F s * "
- = .
<
x z «
a.
_— J ~
‘ fe
" D x
q ?
\ ; pe “ $ vs
:
_ bd : =
: m3 . we » ey
y .
—_ 4 a
Re
a &
y
. :
i?
zs : : : 3
:
P
——e .
~ _ - — A "
*
: £
‘
= :
a
‘
* v
: he
Ant
<
ah
“
salt ‘
$
td
Z P ne

