fo sy ae on yep - oy eB

FE a f w4 s Pry 2 2 ® , . , ao 5 hee oe eye
itll wre Fy ra NB a BD as aye | iP ” ee ; : . Be , x. , yA
eee ie ve SS - aad Le — a: ~ my ‘ee 7 ‘ > i an ae ~  ¥ * “hag

i y ‘ y * Sn 2 Seer f Aa fe Ba i ? a ol - % si ; = °. vi ; t ;
a a styl, q i a , . &

CEE LAA Ae
isP , 4 al 4 ie. Ne “i ; i in a ¥ - , a a5
oe» * man oy KS

PULA COON,
i. 4 r 3 . . : 3 y iy Me a y ;

i

Muy eae uae > ne y Pind ¥ <"
i328" «ee oh. oy aan . = od Ry t i, y "
A ak We “fk '? gh i we. ig .
eee 6 Oe ae
“ 4 an a 7 . thas ‘ HF
a x . ar ?
’

is =
4
i
Bis
me {0
k ay 7
.
f, fs
ey
rr
|
i eel
|
on
|
i 4,
|
, 4
f vl
4 prt
f se
oe
by
.
we
; 4
hi |e
vate
ed
Pa

AM
(Ol
13665
NASM

ANNUAL REPORT

OF

THE BOARD OF REGENTS

OF THE

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION
FOR THE YEAR 1871.

WASHINGTON:
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE.
1313:
LETTER

FROM THE

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

TRANSMITTING

The annual report of the Smithsonian Institution for the year 1871.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, April 15, 1872.
Sir: In behalf of the Board of Regents, I have the honor to submit
to the Congress of the United States the annual report of the opera-
tions, expenditures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for
the year 1871.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JOSEPH HENRY,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution.
Hon. 8. CoLFrax,
President of the Senate.
Hon. J. G. BLAINE,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR 1871.

This document contains: 1. The programme of organization of the
Smithsonian Institution. 2. The annual report of the Secretary, giving
an account of the operations and condition of the establishment for the
year 1871, with the statistics of collections, exchanges, meteorology, &ce.
3. The report of the executive committee, exhibiting the financial affairs
of the Institution, including a statement of the Smithson fund, the re-
ceipts and expenditures for the year 1871, and the estimates for 1872.
4. The proceedings of the Board of Regents. 5. A general appendix,
consisting principally of reports of lectures, translations from foreign
journals of articles not generally accessible, but of interest to meteor-
ologists, correspondents of the Institution, teachers, and others inter-
ested in the promotion of knowledge.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

ULYSSES S. GRANT....- President of the United States, ex-officio Presiding Officer of
the Institution.

SALMON P. CHASE ..... Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor of the Insti-
tution, President of the Board of Regents.

JOSEPH HELENE Y.s----.-< Secretary (or Director) of the Institution.

REGENTS OF THE INSTITUTION.

SasP; CHASE: - scot case ens Chief Justice of the United States, President of the Board.
S. COLFAX ...--....--. --- Vice-President of the United States.
HENRY Do COOKE ......2 Governor of the District of Columbia.

L. TRUMBULL ...-..-....-Member of the Senate of the United States.
GARRETT DAVIS. ..---. Member of the Senate of the United States.
EL EVANS EING Soc ee Seek Se Member of the Senate of the United States.
J. A. GARFIELD ..-.....--- Member of the House of Representatives.
eb ROWAN DS so=ctces = Member of the House of Representatives.
Ree sn © ONG eee ate cinie -acle ais Member of the House of Representatives.
W. B. ASTOR........--...-Citizen of New York.

TDs WOOLSDY=s2>-<- 2: Citizen of Connecticut.

L. AGASSIZ ......-...--..-Citizen of Massachusetts.

PETER, PARKER: .c6-- 5-4 Citizen of Washington.

JOHN MACLEAN ........- Citizen of New Jersey.

WILLIAM T. SHERMAN ..Citizen of Washington.

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS.
PETER PARKER. JOHN MACLEAN. WILLIAM T. SHERMAN.

MEMBERS EX OFFICIO OF THE INSTITUTION.

WEES GRAND S222 oe + occ = os President of the United States.

a CON TANG 5 eo ce eae eens « Vice-President of the United States.
SoBe CEASE 22.5 Jace sae Chief Justice of the United States.
JCS IS Higa set es on Sea Secretary of State.

G. S. BOUTWELL ...-..... Secretary of the Treasury.

W. W BELKNAP ....-....-Secretary of War.

Ge M. ROBESON 222-242. - Secretary of the Navy.

J: A. J. CRESWELL...:-- Postmaster General.

Ca DELAN Ostasscc.ocs <--' Secretary of the Interior.

GEO. H. WILLIAMS ...... Attorney General,

MoD: LEGGHDEIR 2... ss. Cominissioner of Patents.

ER COOKE Has ceencec sae Governor of the District of Columbia.
OFFICERS OF THE INSTITUTION.

JOSEPH HENRY, Secrerary,

Director of the Institution.

SPENCER F. BAIRD,

Assistant Secretary.

WILLIAM J. RHEES,
Chief Clerk.

DANIEL LEECH,
Corresponding Clerk.

CLARENCE B. YOUNG,

Book-keeper.

HERMANN DIEBITSCH,
Meteorological Clerk.

HENRY M. BANNISTER,
Museum Clerk.

EDWARD PALMER,
Curator of the Museum.

JANE A. TURNER,
Exchange Clerk.

SOLOMON G. BROWN,

Transportation Clerk.

JOSEPH HERRON,

Janitor of the Museum.
PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION

OF THE

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

[PRESENTED IN THE FIRST ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SECRETARY, AND
ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF REGENTS, DECEMBER 13, 1847.]

[INTE OD eCPLON:

General considerations which should serve as a guide in adopting a Plan
of Organization.

1. WILL oF SmitTHson. The property is bequeathed to the United
States of America, “to found at Washington, under the name of the
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, an establishment for the increase and dif-
fusion of knowledge among men.”

2. The bequest is for the benefit of mankind. The Government of
the United States is merely a trustee to carry out the design of the
testator.

3. The Institution is not a national establishment, as is frequently
supposed, but the establishment of an individual, and is to bear and
perpetuate his name. |

4, The objects of the Institution are, 1st, to increase, and 2d, to dif-
fuse knowledge among men.

5. These two objects should not be confounded with one another.
The first is to enlarge the existing stock of knowledge by the addition
of new truths; and the second, to disseminate knowledge, thus increased,
among men.

6. The will makes no restriction in favor of any particular kind of
knowledge ; hence all branches are entitled to a share of attention.

7. Knowledge can be increased by different methods of facilitating
and promoting the discovery of new truths; and can be most exten-
Sively diffused among men by means of the press.

8. To effect the greatest amount of good, the organization should be
such as to enable the Institution to produce results, in the way of in-
creasing and diffusing knowledge, which cannot be produced either at
all or so efficiently by the existing institutions in our country.
8 PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION.

9. The organization should also be such as ean be adopted provis-
ionally ; can be easily reduced to practice ; receive modifications, or be
abandoned, in whole or in part, without a sacrifice of the funds.

10. In order to compensate in some measure for the loss of time ocea-
sioned by the delay of eight years in establishing the Institution, a
considerable portion of the interest which has acerued should be added
to the principal.

11. In proportion to the wide field of knowledge to be cultivated, the
funds are small. Economy should, therefore, be consulted in the con-
struction of the building; and not only the first cost of the edifice
should be considered, but also the continual expense of keeping it in
repair, and of the support of the establishment necessarily connected
with it. There should also be but few individuals permanently sup-
ported by the Institution.

12. The plan and dimensions of the building should be determined
by the plan of organization, and not the converse.

13, It should be recollected that mankind in general are to be bene-
fited by the bequest, and that, therefore, all unnecessary expenditure
on local objects would be a perversion of the trust.

14. Besides the foregoing considerations, deduced. immediately from
the will of Smithson, regard must be had to certain requirements of the
act of Congress establishing the Institution. These are, a library, a
museum, and a gallery of art, with a building on a liberal scale to con-
tain them.

SECTION I.

Plan of organization of the Institution in accordance with the foregoing
deductions from the will of Smithson.

TO INCREASE KNOWLEDGE. It is proposed—

1. To stimulate men of talent to make original researches, by offering
suitable rewards for memoirs containing new truths; and,

2. To appropriate annually a portion of the income for particular re-
searches, under the direction of suitable persons.

TO DIFFUSE KNOWLEDGE. It is proposed—

1. To publish a series of periodical reports on the progress of the
different branches of knowledge; and,

2. To publish occasionally separate treatises on subjects of general
interest.

DETAILS OF THE PLAN TO INCREASE KNOWLEDGE.
I. By stimulating researches.

1. Facilities afforded for the production of original memoirs on all
branches of knowledge.
PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. 9

2. The memoirs thus obtained to be published in a series of volumes, in
a quarto form, and entitled Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge.

3. No memoir on subjects of physical science to be accepted for pub-
lication which does not furnish a positive addition to human knowledge,
resting on original research; and all unverified speculations to be re-
jected.

4. Each memoir presented to the Institution to be submitted for ex-
amination to a commission of persous of reputation for learning in the
branch to which the memoir pertains; and to be accepted for publica-
tion only in case the report of this commission is favorable.

5. The commission to be chosen by the officers of the Institution,
and the name of the author, as far as practicable, concealed, unless ¢
favorable decision is made.

6. The volumes of the memoirs to be exchanged for the transactions
of literary and scientific societies, and copies to be given to all the col-
leges and principal libraries in this country. One part of the remaining
copies may be offered for sale, and the other carefully preserved, to
form complete sets of the work, to supply the demand from new in-
stitutions.

7. An abstract, or popular account, of the contents of these memoirs
to be given to the public through the annual report of the Regents
to Congress,

Il. By appropriating a part of the income, annually, to special objects
of research, under the direction of suitable persons.

1. The objects, and the amount appropriated, to be recommended by
counselors of the Institution.

2. Appropriations in different years to different objects; so that in
course of time each branch of knowledge may receive a share.

3. The results obtained from these appropriations to be published,
with the memoirs before mentioned, in the volumes of the Smithsonian
Contributions to Knowledge.

4, Examples of objects for which appropriations may be made:

(1.) System of extended meteorological observations for solving the
problem of American storms.

(2.) Explorations in descriptive natural history, and geological, mag-
netical, and topographical surveys, to collect materials for the formation
of a physical atlas of the United States.

(3.) Solution of experimental problems, such as a new determina-
tion of the weight of the earth, of the velocity of electricity, and of
light ; chemical analyses of soils and plants; collection and publication
of scientific facts accumulated in the offices of Government.

(4.) Institution of statistical inquiries with reference to physical,
moral, and political subjects,
10 PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION.

(5.) Historical researches, and accurate surveys of places celebrated
in American history.

(6.) Ethnological researches, particularly with reference to the differ-
ent races of men in North America; also, explorations and accurate
surveys of the mounds and other remains of the ancient people of our
country.

DETAILS OF THE PLAN FOR DIFFUSING KNOWLEDGE.

I. By the publication of a series of reports, giving an account of the
new discoveries in science, and of the changes made from year to year
in all branches of knowledge not strictly professional.

1. These reports will diffuse a kind of knowledge generally interest-
ing, but which, at present, is inaccessible to the public. Some of the
reports may be published annually, others at longer intervals, as the
income of the Institution or the changes in the branches of knowledge
may indicate.

2. The reports are to be prepared by collaborators eminent in the dif-
ferent branches of knowledge.

3. Each collaborator to be furnished with the journals and publica-
tions, domestic and foreign, necessary to the compilation of his report;
to be paid a certain sum for his labors, and to be named on the title-
page of the report.

4. The reports to be published in separate parts, so that persons in-
terested in a particular branch can procure the parts relating to it with-
out purchasing the whole.

5. These reports may be presented to Congress, for partial distribu-
tion, the remaining copies to be given to literary and scientific insti-
tutions, and sold to individuals for a moderate price.

Il. By the publication of separate treatises on subjects of general interest.

1. These treatises may occasionally consist of valuable. memoirs,
translated from foreign languages, or of articles prepared under the
direction of the Institution, or procured by offering premiums for the
best exposition of a given subject.

2. The treatises should, in all cases, be submitted to a commission of
competent judges, previous to their publication.

3. As examples of these treatises, expositions may be obtained of the
present state of the several branches of knowledge mentioned in the
table of reports.

SECTION II.

Plan of organization, in accordance with the terms of the resolutions of
the Board of Regents providing for the two modes of increasing and
diffusing knowledge.

1. The act of Congress establishing the Institution contemplated the
formation of a library and a museum; and the Board of Regents, in-
PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. 11

cluding these objects in the plan of organization, resolved to divide
the income into two equal parts.

2. One part to be appropriated to increase and diffuse knowledge by
means of publications and researches, agreeably to the scheme before
given. The other part to be appropriated to the formation of a library
and a collection of objects of nature and art.

3. These two plans are not incompatible with one another.

4, To carry out the plan before described, a library will be required,
consisting, Ist, of a complete collection of the transactions and pro-
ceedings of all the learned societies in the world; 2d, of the more im-
portant current periodical publications, and other works necessary in
preparing the periodical reports.

5. The Institution should make special collections, particularly of ob-
jects to illustrate and verify its own publications.

6. Also, a collection of instruments of research in all branches of ex-
perimental science.

7. With reference to the collection of books, other than those men-
tioned above, catalogues of all the different libraries in the United
States should be procured, in order that the valuable books first pur-
chased may be such as are not to be found in the United States.

8. Also, catalogues of memoirs, and of books and other materials,
should be collected for rendering the Institution a center of bibliograph-
ical knowledge, whence the student may be directed to any work which
he may require.

9. It is believed that the collections in natural history will increase
by donation as rapidly as the income of the Institution can make pro-
vision for their reception, and, therefore, it will seldom be necessary to
purchase articles of this kind.

10. Attempts should be made to secure for the gallery of art casts of
the most celebrated articles of ancient and modern sculpture.

11. The arts may be encouraged by providing aroom, free of expense,
for the exhibition of the objects of the Art-Union and other similar
societies.

12. A small appropriation should annually be made for models of an-
tiquities, such as those of the remains of ancient temples, &e.

13. For the present, or until the building is fully completed, besides
the Secretary no permanent assistant will be required, except one, to act
as librarian.

14, The Secretary, by the law of Congress, is alone responsible to the
Regents. He shall take charge of the building and property, keep a
record of proceedings, discharge the duties of librarian and keeper of
the museum, and may, with the consent of the Regents, employ assist-
ants.

15, The Secretary and his assistants, during the session of Congress,
will be required to illustrate new discoveries in science, and to exhibit
12 PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION.

new objects of art. Distinguished individuals should also be invited to
give lectures on subjects of general interest.

The foregoing programme was that of the general policy of the In-
stitution until 1866, when Congress took charge of the library, and since
an appropriation has been made by Government for the maintenance of
the museum the provisons of Section IL are no longer fully observed.
REPORT

OFr

PROFESSOR JOSEPH HENRY,
SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

BOs odes 7 1.

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution :

GENTLEMEN: I have the honor to present herewith another annual
report, in which I am happy to inform you that the financial affairs of
the Institution intrusted to your care by the Government of the United
States are still ina favorable condition, and that its operations during
the year 1871 have continued to enlarge the bounds of human knowl-
edge and to facilitate the international exchange of scientific truths.

Finances.—The following is a general statement of the condition of
the Smithson fund at the beginning of the year 1872, as will be seen by
a reference to the report of the Executive Committee :

Total permanent Smithson fund in United States Treasury. $650, 000 00

In addition to the above there remains of the extra fund,
derived from savings, &c., in Virginia bonds, at par val-

ue, $88,125.20; now worth about..........---...---.- 35, 500 00
Cash balance in First National Bank ...........-..-.--- 16, 315 02
Amount of congressional appropriation for the fiscal vear,

June 30, 1872, $10,000, one-half of which is available

PN WANY, LO rate os eels ata valet wale ate So iste Sees 5, 000 00

Total Smithson funds, January, 1872 ............- 706, 815 02

The Virginia stock, which in 1870 was $72,760, has been nominally
increased to $88,125.18 by the funding of the interest due, while the
marketable value of the whole has declined from $48,000 to $35,500.
This fall in the value of the Virginia stock has been due to the un-
settled policy of the State in regard to its public debt. It will be
recollected that all the other State stocks held by the Institution, in
which the savings from the income had been invested, were sold in
1867, and the proceeds, added, by an act of Congress, to the perma-
nent fund, forever deposited in the Treasury of the United States.
The Virginia stock was retained, with the confident expectation on the
part of the majority of the Board of Regents that its value would
increase. Not the slightest idea was entertained that Virginia, with
14 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

all her resources and a large amount of money in her treasury, would
hesitate to make provision for the payment of the interest on her bonds.
It is still confidently expected, from recent indications, that the value
of this stock will increase. I would, however, recommend that it be
disposed of as soon as may be, and the proceeds added to the perma-
nent fund.

In an institution of this kind no dependence ought to be placed upon
the contingency of the fluctuation of stocks. I may, perhaps, in this
connection, be allowed to mention the fact that, to meet the payments
on the building during its construction, it became my duty from time
to time to sell portions of the stock in which the building fund had
been invested. In doing this, by waiting a few days, in some cases a
considerable profit might have been made, and in other cases a loss
would have ensued. These fluctuations gave rise to considerable
anxiety and an unpleasant sense of responsibility, from which I was
relieved by adopting the rule always to sell on the day in which the
money was actually required. A similar policy has been adopted in
regard to the sale of the gold received as the semi-annual interest on
the permanent fund, which is always disposed of on the day in which
it is paid by the Treasury, and the proceeds placed to the credit of the
Smithson account in the First National Bank.

The income from the fund during the year, including the premium on
gold, was $43,192.50. The expenditures were as follows: viz, $9,052.41
for repairs, and reconstruction of the building, and furniture; $11,502.64
for salaries and general expenses ; $15,431,93 for publications and re-
searches; $8,132.95 for museum; $4,455.36 for exchanges, ete. ; mak-
ing an aggregate of $48,355.29, indicating an apparent excess of,
expenditures over receipts of $5,162.79. But to balance this excess
there remained in the United States Treasury, as previously stated
$5,000 of the appropriation for the museum which had not been drawn.

3esides the foregoing, $20,000 were expended on the building, and
$4,976 for the care of the museum from appropriations by Congress, a
more detailed account of which will be found in a subsequent part of
this report.

As stated in the last report Congress has indicated its intention to
make appropriations for the independent support of the national mu-
seum, under the care of the Institution, and hence, in giving an account
of the operations of the whole establishment, it is proper to divide them
into two classes, those which relate to the legitimate objects of the
Smithsonian Institution and those which pertain to the care and exhi-
bition of the specimens of the national museum, In the following
» account we shall adopt this division.

OPERATIONS OF THE INSTITUTION.

Publications.—The publications of the Institution are of three classes
—the Contributions to Knowledge, the Miscellaneous Collections, and
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 15

the Annual Reports. The first consist of memoirs containing positive
additions to science resting on original research, and which are gener-
ally the result of investigations to which the Institution has in seme
way rendered assistance. The Miscellaneous Collections are composed
of works intended to facilitate the study of branches of natural his-
tory, meteorology, ete., and are designed especially to induce individuals
to engage in studies as specialties. The Annual Reports, beside an
account of the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institu-
tion, contain translations from works not generally accessible to Amer-
ican students, reports of lectures, extracts from correspondence, &e.

During the past year the seventeenth volume of the Contributions has
been distributed. It consists of a single memoir, by Lewis H. Morgan,
esq., of 602 quarto pages, illustrated by thirteen plates, in three parts:
First, a descriptive system of relationship of the Aryan, Semitic, and
Uralian families; second, the classificatory system of the Ganowanian
family; and third, a classificatory system of the Turanian and Malayan
families. This volume has been distributed to institutions in this country
and abroad, and has met with approval as an important contribution to
the science of anthropology.

The paper on “The rain-fall in the United States,” referred to in the
last report, has been printed, but it was found necessary to make
additions and corrections, especially in the charts, which have pre-
vented its distribution to the present time.

A short paper by Professor William Ferrel, on “Converging series, ex-
pressing the ratio between the diameter and the circumference of a
circle,” which was read before the National Academy of Sciences, has
been printed during the past year, and will form part of the eighteenth
volume of the Contributions.

The papers of General J. G. Barnard, on “ Problems of rotary motion
presented by the gyroscope, the precession of the equinoxes, and the
pendulum ;” of Mr. J. N. Stockwell, on “ Secular variations in the orbits
of the eight principal planets;” and of Dr. H. C. Wood, on “ Fresh-
water alge,” have been placed in the hands of the printers during the
past year, and will also form parts of the eighteenth volume of Contribu-
tions, to be issued in 1872.

Another paper in course of publication is by Professor William Hark-
ness, of the United States Naval Observatory. It contains the records
and discussions of a series of magnetic observations by the professor dur-
ing thecruise of the Monitor Monadnock, from Philadelphia to San Fran-
cisco, in 1865-’66. The investigation was undertaken because the vessel
was heavily armored and the voyage extended far into both hemispheres,
thus affording a favorable opportunity of submitting Poisson’s theory of
the deviations of compasses on iron ships to the test of rigorous observa-
tions, which had never been done before. The disturbing force acting on
a compass-needle is expressed as a function of the force of terrestrial mag-
netism, and of certain constants peculiar to the ship upon which the
16 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

compass is situated. Ifence, in addition to swinging the Monadnock, or,
in other words, turning its bow in succession to every point of the horizon
to determine the deviations of her compasses from the true north, it was
necessary to make observations on terrestrial magnetism on shore, and
these, in their turn, required the determination of time, latitude, and
azimuth. The memoir is divided into five sections: Ist, introduction ;
2d, description of stations; 3d, astronomical observations; 4th, observa-
tions on terrestrial magnetism; 5th, observations on the magnetism of
the ship. The results obtained may be summed up as follows: The Jati-
tude of seven points was determined. The magnetic declination, incli-
nation, and horizontal force were obtained at seventeen stations, eleven
of which were in South America. The ship was swung, and the devia-
tions of all her compasses, Seven in number, were observed and compared
with those deduced from theory at ten places so situated as to afford
very great changes in the terrestrial magnetic elements. For all these
compasses the co-efficients or quantities necessary to reduce Poisson’s
general equations were determined separately, with considerable accu-
racy. The agreement between theory and observation was found to
be sufficiently exact for the purposes of navigation, but not entirely
satisfactory in a scientific point of view. It appears from the results that
certain parts of the theory require further investigation; and from the
observations it is shown that when a vessel is swung for the first time
near where she was built it is impossible to make any reliable estimate
of the changes which the deviations of her compasses will undergo upon
a change of magnetic latitude.

The memoir of Dr. E. W. Hilgard, on “The geology of Lower Louisiana,
including the Petite Anse region,” mentioned in the last report, has been
received from the author, and the illustrations put in the hands of the
engraver.

The work of Professor 8. Newcomb, on “A new orbit of Uranus as
influenced by the perturbations of Neptune and other bodies,” is still in
progress. In the calculation of the tables for indicating the places
of Uranus, the assistance of Dr. Kampf, late of Germany, has been
secured at the expense of the Institution. The labors of Professor
Newcomb are gratuitously given for the advance of science.

The articles for the Miscellaneous Collections mentioned in the last
report, viz: DeSaussure’s “ Monograph of hymenoptera,” Uhlev’s ‘* Mono-
graph of hemiptera,” and Watson’s * Botany of the region west of the
Mississippi,” are still in the course of preparation, and some of them
will be published during the next year.

The “Arrangement of the families of Mollusks,” by Professor Theo-
dore Gill, described in the last report, has been published. It forms an
octavo pamphlet of 65 pages, and will be of importance in arranging
the specimens of the national museum, as well as those of other col-
lections in this country.

A fourth edition of the “ List of foreign institutions in correspondence
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. ~ 17

with the Smithsonian” is now in press, as well as a similar list, em-
bracing all the scientific, educational, and literary establishments in the
United States, prepared by Mr. Rhees, chief clerk of this Institution.

New editions of the following works were printed during the year:
Physical and meteorological tables, Catalogue of Smithsonian publica-
tions, Review of American Birds, Classification of coleoptera, Bibliog-
raphy of North American conchology, Researches on Hydrobiine,
Check lists of fossils, Instructions relative to shells, insects, tornadoes,
Museum miscellanea, Catalogue of birds, &ce.

In addition to the above, the following new circulars of instructions
have been prepared and distributed :

Cireular relative to observations on thunder-storms.

Circular relative to the construction of lightning-rods.

_ Circular relative to collection of altitudes from railway and canal
explorations.

The Institution many years ago prepared and published lists of
words and phrases for collecting vocabularies of the several Indian lan-
guages of North America, which were distributed to officers of the Army,
missionaries, Government exploring parties, and private individuals,
and from these have been received over two lundred separate vocabu-
laries. These include the tribes of Oregon, Washington, California,
northwest coast, New Mexico, Arizona, and the prairies. They have all
been placed in the hands of George Gibbs, esq., for critical study and
revision, and after consultation with some of the principal philologists
of the country, it has been.concluded to publish them, as it were provis-
ionally, for distribution, as materials for ethnological and linguistic in-
vestigations. Mr. Gibbs has kindly undertaken to superintend the
printing, and it is proposed to put them to press immediately. They
will not only be of great use to the student of ethnology, but also be
of practical value to missionaries, teachers, and all who are brought
into intercourse with the aborigines of the country. No publication of
the Institution has been called for more frequently than that of the
Grammar and Dictionary of the Dakota language. Unfortunately, it
was published at an early period of the Institution, and was not stereo-
typed; otherwise we would long since have struck off a new edition.

The Report of the Institution for the year 1870 was printed, as here-
tofore, at the Government expense, and we are gratified to state
that a larger number of extra copies was ordered than of the pre-
vious year. The demand for these reports is, however, constantly
increasing; and we would renew the recommendation made before, that
Congress not only order a larger edition of the report for the coming
year, but that a new edition be printed from the stereotype plates of
previous volumes. In addition to the report of the Secretary, giving
an account of the operations, expenditures, &c., of the Institution, and
the proceedings of the Board of Regents, the report for 1870 contains

2s71
18 » REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

the following articles: A eulogy on Professor Alexander Dallas Bache,
late Superintendent of the Coast Survey, and president of the National
Academy of Sciences, prepared by Professor Henry at the request of
the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution; a lecture on
Switzerland, by Professor Bache, to illustrate his style, with notes, bring-
ing the subject down to the present time, by Jno. Hitz, esq., consul
general of that country; on a physical observatory, by Professor
Henry; memoirs of Arago, Sir John Herschel, Henry Gustavus Mag-
nus, Professor Chester Dewey; an original article on the nature
and origin of force, by W. B. Taylor, of the United States Patent-
Office; a discourse on induction and deduction, by Liebig; an address
on the relations of food to work and its bearing on medical practice
by Rey. Samuel Haughton, of Dublin; a lecture on hydrogen, by Dr. J.
E. Reynolds; a leeture on the identification of the artisan and artist, by
Cardinal Wiseman; the diamond and other precious stones, translated
from the French of M. Babinet; a large number of original communica-
tions on ethnology, physics, and meteorology.

The following are the rules which have been adopted for the distribu-
tion of the publications of the Smithsonian Institution :

1st. To learned societies of the first class which present complete
series of their publications to the Institution.

2d. To libraries of the first class which give in exchange their cata-
logues and other publications; or an equivalent, from their duplicate
volumes.

3d. To colleges of the first class which furnish meteorological observa-
tions, catalogues of their libraries and of their students, and all other
publications relative to their organization and history.

4th. To States and Territories, provided they give in return copies of
all documents published under their authority.

5th. To public libraries in this country, not included in any of the
foregoing classes, containing 10,000 volumes, and to smaller libraries
where a large district would be otherwise unsupplied.

6th. To institutions devoted exclusively to the promotion of particular
branches of knowledge are given such Smithsonian publications as
relate to their respective objects.

7th. The Reports are presented to the meteorological observers, to con-
tributors of valuable material to the library or collections, and to per-
sons engaged in special scientific research.

Exchanges.—The system of international exchanges has been largely
increased in extent and efficiency during the past year. The number of
foreign establishments to which the Smithsonian and other publications
are distributed, and from which returns are received, now amounts to
nearly two thousand. The system includes not only all the first-class
libraries, and societies of established reputation, but also a considerable
number of the minor institutions of the Old World. The following
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. Lg

table exhibits the number of foreign institutions in each country with
which the Smithsonian is at present in correspondence:

SES) | pee ai a eee 1S J i a ee ee te 11
INGE WOW = crores ears ees See Bo CAs oe cleats oe ae oS 18
kes C1) I coe ae mee Be NagN SUG) coor ia eo ae ae ene are 36
WWOTNIATK : ©..cben ase et ad's ss PO I PAStralah oo. Ss ao Seeeierie ete 5 26
egestas eee og eas 154 | New Zealand ............. Ad
POilan ca eetns eee} =yo.cses. 5 6D | POlVMCSIA < sa 4= os an oe ames
Orne y satects sea cee ae =e 573 | South America .... ..-.... a
Switzerland 2... 2-. +. .).aisws Do lh WWESt- INGIEG Gin 205 Fas we 11
|B) ey 1011 ey ee er DOG (VRE NSIC 0,0 pe eee aiote staat 8
Prances =<. 35 aT cL goes 190 | Central America .........- i |
| 02 ee a eee 149 | British America .......... 27
BROT GES Bec a Ge ee a eh wevess 2) Creneral 5 eecmwes sea coca 5
S10 eee eee af

Great Britain and Iveland .. 525 DOC seesaw av saan dace slo 1,957
GECCCE 5 242% A Ree re Pre 6

During the year, 1,778 packages, containing many thousand different
articles, were transmitted to foreign countries. These packages filled
108 large boxes, having a cubical content of 772 feet and weighing
29,950 pounds, The parcels received at the Institution for parties in
this country, in addition to those for the Smithsonian library, numbered
3,952.

As in previous years, the Institution has received important aid from
various steamer and railroad lines in the way of free freights, without
which the expense of carrying on the system would be far beyond the
means at our command. Acknowledgment is again due for the liber-
ality of the following companies: Pacific Mail Steamship, Panama Rail-
road, Pacific Steam Navigation, New York and Mexican Steamship,
New York and Brazilian Line, North German Lloyds, Hamburg Ameri-
can Packet, French Transatlantic, Inman Line, Cunard Line, Anchor
Line, Union Pacific Railroad. The ‘Adams Express Company also
continues its liberal policy in regard to freight for the Institution.

The advantages which result from the international scientific ex-
changes have become so apparent that establishments similar in this
respect to the Smithsonian are beginning to be formed in different parts
of Europe. <A central scientific bureau for the Netherlands has been
established in Amsterdam, the object of which is to receive and trans-
mit packages for different parts of the world, and in this country to
co-operate with the Smithsonian Institution.

The international exchange is not confined alone to the transactions
and proceedings of societies, but also includes scientific works of indi-
viduals. We frequently receive from persons abroad who can afford
the cost, copies of works to be gratuitously distributed among insti-
tutions and libraries in this country, and also scientific works from
20 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

persons in this country to be distributed abroad. In most cases the list
of distribution is made out by the party sending the copies, but some-
times the selection of recipients is left to the Institution. Among the
articles distributed in this way which we should have mentioned in the
last report, is the narrative of an exploration to Musardo, the capital of
the Western Mandigoes, through the country east of Liberia, by Benja-
min Anderson, a young man of pure negro blood. The narrative was
printed without correction from the original manuscript at the expense
of Mr. H. M. Schieffelin, of New York, and nearly the whole of the edi-
tion was presented to the Institution for distribution.

The labors of the Institution in the way of exchanges can scarcely be
too highly estimated. Whatever tends to enlarge the sympathies of
individuals and of nations, to render the progress of thought in each
country common to all, must serve an important end in advane-
ing the world in intelligence and morality. The works which are re-
ceived through this system,by the several institutions of the United
States, contain the records of the advance of science in all foreign coun-
tries at the present day. They do not consist of ordinary books, but
special accounts of the actual increase of knowledge by the ‘human
family, or an account of that which constitutes the advance of man in
a higher and wider intellectual development.

To afford information as to the regulations adopted for transmitting
packages intended for exchange, a circular, of which the following is a
copy, has been widely distributed :

1. Every package, without exception, must be enveloped in strong
paper, and so secured as to bear separate transportation by express or
otherwise.

2. The address of the institution for which, or the individual for whom,
the parcel is intended must be written pee on athe package, and the
name of the sender in one corner.

3. No single package must exceed the half of a cubic foot in bulk.

4, A detailed list of addresses of all the parcels sent, with their con-
tents, must accompany them.

5. No letter or other communication can be allowed in the a,
excepting such as relates exclusively to the contents of the package.

6. All packages must be delivered in Washington free of freight and
other expenses.

Unless all these conditions are complied with the parcels are not for-
warded from the Institution; and on the failure to comply with the
first and second conditions, they are returned to the sender for correction.

The Institution recommends that every parcel should contain a blank
acknowledgment, to be signed by the recipient and returned through the
agent of the Institution, or, what is still better, directly by mail to the
sender. Should exchanges be desired for what is sent, the fact should be
explicitly stated on the accompanying circular. Much disappointment is
frequently expressed at the absence of any return in kind for transmis-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. At

sions; but uniess these are specifically asked for they will fail in many
instances to be made. It will facilitate the labor of the Institution
very greatly if the number corresponding to the several addresses in
the Smithsonian printed catalogue be marked on the face of each
parcel; and for this purpose a copy of the work will be forwarded to
all who apply for it.

Specimens of natural history will not be received for transmission,
unless with a previous understanding as to their character and bulk.

Library.—The accessions to the library during the last, year from the
foreign exchanges have not been as large as they were the year before,
on account of the war between France and Germany.

The following is a statement of the books, maps, and charts received
by exchange in 1871, and which have been deposited in the National
Library in accordance with arrangements made several years ago,
and fully explained in previous reports:

Volumes:
GOO IALCCK Ger cars koh eciac cme waa so ae eae 277
PV GAY OOM CS Spe aera pte at = atime Ga Nhtaeasa aye wid ean eet 659
936
Parts of volumes :
CUTE G OMOEA SOI of gai pista. fa sini le-w Spe tig Sie ye reyavareinrerarel =< , 625
OCEAN OF LOCSY sore bad hs GS apt Sins wince hf Pm ls 1,156
- 1, 781
Pamphlets:
CUMALEO OU LATE OR. 2 ie hn caw ecdnn a deeslen tate che Sec 316
OCT Ot NOSE te Sie aa eet de ae Gera mar hoe 1, 482
1, 798
OVP IS ULC CMU Ge ata hoe OS 2 tae a acta 6 shiner awtamct we Ss 82
SIRNA CCLD US cars «itera ce ae, wis Fie Sa enctae a's Se 4, 597

The following are some of the larger foreign donations received by
the Smithsonian Institution in 1871:

From the Royal University of Norway, Christiania: 14 volumes, 37
pamphlets, and 3 charts.

Bergen Museum, Bergen, Norway: 11 volumes and 31 pamphlets.

Ivussian government, St. Petersburg: Engineering Journal, Artillery
Journal and Ordnance Magazine for 1870; Caucasian statistics, 1869;
Appendix to the Code of Laws, 1869.

Statistical bureau, Stockholm : Contributions to Swedish statistics, 26
parts, quarto.

Emperor of Germany : “ Preussen’s Schlésser und Residenzen,” vol. xi,
folio; and * Seriptores rerum Prussicarum,” vol. iv.

F. Vieweg & Son, Braunschweig: 42 volumes and 12 pamphlets.
22, REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Hungarian Academy of Sciences, Pesth: 16 volumes and 63 parts,
reports transactions, We.

University of Pesth: 44 pamphlets, inaugural dissertations.

University of Leipsic: 104 pamphlets, inaugural dissertations.

University of Gottingen: 70 pamphlets, inaugural dissertations.

University of Bonn: 44 pamphlets, inaugural dissertations.

University of Konigsberg: 144 pamphlets, inaugural dissertations.

University of Wiirzburg: 80 pamphlets, inaugural dissertations.

Board of Admiralty, London: 7 volumes, 56 charts, and 10 pamphlets.

British Museum: Catalogue of Syriac manuscripts, part ii; catalogue
of prints; catalogue of satires, vol. i; hand list of birds, parts ii and iii.

Royal Society, London: Philosophical transactions, vol. 160, part i;
proceedings, 119-123; catalogue of scientific papers, vol. iv; Green-
wich magnetic and meteorological observations, 1868.

R. L. Simmonds, London: 18 volumes and 52 pamphlets.

Thomason College, Reurkee : 10 works on Civil Engineering.

Government Observatory, Sydney, Australia: Observations, 3 volumes
and 55 parts.

Grand Dueal Court Library, Karlsruhe: 5 volumes and 3 parts.

University of Pisa: 22 volumes and 40 pamphlets.

The Minister of Agriculture, Industry, and Commerce, Florence: 27
volumes and 41 pamphlets.

Royal Institution for the Encouragement of Natural Sciences, Tech-
nology, &c., Naples: Atti, second series, volumes i—vili ; quarto.

University of Chili, Santiago: 14 volumes and 5 pamphlets.

The value of the National Library still continues to be increased
in the number and character of the books which are annually added to
it, first by books purchased, second by the Smithsonian exchanges,
and third by the deposit of books in accordance with the copyright
law. As we have said in previous reports, the space for the accommo-
dation of this valuable library—now the largest in the United States—
is far too circumscribed even for the wants of the present time, without
regard to those of the future. It is, therefore, proper to keep the propo-
sition of a new and separate building constantly in mind. The neces-
sity for such a building is not alone confined to the better accommoda-
tion of the books, but also includes greater facilities for consulting
them by students, as well as by general readers, in the way of greater
seclusion in separate spaces, and the number of hours during which the
library is open. With a separate building, certain portions of it at
least might be accessible during the evening, which, perhaps, would be
of greater importance to Washington than a similar arrangement in
any other city, on account of the large number of educated men in the
various offices of the Government, who cannot avail themselves at other
hours of the great advantage which the library affords for the prose-
cution of study. '

It may be proper to add, in this connection, that the library now de-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. Zo

posited in the Army Medical Museum, numbering 20,000 volumes of
works relating to medical subjects, may be considered as part of the
great National Library, and is rapidly increasing in the number and
value of its cgntents by an annual appropriation from Congress.

In accordance with the original agreement the use of these books, as
well as those now in the Capitol, is free to the Smithsonian Institution,
and we may perhaps indulge the hope that the new building for the
library, which is now contemplated, will be erected on the Smithsonian
Grounds, perhaps as an extension of the present building.

As we have said, one source of the increase of the library is the copy-
right system. The number of these books would be increased, we think,
and their character greatly improved, if an international copyright law
were established, granting to the foreign author the same protection
that is afforded to our own citizens. For example, we would ask, what
would be the condition of the wool-grower if the manufacturer of cloth
in this country had the power to obtain surreptitiously all the wool that
he uses, paying nothing but for manufacturing the article? What
encouragement is there to an author to produce an original work on any
branch of science when the publisher can obtain one which will equally
well answer his purpose from a foreigner without paying anything? But
the question ought not to be decided on considerations even of this
character; it belongs to the province of justice and morality. The re-
sults of the labors of the mind, which form the basis of all human im-
provement, ought not to be appropriated without remuneration, any more
than the labors of the hand or of the machine.

Meteorology.—TYhe impression has prevailed since the establishment
of the meteorological system by the Government, under the direction of
the Signal-Corps, that the observations which have been so long made
under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution may now be discon-
tinued. This idea is, however, erroneous. The object of the operations
of the Signal-Service is principally one of immediate practical utility,
viz, that of predicting the condition of the weather for a day or more
in advance of the actual occurrence. This it is enabled to do by the
fact previously established, that, as a general rule, disturbances of the
atmosphere are propagated over a wide extent of the surface of the
earth in an easterly direction. Besides the number of stations neces-
sary for the practical predictions of the weather, a much more numer-
ous series of stations and long-continued observations are required for
determining the peculiarities of the climate, or for obtaining such infor-
mation as may satisfy the requirements of the scientist, the physician,
and the agriculturist. It is on this account that the more extended
observations established by the Institution, and which have now been
prosecuted for more than twenty years, are continued. It is true we
would be gratified if the charge of this system were transferred to the
Government, with more ample funds for its maintenance than can be
afforded from the income of the Institution. But so long as an arrange-
24 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

ment of this kind is not effected, it becomes the duty of the Institution
to continue the system with such improvements as the appropriation
which can be made on account of it will allow. During the past year
the number of stations has remained about the same, viz, 514, to which
a large number of additional rain-gauges have been distributed. Besides
these, meteorological observations are received from British America,
Central America, Mexico, Bermuda, and some of the West Indies.

The tables and deductions of rain-fall have been printed, and are
nearly ready for distribution.

The discussion of alf the observations relative to the winds made under
the direction of the Institution is still going on under the supervision
of Professor Coffin. Like his former work on the winds of the northern
hemisphere, it will consist mainly of abstracts of observations on the
relative frequency of the different winds, both at the surface of the earth
and in the higher regions, as indicated by the motion of the clouds, with
their resultant directions, and the monsoon influences by which they are
affected in the different seasons, or months of the year. Where data
could be obtained the actual transfer of the air in miles is also given.

Where the places of observation are sufficiently remote from each
other to admit of distinct delineation of the results, on maps of the scale
it is proposed to use, separate computations are made for each ; in other
cases they are grouped by districts. The work will embrace the follow-
ing material:

I. All the observations reported to the Smithsonian Institution from
the year 1854 to 1869, inclusive, with some others in the earlier years..

II. All those made at the United States military posts, and reported
to the Surgeon General, from the year 1822 to 1859 inclusive; and all
those from posts west of the Mississippi for the succeeding ten years,
up to the end of 1869.

III. All those at sea, collected at the United States Naval Observa-
tory, so far as they have been published; 7. e., over all the oceans be-
tween the parallels of latitude 60° north and south, except a compara-
tively small portion of the North Pacific lying between the meridians
150° east and 165° west from Greenwich; and a few additional obser-
vations south of Cape Horn.

IV. Those taken at sea, beyond these limits, by Arctic and Antarctic
explorers.

V. Those at several hundred stations in other parts of the globe.

This material, though very much more condensed than in his former
work, will still make a considerably larger volume.

In the discussion the whole surface of the earth is divided into zones
by parallels of latitude drawn 5° asunder, and observations in these zones
investigated in regular order from the North to the South Pole; com-
mencing with the observations in each at the 180th meridian from Green-
wich, and proceeding easterly to the same meridian again. Profes-
sor Coffin hopes to complete the tabular work in the course of two or
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 25

three months, when nothing will remain to be done but the macs and
some general deductions.

To defray the cost of the labor in the preparation of this work other
than that of Professor Coffin himself, an appropriation has been made
from the income of the Institution. The world will not only therefore
be indebted to the Institution for the publication of the work, but also
fer the collection of the material and a part of the expense of the redue-
tions.

I may mention that the previous publication by the Institution of the
Winds of North America has been largely made use of by the English
Board of Trade in constructing their wind-charts of the northern oceans,
and that the work now in process of preparation will be of especial value
for a Similar purpose.

The temperature observations are still in progress of reduction, two
computors being engaged upon the work. The progress of their labors
has, however, frequently been interrupted by calls from different por-
tions of the country for reports on the climate of different districts.

The following is an account of the present condition of Ju part of
the general reductions:

The collection and tabulation, in the form of monthly and annual.
means, of all accessible observations of the atmospheric temperature of
the American continent and adjacent islands, have been completed to
the close of the year 1870, and extensive tables representing the daily
extremes, or the maximum and the minimum at the regular observing
hours, have been prepared.

An exhaustive discussion of all the observations available for the
investigation of the daily fluctuations of the temperature has been
made, and this part of the work is now ready for the printer.

The discussion of the annual fluctuations of the temperature has
been commenced and carried as far as the present state of other parts
of the discussion would permit.

The construction of a consolidated table giving the mean results,
from a series of years, for each month, season, and the year, at all of
the stations, which will probably exceed 2,500 in number, has been
begun and completed for that part of the continent lying north of the
United States, and also for several of the States. This is perhaps the
most laborious, as it is one of the most important parts of the dis-
cussion. In many of the large cities there are numerous series, made
by various observers, at different hours, all of which have to be br ought
together, corrected for daily variation, and combined to obtain the
final mean. To give some adequate idea of the time and labor involved
in the preparation of these tables, it may be mentioned that, in the State
of New York alone, there are about three hundred series, which are
derived from nearly two million individual observations.

The principal sources from which the general collection of results
has been derived, may be enumerated as follows:
*

26 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

1. The registers of the Smithsonian Institution, embracing upward
of three hundred large folio volumes.

2. The publications of the Institution, Patent-Office, Department of
Agriculture, and public documents.

3. All the published and unpublished records of the United States
Army, United States Lake Survey, and United States Coast Survey.

4, The large volume compiled by Dr. Hough, from the observations
made in connection with the New York University system, the records
made in connection with the Franklin Institute, and those obtained
from numerous observatories and other scientific institutions.

5. The immense collection of printed slips, pamphlets, manuscripts,
&c., in the possession of the Smithsonian Institution.

The work has been somewhat retarded by the collection and tabula-
tion of the rain-fall, to the end of 1870 for the Smithsonian stations,
and to the end of 1871 for the United States military posts.

Beside the discussion of the observations on temperature, rain, and
wind, there remain those relative to the pressure of the atmosphere, and
its humidity; also those which are classed under the head of casual
phenomena, such as thunder-storms, tornadoes, auroras, meteors, early
and late frosts, progress of vegetation, opening and closing of rivers, &c.
These will be put in hand as soon as the funds of the Institution which
can be devoted to meteorology will permit the requisite expenditure.

Explorations and collections.—-As in previous reports, it is proper to
make a distinction between the collections of the Institution and the
specimens exhibited in the public museum. The former are collected
as a part of the operations of the Institution, to advance science and
promote general education ; they are usually in great numbers, includ-
ing many duplicates of the same species. A type specimen of each
species and variety is deposited in the National Museum. The remain-
der are reserved for distribution to foreign establishments, and to
societies, colleges, and academies in this country, after they have been
submitted to scientific investigation and duly assorted and labeled.

At the last session of Congress an appropriation was made of $12,000
for the continuance of an exploration of the region of the Colorado of
the West and its tributaries, by Professor J. W. Powell, to be expended
under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution. The region here
mentioned is one of the most interesting in a geological point of view
of almost any in this or any other country. The Colorado of the West
and its tributaries traverse chasms in some places over a mile below the
general surface of the country, and present in different places at one
view sections of the principal members of the known geological for-
mations of the continent of North America. The region surveyed
lies between the 355th and 59th parallels of latitude, and the 109th
and 115th meridians of west longitude. It includes the headwaters
of the Uintah, the Price, the San Rafael, the Paira, the Kanab, and the
Virgin Rivers, the lower portion of the Grand, and a part of the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. yA

Colorado. In the year 1870 a general reconnaissance of the country
had been made, and several routes through it explored from Salt Lake
City to the Green and Colorado Rivers, and depositaries of supplies estab-
lished. The operations of Professor Powell and party under his com-
mand in 1871, consisted, first, in an exploration of the Green River from
the point where it is crossed by the track of the Union Pacific Railway
to its junction with the Grand, or where the union of these rivers forms
the Colorado of the West, and the exploration of this to the mouth of
the Paira; second, the establishment of a base-line in the valley of the
Kanab, from which a system of triangles was extended westward to the
valley of the Virgin River, southward and eastward to the Colorado,
and northward to the Paira; third, a geological survey of the region,
and the collection of a series of specimens of geology and mineralogy ;
fourth, an ethnological study of the Indians of the region, including
their mythology, manners and customs, means of subsistence, language,
&e., together with a full collection of all their implements and articles of
manufacture. The explorations and surveys of Professor Powell have
furnished additions to our knowledge of a portion of our public domain
previously but very imperfectly known, which, together with the extensive
series of specimens which he has added to the collections of the Institu-
tion and the National Museum, fully repay the appropriation which was
made from the national Treasury on this account. I have certified to
this effect to Congress, and respectfully commend the application of
Professor Powell for an additional appropriation to complete the survey.

The alleged decrease of the food-fishes of the coast and lakes of the
United States led to the passage of a law at the last session of Con-
gress, directing the President to appoint a commissioner of fish and fish-
eries, for the purpose of making inquiries upon the subject. Professor
Baird, assistant secretary of this Institution, whose attention has been
directed for some time both to the scientific and economical relation-
ships of the fishes, received the appointment, and proceeded in June
last to Wood’s Hole, a convenient point on the Massachusetts coast,
from which to prosecute his inquiries. With the aid of an appropria-
tion from Congress, and facilities afforded by various departments of
the Government, he was enabied to carry on an extended research
during a period of several months. In this work he had the special
co-operation of Professors Verrill and Smith, of Yale College, in the
investigation of the invertebrate fauna of the coast in its relation to the
food-fishes; of Professor Gill, of Washington, in the study of fishes
themselves; and of Professor Hyatt, of the Boston Society of Natural
History, Professor Jenks, of Middleborough, Dr. A. S. Packard, jr., of
Salem, and W. G. Farlow, of Cambridge, in other branches of the
investigation. Among other gentlemen interested in the researches, who
visited Wood’s Hole during the season, were Professor L. Agassiz, Pro-
fessor J. Gwyn Jeffreys, of England, Colonel Lyman, Professor D. C.
Eaton, Professor W. H. Brewer, Professor J. H. Trumbull, and Professor
28 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

W.D. Whitney. With this corps of helpers it was quite possible to
make a very thorough exploration of everything connected with the
general economical and natural history of the fauna of the waters on
the southern coast of New England; and while Professor Baird and
some of his party were engaged in visiting different parts of the coast and
taking testimony as to the actual condition of the fisheries, others of the
party were occupied in trawling, dredging, and in otherwise collecting
the various inhabitants of the sea.

A large amount of information was gathered which will have an impor-
tant bearing upon the objects of the commission, and of which Professor
Baird will present a reportin full to Congress atan early date. The inquir-
ies include numerous observations in regard to currents, temperatures,
distribution of life at different depths, &c. The collections made during
the exploration were very extensive, embracing a full series of all the
fishes of the coast, as well as of the invertebrates, from which sets will
be made up for distribution by the Institution. Among other results of
the expedition should be mentioned a series of nearly three hundred
photographs of a large size, representing all the fishes found, in their
various stages of growth, the whole constituting an almost unique col-
lection of portraits, and especially important as relating to the larger
fishes, like the sharks, rays, sturgeons, tunnys, sword-fish, &e.

Dr. Hayden, in the prosecution of his researches as United States
geologist for the Territories, gathered very large collections of miner-
als, skins of mammals and birds, eggs, &c., filling forty-five boxes,
illustrative of the natural history of Montana, and of the region about
the head-waters of the Yellowstone, a report of which he has presented
to the Secretary of the Interior. This exploration has excited a great
degree of interest on account of the wonderful series of geysers and
remarkable scenery, of which it has furnished an authentic description.
Indeed such has been the interest manifested in the Yellowstone dis-
trict that a proposition, originally made by Mr. Catlin as early as 1832,
has been revived and presented to Congress, to reserve the country
around these geysers as a public park. It is thought this proposition
will be adopted by the Government ; and if so, we doubt not that in
time the Yellowstone region will become a favorite resort for travelers
from every part of the world.

After reserving a full set of the specimens for the National Museum
the duplicates of Hayden’s collections will be made up into sets for dis-
tribution.

Among the persons to whom the obligations of the Institution are
particularly due for the magnitude and variety of contribution of speci-
mens we should mention Mrs. John M. McMinn. She gave the
valuable herbarium described in the last report, and has since pre-
sented the entire collection of objects of natural history belonging to
her late husband, who was for many years a correspondent of the In-
stitution. This gentleman had accumulated large numbers of minerals,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 29

fossils, plants, &e., which filled twenty-six boxes, and were presented
to the Institution to be used as it might deem best for the interest of
science. Many of the specimens are duplicates, but are valuable as
material for distribution.

To Mr. George A. Boardman the Institution is indebted for extensive
collections of birds and skeletons from Florida, and also three complete
skeletons of the moose from Nova Scotia.

To his son, Mr. Charles A. Boardman, and to Mr. 8S. W. Smith we
owe acknowledgments for fine specimens of the moose and caribou.

Dr. Yarrow, assistant surgeon United States Army, Fort Macon,
North Carolina, has sent a large collection of skulls and skeletons of
the porpoises of the southern coast, as well as many Indian relies,
fishes, shells, &e.

From Professor Sumichrast we have received additional collections of
birds, reptiles, &c., illustrative of the natural history of Tehuantepec.
The name of this gentleman has frequently been mentioned in previous
reports as a large contributor to the Smithsonian Collections.

Captain Charles Bryant, in charge of the fur-seal islands of Alaska,
has contributed full series of skins, skulls, and skeletons of seals,
walrus, &c., abounding in that region.

To the Army Medical Museum the Institution is indebted, as hereto-
fore, for numerous specimens in ethnology and natural history, in ac-
cordance with an arrangement made several years ago, by which, in
consideration of the transfer to it from the Institution of human crania,
all other objects of an anthropological character received by that mu-
seum were to be placed in the Smithsonian Collection.

Some interesting specimens have also been received from the Depart-
ment of Agriculture under a similar arrangement of exchange.

Dr. Destruges has contributed the skeleton of a sloth, and Mr. Henry
Hague that of a Guatemalan tapir; Professor Poey a skeleton, and Dr.
Gundlach a specimen in alcohol of solenodon, a rare insectivorous
mammal of Cuba; Mr. Hernberg and Colonel Gibson, skeletons of
buffalo; Mr. Isaac H. Taylor, of Boston, crania of South African mam-
mals; Captain Scammon, of the United States revenue-service, skulls
of whales and other cetaceans.

Although but few birds have been received, some valuable specimens
from Veragua were contributed by Mr. Salvin; from Brazil, by Mr.
Albuquerque; from Buenos Ayres, from the national museum under the
charge of Professor Baumeister; from Labrador, from C. G. Brewster.

Mr. Strachan Jones has furnished a number of eggs from the Lower
Slave Lake, and Mr. Charles R. Bree specimens of eggs of the Larus
gelastes from Turkey.

The reptiles received have been principally specimens gathered by
the naturalists of the Tehuantepec and Darien expedition.

Tine specimens of the celebrated Hozoon canadense have been re-
30 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

ceived from Mr. E. Billings, of Canada, and Dr. Josiah Curtis, of
Chelmsford, Massachusetts.

Mr. Brittan has contributed Permian fossils from Kansas; Mr. U. P.
Janes, a series of Ohio Lower Silurian fossils ; Mr. 8. A. Miller, fossils
from Ohio, and a fossil tree-trunk of the genus Psaronius; Mr. D. M.
Shafer, Lower Silurian fossiis.

Specimens of woods have been presented by Mr. George Davidson, of
the Coast Survey ; of birds, reptiles, and fishes, from Illinois, by Mr. R.
Ridgeway ; fishes, reptiles, and vertebrates, by W. H. Clarke, of the
Tehuantepec expedition.

As usual, the amount of material received from the Old World ismuch
less than that from our own continent, the most noteworthy being a col-
lection of specimens in alcohol, presented by the museum of Bergen, in
Norway.

Mr. Knudsen has sent a collection of human crania from the Sand-
wich Islands. The museum of Wellington, New Zealand, under the
charge of Dr. Hector, has presented casts of the eggs of the Dinornis
and Apteryx, with casts of -bones of the former animal, and various
ethnological objects.

To Mr. Genio Scott, and to Messrs. Middleton & Carman, of New
York, the Institution is indebted for specimens ot Cybiwm caballa, or
Cero, a food-fish but lately indicated as occurring on our coast. The
museum at Bergen has also supplied a number of fishes peculiar to the
coast of Norway.

All the specimens of ethnology and natural history, not at present on
exhibition in the public museum, are now stored in the west basement,
and the various operations connected with unpacking, labeling, clean-
ing, assorting, poisoning, etc., have been transferred to that part of the
building. The necessity of making this transfer in a limited space of
time involved considerable derangement of the specimens, and much time
has been occupied during the fall and winter in re-arranging them. This
work, however, is in great measure accomplished; and Professor
Baird, with assistants, is now occupied in assorting and classifying the
material for the purpose of selecting duplicates to be distributed for the
advance of science. Avery extensive distribution of specimens has been
made during the year, partly in the way of giving general series for
educational purposes to colleges, academies, and scientific institutions,
and partly in the way of exchanges with the principal museums at home
and abroad. The amount of work done in the distribution of specimens
will be shown in the following table :
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Distribution of duplicate specimens to the end of 1871.

Oo
ary

Distribution in 1871. Total to the end
of 1871.
Class.
Species. | Specim’s. | Species. | Specim’s.

mkeletons'and skull§-e52cs- os sse5 eed eose ss at 156 B25 827
MiamMG]S' /oteeece sce. seesces catcne sese 25 40 941 1, 822
SUN Si sors see eee te aca eiaiaciaiocine = cor 410 477 22, 940 35, 428
REVtilesmeeeeeae se eae sic eecsceece ete tts 100 100 1, 841 2, 970
sles fee eecains Seiaee ac ccancow sees oaen. 42 100 2,407 5,310
SOS lOlp DILOG assess cere aie toclenic<ctc scene's 151 304 6, 606 16, 698
S)i ee elie nae ee ee ee ania 2, 534 3,000] 83,712] 186,157
UCU OS fee eeere repeat age clave erata eis c-c ics ereVea)| cimicieteeere ieee ane ais <0 583 77
CPUS ACC AMS eee ettatertis = area ete ere are nice wee sere lim tee aeyinica <lioin So aeenwcta 1,078 2, 650
MERIT EMM Wertebravescmcecite scncl cece noes |(siscemnc ese lreecen cers 183i Sle,
Plants and packages of seeds........-.---- 3, 000 4, 000 18, 503 25, 063
HOSS Ills atey etelers Sate hala traci oes ee ees 151 151 4,109 10,135
Wim eral Sram dunOCKSios. = 2st eetsem <-serse 1, 000 1, 400 4, 630 9, 974
Hphnolosicalsspecimens 3... <2 -encces <= 152 152 1, 295 1,342
INISCG Us meeps ere as sree cece ema ersia ccs 204 204 1, 836 3, 150
Diatomaceous earths.....---...--+2------ 1 5d 29 623

HCO Valle tte Nb gore ce actos DA ts 7,881 10,139 | 152,743 308, 080

As heretofore, a great amount of labor has been expended in cata-
loguing the specimens received, their enumeration having been carried
forward from 164,700 to 169,750, the increase representing about the
average of the last ten years.

As in previous years, the collections of the Institution have been placed
freely at the service of naturalists in this country and Europe, and large
numbers of specimens are now in the hands of collaborators. Among
these may be mentioned Dr. Elliott Coues, assistant surgeon, United
States Army, who has undertaken a critical revision of a special family
of Rodents of North America. This group is very extensive, embracing
numerous genera and species differing entirely from the corresponding
families inthe Old World. The large amount of material we have placed
in the hands of Dr. Coues will enable him to solve many interesting
questions as to the geographical distribution and zodlogical affinities of
the family in question. Dr. Coues’ memoir on this group will be pub-
lished by the Institution, and series of type specimens will be distributed
to other museums. To Professor Cope have been intrusted, as before,
the collections of reptiles, and other material has been furnished to
Professor Leidy, Professor Marsh, Professor Agassiz, Dr. Stimpson, and
others. Type specimens of American birds have been sent to Messrs.
Selater, Salvin, and Dresser, of London, for use by them in the prepa-
ration of descriptive works.
Oo

? REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

In accordance with the same policy a few years ago the alcoholic in-
vertebrates were intrusted to Dr. Stimpson of the Chicago Academy
of Sciences for study and distribution into sets of duplicates. Unfor-
tunately, however, this collection, although deposited in a building
supposed to be fire-proof, was destroyed in the disastrous fire of 1871.
The misfortune was not alone confined to the loss of the specimens,
but included also the results of years of labor of Dr. Stimpson, the
great object of his scientifie life, the publication of which was looked
forward to with interest by all engaged in the study of natural history.

The ethnological specimens collected by the Institution to illustrate
the arts, manners, and customs of the present Indians and the more
ancient inhabitants of the American continent, are unsurpassed in
number and variety, and are constantly increased by special efforts
in the way of correspondence and small appropriations for explorations.
The greatest additions to the collections received during the past year
have been in this department, an account of some.of the more important
of which will be of interest.

From Captain C. I’, Hall, the intrepid explorer, now, we trust, success-
fully prosecuting his researches in northern Greenland, we have received
the entire series of relics of Sir John Franklin, obtained by Captain
Hall during his last visit to the north, as also the relics of the Fro-
bisher expedition, which wintered on Frobisher Bay several hundred
years ago. ‘To these were added a number of specimens illustrative of
the habits and manners of the Esquimaux, and showing their relation-
ship to, as well as their differences from, a correspending series belong-
ing to the Esquimaux of the Mackenzie’s River region, furnished to the
Institution by Mr. R. McFarlane and some of his colleagues of the Hud-
son’s Bay service.

From the northwest coast of North America specimens have been
furnished by Mr. George Gibbs, illustrating many points in the ethnol-
ogy of the savage tribes; and specimens of dresses from Mr. Jos. T.
Dyer.

Lieutenant Ring has sent specimens obtained from graves in Alaska
and in British Columbia. Dr. Yates, of California, has added to his
previous donations large Indian mortars and the ecrania obtained from
sundry mounds.

Dr. Palmer collected for the Institution a very interesting series of
stone implements from ancient ruins in Arizona, and Major Powell has
furnished a full series of the implements, utensils, dresses, &c., of the
Indians of the valley of the Cokorado. Dr. Irwin, of the Army, has
also added to this series.

From Colorado Territory we have specimens from Dr. Berthoud, indi-
cating, in his opinion, an antiquity of the human race in that region
far beyond that usually ascribed to it.

Additions from New Mexico are represented by specimens of blankets
and other manufactures of the Navajo Indians; as also by a loom contain-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 0

ing a part of an unfinished blanket, showing the mode of weaving,
presented by Governor Arny.

A series of bone implements of remarkable character, and different
from any we had previously possessed, together with other interesting
objects from ancient graves in Michigan, have been presented by Dr.
Irwin.

Mr. Andrews has contributed stone implements and other objects
from Tennessee; Mr. J. Fisher, very interesting copper implements, and
Mr. Peter, stone objects from Kentucky. Rev. D. Thompson and Mr.
Clarkchave furnished stone implements from Ohio. Mr. Hotchkiss, of
Louisiana, kas furnished a remarkable series of stone lances and knives,
some of them being of very great length and of beautiful finish. Mr.
Keenan, of Mississippi, has supplied a variety of Indian implements.

From Georgia we have an extensive collection made by the late Col-
onel Floyd, and kindly presented by his heirs through the mediation of
Colonel McAdoo; and from Messrs. W. and A. F. McKinley, a general
ethnological collection of great value. The accessions from Florida are
quite numerous, but the most important consist of a series of imple-
ments and crania from the mounds near Sarasota, presented by Mr. J.
G, Webb. Among these are broken fragments of skulls, completely
silicified, and quite unique in this respect. Rev. J. Fowler, of New
Brunswick, has supplied a valuable collection gathered in his vicinity.
From Mexico we have received a collection of ancient vases of remark-
able beauty, deposited by Mrs. General Alfred Gibbs ; and another col-
lection of a similar character, presented by the Natural History Museum
of Mexico; as also some by Dr. Penatiel, one of its officers.

Mr. Riotte has furnished an interesting series of diminutive figures,
dressed to represent the costumes of the aborigines of Guatemala.

Dr. Flint, of Nicaragua, has sent various specimens of ancient pottery
obtained near Omatope, and similar articles have been received from
Dr. Van Patten, obtained in Costa Rica.

From Peru the most interesting accessions are two mummies from a
burial-place at Arica, accompanied by various articles, presented by
Mr. Henry Meiggs, the well-known railway engineer of South America.
From Brazil we have received a series of the bows and arrows used by
the natives of that country, and presented by Mr. Albuquerque.

Among the most important additions to the collections should be men-
tioned a large number of Lacustrian implements from Switzerland, from
Professor Pagenstecker, of Heidelberg, Mr. Messikomer, of Zurich, and
Professor Rutimeyer, of Basle. The latter gentleman has also added an
extensive series, properly identified and labeled, of the various kinds of
domestic animals used by the builders of the lake dwellings.

An interesting collection was presented by Mr. di Cesnola, United
States consul to Cyprus, embracing numerous specimens of pottery
obtained by him in his excavations in the site of the ancient Idalium.
Seme of these are believed to be purely Phoenician in their character,

38 VL
34 REPORT OF TIB SECRETARY.

and others of a later date, all of them characterized by great beauty and
size.

One of the most interesting additions to the department of ethnology
is the cast of the Tanis stone, on which is a trilingual inscription re-
cently obtained from some excavations made at Tanis, on the eastern or
Pelusiac branch of the Nile, and belonging to the museum of Egyp-
tian antiquities at Cairo. The original is a block six feet high, two and
a half feet broad, and a foot thick, with the top arched. One side is
occupied partly by hieroglyphic inscriptions, together with a Greek
translation of the same, while a portion of the left side is occupied with an
equivalent inscription in the Demotic character. This stone occupies ¢
position in Egyptology similar to that of the “‘ Rosetta stone,” except
that it is much more perfect, and will probably aid much in deciphering
the hieroglyphics. The cast was taken by the instrumentality of Dr.
Lansing for presentation to Monmouth College, Hlinois, but at his re-
quest and that of Mr. S. H. Scudder, and by permission of the authori-
ties of that college, it was sent to the Institution to be copied. Untor-
tunately, it was very much broken in the transit, and required patient
labor on the part of a skillful modeler to restore it to anything like its
original condition. When this is accomplished a mold and casts will
be taken, and the original sent to the college. In this connection we
may mention that the inscriptions on the stone have been carefully
studied by Dr. G. Seyffarth, an eminent Egyptologist, who visited
Washington for the purpose, and will present a paper on the subject to
the Institution, for publication.

Correspondence.—AS we lave said in previous reports, a very large
amount of labor is devoted to correspondence. Beside those relating
to the ordinary business of the establishment, hundreds of letters are
received during the year containing inquiries on various subjects on
which the writer desires information, and also many memoirs which are
presented for publication. Among the former a large number are re-
ceived from the five hundred meteorological observers who furnish, vol-
untarily, records of the weather, and who require frequent explanation
of special phenomena. Among the papers submitted for publication
are a large number containing speculations in reference to science which
in many instances exhibit great industry and profound thoaght on the
part of their authors, but which, nevertheless, cannot be considered as
positive additions to knowledge founded on original research, and which,
therefore, in accordance with the rules adopted by the Institution, can-
not be accepted for publication. On account of the wide diffusion of
elementary education in the United States, and the general taste for read-
ing amongall classes, there is no other part of the world, perhaps, in which
there exists a greater diffusion of elementary scientific knowledge, and,
perhaps, more activity of mind directed in the line of scientific thought.
Much, however, of this, from a want of proper training, and the means
of experiment and observation to verify deductions from a priori con-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 35

ceptions, is unproductive of positive results. The Institution does not dis-
card antecedent speculations provided deductions from them are made in
the form of new results which are verified by actual phenomena. It is not
enough that anew hypothesis may give a general explanation of a class
of phenomena in order that it may be adopted ; it must do more than
this. It must point out new facts and phenomena which can be readily
exhibited by experiment or verified by observation. Such advances
have been made in physical science within the last two hundred years
that most of the phenomena which lie, as it were, on the face of nature,
have been studied and referred to general principles. In order, there-
fore, to make advances, in general physics, at least, apparatus, as well
as training in the use of it, is essential to scientific research; and as but
few, comparatively, possess the advantages of these, it rarely happens
that investigations of much importance result from the speculations of
the kind we have mentioned. In the line of mathematics, however,
which requires no extraneous aid, and of natural history, in the study
of which objects are everywhere presented, results of importance may
be derived from the labors of isolated individuals who have no other
assistance than books.

As a means of adult education, it may be remarked that from the
first the Institution has encouraged the establishment of lyceums and
scientific associations in all parts of the country, and as the number of
these has constantly increased, they have added to our correspondence,
and much more largely during the past year than during any one in the
history of the Institution.

Miscellaneous items—In 1863 Congress incorporated an association,
under the name of the National Academy of Sciences, whieh should inves-
tigate, examine, experiment, and report upon any subject of science or
art on which information might be required by any department of Gov-
ernment. Though this society was in no way connected with the Smith-
sonian Institution in its inception and organization, yet it is accommo-
dated with rooms for its meetings in the Smithsonian building, and com-
munications which are adopted by it are accepted for publication by
the Institution.

A series of scientific inquiries has been referred to this society by

“different departments of Government, and the investigations in regard
to them have principally been made under direction of members of the
academy in this Institution. The organization of the scientific depart-
ment of the North Polar Expedition under Captain Hall was intrusted
by Congress to the National Academy, and the procuring of the instru-
ments and the organization of the scientifie corps were principally
effected in connection with the Smithsonian Institution. A copy of
the scientific instructions will be found in the appendix to this report.

In the law organizing the Light-House Board it is declared that it
shall consist of two officers of the Army of high grade, two officers of
the Navy, and two civilians of scientific reputation, whose services
36 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

might be at the disposal of the President of the United States, to-
eether with an officer of the Navy to act as naval secretary, and an
officer of the Corps of Engineers of the Army, as engineer secretary.
From the commencement of the board to the present time, the mem-
bers from civil life have been the Superintendent of the Coast Survey
and the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. During the whole pe-
riod [ have oceupied the position of chairman of the committee on experi-
ments, and have, with the exception of the summer I was in Europe,
devoted my vacations to investigations relative to lighting-materials,
fog-signals, and other duties connected with the light-house service. In
October, 1871, on the retirement of Admiral Shubrick and the ordering
of Admiral Jenkins to the charge of the East India squadron, I, being the
oldest member, was elected chairman of the board. For the discharge
of the duties of this position, in addition to the time of my summer
vacation, I have made arrangements for devoting one day in each week.
It is proper to observe that my office as a member of the Light-House
Board, although one of much responsibility, and to which I have, during
the last eighteen years, devoted a large amount of labor, is accompanied
with no salary, the expense of traveling and subsistence being defrayed
by an allowance of ten cents per mile.

The services which have been rendered to the Government by the
Institution from its commencement to the present time are deserving
of recognition. They inelude not only those connected with the
National Academy, the Light-House Board, investigations now being
carried on relative to fishes, the care of the Government collections,
the organization of the natural history portions of the various exploring
expeditions, the series of investigations made during the war, but also an-
swers to the constant applications from members of Congress for infor-
mation on special subjects. In no case has the Secretary or his assistants
received any remuneration for labors thus performed.

In this connection I may mention that on the occasion of my visit to
Europe in the summer of 1870 I was honored by the President of the
United States with an appointment to represent this country at a meet-
ing of an international commission, invited by the late Emperor of
France, to consider the best means of multiplying copies for distribution
of the original meter preserved in the archives of the government at

Paris. Unfortunately, before the time of meeting arrived, in August,

the Franco-German war commenced, preventing the attendance of a
number of commissioners who would otherwise have been present.
On this account it was resolved to permanently adopt no definite
proposition in regard to the meter, but merely to discuss the various
questions which might be connected with the general subject. The-
commission remained in session from the 8th to the 14th of August,
and adjourned to meet again at a more favorable season.

The Institution has taken much intérest in the historical phenomenon
of themovementin Japan in regard tothe adoption of western civilization.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. on

A full set of the publications of the Institution has been presented to the
University of Yedo, and arrangements made with it for obtaining meteoro-
logical observations and specimens of archeology and natural history.
A special request was made by the Institution in behalf of the Jap-
anese Minister, Mr. Mori, of the principal publishers of school-books in
the United States for such of their publications on education as they
might see fit to present for examination to the Japanese commission.
In response to this application acknowledgments are due, for liberal
donations, to the following publishers: D. Appleton & Co.; A. 58.
Barnes & Co.; Brewer & Tileston; E. H. Butler & Co.; Claxton,
Remsen & Haffelfinger; R. 8. Davis & Co.; Eldredge & Bro.; W.
S. Fortescue; Harper Bros.; Holt & Williams; Houghton & Co.;
Ivison, Blakeman, Taylor & Co.; J. B. Lippincott & Co.; Henry C.
Lea; G. & C. Merriam; Murphy & Co.; Oakley, Mason & Co.; J. W.
Schermerhorn & Co.; C. Scribner & Co.; Sheldon & Co.; Sower, Barnes
& Potts; Thompson, Bigelow & Brown; University Publishing Com-
pany; Wilson, Hinkle & Co.; Woolworth, Ainsworth & Co.

While the Smithsonian Institution occupies ground otherwise unecul-
tivated, it has been its policy from the begining to co-operate with all
other institutions in advancing science and promoting education. There
must always exist objects of importance for the promotion of which
appropriations cannot be immediately obtained . from Congress,
and which, without aid, cannot be properly prosecuted. In England
such objects to a limited extent are assisted by funds derived from
the subscription list of members of the British Association, and by an
annual grant from the government to the Royal Society. These appyo-
priations, though producing important results, are far from being ade-
quate to the solution of problems, the number and variety of which
are constantly increasing. When we consider the intimate connection
of a knowledge of abstract science with modern civilization, the etfect
which it has had in substituting the powers of nature for slave labor, in
the discovery of lawsaknowledgeof which enables man to predict, andin
many cases to control, the future, it must be evident that nothing can
better mark the high intelligence of a people than the facilities which they
afford and the means they provide for promoting investigations in this line.
It isa matter of surprise, however, that so imperfectly is the import-
ance of abstract science appreciated by the public generally, that un-
less it be immediately applied to some practical purpose in the arts it
is almost entirely disregarded.

NATIONAL MUSEUM.

An appropriation during the last two years has been made by Con-
gress of $20,000 for the reconstruction of parts of the building destroyed
by the fire, and the fitting up of rooms for the better accommodation of
the National Museum. This sum, together with about $9,000 from the
35 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

income of the Smithsonian fund, has been devoted during the past year
to this purpose.

With a view to the ultimate separation of the operations of the
Smithsonian Institution from the National Museum, arrangements have
been made for appropriating the east wing and range to the business
which may be considered as belonging exclusively to the essential
objects of the Institution, and devoting the main building, west wing,
and towers to the museum. For this purpose the large room on the
first floor of the east wing, which was formerly used as a museum-
laboratory and store-room, has been fitted up with bins and conven-
iences for assorting and packing the literary and scientific exchanges to
be sent to foreign countries. Preparation has also been made for re-
moving the chemical laboratory from the first flocr of the east range to
the space immediately below it in the basement, and for applying the
whole of the first floor of this part of the building to the business offices
of the Secretary and his assistants in the line of what are called the
active operations.

For the special accommodation of the museum the large room in the
west wing, formerly occupied by the library, has been prepared for the
reception of cases for mineralogical and geological specimens ; while the
great hall, 200 feet by 50, in the second story of the main building, has
been completed and is now ready to receive the cases for the anthro-
pological and other specimens.

Estimates are now before Congress for fitting up these rooms with
cases for the reception and display of the Government collections; and
it is hoped that, in the next report, we shall be able to chronicle the com-
mencement, if not the completion, of the work.

The changes consequent upon the extension of the museum mentioned
made are-arrangement necessary of the greater part of the basement so
as to obtain additional security against fire, and greater convenience for the
storage of fuel, packing-boxes, and specimens. A floor was laid through
the basement, and new passage-ways opened, furnishing better access
from one extreme of the building to the other. In introducing the fire-
proof floor into the west wing, advantage was taken of the opportunity
to increase the height of the room below it, and to convert it and the
adjoining rooms in the west range into laboratories and store-rooms for
natural history.

Furthermore, for better security, the fire-proofing of the floors of the
four towers on the corners of the main building has been commenced.
The rooms in the towers furnish studies and dormitories for the inves-
tigators in the line of natural history who resort to the Institution,
especially during the winter, to enjoy the use of the library and the
collections for special researches.

The Norman style of architecture adopted for the Smithsonian build-
ing produces a picturesque effect, and, on this account, the edifice has
been much admired. It is, however, as I h«ve frequently before
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 39

remarked, one of the most expensive buildings in proportion to its in-
terior capacity which could have well been devised; expensive not only
in its first construction, but also in the repairs which are continually
required to protect it from the influence of the weather, which is obvi-
ous when the number of projections, towers, and exposed angles is
considered.

The building, which from the first has been a drain on the Smithson
funds, still requires an appropriation for heating-apparatus, and for
annual repairs, which, in justice to the bequest, we trust willbe provided
by Congress.

For defraying the expenses of the care and exhibition of the National
Museum, Congress has annually, for the last two years, appropriated
$10,000. Although this appropriation was more than double that of
previous years, stillit fell short of the actual expenditure. The amount
of items chargeable to the museum during the past year, independent
of the rent which might have been charged for the rooms occupied, or
for repairs of the building, was a little more than $13,000. Deducting
from this sum the $10,000 appropriated by Congress, and there re-
remains $3,000, which was paid from the income of the Smithson fund.

A statement of this deficiency has been presented to Congress, and
we trust that the sum of $15,000 will be appropriated for the same
purpose for the ensuing fiscal year.

By the completion of the large room in the second story and the
appropriation of the west wing and connecting range to the same pur-
pose, the space allotted to the museum in the Smithson building has
been increased to about threefold. It is proposed, as was stated in the
last report, to devote the room in the west wing to specimens of geology
and mineralogy, and the large room in the second story to specimens of
archeology and paleontology. As preparatory to the fitting up of
these rooms, a series of designs has been prepared at the expense of
the Institution by B. Waterhouse Hawkins, the well-known restorer of
the ancient animals which illustrate the paleontology of the Sydenham
Palace, near London.

A commencement has also been made in the furnishing of the large
room with casts of some of the larger extinct animals.

The cast of a skeleton of the Megatherium cuvieri, generously pre-
sented by Professor H. A. Ward, of Rochester, has been set up in the
middle of the room. This gigantic fossil was first made known to
the scientific world in 1789. It was discovered on the banks of the
river Luxan, near the city of Buenos Ayres, and was subsequently
transmitted to Madrid. The original bones, of which this specimen is
a copy, were found in the same Pampean deposit, between the years
1831 and 1838, and belong partly to the Hunterian Museum of the Royal
College of Surgeons, and partly to the British Museum. Cuvier, who gave
it its generic title, thought it combined the character of the sloth,
AQ REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

ant-eater, and armadillo, Professor Owen has, however, shown that the
Megatherium was a “ ground-sloth,” feeding on the foliage of trees,
which it uprooted by its great strength. The extreme length of the
mounted skeleton is 17 feet; its height from the pedestal to the top
of the spinous process of the first dorsal vertebra is 10 feet 6 inches.
The length of the skull is 30 inches; the circumference of the skeleton
at the eighth rib is 11 feet.

Also in association with the Megatherium a cast has been placed in the
same room of the Colossochelys atlas, a gigantic tortoise, a restoration
from fragments discovered in the Miocene strata of the Sewalik Hills,
India, and now in the museum of the Asiatic Society of Bengal. It is
8 feet 2 inches in length by 5 feet 10 in width.

In addition to this, there has been set up a cast of the Glyptodon, a
representative in Pleistocene times of the armadillos of South Amer-
ica, the original of which was found in 1846, near Montevideo, on the
banks of the Luxan. It was presented by order of the Dictator Rosas
to Vice-Admiral Dupolet, who gave it to the museum of his native city,
Dijon, France, where it is still preserved.

The two last-mentioned specimens were purchased from Professor
Ward. |

The basis of the national museum is the collection of specimens
of the United States exploring expedition under Captain, now <Ad-
miral, Wilkes, originally deposited in the Patent Office. It was trans-
ferred to the Institution in 1858, and since then has been very much
increased by the type specimens from upward of fifty subse-
quent expeditions of the General Government, and contributions re-
sulting from the operations of the institution. The character of the
museum will be properly exhibited for the first time after the various
articles are displayed in the new rooms now in preparation for their
reception. The museum is especially rich in specimens to illustrate
the subject of anthropology; and it is proposed to bring these as far as
possible together in the new room in the second story, and to arrange
them so as to exhibit their connection and to illustrate the gradual pro-
egress of the development of the arts of civilized life.

At present a portion of the large room in the second story is used
for the exhibition of the cartoons or original sketches made by the cel-
ebrated Indian traveler and explorer Mr. George Catlin. The object
of this exhibition is to induce the Government to purchase the whole
collection of Indian paintings, including sketches and portraits, the re-
sult of the labors of upward of forty years of this enthusiastic and
indefatigable student of Indian life. The entire collection, which com-
prises about twelve hundred paintings and sketches, was offered by Mr.
Catlin to the Government in 1846, and its purchase was advocated by
Mr. Webster, Mr. Poinsett, General Cass, and other statesmen, as well
as by the principal artists and scholars of the country. A report
recommending its purchase was made by the Joint Committee on the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. Al

Library of Congress, but, owing to the absorption of publie attention
by the Mexican war, no appropriation was made for the purpose.
Mr. Catlin made no further efforts at the time, but exhibited his
pictures in Europe, where, on account of an unfortunate speculation
into which he was led in London, claims were brought against them
which he had not the means to satisfy. At this crisis, fortunately, Mr.
Joseph Harrison, of Philadelphia, a gentleman of wealth and_ patriot-
ism, desiring to save the collection for our country, advanced the means
for paying off the claims against the pictures and shipped them to Phil-
adelphia, where they have since remained unredeemed. Mr. Catlin,
however, retained possession of the cartoons, and has since enriched
them with a large number of illustrations of the ethnology of South
America, Whatever may be thought of these paintings from an
artistic point of view, they are certainly of great value as faithful
representations of the person, features, manners, customs, implements,
superstitions, festivals, and everything which relates to the ethno-
logical characteristics of the primitive inhabitants of our country. We
think that there is a general public sentiment in favor of granting
the moderate appropriation asked for by My. Catlin, and we trust that
Congress will not fail at the next session to act in accordance with this
feeling. It is the only general collection of the kind in existence, and
any one who has given thought to the subject cannot but sympathize
with Mr. Catlin, who, in his old age and after a life of hard labor and
the devotion of all that he possessed in the world to its formation, is
now anxious to obtain the means to redeem the portion of his collection
retained as security for the payment of claiins against him, for the
means to enable him to finish the sketches that are still incomplete,
and to secure the whole from dispersion through their purchase by the
Government.
Respectfully submitted.
JOSEPH HENRY.
WASHINGTON, January, 1872.
APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY,

Table showing the entries in the record-books of the Smithsonian Museum at the end of the

years 1870 and 1871.

Glass Up to the end | Up to the end
eas of 1270. of 1871.
Ciigelerronss Aimal Ss) MIKE Re eaers Scsooceeccdiacoaed.ac caos Hoo. 11, 512 12, 059
IMT She eed eee Co oneU odobease so GoGo coon Se aeeTaome 9,773 9, 849
ISTO ae ee SeeheeeO ee ce Sane a as Aa eeiaogeo nS nos = 61, 150 61, 250
IRS NIILES 4 SSR Ses eaco Saboon speoSb GosoHeboesas Soacansceod 7, 539 7,536
MIshes.---/-- =.=. wie ein ecele ein) < slam olla isis sie == \eo nial 7, 897 7, 983
TEMAS guaeddend SNS SSa COURS Balad toodiodoecS seus soagEdsoat 15, 671 15, 9286
COUN TRIGSE NSE BaP eso Sod Roce ConcuSrh saa ane ae e ee Fee 1, 287 1, 287
Iv ollit Sky Sees Ss esonoun sd Soodo peedaues suse ueseersacs = 22, 345 24, 792
TRAUMA TES aretoa Saas pAb AoE bod eocciensccaaade once noguch.S- 2,730 2, 730
ASIN ARR ssc ocoe ooo ROGedOcS conn ssodpacSametosancs = 100 100
HOSSHI SSS RBs vessb sae Sabo Soe gcuicd Ge nous Se nooseuauae™ 7, 380 7, 697
IMMER ee neotpodoneacocmous pra rieacaSSeeSOnaCsO. tao. = 7, 154 7,160
Ethnological speeimens..-..-.-----.--------- 3 10,000 - 10, 931
IPAM geaoleaoe son an oboe coco cue ocdigeas acuSsmdsdege ss 175 390
Mopailess os sesso aoe asebiss eecce e eee sone 164, 709 169, 75
Motalientriesiduring) thetyean.2 ssocise cer mae soe pees eee eee eee ee OAL
Approximate table of distribution of duplicate specimens to the end of 1871.
Distribution to the Distribution in Total.
end of 1870. 1871.

Class. i
Species. | Specimens.! Species. Specimens.) Species. | Specimens.
Skeletons and skulls. 214 671 111 156 325 827
Miammmiail'S <= sey eras 916 1, 782 25 40 941 1, 822
BULUS | oi-e nee a eo 34, 951 410 477 | 22,940 35, 428
aweles ...- 2004-2 1,741 2, 870 100 100 1,841 2,970
HIN STOYSS 8 Sener Bc 2, 435 5, 211 42 100 2, 477 Gyeull
eos of birds-.-..-.-| (6;409 16, 394 151 304 6, 606 16, 698
Elgue diss 2 ec Ae Sls 183, 157 2, 534 3,000 | 83,712 186, 157
NWAGUATES 25.262 j= =e 583 (etal ete Bees \Seasr ose oe 583 778
@nustaceans...-.....| 1,078 QAGOO! |< Se) eae eeeretreeieter 1, 078 2, 650
Marine invertebrates. 1, 838 Bri?) | SSSR eee 1, 838 Syl5e

Plants and packages :

OpsecdSeon-2 2s... |) LO;,003 21, 063 3, 000 4,000 | 18,503 25, 063
TENG) NS Ae oe es oo eee eee 3, 958 9, 984 151 151 4,109 10s 135
Minerals and rocks-.- 3, 630 8, 574 1, 000 1, 400 4, 630 9, 974
Ethnological — speci-

MIGNRSS: MEPL ce 1,143 1, 190 152 152 1, 295 1, 342
IMNSOCTS See ee ee 1, 632 2, 946 204 204 1, 836 3, 150
Diatomaceous earths- 28 56> | 55 29 623

| | . Nae Bie
Totaleeee. see 144, 862 297, 941) 78st 10,189 | 152, 743 308, U80

ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. A3

ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION IN 1871.

Agricultural Department.—(See Mechiing.)

Albuquerque, F., Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil_—Bow and arrows of
South American Indians.

Allard, C. T., Parkinsow’s Landing, Illinois.-—-Micaceous slate and
copper pyrites, Ilinois.

Alvarado, Sr. Don. J. J—Specinen of stalactite, from Costa Riea.

Andrew, G., Knoxville, Tennessee—Indian relics and shells, from Ten-
nessee.

Army Medical Museum, Washington, D. C_—Ethnological specimens
from Arizona and Colorado. (See also Irwin, Dr. B. J. D.; Weeds, Dr.
J. Fs; Otis, Dr. G. A.; and White, Dr. C. B.)

Arny, Hon. W. M .F.—Ethnological specimens, from New Mexico.

Baird, Professor 8. 2.—Forty-seven boxes general collections, Wood’s
Hole, Massachusetts.

Baird, Mrs. S. F., Washington, D. C.—Fire-bag of Indians of Hudson
Bay Territory ; skeleton of domestic turkey, Washington, D. C.

Beardslee, Com. I. A.—Young tlying-fishes in alcohol, Atlantic Ocean.

Bergen Museum, Bergen, Norway.—Box of natural-history collections.

Berthoud, B. L., Golden City, Colorado.—Indian relics &¢., from Crow
Creek, Colorado.

Billings, E., Montreal, Canada.—Specimens of Hozoon canadense and
cast of trilobite, from Canada.

Bland, Thomas, New York.—Box of shells.

Bliss, B. K. & Co., New York.—Palmetto fiber, from South Carolina.

Boardman, G. A., Calais, Maine-—Specimens of birds, fishes, and skel-
etons, from Florida; skeletons of moose, from Maine.

Boardman Charles A., and S. W. Smith—Skin of moose, from
Nova Scotia.

Bree, Dr. C. R.—Eges of Larus gelastes, from Kustridge Turkey.

Brewster, C. G., Boston, Massachusetts Specimens of birds.

Brittan, H., Thayer, Kansas.—Box of Permian fossils.

Bryant, Captain. Charles.—Skulls, skeletons, and skins of fur-seal, and
walrus, and one box dried plants, from Saint Paul Island, Behring Sea.

Burr, C. 8., Alliance, Ohio.—Box of fossil plants.

Burroughs, John, Washington, D. C.—Nest and egg of Dendroica coerules-
cens, from Delaware County, New York.

Burrows, Mrs.—German horn, and small shoes made at Saint Helena,

Butcher, M., Prince Edward Island.—Stone axe. (Sent through Rey.
J. Fowler.)

Carpenter, Dr. P. P.—Box of shells from west coast of North America.

Carpenter, W L., Mill Creek, Wyoming Territory.—Larva of insect
(borer) in wood.
44 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

Cesnola, General L. P. di, United States Consul.—Ancient Phoenician
pottery, from the site of the ancient Idalium, Island of Cyprus.

Chalmers, R., Konchibougonack, New Brunswick.—Arrrow-heads. (Sent
by Rev. J. Fowler.)

Choate, Isaac B., Gorham, Maine—Specimens of minerals, ancient
pottery and arrow-heads, &e.

Christ, R. Nazareth, Pennsylvania.—Birds’ eggs, from various localities.

Clarke, John, Bowling Green, Ohio.—Indian stone relics from Ohio.

Clarke, W. H., Washington, D. C—Alcoholic collections of fishes,
reptiles, and invertebrates from the Isthmus of Darien.

Clough, A., Fort Reynolds, Colorado.—Box of specimens of natural
history from Colorado.

Colonial Museum, Wellington, New Zealand, (Dr. J. Hector.)
eges of Dinornis and Apteryx, and ethnological specimens.

Constable, Major A. G.—Skeleton of mouse.

Cortelyou, J. Gardner, Somerset County, New Jersey.—Indian stone
implements.

Coues, Dr. Elliott, United States Army.—Four specimens of albino
birds.

Crane, E. H., Burr Oak, Michigan.—Insects and small batrachian.

Curtis, Dr. Joseph.—Oolite from Florida, and Hozoon canadense in
chelmsfordite, Chelmsford, Massachusetts.

Curtis, Rev. M. A., Hillsborough, North Carolina.—Specimen of Meno-
poma alieghaniense.

Darling, Major, United States Army.—Specimen of pedunculated cir-
rhiped in alcohol.

Davidson, Professor George—Specimens of woods from Alaska.

De Castro, Dieyo.—Specimen of six-legged cat.

Destruge, A., Guayaquil, Hcuador.—Skeleton of Bradypus tridactylus.

Dickinson, E., Springfield, Massachusetts—Dirds’ eggs from Springfield,
Massachusetts.

Doane, Lieutenant G. C., United States Army.—Box of minerals, &c.,
from Yellowstone Lake, Montana Territory.

Dodge, General.—Specimen of oolitic limestone, Oxford, Tama County,
Towa.

Dodge, S. C., Chattanooga, Tennessee—Stone axe from Lookout Mount-
ain, Tennessee.

Dodt, Colonel Helenus, (through Dr. E. Palmer.)\— Helma,” or work-
bag of Mohave Indians, Arizona.

Driver, G. W., Washington, D. C_—Specimen of Echeneis from Lower
Potomac.

Dunn, A., Salamon River, New Brunswick.—Stone axe and chisel. (Sent
through Rev. J. Fowler.)

Dyer, Joseph T., Washington, D. C.—Ethnological specimens, dresses,
&c., Alaska.

Eby, J. W., Indian Bureau.—Minerals and photographs, Utah.

Casts of
ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 45

Edmunds, Mrs. Geo. F., Washington, D. C.—Thirty-one specimens
tropical birds.

Edwards, W. H., Coalburgh, West Virginia.—Box of bird-skins.

Emmet, Dr. T. A., New York—Box of bird-skins from Central
America.

Filer, O. L., New Harmony, Utah.—Indian stone arrow head.

Fithiam, Thomas, United States consul—Book perforated by ants,
Saint Helena.

Fish, William C., East Harwich, Massachusetts—Flint chips and
arrow heads.

Fisher, Professor D., United States Naval Academy.—Shells in alcohol
from Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

Fisher, J., Lexington, Kentucky.—Ethnologieal specimens, copper and
stone, from mounds near Lexington, Kentucky.

Flint, Earl, Granada, Nicaragua.—Box of seeds and ethnological
specimens, Ometepec Island, Nicarauga.

Floyd, General T. C., Georgia, Heirs of —Indian stone implements, &c.

Ford, T. 8., Columbia, Mississippi.—Stone hatchet from Mississippi.

Fowler, Rev. J., Bass River, New Brunswick.—Indian relics and shells
from Nova Scotia and New Brunswick.

Fuller, J. F., Salado, Texas.—Specimen of arrow-head from Texas.

Furnas, R. W., Brownville, Nebraska.—Specimen of radiating fibrous
gypsum.

Gentry, J. P., Paducah, Kentucky.—Specimen of clay.

Gibbons, J. S., Lewes, Delaware.—Section of pine trunk bored by
teredo. _—

Gibbs, Mrs. Alfred, New York.—Kthnological specimens. (Deposited.)

Gibbs, George, New York.—Box of Indian relics, California. Ethnolog-
ical specimens from northwest coast.

Gibson, Colonel G., United States Army.—Skeleton of buffalo, Fort
Hayes, Kansas.

Glasco, J. M., Gilmer, Texas.—Specimens of Indian pottery.

Goeller, C. L., Milledgeville, Georgia.—Specimen of supposed tin ore,
Jefferson County, Tennessee.

Green, H. A., Atco, New Jersey.—Specimens of fossils and minerals
from New Jersey.

Green, H. N., Boston Station, Kentucky.—Weathered fossils from
Kentucky.

Greer, Colonel James, Dayton, Ohio.—Artesian borings, Indian stone
implements, and specimen of meteorite, from Ohio,

Gundlach, Dr. J., Havana.—Specimen of Solenodon enbanus in alcohol.

Gurley, William, Danville, Illinois.—Box of fresh-water shells from
Central Illinois.

Hague, Henry.—Skeleton of tapir and box of natural history collec-
tions from Guatemala.

Hall, Captain C. F.—Collection of relics of Franklin and Frobisher
expeditions, and ethnological specimens from Arctic America.
AG ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

Hancock, B. M., Waukon, Towa.—Box of minerals, fossils, and natural
history collections.

Hayden, Dr. F. V. United States Geologist Extensive general collec-
tious in geology, ethnology, and natural history, from the western
Territories, (45 boxes.)

Hayes, Dr. I. I., Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.—Bird-skins from Green-
Jand.

Heiligbrodt, L., Austin, Texas.—Bird’s eggs, and Indian arrow-heads.

Hemphill, H., Oakland, California.—Box of shells from California.

Henry, Professor Joseph—Diatoms, W&c., from hot springs of Cali-
fornia.

Hershey, David, Spring Garden, Pennsylvania.—Prismatic quartz erys-
tal.

Hilgert, Henry, Santa Fé, New Mexico.—Nest of swallows from Albu-
querque, New Mexico.

Hough, F. B., Lowville, New York.—Box of birds’ nests and eggs from
Northern New York.

Hotchkiss, Mr., Shreveport, Lowisiana.—Flint implements, pottery,
&e., from near Shreveport.

Huggins, Liewtenant.—Skeleton of Callorhinus ursinus, Alaska.

Hurlburt, General 8. A., United States minister to New Granada.—Skins
and skeletons of mountain tapir, Tolima, New Granada.

Irwin, Dr. B. J. D., United States Army, Fort Wayne, Michiqai.—Box
of alcoholic vertebrates, Indian relics, &e., from Arizona. (Through
Army Medical Museum.)

James, U. P., Cincinnati, Ohio.—Lower Silurian fossils, (46 species,)
from Ohio.

Jeffreys, J. Gwyn, London, England.—Brachiopods from the North
Atlantic.

Jones, Dr. Joseph, New Orleans, Louisiana.—Specimen of prepared
wood.

Jones, Strachan, Goderich, Canada.—Box of birds’ nests and eggs from
Lesser Slave Lake, Hudson Bay Territory.

June, L. W., Wellington, Ohio.—Indian stone relics from Ohio.

Keenan, T. J. R., Brookhaven, Mississippi.—Two boxes ethnological
and natural history specimens.

Kidder, Dr. F., Leesburgh, Florida.—Specimens of pearl-bearing unios.

Knudsen, Valdimar, Kanui, Hawaiian Islands.—Skulls of ancient Sand-
wich Islanders.

Lesher, W. T., Youngwomanstown, Pennsylvania.—Indian arrow-heads,
&e.

Lewis, George H., Atlantic City, Montana Territory.—Fragment of
fossil turtle.

Limpert, W. J., Groveport, Ohio.—Specimen of Sphyropicus varius.

Luce, Jason, West Tisbury, Massachusetts—Specimens of rare fishes
from Martha’s Vineyard.
ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. AT

Macintosh, I., Welford, New Brunswich.—Arrow-heads. (Sent by Rey,
J. Fowler.)

Mactier, W. L., Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.—Eges of Bulimus hemas-
toma.

Maguire, J. C., Washington, D. C_—Indian slate hatchet. (Deposited.)

Manzano, Dr. D. J., (through Dr. A. Schott..—Human skull carved in
fossil wood from Yucatan.

Mathews, Dr. Washington, United States Army.—Eges of Archibutco
Jerrugineus, with head, wings, and feet of parent, from Dakota Territory.

McAdoo, W. G.—Stone dise from East Tennessee.

McCoy, John, Black River, New Brunswick.—Arrow-heads. (Sent by
Rev. J. Fowler.)

McKinley, W. and A. T., Milledgeville, Georgia.—Box of flint implements
and ancient pottery, Oconee River, Georgia.

McMinn, Mrs. J—Twenty-six boxes geological, mineralogical, and bo-
tanical specimens, the collections of the late John M, McMinn.

McNaughton, R., Mumford, New York.—Caleareous tufa from Monroe
County, New York.

Mechling, Mrs. FP. BE. D., (through Agricultural Department.)—Speci-
mens of reptiles, fishes, birds, &c., from Belize, British Honduras.

Meiggs, Henry, Lima, Peru.u—Two boxes Peruvian mummies.

Meigs, General M. C., Quartermaster General United States Army.—
Skin of Phoca pealii, from Alaska, and Indian relics from Montana ;
minerals Galena, fluor spar, &c.) from Rosiclare, Illinois.

Merriam, C. Hart, White Plains, New York.—Birds’ eggs and nests
from New York.

Merritt, J. C., Farmingdale, New York.—Arrow-heads from Long Island,
New York.

Miller, F., West Farmington, Ohio—Box of fossils.

Miller, J. Imbrie—Splinter of calcined wood, Oogun Camp, Central
India.

Miller, S. A., Cincinnati, Ohio—Fossil wood, Lower Silurian fossils,
and Indian relics from Ohio.

Morrison, E. H., Newark, New Jersey—South African birds’ eggs.

Munn, Dr. C. E., United States Army.—Package of diatoms from Fort
Wadsworth, Dakota Territory.

Museo Publico, Buenos Ayres.—Box of birds, mammals, &c., from the
Argentine Republic.

National Museum of Mexico.—Ancient pottery from Mexico.

Orton, Professor Edward, Yellow Springs, Ohio.—Box of fossils from
Ohio.

Otis, Dr. G. A., Army Medical Museum.—Painted scapula of Buffalo.

Packard, Dr. A. 8., Salem, Massachusetts —Eges of fish from Salem
Harbor.

Pagenstecker, Professor, Heidelberg.—Box of Swiss pre-historic relies
from Lake Dwellings.
48 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

Palmer, Dr. E., Washington, D. C.—Seven boxes and one bale general
collections from Arizona; two boxes skulls of cetaceans from Wellfleet,
Massachusetts.

Penafjiel, Dr. Antonio, City of Mexico.—Ancient pottery from Mexico.

Pence, J. B., Frankfort, Indiana.—Meteoric dust from surface of snow.

Peter, Dr. R., Lexington, Kentucky.—Indian stone relics from Kentucky.

Peters, Henry, New Smyrna, Llorida—Lgegs of Ortyx virginianus.

Petton, W. T., New York.—Creosotized wood from New York Creosotize
ing Works, 157 Broadway.

Poey, Professor Felipe, Havana.—Skeleton of Solenodon cubanus.

Pourtales, Count L. IF. De.—Series of brachiopods from deep-sea
dredgings in Gulf Stream.

Powell, Mr. Joseph, United States consul, Port Stanley — Horn of wild ox
from Falkland Islands.

Powell, Major J. W., Normal, Illinois —Two boxes and one bale of Ute
clothing and implements, Colorado,

Ridgway k.—Birds and reptiles from Mount Carmel, Hlinois.

Ring, Lieutenant F. M., United States Army.—Two boxes Indian relies
from Alaska.

Riotte, Sr. Pedro.—Twenty-seven dressed figures made by Indians of
Guatemala, and representing native costumes of that country.

Rutimeyer, Professor.—Lacustrine antiquities, bones, &c., Switzerland.

Salt Lake Museum.—Two boxes minerals, fossils, and ethnological speci-
mens, Utah.

Salvin, O., and Sclater, P. L., London.—Specimens of birds from Ve-
ragua, Columbia.

Sartorius, Dr. C., Huatasco, Mexico.—Box of specimens of natural his-
tory: box of living plants from Mexico.

Scammon, Captain C. M., United States Revenue Marine.—Nondescript
baleen and parasites from cetaceans, North Pacifie; baleen of hump-
back; skull and baleen of small whale from Puget Sound; general col-
lections from Northwest coast.

Schenck, Dr. J., Mount Carmel, IUinois.—Specimen of salamander from
Southern [linois.

Schott, Dr. A., Georgetown, D. C.—Two arrows of Papago Indians of
Sonora.

Schlucker, P. I'., Baltimore.—Specimen of asbestos from Maryland.

Schuber, N., Panama.—Head of Peruvian mummy and specimens of
ancient pottery from Peru.

Scott, Genio C., New York.—Fishes preserved in ice. (Cybium eaballa.)

Scroggins, S. R., Baltimore, Maryland.—Specimens of fish. (Megalops
thrissoides. )

Sears, Joseph C., East Dennis, Massachusetts—Indian grooved stone
pestle.

Schaffer, D. M., Cincinnati, Ohio —Lower Silurian fossils from Ohio.

Shirley, James, Welford, Kent County, New Brunswick.—Stone chisel.
(sent by Rey. James Fowler.)
ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. AS

Smith, H. H., San Francisco, California.—Seed vessels of lily.

Spear, Dr. United States Canal survey of the Isthmus of Tehwantepec.—
Three boxes of general collections, Tehuantepec.

Squier, LE. G., New York.—Specimens of pottery from near Lima, Peru.

Stearns, Rk. HL. C., Petaluma, California.—Box of birds’ nests and
eggs, &e.

Stephens, T. H., Jacksonville, Florida.—Skuli of alligator and skins of
gars, Florida.

Sterling, Dr. E., Cleveland, Ohio.—Cast of roe of muskelonge from
Saginaw River, Michigan; casts of fresh-water fish.

Sternberg, C. M., Fort Harker, Kansas.—Skeleton of bufialo.

Sumichrast, Dr. F.—Two boxes natural history specimens from Mexico.

Taylor, George, Washington, D. C.—Uead of Rhynehops nigra, Cape
May, New Jersey.

Taylor, Isaac H., Boston, Massachusetts —One box skulls, South Afri-
ean mammals. (Through G. 8. Boardman.)

Thompson, Rev. D., Milnersville, Ohio—Box of ethnological specimens,
fossils, &e.

Thompson, J. H., New Bedford, Massachusetts —Box containing three
fish.

Tilton, B. M., Chilmark, Massachusetts—Specimen of Biepharis, in
alcohol.

Treat, Mrs. M., Vineland, New Jersey.—Specimen of living serpent.

Turner, Lucian, Mount Carmel, [llinois.—Fishes from Southern Hlinois.

Turner, Samuel, Mount Carmel, Illinois —LBirds from Wabash County,
ilinois.

University of Christiania.—Sparagmite from Norway.

University of Louisiana, Baton Rouge—Two boxes of Indian stone
relics. (Deposited.)

Van Patten, Dr.—Ancient pottery from Costa Rica.

Vaux, William S., Philadelphia.—ithnological specimens, casts, &e.

Verstenikoff, A., Saint Paul Island, Alaska Territory.—Skull of fox.

Vortisch, Rev. L.—Ethnological specimens, Satow, Germany.

Wallace, President D, A., Monmouth College, Illinois.—Cast of inserip-
tion faces of the Tanis stone, received from Dr. Lansing, Alexandria,
Egypt.

Wallace, John.—Specimen of musk-deer in the flesh; skull of giraffe.

Ward, Professor H. A., Rochester, New York.—Casts of megatherium,
glyptodon, and colossochelys.

Webb, J. G., Sarasota Bay, Florida.—Box of ethnological and natural
history collections.

Webster, Professor H. E., Schenectady, New York.—Box of marine
invertebrates, &e.

Weeds, Dr. J. F.—Ethnological specimens from New Mexico. (Through
Army Medical Museum.)

White, Dr. C. B.—Specimen of Podiceps cornutus from Fort Schuyler,

New York. (Through Army Medical Museum.)
48 71
50 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

Wilson, L., Astoria, Oregon.—Specimen of beetles in alcohol.

Wright, J. W. A., Turlock, California.—Arrow-heads from San Joaquin
Valley, California.

Yager, W. E., Oneonta, New York.—Reptiles in carbolic-acid solution.

Yarrow, Dr. H. C., Fort Macon, North Carolina.—Specimens of fish,
cetaceans, and Indian relics from North Carolina.

Yates, Dr. L. F.—Human cranium and box of pine cones from Cali-
fornia.

Zeledon, José C., Washington, D. C—Twelve card photographs of
Indians of Guatemala; miniature carvings by the same.

Unknown.—Box of corals, &c.; specimen of symplocarpus, Whatcom,
Washington Territory; specimen of dark marble, Jefferson County,
West Virginia; specimens of fish.
LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

Table showing the statistics of the Smithsonian exchanges in 1871.

Agent and country.

RoyaL SwEDISH ACADEMY OF SCIENCES,
Stockholm :
PWEdClibe sc cos 22 sees aes ce en ccc ce

ROYAL UNIVERSITY OF Norway, Christiania:
INORWiage meson coc ieeiee See ccs aslo go

Roya DANISH SOCIETY OF SCIENCES, Copen-

hagen:
WEnINa Lee seer ast. + ose e ee eaten
TeSys ree aes eee er Oh a

L. Warxins & Co., Saint Petersburg:
INUSSIQeoece toe sects sere meee

FREDERICK MULLER, dmsterdam :

fs (01 1 06 Ue eon oe SP ee
iBelonumys 5-525 8.225 ce Sect shes: 52

Dr. FELIX FLUGEL, Leipsic:
(6 (51010012 0h garg ee ate ae
iceland Tasos. osatass os ee sats Sat

ERAN GO aseroes cee sein = 2 See ees 8 we ee
REALE ISTITUTO LOMBARDI DI SCIENZE E

LETrEereE, Milan:
LINE Wy Oe ee a eee ee

Royat ACADEMY OF SCIENCES, Lisbon :
OMUU aeons ee ata e Bae Sates ota

RoyaL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF MADRID:
SY ORIG 2 Se ee pare ean a

WILLIAM Westry, London:
Great Britain and Ireland.... 2.2.2...

UNIVERSITY OF MELBOURNE:
AUStraliiane seeee scree oxis.oee cates cee

PARLIAMENTARY Liprary, Wellington :
New Zealands i. 55522. 2.5. 2 ese oe

Rest of the world ...................
Grand totals sme. seeeee- ce eee le

boxes.

ages,

dresses.
in cubic feet.

Number of
Bulk of boxes

Number of ad-
Number of pack-

in pounds,

Weight of boxes

ecw ew eee

1, 800

2, 400

300

300

3, 450

28, 950

52

LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution from parties in America,
Jor foreign distribution, in 1871.

Address.

ALBANY, NEW YORK.

Albany Institute.......-...-
New York State Library........-..-
Professor James Hall

BOGOTA, COLOMBIA.
Society of Naturalists...-- Se ate aee
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS.
American Academy of Arts and Sci-
Board of State Charities..........-
Boston Society of Natural History-.
Massachusetts Historical Society .--
Perkins Institution for Blind..--.-.
Mrs. Julia Ward Howe....-..- teres
BROOKLYN, NEW YORK.
SHtsh OU igity aes peer eceaa aS Seer
BURLINGTON, NEW JERSEY.

Wie Grp SMMC Vp ooo: jas'S acer ae steer sic
CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS.
Museum of Comparative Zoology. --
Professor Asa Gray
Counts. F. Pourtales..--.. 2... -. 2.
Professor J. D. Whitney
COLUMBUS, OHIO.

Ohio State Board of Agriculture ..-.
DORCHESTER, MASSACHUSETTS.
DPN PALVis sco oe ecco ea eee e'
FORT MHENRY, MARYLAND.

Dre llotb Coues s..< 2 escive cesses
FOUNTAINDALE, ILLINOIS.
MMO AB ODD) es .— vole i nen ieee eee e
GEORGETOWN, DIST. OF COLUMBIA.
Georgetown College ..-..........-.

INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA.

Indiana Institute for Educating the
Deaf and Dumb....... Saae teas

No. of
packages.

227

| Professor G. Hinrichs

39 |

Address.

IOWA CITY, IOWA.

Dri CA WiLUbO a aae tenn cio eset
JANESVILLE, WISCONSIN.

Wisconsin Institution for Educating
the Blind! Ges sesss-5005 cee eee

KEYTESVILLE, MISSOURI.
John CyiVeatehs2-6 fess sca ecesee
LIBERTY, VIRGINIA.
Ay Fi (Curtisczcmeccesmen cn eee
MONTREAL, CANADA.

Natural History Society...-....-..
Hy. Billings) a scene eee eee ee oer eee
PabcCarpenter cess seas eee aes

NEW BEDFORD, MASSACHUSETTS.

J. H. Thomson

NEW HAVEN, CONNECTICUT.

American Journal of Science and
APB ool iee eet wee eo ees eee
Connecticut Academy of Arts and
SCIENCOSss se oe eer ae eee oe
ProfessorJ./ Ds Danan ene ence feeee

NEWPORT, VERMONT.

Orleans County Society of Natural
Sciences: \-\-2 52) ee ceeeeeees
!

NEW YORK, NEW YORK.

American Institute ..-2..=----..-..
Anthropological Institute of New

Vorkes uc ottescsexsene wes oleae
Argentine consul
Lyceum of Natural History. ...--.
J. Maunsell Schieffelin............

OXFORD, MISSISSIPPI.
BW bilo amrd so se ete pees
PAXTON, ILLINOIS.

TON; Hasselquint 2 -.-. -ssseeee =

No. of
packages.

mie 0S

137
LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

Packages received from parties in America, &c.—Continued.

53

g
S Ep
Address. 6

s
ae

PEORIA, ILLINOIS.
Dr. EF. Brendel....-.- Beis Seite yere oisiae 2
PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA.

Academy of Natural Sciences ...... 178
American Philosophical Society .---| 291
Director of the Mint.....-..--..---- 6
Ouse OF RelITO 55 55555-.c-e ce -ae al

Wagner Free Institute of Sciences..| 264

Revs Hit. Beadlesds 22. cacke os6ice—- 4

idenry C. Carey.....2.6-0--. a ee oe 1

A]k fSi5, 1 eraser eaneee nn ae ee ae 30

WD TA SAMO WE Bees OS oe oo Se oe ei atas.e's 54

VEL OS ViAIEXo once eoteec wate oes 1

PORTLAND, MAINE.

Portland Society of Natural History.) 63
POTTSVILLE, PENNSYLVANIA.

VWs Weaterece soars otic ole ee oe 86 |

QUEBEC.

Literary and Historical Society --.-| 26
SACRAMENTO, CALIFORNIA.

California Institution for the Deaf

A QMO MM a 2a ks cee 95

California State Board of Health...| 1

SAINT LOUIS, MISSOURI.

Dr. G. Engelmann .....:.-.--.----- 1
SAINT PAUL, MINNESOTA.

Minnesota Historical Society .._--. | 10
SALEM, MASSACHUSETTS.

Essex Institute.................-..| 213

Peabody Academy of Science ..-..-.. 101

Address.

SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
yb Suealns aa esc oe ae
SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS.

A. H. Worthen

SPRINGFIELD, MASSACHUSETTS,

S. C. S. Southworth..........

TORONTO, CANADA.

Canadian Institute ..-...---

TRENTON, NEW JERSEY,
AlGlapa Gorges yh eee ee eee oe ee aan ee
UTICA, NEW YORK.

E. Jewett

WASHINGTON, D. C.

Board of Indian Commissioners. -.
Bureau of Statistics.......4..----.
@ensusmoealiss, seesce. hee ee ane
Clinio-pathological Society.....-..
Department of Agriculture....-....
General Land-Office..-.......----.
Nautical Almanac Office.........--
Navy Department
Office of Chief of Engineers ......
Quartermaster General’s Office...
United States Coast Survey Office.
United States Congress ........--.
United States Naval Observatory .-
United States Patent Office -...-.-
Treasury Department....--..-----
Dr. Cleveland Abbe.--..-..---.---
We Dalle. 20 occs sah secre
Drak. Via daydenk. <...semasees se
H...By Meek .. c2225 dante Seton ates
is. Poeschers = 3-2 her sen saves see
Oo Hi. REND abe. secre, seteasc. sees
Rie IGS 6 Waly = satas oo52 esos cots
Unknown

LOA seer eeee ee te eee

No. of
packages.

cw)
Cr

ind §

16

54

LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution from Europe in 1871 for
distribution in America.

Address.

ALBANY, NEW YORK.

Regents of New York State Uni-

VOLSIbY Meee ieee eetete tice assess
Albany ain stivuue sea. sceecns <'srso-
Board of State Charities. .......-.-
Dudley,Observatory ..---<----. 2...
New York State Agricultural So-

ciety

Histor Vises che elerciominteetianienans see

CIS beds seen ieee ess Be aateeeaos =
New York State Library...-...-.-..
Inspectors of the Penitentiary. -- --
Inspectors of the State Prisons of

ING WanvOTke et optic ecioaes sats

ALLEGHENY CITY, PENNSYLVANIA.

Observatory -..-

AMHERST, MASSACHUSETTS.

Amberss College: 2-24 .- 25 oa 5--
Geological Survey of Massachusetts-
Professor). 8. pnells: 2/2 cc'nao- 2a
Professor E. Tuckerman: =2225.2-5-

ANNAPOLIS, MARYLAND.

Sbavegmibranyic sess. See seiseeeee
United States Naval Academy..--..

ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN.
Observatory.se222 see eee as foee ee
University of Michigan........-..-
Dr Preese=.2242. Jas. st coeee ese
Drvds iC:
Professor <A’. Winchell.- 2-2 (2-222 -=

APPLETON, WISCONSIN.
Lawrence University ....-.......-.-
ATHENS, GEORGIA.
University of Georgia. ............

ATHENS, ILLINOIS.
Professor Elibu Hall@............
ATHENS, OHIO.

University or Ohiozcie2- Seco se ae.

No. of
packages.

WD et Rt ON

WORRY

| American Christian Examiner
| American Social Science Association

Address.

AUGUSTA, MAINE.

Commissioner of Fisheries......--
Maine Lunatic Hospital.----. -- 2

AUSTIN,

Dra Storchtas ose. oc eh eee

NEVADA.

AUSTIN, TEXAS.

Judge Julius Schultze....-. .-..--

BALDWIN CITY, KANSAS.

Baker University. ..---.eas esse
BALTIMORE, MARYLAND.
American Journal of Dental Sci-

Maryland Historical Society .-.---
Mercantile ibrary2sscss2 secs
Municipality, ss... ca- see eee
Peabody Institute -.-. .--.---...--
University of Maryland...-.. ....
AUM: (Carters icc sose ey cece ceieee
P. R. Ubler

BLOOMINGTON, INDIANA.

Indiana State University. ...-....
Professor D. Kirkwood...--. Gar coc

BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS.

American Academy of Arts and Sci-
CHC OS occa sinks ae cicla (nlmiwloleletatatet=tnicim=

American Statistical Association - -

| American Unitarian Association. --

AtHONCUMinc cso. 2- oO eee eee

Board of State Charities..-....---
Boston Christian Register.----- --
Boston Medical and Surgical Jour-

Mallee a. os kee Meee een esis ac See

Boston Society of Natural History.
Directors of Publie Institutions...
Gynecological Society..-. ®------
Inspectors of Massachusetts State

PVSONS2-<4= atoc-c s 354 OU eee
Massachusetts Historical Society -.
Massachusetts Society for Preven-

tion ot Cruelty to Animals-..----
Municipality: ..c=- .--s. soeaeeeeee
New England Historic, Genealog-
ICAL SOCIObY. a5. sec eo eeee
North American Review..-. --.---
Public Library.-.--- poe Serer

— Wee WWR AO rw

—
~

SNO BPR CFR BR Re
LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

Packages received from Europe, &e.—Continued.

|

ND
% &
Address. saa |i Address.
Boston, Mass.—Continued. CAMBRIDGE, Mass.—Continued.
Society for the Development of Min-

Graal RESOULCES Se yess eso) mie caret oc 1 | Museum of Comparative Zoology.
uate LADTALY som sie =<! oe = Gal PAGEAD ARS Zier tae s este Soma eeege
REVO Ws Win AISCD co 15 screw ona'e- oo. 2 || Professor L. Agassiz....-..-..--..
er dt) SPAM Gees Seep crsieteres 21-Fe s) syarstees 12 iP) diohnt Am thonys2-eosses sence
‘joa bral IBN IK) AE See ree aoe art Tl Dre Brown-Sequardens. .2o2cc- =-a-
BVistss, Cre sg) ea liepare geno Pte amas as 1 | Professor’ J.P: Cooke. -.2..2.22.--
Professor Wolcott Gibbs.-...-...-... 1 || Protessor: We. Werrel.._.-5 22...
18yod Rind eA aes hn See een eee tere Nip W) Tab eeASe GOI ike emia ce peters aie
Dr; Albert Ordway .-- 22. -2-0.---- 1 || Professor Asa Gray...-.. ..+.--.--
Professor H.C. Pickering. .....--.. 1 || Dr. Herman Hagen........-......
IW Bs ROCEIS (oct - <2 oe 555 2 les if WV Viewe) UM CS ieee te so rey nega
Pewee trem EOC KaWiGN tee senicfele lane hare ka ie le eax aial= 3 ||7Brotessor J. hovering. ----2.....5-s
SM Sa OTOL eee oe ee oe an ee es 1p reGa., Maack.< (sissies eke
Pa SC UCCCla ss cejec- ct oc cece ee Je] ed ULES MAT CO Wee see aca aeteeeiee eos
(Chanles Aa Stearns: <..255 s2. 2. = sek Thi are Parken sos s sey tos aetna
NOTE SUOLGI Ae eet ee i)|| "Professor B. Peirce... 2c. 22 sen. oe ae
Proressor Wi, Watson: .. <22.2. =... 1h Der ourntalesis- co. 6 seme ee
RobertC. Winthrop..223. 222-2. <5 1 || Professor W. A. Rogers....-.---.-.

Dr. Steindachneri..-5.....- 2222.
BKOOKLINE, MASSACHUSETTS. Professor J. D. Whitney ..--..-..--|
|| Professor J. Winlock............--
Sore Die daymiinies ses. oe cks eee: 4 || Dr. Charles Wright..........-..-.
BROOKLYN, NEW YORK. CARLISLE, PENNSYLVANIA.
iiity Pibratys ces, oo<. eon ec aed oe 1 || Dickinson College...........--...
Collegiate and Polytechnic Institute, 1 |) Society of Literature............-
BRUNSWICK, MAINE. | CENTREVILLE, CALIFORNIA.
Bowdon COMeCICl rie saiae. aeons == ® || Dro Worenzo ©. Yates... 525. 22) =
Historical Society of Maine..-..... 1 ||
CHAPEL HILL, TEXAS.
BUFFALO, NEW YORK.
| Soule University ..-.-....-..---.--
Buffalo Historical Society....--...-.. 2 |
Medical and Surgical Journal -.-. -- 1 | CHARLESTON, SOUTH CAROLINA.
Natural History Society.........--- ty
Elliott Society of Natural History-
BURLINGTON, IOWA. |) Library Company .-......--.-----
Society Library -2. 2222-22 os-<5-
Lhe] OT) 1 | South Carolina Historical Society -
| Wilmot de Saussure ...........-.-
BURLINGTON, NEW JERSEY.
: CHARLOTTESVILLE, VIRGINIA.
Wir Ge PING oes Ssict awraie cis scare o 4
|| University of Virginia....-......--
BURLINGTON, VERMONT. |
| CHICAGO, ILLINOIS.
University of Vermont.... ........ 5 |
| Chicago Academy of Science ....-.
CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS. Chicago Board of Trade.....-----
|) Dearborn Observatory-.......----- |
American Association for Advance- || Medical Times.......-..........-
ment, Of Science. cs ce oss. Oe.) Muntelpality oscecc 52-3 s0<c- 2s ence
Astronomical Journal......-2-..... 1 | Young Men’s Association Library...
iamvard: Collegé..iss geeiest soc -sa os 45 || Professor T. H. Safford... ......-..--
Harvard College Observatory...... 3f |) Dre WaStimpson 2-.222.556222-222

No. of
packages.

Or >
ROWS

Ce ee Bote Ree

~

rene
ee a) Re oe Le

e

Ome re OR

56

LITERARY: AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

Packages received from Europe, &c.—Continued.

Address.

CINCINNATI, OHIO,

American Medical College. ---------
Astronomical Society.
Astronomical Observatory -..------
Dental Register........-.---+--+----
Historical and Philosophical Society

of Ohio
Mercantile Library.--.--.+.--------
au fo Loney oP Uh ha eee a easier ere
Ohio Mechanics’ Institute.....---- -

ee ee ee

CLEVELAND, OHIO.
Cleveland University.-.=---2----2<

CLINTON, NEW YORK.

Litchfield Observatory... .----------
Protessor C. H.F. Peters-)....-...2-===-

COALBURGH, WEST VIRGINIA.

WU SRO WWiabdS sco sccee cece sees

COLUMBIA, MISSOURI.

Geological Survey of Missouri. .-.- -
Missouri University
Drew CLs wallow cccetspisetctremte coe

COLUMBIA, SOUTH CAROLINA.

South Carolina College -....2--252:-

COLUMBUS, OHIO.

Ohio State Board of Agriculture... --
Sbate db brary cess ere ee
ibeo Lesquereux: 2 -- 0 -- -- - ee e
Dr. W.S. Sullivant

ee ee a

CONCORD, NEW HAMPSHIRE.

New Hampshire Historical Society - -
State Lunatic Asylum.......-.-..-
Warden of New Hampshire State

Prison

CREDIT, CANADA.

Rev. C.J.S. Bethune

CROW WING, MINNESOTA,
MrancisiPlerZ 2. cet eesciwoosen ee

DAVENPORT, IOWA,

Public Wibrary 2-222.)

No. of
ackages.

f

to

BE We Oe

we vo

ork a

me <3 Oo

Address.

DECORAH, IOWA.
Lutheran’@ollese: - 2 = =-2 2 its
DELAWARE, OHIO. ‘

Wesleyan University

DES MOINES, IOWA.

Governor of the State of Iowa-.---
State Library

DETROIT, MICHIGAN.

Inspector of Detroit House of Cor-
TOC HON Ae ae oeean eee eee eieaeiae
Michigan State Agricultural Soci-
ety
W. U. Reichert

DORCHESTER, MASSACHUSETTS.
Dr Wdward’ Jarvise sss sss
EAST GREENWICH, NEW YORK.
Ag an RitChis.).-ce ce meteors sense
EASTON, PENNSYLVANIA.

Lafayette College
Professor)... Comin i. m- =.

eee eee eee ee ee eee

ELMIRA, NEW YORK.
Elmira Academy of Sciences... ---.-
ERIE, PENNSYLVANIA.

Rev. LG. Olmstead 25-2 ees
EVANSTON, ILLINOIS.
Northwestern University .----.---
FARMINGTON, CONNECTICUT.
WdwardsNortoneetseseree ase
FORT M’HENRY, MARYLAND,

Dri seiottiCoues see. --.eer
FOUNTAINDALE, ILLINOIS.

Ms SBeb Disses. 2-12 eels eee

FRANKFORT, KENTUCKY.

1 || Geological Survey of Kentucky ----

w

ae

16

Or

14
LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

Packages received from Europe, &e.—Continued.

Address.

FREDERICTON, NEW BRUNSWICK,

Legislative Library .-.-<--..--2...
University of New Brunswick..-...

DISTRICT OF COLUM-
BIA.

GEORGETOWN,

Georgetown College.
Dr. Arthur

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA.

Nova Scotian Institute of Natural

MGIGNGES! 22 -~ oe et le a ee oe oe wee
VEE HOTTOS) So. 2 ve oie se ae eee.
Professor Lawson ..-.-..-.--
John R. Willis ...--.-.----. we dee

HAMPDEN SIDNEY, VIRGINIA.
Hampden Sidney College. ....-...-.
HANOVER, NEW HAMPS

SHIRE.

Dartmouth College..............-.
Ae APRN O UNO oS erciols wyieros Sri eine Sib oad

HARRISBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA.
Medical Society of the State of Peun-
Sylvanas. 2 5. a. - =< BS Asa, Sore
Sbate Library ..--s.-22.s224-0--2..
HARTFORD, CONNECTICUT.

Connecticut State Agricultural So-
ciety .

Young Men’s Institute.............
HILLSBOROUGH, NORTH CAROLINA,
Ley Os re
HOBOKEN, NEW JERSEY.
Stevens’ Institute of Technology...
HONOLULU, HAWAIIAN ISLANDS.
W. Harper Pease...

INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA.

Geological Survey of Indiana.-.--

Indiana Historical Society.........
Indiana Institute for the Blind.-..
Prate: Library... -~.iscscs sees eo
en COKs< «55 os esc ee Gat 2

No. of
packages,

Schott...-.....--.---+e|

ae a)

pt et

| Wisconsin Institution for Educating

|

Cumberland University..........-

Address.

INMANSVILLE, WISCONSIN.
Wisconsin Scandinavian Society...
IOWA CITY, IOWA.
Geological Survey of Iowa........
lowa State Umiversity.---2.+2-222
Professor G. Hinrichs....-.-......
Drs QA; White: 3-22. 2.2200. 85bn |

ITHACA, NEW YORK.

Cornell Collese 25.2... coeds cose |

Professor F. E. Loomis......---.-.

JANESVILLE, WISCONSIN.

THoyow 1G \a\¢ ae ee ee |
KNOXVILLE, TENNESSEE.
LEXINGTON, KENTUCKY.

Transylvania University..........
Professor J. H. Clarke............

LITTLE ROCK, ARKANSAS.

Governor of the State of Arkansas.
Literary Institute of Arkansas....
State Library
State University ......-.........-

LOUISVILLE, KENTUCKY.

Historical Society of Kentucky...

Municipality i<..000.. 20. 2gecen
Ttichmond and Louisville Medical

Journal.-.....-..-.-.. fee eee
University of Louisville..........

LOWVILLE, NEW YORK.
Franklin B. Hough.....-. ees tesa
MADISON, WISCONSIN.
Skandinaviske, Presse-Forening.. .

State Historical oe of Wiscon-
sin a ertemtee oe ags eae Se aicrane

pre Sete aie Sete a Saeieuee

MANCHESTER, NEW HAMPSHIRE.

City Library.:.--.....- pe 2 Ec see

~

=?

a

=

pod feo

Q
vo
58 LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC. EXCHANGES.

Packages received from Europe &c.—Continued.

Address.

MARQUETTE, MICHIGAN.
Bishop Ignatius Maak.....-...-..--
MARYSVILLE, CALIFORNIA.
rH LVN S es eresie-cya'aaaete soe
MEADVILLE, PENNSYLVANIA.

Observatory of Allegheny College- .|
iProtessormliangléyc® ci22' 2 sce

MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN.

No. of
packages,

a

German Academy of Natural
ISCIGNCESH, setae ct caemne Seer nee =

MONTPELIER, VERMONT.

Historical and Antiquarian Society. .
Stabe Library, ccoss socce Ses ans aoe

MONTREAL, CANADA.

Entomological Society of Montreal. .
(reological Survey of Canada....--.
Historical Society -22.- 22 2: 5-4-2
KameistColleser sy. ci.0 ses ecc ele ce
McGill: Collecer a eee cece tone

OS On

—
COU pat feed ed ed

°

Natural History Society .........-.
IB oillan wane reese Sle sein sarees
Dre eC arpenters.e socnies aes
Professor J. W. Dawson. -.-- weSeeee
Drelasterry sunt. .soses cosas see
DIE Week OCA esos cease eos care
DrC J smallwoodecsecesso2- 25 ose

NASHUA, NEW HAMPSHIRE.
Dr BK Sbimerson eee ee eee
NASHVILLE, TENNESSEE.

Geological Survey of Tennessee. - --
WME CLBLOY a2 sels seclee oe oe teiere eee

NEENAH, WISCONSIN.

Scandinavian Library Association - -
Seandinavian Literary Society. ..-.-

NEGAUNEE, MICHIGAN.
Major EBs Brooks=\. 42 s.cccc eee!
NEW BEDFORD, MASSACHUSETTS.
John He Phomsoneesees sera eee soe

NEW BRUNSWICK, NEW JERSEY.

Geological Survey of New Jersey- -.|

ha]
Wa

.
~

et he
MH Dw Pt

a

—

ie)

Address.

New Brunswick, N.J.—Cont’d.
Rutgers: Oollere =... 5, ssssecee
Protessor George H. Cook....-....
Professor John C. Smock..--......

NEW COELN, WISCONSIN.

PPA AB TINEN Bae ciate cic c chee eee

NEW HAVEN, CONNECTICUT.

American Journal of Science and
UN TN ees SO TEES SERRE ees =
American Oriental Society ......--
Connecticut Academy of Arts and
Sclencesieteatesa= Gone oe eee
Yale Collegvescaassacsehece se eeees
Professor ‘G: J.-Brush.;-2 3.2.. 2- 3+
Professor. eDsDanapeecen eee
George Gibbse2 =: so. sees
Professor Ey, Wuoomisree esse eeeee
Professor: ©. S.Lymansees-cieseree
Professor ©:.C. Marshseceoee esse

Sidney, J.) Smith; <2sssces <<. osee
Professor*A. B.- Verrillis. 2222.52 26

NEW LONDON, CONNECTICUT.
Young Men’s Christian Association -
NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA.

Muntcipality <-- .-.c2-tenteunetes
New Orleans Academy of Natural
SCONCES... i2ks Ee eee eee eee

NEWPORT, RHODE ISLAND.

Mechanics’ Library..-22-.2--..- >.

NEWPORT, VERMONT.

| Orleans County Society of Natural

SCIONCESSoac ee cereer ee eeee

NEW YORK, N. Y.

American Bureau of Mines......--

American Christian Commission... -
American Geographical and Statis-

tical SOcietypeeectese cee he -eeceeee
American Institute..-......-. oe
American Journal of Mining...--.

American Museum of Natural His-
TOLY sieecnheseins u.wec coe nee

Yorkreese nce. cco
Astor dabrary....-. 2s eee eee
ColumbialCollepe. 22 -2eeeemereees
Cooper;Union<s -. s2see eee eee
Eclectic Medical College........--
Journal ef Psychological Medicine.

No. of
packages. |

|

Roe

31

1
14

50
21
7

iM)

17
10
2
1
1
1

“<_<
LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES. 59

Packages received from Europe, &c—Continued.

‘d to | S &
Address. ca i Address. ee
Ae | Ag
rat =
| fe
New Yors, N. Y.—Continued. | OTTAWA, ILLINOIS.
Lyceum of Natural History........| 72 || Ottawa Academy of Natural Sci-
Medical Gazette.....-..-.--..----. 2 NCES yea ee ees 2 oe eee S
Medical Journal...-. ees eee 1
Medical Record...:..-..---.--.---+- 1 OXTFORD, MISSISSIPPI.
Mercantile Library Association.... - 4
Metropolitan Board of Health... --- 2) || fapene: Waibiloard). sq. 3.25 5... -- 3
Microscopical Society.--..----.---- 1
IMENIACAP ULB: ocrsirciatsaincieianersiciciniet ess = ab PAXTON, ILLINOIS.
New York Academy of Medicine.... 1 || T.N.H ate
Ra eis” : ) ON. classelquimt:...c7.05-40- 2oce ae 1
New York Christian Inquirer....-. 1 1
New York Historical Society. ...-.-. 5 2 sae
: : : cha PENN YAN, NEW YORK.
Numismatic and Archeological So- | 1 : :
CIOUY) settee ie Salat ae wieatece wwe cia eine 1 |i « ee 2
ee | pamuUel Es Wirieht. 52. csc. ss-sse = ‘
School of Minés.........-<+-+---- (Ba oe = ;
Secretary of American Prison Asso- | PEORIA, ILLINOIS.
RE LOY re eta atte an tay Poet arate Plies
MOCIObY WIDTALy <cacc. So sce eee oe | 9 |) Dri. Brendeél.23..--st2g2- 2) eee 1
United States Sanitary Commission. 15
Wintiversibyessc-oaccc moe oc cte ees seems 3 PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA.
ree Ne arate, 7e a. ts 1
Professor Baller s5 2-26 eec< sense) 1 || Academy of Natural Sciences....- 144
Mhomas Bland 4258 %52%os sce woes e 1 || American Entomological Society -. 11
Dr. Carrington Bolton .-.-.-..-..-- | 2 || American Journal of Conchology-. 4
Professor C. F. Chandler......-.--- 3 || American Pharmaceutical Associa-
Captain J. M. Dow...........-..-.. | 2 GOT soe eee ea Saas a,
WOME Drapene— c= -sc.m os occ bake eee 3 || American Philosophical Society- -- 103
Protessor DT. Heleston-1.-2--.2. +... | 1 || Boardof Inspectors of County Pris-
ANP OPIS) ds ses ee ee ee 5 ONS ane seen ae ss sk kee ae 1
Pert cote a Se oeteayalocre sx | | Central High School...........-... 3
Captain John Eriesson......-..-..-| 2 | Curator of “Birds, Philade Iphia Mu-
Professor Hermann Fliigel........-- | 1 SCUM sce cei cea ae es eee 1
WreGescheidt sac. son nee-- Ste as alle Dental WOSMOSiese seg ee os sisn eee 2
HenryesGrinnell 2. 222 ices cscs oes ne 6 || Dental Enquirer... .............-- J
WirmChanles Jovi con hac se eee | Gill Dental Mines: = 2-2 sees aee eee 2
Dr James ©. Kimball... 2.2.22. 5 | 4 || Franklin Institute............--.. Pe)
ire. Je KUAPP +6 oes 2 252s e es 1 || Historical Society of Pennsylvania 13
Dr. James Knight ..............--- | 1 || Jefferson Medical College .-....-.- 2
George N. Lawrence. -....-.-.-.-..- | 5 || Library Company ..-....--------- 4
Professor 8S. F. B. Morse.........--- 1 || Medical and Surgical Reporter.--- 2
Die. b. NEW DEITY 20.5. 020.52 25 8 | Medical> Times... 32 55—-e-seees 6
Wes. C. Nott. <.....-..< er at SN 38 2 || Mercantile Library ..........-.... 1
Baron R. Ostensacken ..---...----- | 2 || Municipality .--.--- ee acme aad 2
Dr. Martyn Paine..--....-.-.....-.| 2 || North American Medico-Chirurgical
Messrs. Parker & Douglas. Ties 3 ROVIOW sae. 255 22 ccs te. i
Alfred’ Pell: ....-.2..-.-.22.-0.---| 1 || Numismatic and Antiquarian So-
ProfessorA. Poey....---...s.--..-| Py) CLEUI eae ee oe ee 1
Professor R. Pumpelly.........----- 5 || Observatory of Girard College... .- 5
Dro RewWiedtaymond'.. 2... c..¢..-- | 3 | Pennsylvania Institution for Blind. 1
Professor O. M. Rood ........---..- 1 || Pennsylvania Society for Preven-
Lewis M. Rutherford ............-- 1 || tion of Cruelty to Animals...---. 1
Elie M. Schiefitin .. Be se A hk 19), Publie*sSchooler- 5-520. .ceoc oes 2
Die Gre SO MCLE eee rs ss feos en 4 | Society for Alleviating Miseries of
Priel, Velicamipiee oo. ois a's | L.\))_ Pablie Prigons--..-.-<. is Selees 2
a Co diheakenee as eter. 2272 oon fe: | 1 || Superintendent of State Peniten-
r. John Torrey.....- Te i) etic See. 3 ee 1
Ses 5 Oe | 1 gare ee a
Dr: Luther Vosse.:2.2...2- 0-2. -2-- | De OTN 6 Neat ae eee 1
Meee WV INES ie, < Sa, 5s Paneth ke Le 1 || Wagner Free Institute of Science. . @
| sy > Beadle 4
NORTHAMPTON, MASSACHUSETTS. | bora ee Bh igs 9
Oo} Jeweeree eee eee eee ec ones
State Lunatic Asylum............. il Tan C Carey .o0.3: acstkee 2.025405 5s | 3
60

LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

Packages received from Europe, &e.—Continued.

D a
5 Ea | ‘S Ee
Address. es | Address. ae
As Az
i i
!
PHILADELLPHIA, Pa.—Continued. | PROVIDENCE, R. I.—Continued.
i}
io (OR CCMA Ne ariais 6 Sabon eee 25 Professor ALi Caswell |252\:uespenee re 2
Phny Karl Chase.22 set -2s cision: 3 Dre Hd win MaSnows-\- 22a nee 4
A 5A COnmadys sek rseeneret reels <inee 1
Professor B.D. Cope..2.-.----..-.. 6 A ere
Dr. Bennett Maier Beye. 2 Bihiee sete 1 Se tee
) X . :
a DOES CCT a aa oe tae 1 | Legislative Library.........2..--- il
ikegs) lal Nes) Beacon pose oceans: LD epee sermese: eae ieee tevin ree
AUER Tt es wie ee be tees 1 iterary and Historical Society .--.-! i
; ODSORVALOTYic ce. secon ses eeee 2
WreGeel wel Orn Ge stoi. ae aoe at 2 Li = ez
WR Ads oie a iok eae 11 | ieutenant E. D. Ashe.....--.---- | 1
M: Jolyide otbiniére. (32-22-22 if
Dreier Conte...5. io. cee te ices 8! ee |
Tas =. ||| Abbé: Provancheass 2a ceesce ose 1
Professor. J. Leidy.2s-\cssse~e=5 46 15 |} >
ee MGOSLOY csc eee ae eee wate eee a
Johnson D. Wund!js2 cise teehee 1 RALEIGH, NORTH CAROLINA.
IBS yman. .- 1.23525. See ia 2
Mbom~as Meehan...) tsislac.chesan'- 1 ||| Professor Wir. KMerresocesis- 2) eer 5
epAne CIOS paraci-tnnc.. eee nara tnes see 2
Dra wh ePankers Je Sececce sce oc 2 +e takes f
Thomas Stewardson, jr ee ea ey 1 RICHMON D, VIRGINIA,
ans
Si SOr se Wa SE DY OM. recta -fivinieinnier's tll enetorieal Society of Vireiminee 1
Professor Wagner...--..----------- LD cera Library i. 2 | i
Dr. Horatio Woods gre: is- S26. sss22a2 Th ap EL Wiig 4. obec eee t
PHG:NIXVILLE, PENNSYLVANIA. SACRAMENTO, CALIFORNIA.
sh as 7 ao
Charles M. Wheatley ....-.-.--.---- 1 Dr. Thomas M. Logan ...-....---. 1
PITTSFIELD, MASSACHUSETTS, SAINT ANTHONY, MINNESOTA.
Wibrary Association. ....0.2.0. 2% 2. 1 || University of Minnesota..--...-.-- 1
PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA. SAINT JOHN, NEW BRUNSWICK.
Professor s./h. Wangley...s2c2t2 5-21 1 || Mechanics’ Institute ..........----. 1
| Natural History Society....--.--.. 5
PORTLAND, MAINE.
SAINT LOUIS, MISSOURI.
Legislature of Maine .-.-.-:.-..7-.- 1
Portland Society of Natural His- | Humboldt Medical College.-... .--- 1
DOL cc s'oeg iictestsle ote stole eee rae cet 97 || Medical Archives of Saint Louis- --| 1
Medical and Surgical Journal. ---- | 4
POUGHKEEPSIE, NEW YORK, | Missouri Dental Journal. ...------. 3
Municipality)-c.---ceceeeeee me =. 1
Miss Maria Mitchell...-...+-..--0.- 2 || Public School Library.----- -----.| il
Saint Louis Academy of Sciences-.-| 84
PRINCETON, NEW JERSEY. iniiversityie-ssewee eee ee =e 4
Dr: Louis) Bavers-se-eies-e= ss See 1
College of New Jersey .----.--.----- 7 || Dr. Louis Engelman .. ..-.-. #---- 1
Horticultural Society-..-.-.-.-2--- 1a Louisa banter eeesss see. - ee 1
Pharmaceutical Society-...--...-.- 1} \CharlesaVickbleyscsseaa 25-5 see see | 2
Professor ;s. Alexander... 225-Us-t2. 1] ManuricesShusterce cc. <-. Salee oes i
ProfessorsAyiGuyot 525-325. S eee 9 |
i SAINT PAUL, MINNESOTA. }
PROVIDENCE, RHODE ISLAND, |
Minnesota Historical Society. ----- 6
Aten eum. = see cess wae = eee 1 || Northwestern Medical and Surgi-
Brow. UWMEVeLSlby sere eee ee 5 cal Jourmalict oo. -ce ewe eee 1
Rhode Island Historical Society - ..-- 45 )||| JecH KIO0Stoe= = - oe eee 7
LITERARY AND

SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

Packages received from Europe, &e—Continued.

61

a [ @
Address. se Address. é a
ty SP t
SALEM, MASSACHUSETTS. WASHINGTON, D. C.—Continued.

Hissex: Institute: 2222s s5escees osenae 57 || Argentine Legation. -....2..-. ss: 1
Peabody Academy of Science..--.. 40 || Board of Indian Commissioners... 1
Ee ACK ALC) a[lsese cers ee= sali =.c.c)~i- 21 || Bureau of Navigation-.....-....... 7
Pees IPUbM AM oe Seeria.ss ote weietee Sic 1 || Bureau of Statistics ...........2.. 38
Wis NV CBU sin streets accent come ox oi] WOnSiss DULEAW onc 5<bnaas seus ss | 5

Columbia Institution for the Deat |
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. i andl umibse meses onto co aes. ce) ee | il
| Commissioner of Agriculture... .. | 1
niversitives-— a. 8e 2 oc Seveatees | 1 || Department of Agriculture See | 148
| Department of Education.....--.. | 2
SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA. Engineer Bureau ....... ates n ee | 6
| General Land-Office.....- ........ 9
California Academy of Natural Sci- Government Insane Asylum...--. - 1
LIC CSee eee see ee cee 30 || Howard University......-... eee t
Mercantile Library Association. ---. 3 || Hydrographic Office......-.--..-.. 18
MinICIpAlity - 22 oda se se caoe oo ae 1 |) Interior Department..--.. <2... 2
Professor H. N. Bolander.....----.. 1 || Library of Congress.-.-.....- 26

Deeae erp OlaQnAll ils 62.2 see oda aes 2 | Medical Society of the District of

Wire Ga. Cooper. 92-2 x2s2 fee ee. oe 2 ColUM Days. cnisjs5 ceicectc ues cts Soe 1
LAA Deel BPS Tee 1a 11: eee ee ee Ay) Municipality <ascn2 2 Soe ele .| 1
Navy Department....-.---....... | 2
SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK. | National Academy of Science. -.... 39
| Ordnance Bureau.........---. 22. i
Professor H. E. Webster -...------. 1 || Secretary of the Navy...-........ 1
lesecretary Of Waltz. .<..- .42c<c -- 2 4
SING SING, NEW YORK. Woromal@ ice sot ee eee 1
| State Department... .:..--..----.. 4
DrnGe Ja Mishen . scecse scec oc eee 3 || Surgeon General’s Office.... ...... 93
"Surv ey of North American Lakes. - 1
SOUTH BETHLEHEM, PENNSYLVANIA. Treasurv Department.... ..---.-- { 2
| United States Coast Survey..-.-.- 48
Professor A. M. Mayer .......-----. 1 | United States Naval Observatory . 75
| United States Patent-Office..._.. 140
SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS. | United States Revenue Departinent 1
Geological Survey of Illinois. ......| 1 Pee enone Trini co 3
Illinois State Agricultural Society. Se Coe te en Syne 1

Mlinois State University ......._...| 1 || Young Men’s Christian Association -
i ofessor A. H. Worthei....... | ~ | Professor Cleveland Abbe......--- 1
General H. L. Abbot...--. ...---- 1
vere ae ta Wire, Co Alexanders... 2s fe eee 1
See ee Professor 8. F. Baird..---. eee 45
Botanical Society of Toronto. ....-. | WileGaMeBachee 2.22445 eee eee 1
Canadian Institute ......-.22.2222. 15) Dro. M. Bannister... . 22-2. 2.4- | 2
Literary and Historical Socie tigeece 1 || General J. G. Barnard .......-....- il
Observatory ee ane ae eh ee eda | 5 || Professor W. P. Blake......... 3
Trmity College... 2... +. s..s.5--- 1 || Professor J. H. C. Coffin.......... 2
LUNE eed i ee Veo th be Ae Orevente soe. J) oe ee 1
DD. Ke Witter. oo. 0. on. oe ee ane aH WVi oy EA OL) aloe oe apes so vereneme sy eteus one sa 10
CsA WD aNvASeeite ace os, «oe 1
TUSCALOOSA, ALABAMA. | Miss Dorothea Dix...... ......... 1
| General W: H. Emory.... ....-... 2
University of Alabama.............! Deb rub Movremanesace ciese sas cs~ or 2
IDWis QO MHOLC Ons seem eeeremi ae eos er 1
UTICA, NEW YORK. | General’ d: €) Prémonte- -.-. -- 2.2. 3
| Edw. M. Gallaudet.... -----..---- 1
American Journal of Insanity....-. Si Baten GorOlte a0. e25-0~- 2 Sacese 1
MEROLeSSOlm es Olle she so-so see ‘ 38
* WASHINGTON, D. C. | Dir B eV. Mayen... sock. oncuaeeeer 15
| derotessor J .ELenry 2-5-9) s-oe se 56 20
American Nautical Almanac Office. . 21m) |S ra 0201S 8 Feds ee 2

62 LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES,

Packages received from Europe, &e.—Continued.

Address. Address.

packages,

No. of

No. of
packages.

ASHINGTON, D. C.—Continued.
VASHING Came WEST POINT, NEW YORK.

v SER D2. < Soe eee ae tea in 5k | z :

te ae | | Professor W. H. C. Bartlett.......
General A. A. Humphreys-.-....-.-- |

JO e ee sine Ane AAA One Ae areca WILLIAMSBURGH, VIRGINIA.
JoOnGMennediy = ta=22-, s<s)sar assis | |

AdininalWecs seen. seblsitieces esol | Virginia Eastern Lunatic Asylum.
pees Aas MeChesney-. aoe

F. ee Are ave ge: ep ee a ee | 1 WILLIAMSTOWN, MASSACHUSETTS.

Brigadier General A. J. Myers..-.- --

WR WOH WWM HOR RR RR WR Be to

Professor SNe womb. -5 25) shee. Se | Williams College...--.-----------
WraCrCPaxrryis vs 2501s Hts es 5 |
Meme Oesche . 2.24. 522.254 yssieeernee es | | WILMINGTON, DELAWARE.
Wir RNeOSe Shae, focal See aee4 28
MamiralaSands<..2-=-¢,ceee ee sce veel || Agricultural Society of Wilmington)
Professor G. C. Schaeifer. ......-.. || Wilmington Institute....-. -- eect
ORAS SChotte: 225-26. Medecine s
Hentryeliikesee i. ois SSeee e | eT Peo Tare eo aa
iadatenant Colonel Woodward..-. - tet ta ae ec ae ete
(OPES VOUND 2s =a etey jn. ease ae
Kings Collecese coc seer eee

WATERBURY, CONNECTICUT. |

Brownson luibrary sce ose | 1 WORCESTER, MASSACHUSETTS.

WATERVILLE, MAINE. , : : :
: F American Antiquarian Society ---
Waterville College...... .isscs2--8 ia Hréee Pablicwbibrany.. oss e-eese.

MotaleaddressessoL anstitmtionesh..-e os we eatclarcis 26, ae oe ea ore ee ere nee eee
Motilisadaresses.Or mMarvAdUaISe oo coe oe oae So eee en Deen Se eee poe ears

Total number of parcels tounstitutions.< -2- 3).5..2n. = eacle= seme eee ae yecne =
Total numberof parcels to dndividuals.. 2s i... <2 nc -<te= ==) clea ays ela

——
LIST OF METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS

AND OBSERVERS OF THE SMITHSO-

NIAN INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR 1871,

Name of observer.

BRITISH AMERICA.

os

Address.

Olnit Henry Atease. ssc eneeee nec Harbor Grace, Newfoundland.
LORS dbo See ea aoe mere aes St. John’s, Newfoundland.
pyeeing: Processor i. Fo. loos cle 2 oS. os ec Acadia College, Woliville, Nova Scotia.
ONES Wis WlALOIM eoccee: pecieaciciceooesecce Clifton, Ontario.
MTITLO Glin: Geena eer Sie eee eel ones nok Saint John, New Brunswick.
DUOWALG. JAMES occ coe selec es oso se Winnipeg, Manitoba.
MEXICO.
PUR COMUS OTM O) eyes ele secte teeta eer Mirador, Vera Cruz.
ALABAMA,
FN KS{e) 0a) 0) ed & EO Uf Ape ese ie ees ea een Carlowville, Dallas County.
PAID O MY, ret Wie cea pete oh nee ta ise eas ah cs oe Huntsville, Madison County. ,
Fahs, Dr. C., and Miss R. Deans ...--- Selma, Dallas County.
MCMMIM CS TY Oe ree oct aco. ciara 3 sae tiarete Coatopa, Sumter County.
bevers, Dr, Thomas, Mic. es.css sce as cn Moulton, Lawrence County.
SIUC RI c Ce ee eae ee eee eae Elyton, Jefferson County.
PRG WOT gels See carer ote ae. 25/of.S,c (oer Havana, Hale County.
\W/ extrac ree Se Pe ae kee Mobile, Baldwin County.
ALASKA,
Bryans OWatleSesccce ee -ce onsen Seen | Sitka, Saint Paul Island.
ARKANSAS.
leh Gh aX6) oy) 18 eee eRe eae Mineral Springs, Hempstead County.
Se ie ee omnes seme seas ae Clarksville, Johnson County.
PrnOl, JOGO A Pe caccse qe cuas dele csee scans Pocahontas, Randolph County.
WECM GG oily Sere ye oe ee crease Fayetteville, Washington County.
ISSO Oeste as Satie aoa seis eae Soe oc Helena, Phillips County.
Witnte; Charles. 2). 22222 ccc000 seen cs sce- te Washington, Hempstead County.
CALIFORNIA. |

Ames, Mary E. Pulsifer...... ...... .....-
Barnes, G. W
Bae wpe itso waists tema oe woes Seiad s
Canfield, Dr. C. A
RUCHey Ory Wil eee on. oo Se cae cic ercide nase
Compton, Dr. A. J
Naval Hospital -...2. 2.2.2. ...2-.--2.--e
Whornton, Dr. W.. W....-..<:.-----<-

a)
ee i a y

COLORADO.

Byers, W. N
Croft, Cl. J

Merriam, A. M
Nettleton, E. S$

Indian Valley, Plumas County.
San Diego, San Diego County.
Visalia, Tulare County.
Monterey, Monterey County.
Chico, Butte County.
Watsonville, Santa Cruz County.
Benicia, Solano County.

Cahto, Mendocino County.

Denver, Arapahoe County.

Fountain, El] Paso County.

Golden City, (Jarvis College,) Jefferson
County.

Templeton’s Gap, El Paso County.

Colorado Springs, El Paso County.
64

METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS.

List of meteorological stations and observers for the year 1871—Continued.

Name of observer.

Address.

CONNECTICUT.
Mlcott; William Pst -cyeticeilas = > le \aiaroln
PAIGE WSs hi... saree vessels sees. ase ea
Rocicwell, Charlotte ter ier «se .c a .cieie wcice, eer
Ward, H. 'D A., and John Johnston

Weomians) Wii Ggirec cite alors oe tate ninjein alain
DAKOTA.

Dorsey, Rev. J. Owen .2.--..-'------------

DELAWARE.

Bateman, J. H
_ Gilman, R. H

PAG WOOUs Gi Wi eiecnscinet s <cmisince cece ntcts=
Baldwin, Dr. A. 8S
BAL Ke Dy biite ei tacale wea lcemiaeee = ero cieNesiciee
Beecher, Rev. C ----
Chamberlain, 8. N
owl hse hoe sion ie neice eats, 2 eerste sero
Powell, Charles P ss :2-.)<2 s2s2)2 ee oo eis = =
Robinson, General G. D
Thralls, George R
White, W. F

ee
ee eee ee

Se ee

Tet igs nd Dea ees cioota cece Coase SearodseEn
Crtber SON Wies. dance scenes are
Deckner, F., & Son
Teoh ie s Ol DARAO SS aee Dee eemr seme oneeer
Hollifield, Horatio N
MeClutchen, A. R
Sanford, 8S. P

wee ene wee ee Hee ee et eee

INdams; Wi Ele- soem ctsicseveiete nie.c.s(rn lain iain ow
Aldrich, Verry
Bowman, M. B
Brendel, F
HTOOKES: 9 =. See erie] selma e ee eiaeceie ee
Carey, Daniel
Chase, Dr. D. H
Cochrane, J
Wadleya Wy ----.208 236 et stew =a
Pharicanodrev.0Ae. tke bee ees
Finley, Dr. T -
Gramesliy;| Creede oe earic-s ceccmnslssem noe
Grant, J. and Miss M
Hearne, F. J
Henry, W. E
James, J. W
Jozeté, Dr. C) os asaek sae Oe olor wiere'- =e elaine
Langguth, A Oe Soe nee ees a Hacc
Livingston, Professor W

Marcy, Professor O

North Greenwich, Fairfield County.

Southington, Hartford County.

Colebrook, Litchfield County.

Middletown, (Wesleyan University,) Mid-
dlesex County.

Columbia, Tolland County.

Ponka Agency, Toda County.

Dover, Kent County.
Milford, Kent County.

Saint Augustine; Saint John’s County:
Jacksonvi ile, Duval County.

Ocala, Marion County.

Newport, Waculla County.

Mosquito Inlet, Volusia County.

New Sinyrna, Volusia County.
Bicalata, Saint John’s County.
Pilatka, ‘Putnam County.

We Iborn, Suwanee County.

Tampa, Hillsborough County.

Saint Mary’s, Camden County.
Quitman, Brooks County.
Atlanta, Fulton County.

Berne, Camden County.
Sandersville, Washington County.
Lafayette, Walker County.
Pentield, Greene County.

>

Elmore, Peoria County.
Tiskilwa, Bureau County.
Andalusia, Rock Island County.
Peoria, Peoria County.
Chicago, Cook County.
Rochelle, Ogle County.
Louisville, Clay County.
| Havana, Mason County.
Decatur, Macon County.
Mount Sterling, Brown County.
Pana, Christian County.
Charleston, Coles County.
Manchester, Scott County.
Quiney, Adams County.
| Mattoon, Coles County.
Marengo, McHenry County.
Waterloo, Monroe County.
Chicago, Cook County.
Galesburgh, (Lombard University,) Knox
County.
Evanston, (Northwestern
Cook Coynty.

University,)

= ———
METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS.

65

List of meteorological stations and observers for the year 1871—Continued.

Name of observer.

ILLinoris—Continued.

Mead, 8. B
IWIGEERI CAM BRB Peon ke mea ence nome er cre
Murray, Peter
Wshorn, Wthanesssst cscccecccccdoodeces =
Patterson; Hi; Neves ctc. saad oo. cseces cock
Phelps, E. 8. and Miss L. E
Putter, A
Spaulding, A., and Mrs. E. D
Spencer, W. C
VDC MIS See So Sc lorcmicisyst Plate ener ciois ainix's

wees tee eee wees
ee ee ee ee)
i

AMOLE We bis Gr oaee,te snes ose onic cin cee eacsae
Applegate, J. A.,
Boerner, C.G
Chappelsmith, J
MOAT IVV ic incls sarc tecceeiceeee cece Gaac cee
OTOSICIs eAt mys sce sera acem ele sence oe seers
CUBGIS, Uies Wi csecaiccaswcc a ccea etcces.ctee st
Dawson, W

Se
ee ees

Woushmeage; Ore. Miss sotecsccetties ato cee
Mallow, T. H
McCoy, Dr. Scand: Migss.soc0c caccccce dose
Michtieminys Bs H) sccclsteecitenia o> salcceotaecee
Robertson, R.S
PS DIGLOD ID pai airs < scrcrevsie, 2 siainyaisietaieieyceinel enim «
Sutton, ie SRE RESO CO SHO D oor ee meeoo eae

eee eee com eee wees core cose ee ee

eee eee coe ees cee eee cose woes

IOWA.

ING AIMS PEN CS taco caleimeciseccwiewccees <neee.
Ashby, M. V
BAD COCK SH) Sanwa n San cuae Salcte= aioe Seuicr wows
BVA MTS. JA, SoS asiicece Ge seclotasies
Wollin; Professor Ass is:22. Go2.esencces sect

Farnsworth, P.J .......2ss2ssssssseseeeee
MDE AS es och s0s8e~ oc pa ccccledeeels'e coc
PLOUM WPA SA co 013 ohn lois ice stow ealeses

Marshall, ee Papi se cee ate ss Is Hae
McClintock, EF
McCready, D

Maller, I. and) Ramis 2 co8e52 oct otoeec ese
Nelson, Ds Bewtecetisucledaceeeke Seo 20s
Parvin, Professor Di Ssssses.soccce ot ecece
Moss, I. Alo sles. Meat fuse Soba dete alse
Russell, A. M
Boeidon, D.S jajsees ogre saci welch 5 Saccs
Srinth, Rutus P o'2- tasceied ctccitidecicc'e
SEER VACOD Eos. .na2 chee ese dooes cel
Talbot, Benjamin
Townsend, N

le ee

ee ee es

Address.

Augusta, Hancock County.
Belvidere, Boone County.

New Manchester, Scott County.
Hennepin, Putnam County.
Oquawka, Henderson County.
Wyanet, Bureau County.
Mattoon, Coles County.
Aurora, Kane County.

Dubois, Washington County.
Warsaw, Hancock County.

Rising Sun, Ohio County.
Laporte, Laporte County.
Mount Carmel, Franklin County.
Vevay, Switzerland County.
New Harmony, Posey County.
Beech Grove, Rush County.
Laconia, Harrison County.
Warsaw, Kosciusko County.
Spiceland, Henry County.
Knightstown, Rush County.
Indianapolis, Marion County.
Livonia, Washington County.
Rensselaer, Jasper County.
Bloomington, (Univ’y,) Monroe County.
Columbia City, Whitley County.
Merom, Sullivan County.

Fort Wayne, Allen County.
Kentland, Newton County.
Aurora, Dearborn County.
Warsaw, Kosciusko County.
Annapolis, Parke County.

Ames, Story County.

Afton, Union County.

Boonesborough, Boone County.

Fontanelle, Adair County.

Mount Vernon, Linn County.

Webster City, Hamilton County.

Guttenberg, Clayton County.

Clinton, Clinton County.

Lemars, Plymouth County.

Dubuque, Dubuque County.

Mount Pleasant, (University,) Henry
County.

Cresco, Howard County.

West Union, Fayette County.

Fort Madison, Lee County.

Grant City, Sac County.

Sac City, Sac County.

Iowa City, (University,) Johnson County.

Durant, Cedar County.

West Branch, Cedar County.

Davenport, Scott County.

Monticello, Jones County.

Logan, Harrison County.

Council Bluff, Pottawattomie County.

Jowa Falls, Hardin County.
66 METEOROLOGICAL

STATIONS AND OBSERVERS.

List of meteorological stations and observers for the ycar 1871—Continued.

Name of observer.

Address.

Iowsa—Continued.

Wadey, H
Warne, Dr. G
Warren, J. H
Wheaton, Mrs. D. B
Water, IDK CSSe sete sntne wlejchiss i Sec cise aes
Woodworth, §

ee

KANSAS.

Atdams HIM eSt 2 os) sina ae wots Seve toe
Beckwith, W
Cotton, J. M
Daniels, P
Fogle, D
Horn, Dr: .H.\B.,
Hoskinson, R. M
Ingraham & Hyland
Lamb, Dr. W. M
Mudge, Professor B. F

i ee
ee ee er oy
eee ew wee we wee ee ee ee ce ee eee eee wee
ee ee ee ee
Se ee
meee eee eee wm wee we tee eee wees
Se
ee ee ee

Parker, J. D
Richardson. sAs! Grasses escyes og eee esse
Shoemaker, J.G
Snow, Professor F. Bi:
Stayman, Dri)
Walrad, iD
Walters, Dr. J
Woodworth, A

i es
a
ee i
ee

i ees

KENTUCKY.
BEATLY: Onc ns. scicieteeciected stale alee ac cates
Horr, Edw. W
Martin, Dr. S. D
Shriver, Howard

LOUISIANA.

Cleland, Rev. T. H
Collins, H.'C2-23:
Foster, Captain R. W
Moore, Dr. Jos. L

ee

HermaldeMis Cs 2 oh tokebios te emect meee eee
Gardiner, Reskles
Guptill, G. W
Haskell, Willabe
Mayo, ED ieee ser .cni-ipcicen=ccecistecencemee
IMOOnO; VAS PE seen tele otac cic cele Soe eee
Moulton. J.vbasacateiecisnc = cot eioe eae eee ee
Rarker, Jin Dosen oe
Pitman, Edwin
Reynolds, Henry
Smith, TE DD Se cic ore erento atsciomers See cr SeEe
nippy. Oscar! Wess jes ae pee ae eee ee stee aeee
Wentworth, B. C

Rockford, Floyd County.

Independence, Buchanan County.
Algona, Kossuth County.
Independence, Buchanan County.
Woodbine, Harrison County.
Boweu’s Prairie, Jones County.

Williamstown, Jefferson County.

Olathe, Johnson County.

Williamstown, Jefferson County.

Crawfordsville, Crawford County.

Williamsburgh, Franklin County.

Atchison, Atchison County.

Burlingame, Osage County.

Baxter Springs, Cherokee County.

Douglas, Butler County.

Manhattan, (Agricultural College,) Riley
County.

Burlington, Coffey County.

Plum Grove, Butler County.

Leroy, Coffee County.

Lawrence, (Univ’y,) Douglas County.

Leavenworth, Leavenworth County.

Paola, Miami County.

Holton, Jackson County.

Council Grove, Morris County.

Danville, Boyle County,
Blandville, Ballard County.
Pine Grove, Clarke County.
Arcadia, Lincoln County.
Springdale, Jefferson County.

Delhi, Richland Parish.
Ponchatoula, Tangipahoa Parish.
New Orleans, Orleans Parish

| Shreveport, Caddo Parish.

' Montville, Waldo County.

Montville, Waldo County.
Houlton, Aroostook County.
Orono, Penobscot County.
Gardiner, Kennebec County.
Cornish, York County.
Bucksport, Hancock County.
Brewer Village, Penobscot County.
Lisbon, Androscoggin County.
Standish, Cumberland County.
Mount Desert, Hancock County.
Barnard, Piscataquis County.
East Wilton, Franklin County.
Norway, Oxtord County.
Surry, Hancock County.
' Montville, Waldo County.

_

METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS.

67

List of meteorological stations and observers for the year 1871—Continued.

Name of observer.

Address.

Matne— Continued.

West, Silas.........
Wallon Bens ic esses: < oerSe 6 cers see

MARYLAND.

CUTUISSs Gy Gee eee sets ciie cacao ticle
Deval DISS WH ees acta sreacle oe .t-eraatoaca =
Elliott, J. F
MOO CIM ATI Veeg Le aot tal arcteta! maior cin cies
Hanshewe Cis been ste =) apaisiectsea cles tatecic, este
Hanshew, J. K-..
Jourdan, Protessor ©. Eve 2.<2:35 e-em cin 2.

McCormick; JieO 2a cxtecaSe <cc sean dc Saino
Naval HOS iiball: ae sole sctee sfesrsijesietene cers
phepherd Ol Mi acess se ct Sas tmcee cess
BS TOs ise lgemteyrterr caret xa22 oie ete cto eyaio
Stephenson, Rev. James, and others. ..-.-.-
WallenteyvAUex= 82.28 2c, So Ssasie cease cece cook

MASSACHUSETTS,

Bixby, °] als SA a ae ary ee

Ganmia cea: Geore erates. inc sepie soe aia
Dewburst, Rev. E..

Hopkins, Professor A., and Frederic Marcy.

Merriam,
Morrill, D. T., M. i Bemis, Gare joy.
INASOMp EONS Temecanismmes csc cicccicseeaee
BN GISOM, GEL. MM sercreretciercaie pe etic maistayayee Seas
Newcomb, G.S8........ -
perry MTs Ss, Ele cans cee soon cionzinSe.s.nclclee
OGM ANS See sa sai ocicns Seiaa coe ss Gaia eae e

PNCCLEM ING Vie At, ree pies aencaecieacmoeans cee
PR eCTMok extern Sa veaiyone Sewanee

MICHIGAN,

ullangee Ries--8. scam Neat eecinces oudeccs
TEOUUYSS, 1D.V3) “LOG Ri) 6 Sey ete i eae eee ee ep eee
ELT OUM SPE GW selers cecil eee ect e sc.cScim aiareic
olimesMirgebar Sis sce. oe tome. ta so cccn mere
lowell Seems. oto e se tose Oe teas
Kedzie, ProfessorK. C.2..... 23..+.------

ROY! PEOIESSOR AM clas) sececs'sesedecs ca
Mapes, H. H-2--: Sie eisiai ea seine siciele ber sicisorajs
BEAUUISON. ELAs ose teats oe oe cde wis ot woes
HERO, Ie Wits ohae cute een ie acc wade APR pE

MILES TRE Ven Gra Nise eee eee oo Te
Southworth, IN Ss er) ea SSS es
Streng, L. iz Seema oe gra ee er
ANY GILES) 109 Pee

Cornish, York County.
West Waterville, Kennebee County.

Fallston, Harford County.
San’s Cree sk, Carroll County.

Saint Inigoes, Saint Mary’s “County.
Annapolis, Anne Arundel County.
Linwod, Carroll County.

Frederick, Frederick County.

Emmittsburgh, (Mount Saint Mary’s Col-
lege,) F rederick County.

Ww oodlawn, Cecil County.

Annapolis, ‘Anne Arundel County.

Ellicott City, Howard County.

Cumberland, Alleghany County.

Saint Inigoes, Saint Mary’s Connie

Woodstoe ‘k, (College,) Baltimore County.

Richmond, Berkshire County.

West Newton, Middlesex County.

Newburyport, Essex County.

Lunenburg, Worcester County.

Hinsdale, Berkshire County.

Lawrence, Essex County.

Hoosae Tunnel, Berkshire County.

New Bedford, Bristol County.

Williamstow h, (Williams College,) Berk-
shire County.

Topsfield, Essex County.

Mendon, Worcester County.

W orcester, (Lunatic Hospital,) Worcester
County.

North Billerica, Middlesex County.

Georgetown, Essex County.

Kingston, Plymouth County.

Cambridge, Middlesex County.

New Bedford, Bristol] County.

Amherst, (College,) Hampshire County.

Milton, Norfolk County.

New Bedford, Bristol County.

Litchfield, Litchfield County.
Ontonagon, Outonagon County.
Detroit, Wayne County...
Grand Rapids, Kent County.
Macon, Lenawee County.
Lansing, (Agricultura] College,) Ingham
County
Olivet, (College, ) Eaton County.
Kalamazoo, Kalamazoo County.
Muskegon, Muskegon County.
Alpena, Alpena County.
Northport, Leelenau County.
Coldwater, Branch County.
Grand Rapids, Kent County.
Battle Creek, Calhoun County.
68.

METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS.

List of meteorological stations and observers for the year 1871—Continued.

Name of observer.

Address.

MicuiGaNn—Continued.
Whelpley, Miss H., and Thomas .-.--.-.---
Wrhittledey;:S! di j-65¢ is Sacein ere si couse.
WallSOn) AW sce ceeeesesicinis seic=e cee cise
Winchell, Professor;jand Mrs: JN. Hi... -

MINNESOTA.

Cheney; wWalliamee cence asec s sere ete
MeMalh oun iwi see cts ccsareucotione erase
PAKOISOM PRE Ne Ao ete as saree n see cena ae

IkOish (CUA aeeA gaaauoeEeooaeoumosdosoT
WidS worth We Whyneceac caceseeeee ae ane
\WVaig anata OGRE Ba oehess sansa nace Soddécc
AVWWALINGOESS de Wren waists aie aeisieiar elas /cate sieleya\s
Woodbury: OC. We and Co Bi es iscc ooo.
Noune tev i eesesusscdesescoderorrtc

MISSISSIPPI.

Bow Gen WpAnie niece <5js/a0 cece las cies eat
Colemanw hee cecketoees ser eee esos
Mlorer Wn ewWisecteisy eee stese sons se
JaCkSODs hn Sse ecesece cece see cae seeiscss
Jennings Oras soess Sosecs tec eer cor
Keenan, (MOSS Weise A sciciieles ane enn aioe
Lull, James S., and John F. Tarrant
: Payne, John s Rs Mtesraseteie mateo cet ae
Robinson; Ih gull OA BEBE peeeeice mes

MISSOURI.

1a IES dissBoaciosboomnecomodecrdEsrse5ae
Coltrane, T. W
IDG AMA IN Se edlegusseaneubbeod.ceadeassesas
Hendler AM Oe ao cciacisns efexecleinte aieVemis\aiai~=
TALIS VWy dlluSscs clo ns o <6 elec sleeiseinemetes
ANGE hid Os | Boa eR ASO KeSecoar aoe mabe BF
Kaucheriswilltaiminces cloc see seie sqslemtos ee
Martin; HHOLke ee stalseicies -yetaiete atenielei(m\ (0
MeCord, Re Hivos pee ane ssn = = ene
Ruggles,
DAIS DUTY. sO. Wisse steloeseeieiereiereieier cleleie rors
Smith, John M..
Stuntebec k, Rev. ¥. H. . and A. Av erbeck..

MONTANA.

Goddard, E. N..-.-.. -
Minesinger, Js Mw 5s.socjotncees Soke cheer
Stuart, Gramville'-. s., J. 55-5 322. So datinas

NEBRASKA.
Caldwell, Mraz BievBibgsseesscad. ssaseeose

Dunn, Walliam®: <2 ce ssmttel ie cisiois 0} oa) erat eiets
Hamilton, RevssWeaeis sis acta tee oe cine

Monroe, Monroe County.

Copper Falls, Keweenaw County.
Benzonia, Benzie County.

Ann Arbor, Washtenaw County.

Minneapolis, Hennepin County.
Leech Lake, Cass County.
Saint Paul, Ramsey County.
Sylvan Park, Becker County.
Afton, Washington County.
New Ulm, Brown County.
Litchtield, Meeker County.
Beaver Bay, Lake County.
Beaver, Winona County.
Sibley, Sibley County.
Koniska, McLeod County.

Philadelphla, Neshoba County.
Holly Springs, Marshall County.
Marion, Lauderdale County.
Clinton, (College,) Hinds County.
Baldwin, Lee County.
Brookhaven, Lawrence County.
Columbus, Lowndes County.
Grenada, Yalabusha County.
Enterprise, Jasper County.

Nevada, Vernon County.

Cave Spring, Greene County.

Jefferson City, Cole County.

Allenton, Saint Louis County.

Mount Vernon, Lawrence County.

Keytesville, Chariton County.

Oregon, Holt County.

Corning, Holt County.

Willard, Greene County.

Rolla, Phelps County.

Kansas City, Jackson County.

Hematite, Jefferson County.

Saint Louis, (University,) Saint Louis
County.

Virginia City, Madison Connty.
Missoula, Missoula County.
Deer Lodge City, Deer Lodge County.

Bellevue, Sarpy County.

Emerson, Otoe County.

Omaha Agency, Burt County.

De Soto, Washington County.

New Castle, Dixon County.

Santee Agency, L’Eau qui Court County.
Nebraska | City, Otoe County.
METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS. 69

List of meteorological stations and observers for the year 1871—Continued.

Name of observer. Address.

NEW HAMPSHIRE.

brewster, Aliredeasectisscests) sol se4 gee Tamworth, Carroll County.

Brown, Branch tc. esen; wesc soscee cscs esse Stratford, Coos County.

Colby; sAliredsssees eso. c0- 22.2 aecsee ..| Gottstown Center, Hillsborough County.
Couch, ih; Dae dae esters cece sce sone enter Contoocookville, Merrimack County.
Elon tino ton epics ac nes shoe ek cme scce er Hanover, Coos County.

Hurlin, Reve W s2.cn-02 s2e65-0<2--5-5--) SOUth Antrim, Hillsborough County.
Wddery i: Deaeeeess ss es] = voscee-sicn----)) Whitetield, Coos ‘County.
OCG See setae eee te crise ee eeoaeine eee Shelburne, Coos County.

NEW JERSEY.

Beans, Thomas J...........---.----------| Moorestown, Burlington County.
Brooks, William ......-..- -.-.-..-----..-| Paterson, Passaic County.

Chandler Wri Weide sete eo nate es ee South Orange, Essex County.
(OOK EUR sa sistex. ojo eh ak Sie ein eine; Trenton, Mercer County.
SmiIn gs, Jie cic cian stae.<1e cbse seisese esses Readington, Hunterdon County.
Gtvenrhly (Agere en ee a eine ae eee oe oats Atco, Camden County.

Howard, Thomas DT, jr... = si2ccescece oes Jersey City, Hudson County.
liporam POTD. sa. eee eo antes nce Vineland, Cumberland County.
IN OUP AS Bi Serotonin) tein incion oe New Germantown, Hunterdon County.
Hgeulom ory gS sce) sy hw eyes acy tos sre. eee Rio Grande, Cape May County.
IeGidin gig ba ORAS ee san ca Tec as 8 Sen Allowaystown, Salem County.
sheppard, MisstnC=:.2 225.2 .-< cere once Greenwich, Cumberland County.
Whitehead WA 23sec ose css ener decue Newark, Essex County.

NEW YORK.

Anam Cem Wash peeemesa ee eekee aS Hector, Schuyler County.
ALTOS. Ele, and WOVe so. Gaceacs) Sessa Jamestown, Chautauqua County.
BUC eny pene ae ee een eae ee onl Garrisons, Sugnam County.

BANTEL Clete ens eas oa eaten er pare ee, tte cee Angelica, Allegany County.
Balers Gilbert db 52ce site ac csccte-ccrctttne ote Himrods, Yates County.

Barrett, A. J..-.2-- Bates eioe into nator Siey crates Lowville, Lewis County.
Barrows, CaptaimsS.soccecis-se5 cacene onan South Trenton, Oneida County.
IBALULOtisME bse seen ce saten oe seme ciesese st Vermillion, Oswego County.
Brownell, Wit A ve. css seis -otece escccaees--| Fairfield, Herkimer County.
Bussing, JW, and D. Siss..2.- <scsc055c- Minaville, Montgomery County.
Clarkes BI Whee- m4 94 Saar Soe ote oe on anesie Lockport, Niagara County.
Cooley, Professor J. S......... ...---- ---.| Fort Edward, Washington County.
Edwards, D................ -.-----------| Little Genesee, Allegany County.
Candiner| Jetheteedas'-saacns a. isos cays. Newburgh, Orange County.
Godttrays Mabetert sq stems t eet ooo. 5. Carlton, Orleans County.

1a LIPS. 16 | ea aera a a ce te Depauville, Jefferson County.
Himcwenvord. WG, Pose. potoweaattcck cele Rochester, Monroe County.
Heimpireet, JNO, Wessecs .o0cos oc coee ase Troy, Rensselaer County.
Hendricks. D: Bei .0 f.ocuestuccceececcc Kingston, Ulster County.

ROW OU teen e: SoS oc o's 6:Siels oiaterarw accor arene Nichols, Tioga County.

des Hub ots Gas NY [=e eC a ee North Argyle, Washington County.
IngalsvenG@ Meee wn uaed mice scene cd Sone South Hartford, Washington County.
Ti SH RG Vem Walle iso = ise aro) ste 6) tw ae ww Lowville, Lewis County.

VES a Wir ee ene ce Buffalo, Erie County.

Jones, W. Martine. 5... cc2c ccc cece eee. Suspension Bridge.

Johnson; REVS Wess ec. coc cce cece neces Newark Valley, Tioga County.
INGese iG: ests erases Ssose co toe eeebice 3 Cooperstown, Otsego County.
bee, Weslo Aso l35 24 82.2 s2e sss <----.--| Canton, Saint. Lawrence County,
NYO hee ed Barapa es eR Flatbush, Kings County.

IVIL Orr, IE es es I ects he spices arcs Brooklyn, Kings County.
Maleolm, W. 8 .-<....:2...----..---.-----| Oswego, Oswego County.

70

METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS.

List of meteorological stations and observers for the year 1871—Continued.

Name of observer.

New YorK—Continued.

MeNutt, Randolphiscescrrcis sc =i 4-s\-iee ce
Merritt, Jno.(C.; jPsssesciecicj= + 3
Miller; J: Dewatteepcee eis. ees sciton crsiceeere
Morris: Missi tere cee ciiselsc ion ecitioscjsee
Morris, Professor) O7 Wiss: sass cee siciciee
Naval Los piballcien ten -tmic.-)55 12 site cil sateerere
Partrick} Jey Misa vices sochecretboctsee nce
IOC; SANTONG | Wraseio~ oi-'-)snicieisin seine cones
Russell eee ciciaac.ce iene cise secre eeierecee
SOWVOD Grbac ccincccte st cose emcee eo suceee
Smith, E. A., and daughters.... ..--. Sodad
Soule wProfessor W jcc cicicicice wits assie emia eis
Spooner Ory cease wera cisieie sa ceecieioce
ROW PTC; Dc a. e toleciseiciscicws/eleisicers see
Willis, O. R., and daughters...... .....-.:
Wooster, C. A..... sates eucleieteoais(stetahewes

NORTH CAROLINA.

‘Adams: ProfessOnih. Wi dccie o<sfe = etevi-)-m cies
ALISON, (Uh. WSs ects seer paste ways seiercictersrct
AIS CONS MEG ick sates ciate wisteieminterieisteresl
Austin, Robert Hi 22 soctcsqcheccic scission
Beall GR PL erie ees ete Suiciaias iets s) Se eto ose

lakh tok eel OT So el ee Ueno ere oo cade eee-
ATE AOA. sere nel oe ate eee relate erate
EN CKS; (Dr. Woe ties otisicinn'c.s iste cate sielecinss
HLOWaTnd..)S,, Ave satsiedoc Som aeiiehe smoke Lee
Karon thd ssc aceasta scceecescisiecscee
Lawrence, G.
Murdochs Wrakls= ctoncvcter.tee atic canis ereeic
Norileet host teteetscctclsemeecisncceeioese
Sherwoods Jmoy Me: 326 <<<. oni sacle getciene

OHIO.

Ballantine, W
Barringer, W
Bineman, 0. J, ancdyKiin oer ples cece cet
Boras, (O.o2 sek
Clarke, J
CranesG. Wiisncoushe eee eemieet yee eaters
Doyle Joseph) Bi j4(4- 3. eas wae ee eae
Ti etch ae] Cae Gaerne eRe eee ten 2 Sry VTE Sees oe ae
HOLVISS PE eo) yar aioe oloaw es etoceeceic cect
Hammitt, Jno. W
ANP Stine OWis sis .c.2apelacsticsimeecamsl saceces
Maywood, brotesson Ji.t 32... secemeenceeee
RLCLTI GK Wee scm, wis aes) soma ee wee eleseee
Hunting donyiGa Ci rand.D. Koes enero
HElyidles Gi: sAs Severe el ia,wtore a ny thee iainteysteema tote
Irwin, Dr. A.
Marsh, ‘Mrs: Mi. Miseect coos s- 2-6 seme
Mathews; J. McDrceo. so --ce-eoneseeeeee
Melarland, Professor R. W
McCune, Dr. James... x
Morton, Dr. (George hh. soc caneceno erase

i er a ny

Address.

Warrensburgh, Warren County.
Farmingdale, Queens County.

Fort Edward, Washington County.

| Throg’s Neck, Westchester County.

| New York, New York County.

New York, New York County.

North Volney, Oswego County.
Middleburgh, Schoharie County.
Gouverneur, Saint Lawrence County.
Fairfield, Herkimer County.

Moriches, Suffolk County.

Cazenovia, (Seminary,) Madison County.
Oneida, Madison County.

Waterburgh, Tompkins County.

White Plains, Westchester County.
North Hammond, Saint Lawrence County.
Houseville, Lewis County.

West Day, Saratoga County.

Goldsborough, Wayne County.
Statesville, Iredell County.
Asheville, Buncombe County.
Tarborough, Edgecombe County.
Lenoir, Caldwell County.
Edenton, Chowan County
Bakersville, Mitchell County.
Charlotte, (Mint,) Mecklenburgh County.
Asheville, Buncombe County.
Weldon, Halitax County

Oxford, Granville County.
Greensborough, Guilford County.
Albemarle, Stanley County.
Fayetteville, Cumberland County.
Raleigh, Wake County.
Tarborough, Edgecombe County.
Fayettev ille, Cumberland County.

Sago, Muskingum County.
Belletontaine, “Logan County.
Pennsville, Morgan County.

North Fairtie ‘ld, “Huron County.
Bowling Green, Wood County.
Bethel, Clermont County.
Steubenville, Jefferson County.
Gambier, Knox County.
Painsville, Lake County.

College Hill, Hamilton ‘County.
Cincinnati, Hamilton County.
Westerville, (Univ’y,) Franklin County.
Oberlin, Lorain County.

Kelley’s Island, Erie County.
Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Farmer, Defiance County.

Ripley, Huron County.
Hillsborough, Highland County.
Oxford, (Miami Univ’y,) Butler County,
Mount Gilead, Morrow County.
North Bass Island, Ottawa County.
METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS.

ea

List of meteorological stations and observers for the year 1871—Continued.

Name of observer.

Address.

Oxn1o—Continued.

Miiller, Dr. R
INGE AIG MNEs soso oaeeeseee eae eesee
Ox evge Dithd Asie. é SoG Gone bomceSepouenoa
Retten ger. 1 MCh ee Ne cess ceeeeiecin == = ---
Poon bhp IMANOlee 2a6 OS ee ae sea sdoe comer oc
POWOGK ROVecle tine es etecise sewn e sor coe oe
Rodgers, Alexander P..--... s.-00ve-02---
SHEA LD MiiGhsWeecres CoASoE CoeSeepeogeon:
Shields Ise se erece cee acielee seine
Shreve, C. R., and Martha
DING My Oop eee sea sacs ee sis clin iso ea
Dintthy (rs CrEjecss ccs cosc wescee san. oss

MUL Uwe lle Cae Acoma ewe tetas stem a seret
hompson weve D2 2s se ccicwicicc sac cece
SIM GOT glee Are ssiare 2 oie erence orga Srotaisicrarocrsis
White, J. H

Wall aim SOM srelewh vere. se cine ences pee creneie stress
Walliams; Professor Mi G..22.22.--s-- 5...
Nabors Nile Sheree one Ses eneororaser eames

OREGON.

Oxer, H. A., and J.S
Pearce, Thomas
Wilson, Louis

See

IBGMUIG Valin tl wena iac toca eietcreic.s tate am sea
Black, Samuel A
Cook, Dr. W. H
Corson, M. H
Cummings, J
UTUIS SPA Wis > So ciate in ce aya ce egodee an ne FG
Darlinoton), WSS ss scicc o<\s- s- 902 sist ccs
Day, Theodore
Feicht, B

eee wet te tee eee ets ee ee eee
ee
eect ee ee ee ee eee eee ee ee eee eee

TAM C Oya eee ses acne ecieimcia sae ees cae ee

James, Professor C.S
PGHOGISMIV iy Alsace nce. ce case on, vo chace sciecjencle
Kirkpatrick, J. A
Kohler, E

weet ee ee eee eee eee eee eee
a
ee i ee ey

Marsden travels ssctent ooctsc cece seceice os
Martin, Dr, George
McConnell, E.M.
Meehan, T ee ree eee oe tae! Soa
Naval Hospital
Packard, D. P
IREGIOT AD ee ae ee setae ae sesh Se kienis
Raser, J. Heyl
ISSO EG) oat saree entero te orataie cle eialasnse
SMUD. Woe ces aaades SEO? Se Tees ©
Spencer, Miss Anna

i

Carthagena, Mercer County.
Sandusky, Erie County.
Jacksonburgh, Butler County.
Berea, Cuyahoga County.
Cincinnati, Hamilton County.
Salem, Columbiana County.

Gallipolis, Gallia County.

Savannah, Ashland County.

Cincinnati, Hamilton County.

Martin’s Ferry, Belmont County.

Hudson, Summit County.

Kenton, Hardin County.

Adams’ Mills, Muskingum County.

New Birmingham, Guernsey County.

Marion, Marion County.

Cincinnati, (Mount Auburn Ladies’ Insti-
tute,) Hamilton County.

Williamsport, Pickaway County.

Urbana, (University,) Champaign County.

Wooster, Wayne County.

Portland, Muitnomah County.
Eola, Polk County.
Astoria, Clatsop County.

| Pittsburgh, Allegheny County.

Tioga, Tioga County.
Harrisburgh, Dauphin County.
Carlisle, Cumberland County.
Plymouth Meeting, Montgomery County.
Tarentum, Alleghany County.
C atawissa, Schuylkill County.
Parkersville, Chester County.
Dyberry, Wayue County.
Alleghany City, Alleghany County.
Grampian Hilis, Clearfield County.
Buce s, Pike County.

Fallsington, Buck’s County.
Hazleton, Luzerne County.
Mount Joy, Lancaster County.
Brownsville, Fayette County.
Lewisburgh, Union County.
Westchester, Chester County.
Philadelphia, Philadelphia County.
Egypt, Lehigh County.
Mount Roe k, Cumberland County.
Ephrata, Lancaster County.
York Sulphur Springs, Adams County.
| West C hester, Chester County.

| New Castle, Lawrence County.
| Germantown, Philadelphia County.
| Philadelphia, Philadelphia County.

--| Greenville, Mercer County.

Johnstown, Cambria County.

teading, Berks County.

Factoryville, Luzerne County.
Cannonsburg, (Col.,) Washington County.
' Horsham, Montgomery County.

19

ya METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS.

List of meteorological stations and observers for the year 1871—Continued,

Name of observer.

PENNSYLV ANIA—Continued.

SOON AE BEB Se se cone pooShopocang doouSoe

Stocker J. Di sn csce pemmee Seer ata ee tame
Soump Je Mila ce aeiae eee ease ce eee
Maylor, Johns seeweeee saeco cess oe series
WRavlor; WReV.bembyeer «alert letols = - -\-oleelziekeete =
Molman, Rev. Mis paves <erciehniana\-ir clae'eeeleissie
Ine RAD SsaGqobcos coodne Sou esa aBSd Se
Walker WSC Resets st. cints/dcpo te Steinstersetee rete

RHODE ISLAND.

Barbermwerac coca ssceeee wesimaes seater

SOUTH CAROLINIA.

Gornish Revi J.cebcect cslecsaoseeectsiceetcin te
Gibbon; ardnekyjeuen 5 cisions sia sa sss o
Rethy, Charlestt=spec:esieces --1= orecieee eee

TENNESSEE.

Bancroft, Reve ©. dibs tejccers cise ccetees
Calhoun ges veeecmeciee cer ss tree cee es
MOVE ASS IS nasedWis orate eteciaieice hel eicissl eee
Ruraniklin gr; Wikies staseem er stosres em eet
Grigsby, William “so eee een eeclenaeeeen-
NO WAS; fC salu. a are meiemteete lace ce eiste cise
avin PErOLessOl Jai Ke scisinicew oie sie ease elecee
Stewart, Professor W .<<<<.\-2-.-- -cese~--

RVC, ele e yainiarelereieievapnioeie ie itele oe = Peta |

ATICOEPSON SOW. june Hoc/cee cele wes aise tere
BAX COR WMISSeBic eas cs cree cfejeete Sm tase eterno
MD AVIS PAMMUE) peso we etaiow le sole elevate ileteteinee
DICUSAMN) iJ soo cee se waten tefais aisfawnie Seeekionees
ASCOs ep Mies alates pisieicis = nieve ne wisreiefojaeioicictols
Eaton, Mi isek setche cietae seis cis sisi ste iace
eon, \GeOrveuN eeccce ccc onic cclsete
Martin: Alen sic cers seteers ie clei sinise eieoicio’s
eubersen, JE e.scteceisee sacra eee Soe
SIMPSON; EY ac ew ree ce eieleeem eine = heeft
Vane Nostrand (Jai -ceteetlesoer ens meeaee

Fe a? YE
White, Dr. A. C

Balloch sy oat re sichs.ckls bis ae See ee Ree
Ford, A. C., and Charles Vieweg- ..-- -- yoae

VERMONT.

Barto; D. Cand Wipbicnce. ser seecteeecee
Cuvune HS AC cea eeeeeene se ace cae eer
Maton: iH. andi Ae eres se eeter sees
Gilmour, A. H. J
Kennedy, J. C

Address.

Ephrata, Lancaster County.
Hamlintown, Wayne County.
Greensburgh, Westmoreland County.
Connellsville, Fayette County.
Beaver, Beaver County.

Franklin, Venango County.
Germantown, Philadelphia County.
Fountaindale, Adams County.

Newport, Newport County.

Aiken, Barnwell County.
Hacienda Saluda, Greenville County.
Gowdeysville, Union County.

Lookout Mountain, Hamilton County.
Austin, Wilson County.

Greeneville, Greene County.
Lagrange, Fayette County.

Trenton, Gibson County.
Elizabethtown, Carter County.
Knoxville, (University,) Knox County.

County.
Clearmont, Warren County.

Clarksville, Red River County.
Houston, Harris County.

Deloraine, Hunt County.

Blutf, Fayette County.

Gilmer, Upshur County.

Lavaca, Calhoun County.

Clear Creek Station, Galveston County.
Clarksville, Red River County.

San Antonio, Bexar County.

Oakland, Texas County.

Travis County.
Sand Fly, Burleson County.

| Clinton, De Witt County.

| Coalville, Sammit County.

Camp Douglas, Salt Lake County.
Harrisburgh, Washington County.
Salt Lake City, Salt Lake County.

Panton, Addison County.
Lunenburgh, Essex County.
Woodstock, Windsor County.
Saint Albans, Franklin County.
South Troy, Orleans County.

Clarksville,(Stewart College,)Montgomery

Austin, (Institution for Deaf and Dumb,)

-—--
METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS.

9°
Jv

7

List of meteorological stations and observers for the year 1871—Continued.

Name of observer.

Address.

VERMONT— Continued.

Paine, C.S
helps; Samuel Br Sass on ei ene msc -
Robinson, Geo. W
Wild, Rev. E. P
Williams, Rev. R. G

wee wee one e ee ee et woes sees
See ee
es

Wing, Minerva E

o>)

VIRGINIA.

Iino, Ihe Sea neaGes Seok oso Hope Seeoee
IBOwmaniGs Avisos cescnccseses Eee Sa ae
Brown, Rev. James A
Campbell, Professor J. L
Chamberlin, Mrs. 8. E
Clarke, Dr. James T, and Miss Bell Clarke.
Clue UG asese5 Sosccne Bee ons hocceee
Gillingham, C
Horne, Captain D. B
Jones B. W
Martin, W. A
Meriwether, C. J
Moore, C. Rk
Naval Hospital
Payne, D
Robey, Randolph
Sherman, J. M
Tayloe, E. T
Thrift, Miss L. R
Townsend, Emma C
Williams, F
Williams, H. C

ee ee oy
ewe ere eee rene ceo eese

ee ee

eee eee ee ee ee wee ee eee eee eee oe
ee
ete mee wees oe ee eee ew cee eee eee eee
eer ecm ec eee wee ewes we ee eee ew eww
wet ee ee wee eee wees eee ew wees
tee tee we ee tee eee we we ee ee eee eee
ee
weet tee eee ce ewes coerce eee eee ee ee oe
eee eee coe eee wees ome cece
wee eee te wee we eee eee ee ee eee wee
ee ee ee
i ee
ee ee
ee er ry

WASHINGTON TERRITORY.

McCall, C
Sampson, Alex. M
Whitcomb), Thomas M

eo te ee et ce wm eee ee ee ee ee eee ewe wee
i

WEST VIRGINIA.

Owen, Benjamin
Rofte, C.. L

WISCONSIN.

162) (ey C/0) C02 he
IBYCGC Melireplperener hapsicts Sc) Meio) o Sore cp5 oie thas
WUTUISM VER Witte eect ones Saees calscee acc
Daniells, Professor W. W
De Lyser, John
Wuncams Jlrs sien eso cnccels cee nea le=c
Foye, Professor J. C
Waphamy, TAY MUGS) ea. cccic cosas oncccen
Liips, Jacob and Miss C
ANSP C0 AS & Rt OAR Ee es nee ee ae ee re
ODWanoghoe,, Jiss 2 cee cesahstsasesdec ceca
Pegler, Rev. G.
MINS SE Jin. sie SS BEO AROS OS AOS RE Eee re

East Bethel, Windsor County.

Norwich, Windsor County.

Mount Anthony, Beunington County.

Craftsbury, Orleans County.

Castleton, (Normal School,) Rutland
County.

| Charlotte, Chittenden County.

Zuni Station, Isle of Wight County.
Vienna, Fairfax County.

Wytheville, Wythe County.
Lexington, Rockbridge County.
Waterford, Loudon County.

Mount Solon, Augusta County.
Staunton, Augusta County.

Mount Vernon Township, Fairfax County.
Cedar Hill, Albemarle County.
Bacon’s Castle, Surry County.
Piedmont Station, Fanquier County.
Lynchburgh, Bedford County.
Johnsontown, Northampton County.
Norfolk, Norfolk County.

Markham Station, Fauquier County.
Vienna, Fairfax County.

Hampton, Elizabeth City County.
Comorn, King George County.
Fairfax Court-House, Fairfax County.
Capeville, Northampton County.
Piedmont, Fauquier County.
Vienna, Fairfax County.

Cathlamet, Wahkiakum County,
Port Angelos, Clallam County.
Union Ridge, Clarke County.

Weston, Lewis County.
Cabell C. H., Cabell County.

Beloit, Rock County.

Embarras, Waupaca County.
Rocky Run, Columbia County.
Madison, (University,) Dane County.
Hingham, Sheboygan County.
New Lisbon, Juneau County.
Appleton, Outagamie County.
Milwaukee, Milwaukee County.
Manitowoc, Manitowoc County
Waupaca, Waupaca County.
Mosinee, Marathon County.
Tunnel City, Monroe County.
Edgerton, Rock County.
TA METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS.

List of meteorological stations and observers for the year 1871—Continued.

Name of observer. Address,
SpauldinoyI) ses. eae eeeeeeteeee paisa Wautoma, Waushara County.
MateeAndrow sen- cece cae seeieeteere ee saeaee Bayfield, Bayfield County.
Wiaite; Mi sates aemeeeerissencs = See cee Baraboo, Sauk County.

Whi bin oO Werkivccesmemesteeate = claite ee eieiete= Geneva, Wabash County.
Wirlo hb wie See ne estes eslelo ints slefeclereteie Sturgeon Bay, Door County.

WYOMING TERRITORY.

Pierce, DiViecenec<c Ueteeescies ecco eeeces Laramie City, Albany County.
METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 15

ADDITIONAL METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL RECEIVED IN
1871 AND KEPT IN THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

Albree, G., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.—Record of weather and indica-
tions.

Andrews, Luman, Southington, Connecticut.—Chart of auroras seen
October 14, 1870.

Ballou, Nahum E., Sandwich, Illinois.—Monthly abstracts of tempera-
ture and rain-fall observations.

Annual abstract for 1871.

Barnard, A. D., San Buenaventura, California.—Account of northern
light seen June 17, 1871.

Barnes, G. W., San Diego, California.—Notes of observations made on
a trip to the mountains.

Barraud, A. L., Pacquette’s Ferry, Llowa.—Observations of tempera-
ture and state of weather at 7 a. m., 12 m., and 8 p. m.

Bissey, Charles E., Iowa State Agricultural College, Ames, Iowa.—Ac-
count of aurora seen June 17.

Bland, T., New York.—Meteorological observations in Barbadoes
October, 1871.

Boerner, Charles G., Vevay, Indiana.—Observations of August shower
of meteors.

Branly, E. H., Amesville, Ohio.— Account of weather and crops.

Bryant, A. F., Fontanelle, Towa.—Account of wind-storm.

Buchner, H. F., Muco, Creek Nation.—Thermometrie observations for
1861 and 1871 at 7 a. m., 2 and 7 p. m.

Burras, O., North Fairfield, Ohio.—Account of the great tornado of
July 16.

Busby, D. Benjamin, Pomaria, South Carolina.—Report of observations
of wind and rain-fall, for November, 1871.

Carlton, A. Y., Stoutville, Camden County, Missouri.icRegister of tem-
perature and direction of wind from November 13 to November 30,
1371.

Central Park, New York.—Weekly abstract of barometric and thermo-
metric observations at 7 a. m.,2 p. m., and 9 p. m., and of the direction,
force, and velocity of wind, and amount of cloud and rain.

Chase, Pliny E.—Monthly and annual rain-curves at Lisbon.

Chazaro, M. M., San Juan.—Observaciones meteorologicas en Octobre,
S71.

Clarke, John.—W eather predictions for August.

Clemson, Thomas G.—Climate of South Carolina.

Cochrane, J.—Account of tornado near Mason City.

Cockrell, Thomas J., Natchez, Mississippi.—Daily record of height of
barometer and thermometer, 6 a. m., 12 m., and 6 p. m., and direction
of wind. (Newspaper slips.)
76 METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL.

Cunningham, G. A., Lunenburgh, Massachusetts——Monthly rain-table
from 1841 to 1868 and monthly means of temperature from 1838 to 1868.

Ourle, T. J—Observations in support of theory that anvil-shaped
clouds always indicate rain.

Davison, C. B., Wayland, Michigan.—W eather report.

Doton, Hosea, Woodstock, Vermont.—Sketch of mountains around
Killington, Vermont.

Edwards, Daniel, Little Genesee, New York.—Account of the weather
during August.

Engineers, Battalion of, Willet’s Point, New York Harbor.—Horary
curves—barometer, thermometer, psychrometer.

Ewing, Charles G., San Francisco, California.—Monthly report of
barometric, thermometric, psychrometric, and rain-fall observations at
8.30 a.m. (Newspaper slips.)

Table showing quantities of rain falling in each month from 1865 to
1870.

Fogle, D., Williamsburgh, Kansas.—Observations of temperature and
rain-fall, 7 a. m., 2 and 9 p. m.

Foster, R. W., New Orleans, Louisiana.—W eather notes for Greenville,
during October, 1869.

Gatchell, H. T. F.—Climate of Colorado Springs.

Gleason, William, Arion, Maine.—Meteorological record for July,
(temperature and wind observations at noon.)

Grady, B. F., Jr.—Condensed meteorological observations for August.

Grant, W. T.—Diagram of thermometrical observations.

Green, H, A., Atco, New Jersey.—Register of observations of tempera-
ture at Atco, New Jersey, May, 1871. Thermometric observations from
November, 1870, to March, 1871.

Greethurst, Joseph, Enterprise.—Monthly report of weather and crops.

Hannah, S. W., Washburn, Missouri.—Report of rain-fall in March,
April, and May.

Higgins, F. W., Detroit, Michigan.—Table showing highest and
lowest range of the thermometer, mean monthly temperature, highest
and lowest daily mean in each month, amount of rain and melted snow,
monthly mean of cloudiness, prevailing winds, &e., at Woodmere Cem-
etery, near Detroit, Michigan, during the year 1571.

Howard, Thomas T., Jv., Jersey City, New Jersey.—General remarks to
accompany meteorological reports.

Quarterly report of meteorogical observations at Jersey City, New
Jersey.

Synopsis of meteorological register.

Hyland, W., Cherokee County, Kansas.—Monthly weather report.

Hough, G. W.—Description of automatic registering and printing ba-
rometer.

Jackson, George L., Vandalia, Illinois.— Account of cold.

James, J. W., Riley, [llinois—Summary of meteorological observ ations
for the year 1871.
METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 77

Jewell, J. G., M. D., Consul at Singapore.—Copy of Sarawak Gazette
containing report of temperature and rain-fall on the Quop estate in
Sarawak for 1870.

Keutgen, C., Jr., Staten Island, New York.—Meteorological observa-
ions, for the year 1871.

Synopses of meteorological observations.

King, Thomas D., Montreal, Canada.—Monthly register of thermom-
etric and barometric observations.

King, William, Newton Falls, Ohio—Temperature observations at 7 a.
m., 2 and 9 p. m., and diagram of same.

Langguth, J. G., Jr., Chicago, Illinois —Account of hail-storm.

Lapham, I. A., Milwaukee, Wisconsin.—Dates of closing and opening
of Milwaukee River from 1836 to 1871, and account of Wisconsin
meteoric iron. (Newspaper slip.)

Leoni, George N., Clear Lake, Galveston County, Texas.—Result of
meteorological observations for July, 1871.

Lewis, George H., Atlantic, Wyoming Territory.—Mouthly report of tem-
perature and rain-fall.

Logan, Thomas M., Santa Barbara.—Temperature, vital statistics, &c.,
of Santa Barbara, (‘Santa Barbara as a sanitarium,” in Scientific Press.)

Mailler, I. P., Brooklyn, New York.—Account of the earthquake on
June 19, 1871, (newspaper extract.)

Mapes, Henry H., Oshtomo, Michigan.—Monthly weather notes.

Martin, Allen.—Meteorological observations for July, 1871.

McCall, C., Olympia.—Account of rain-storm.

McCord, Rh. H., Springfield, Missouri.—Acount of rain-storm June 5,
1871.

Mills, George.—“ How it feels to be struck by lightning.”

Moss, G. B., Belvidere, Illinois.—Monthly abstracts of register.

Abstract of register for the years 1868, 1869, 1870, 1871.

Mueller, Dr. R., Carthagena, Ohio—Monthly record of casual phenom-
ena, &c. Appendix to register.

Noll, Arthur B., New Germantown, New Jersey.—Monthly reports of
range of barometer.

Odell, Fletcher, Gorham, New Hampshire-—Weather notes from April
to October, 1871.

Owen, Benjamin, Weston, Lewis County, West Virginia.—Monthly ob-
servations of temperature at 7 a. m., 2 p. m., and 9 p. m.

Palmer, Dr. E.—Scrap-book containing meteorological observations
for points in Nebraska.

Pastorelli & Co.—Description of storm rain-gauge, designed by G. J.
Symons, for observation of rate of fall.

Patterson, A. B., Saint Paul, Minnesota.—Monthly meteorological notes
(newspaper slip.)

Payne, John K., Knoxville, Tennessee.—Account of weather and crops,
July and August, 1871.
78 METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL.

Peelor, D., Johnstown, Pennsylvania.—Table giving temperature of the
earth at depth of 1 foot, from April, 1869, to April, 1871, inclusive.

Pettersen, Fred., San Antonio, Texas.—Diagram representing the
relative frequency of the different winds, according to observations
made during three years.

Mean temperature and rain-fall at San Antonio de Bexar, 1868, 1869,
1870, 1871.

Platt, Luciano, San Salvador.—Observaciones meteorologicas hechas
en el laboratorio de la faculdad de medecina de San Salvador durante
la semana nona de 1871. Semana segunda.

Poole, Henry, Glace Bay, Cape Breton, Nova Scotia.—Meteorological
register kept during the years 1867, 1868, 1869, 1870, 1871.

Redding, Thomas B., Newcastle, Indiana.—Account of aurora seen
June 18.

Reed, Lyman, New York.—Lunar monthly weather predictions.

Sartwell, H. P., Penn Yan, New York.—Register of meteorological
observations. (Prepared for Yates County Whig.)

Seltz, Charles, De Soto, Nebraska.—Account of storm of July 28, 1871.
(Newspaper slip.)

Account of rain-storm in Omaha.

Shepherd, Smiley, Hennepin, Illinois——Monthly abstract of thermome-
tric observations.

Signal-Office, Washington, D. C.—Daily weather maps, 7.35 a.m.; daily
weather bulletins, 4.35 p. m.

Barograms for November, 1871.

Sisson, Rodman, Abington, Pennsylvania.—Account of a violent hail
and wind storm, and account of a terrible tornado at Hopbottom, July
9, 1872.

Account of auroral display of October 16, 1871.

Table showing mean temperature of each year from 1864 to 1870,
inclusive.

Slade, Elisha, Somerset, Massachusetts.—Monthly report of observa-
tions of maximum, minimum, and mean temperature, direction of wind,
and state of weather.

Mean temperature third and fourth quarters 1871.

Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C—Diagrams from recording
barometer and thermometer.

Snow, F. H., Lawrence, Kansas—Summary of meteorological observa-
tions for the year 1871.

Barometric, thermometric, and psychrometric observations, 7 a. m., 2
p. m., 9p. m.; direction of wind, amount of rain, force of vapor, &c.

Stephenson, James, Saint Inigoes, Maryland.—Weather notes for April,
1871.

Steineman, U., Eckhart Mine, Alleghany County, Maryland.—Rain-fall
observations, 1864 to 1868, inclusive.

Sutton, FE. H.—Diagram of meteorological observations..
METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 79

Sternberg, George M.—Description of improved anemometer.

Tayloe, Edward.—W eather report.

Tennent, Thomas, San Francisco, California.—Rain-fall for parts of
1849-1850.

Truman, George S., Santee Agency, Nebraska.—Monthly report of tem-
perature, direction of wind, and state of weather.

Diagrams of parhelia, November 22, 1871.

Turner, Ernest, Germantown, Pennsylvania.—Effect of lightning in
West Philadelphia during storm of July 11, 1871.

Wadsworth, H. L., Litchfield, Minnesota.—Diagram of halo seen from
Litchfield, December 27, at 9. p. m.

Walton, F. P., Muscatine, Iowa.—Condensed report for 1871.

Webb, John G., Little Sarasta, Southern Florida.—N otes on two cyclones
in August, 1871.

Whitcomb, Thomas M., Union Ridge, Clarke County, Washington Ter-
ritory.—Aurora observed July 21, 1871.

White, J. H., Cincinnati, Ohio.—Summary of meteorological observa-
tions for the year 1871, made at the Mount Auburn Young Ladies’
Institute. |

Whitehead, W. A., Newark, New Jersey.—Yearly meteorological report
for 1871.

Wilbur, Benjamin F., West Waterville, Maine.—MRain-fall in August,
1ST:

Williams, H. C., Vienna, Virginia.—Synopsis of observations made
by Franklin Williams, of Piedmont, Fauquier County, Virginia.

Williams, R. G., Castleton, Vermont.—Diagrams exhibiting compari-
son of Mason’s and Boehlen’s and Staehlen’s hygrometers.

Wing, Minerva E., West Charlotte, Vermont.—Account of sunrise-phe-
nomena.

Record of periodic phenomena at West Charlotte, Vermont.

Weekly meteorological records, (newspaper-slips.)

-— Witter, D. K., Woodbine, Iowa.—Account of the weather.
| Wright, 7. W. A.—Rain-table and remarks on climate for a portion of
San Joaquin Valley, California.
80 METEOROLOGICAL ARTICLES.

METEOROLOGICAL ARTICLES RECEIVED BY THE INSTITU-
TION AND DEPOSITED IN THE LIBRARY OF CONGRESS,

1871.
AURORAS.

Aurore boréale et autres phénomeénes météorologiques observés en
Piémont le 3 janvier 1870.

Aurora polare osservata in Piemonte nel 5 Aprile 1870. P. Fran-
cesco Denza.

Le aurore boreali e la loro origine cosmica. Professor G. B. Donati.

Auroral belt of October 24, 25, 1870.. American Journal of Science
and Art, vol. i, pp. 73, 126.

Aurore boréale du 9 novembre. Observations faites a Brest, par M.
Tarry. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des séances de Vacadémie
des sciences, tome Ixviii, No. 21.

Aurores boréales observées 4 Venddme en 1870. E. Renon. Comptes-
rendus hebdomadaires des séances de l’académie des sciences, tome
Ixxii, No. 10.

Observations on the variation of the magnetic declination in connec-
tion with the aurora of October 14, 1870, by Alfred M. Mayer. Ameri-
can Journal of Science and Art, vol. i, p. 77.

Observations sur les relations qui existent entre les apparitions des
aurores boréales et les variations de température. Ch. Sainte Claire De-
ville. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des séances de Vacadémie des
sciences, tome Ixxii, No. 13.

Recent auroral displays in the United States. American Journal of
Science and Art, vol. i, p. 309.

Relation of auroras to gravitation-currents, by Pliny E. Chase. Amer-
ican Journal of Science and Art, vol. ii, p. 311.

Sur les aurores boréales des 9, 18 et 23 avril vues en Italie. L. P.
Denza. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des séances de l’académie des
sciences, tome Ixxiii, No. 1.

Sur V’aurore boréale du 9 avril 1861, observée & Angers. A. Cheux.
Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des séances de ’académie des sciences,
tome lxii, No. 24.

Sur Vaurore boréale observée en Italie le 12 février 1871. P. Denza.
Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des séances de ’académie des sciences,
tome Ixxii, No. 15.

Note concernant une aurore boréale et divers autres phénoménes mé-
téorologiques observés en Piémont Je 19 juillet 1869. Mémoires de
Vacadémie des sciences de institut de France, tome Ixx.

EARTHQUAKES.

Earthquake in New Jersey, Delaware, &c. American Journal of Sci-
ence and Art, vol. ii, p. 388.
METEOROLOGICAL ARTICLES. Sl

On the supposed earthquake-wave, by Mr. Ellery. Transactions and
proceedings of the Royal Society of Victoria, vol. ix.

Osservatione sul terremoto del 26 Agosto 1869 pel’ Palmieri. MRen-
diconti dell’ academia delle scienze fisiche e matematiche, Sept. 1869.

Aleuni osservazioni in proposito de terremoti di sannicandro. Ren-
diconti dell’ academia delle scienze fisiche e matematiche, Sept. 1869.
Palmieri.

Tremblement de terre & Douai le 25 janvier 1867. Bulletin agricole
de Varrondissement de Douai, années 1866-’67—638~'69,

Note sur les tremblements de terre en 1868, avec suppléments pour les
années antérieures. Alexis Perrey.

Sur les trembliemeuts de terre et les éruptions voleanigues dans J'ar-
chipel Hawaien en 1868. Par M. Alexis Perrey.

Los ecos de una tempestad seismica. Vargasia. Boletin de ciencias
fisicas y naturales de Caracas, No. 5, 1868. <A. Rojos.

ELECTRICITY.

Notice sur la production successive d’éclairs identiques, aux mémes
lieux de Vatmospheére, pendant Vorage du 2 juillet 1871, par M. Mon-
tigny. Bulletin de Vacadémie royale des sciences, des lettres et des
beaux arts de Belgique, No. 8.

Mémoire sur lorigine céleste de Vélectricité atmosphérique. Comptes-
rendus hebdomadaires des séances de Vacadémie des sciences, tome
ixxu, No. 23.

FORESTS, INFLUENCE OF, ON CLIMATES.

Annual report and transactions of the Adelaide Philosophical Society
for the year ending September 30, 1871. Dr. Schomburgh.

De la température de Vair hors bois et sous bois. Des quantités
@eau tombées pres et loin des bois. Par MM. Becquerel et fils. Mé-
moires de ’académie des sciences de Vinstitut de France, tome xxxvy. |

GENERAL METEOROLOGY.

Suggestions on a uniform system of meteorological observations.
Utrecht, 1872.

American weather-notes. Pliny E. Chase. American Journal of Sci-
ence and Art, vol. ii, p. 68.

Symptoémes du temps, déterminés par l’étude des régions supérieures
de Vatmosphére. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des séances de l'aca-
démie des sciences, tome lxxii, No. 13.

Zeitschrift der dsterreichischen Gesellschaft fiir Meteorologie. Redi-
girt von Dr. C. Jelinek und Dr. J. Hahn. Wien, 1879.

Fisica del globo. G. Boccardo. Geneva, 1868.

Verschiedene gesammelte Notizen. Hagenback. Verhand!ungen der
naturforschenden Gesellschaft in Basel, fiinfter Theil, drittes Hett.

Repertorium fiir Meteorologie. Herausgegeben von der kaiserlichen
Akademie der Wissenschaften. Band ii, Heft i.

68 71
82 METEOROLOGICAL ARTICLES.

Sur la loi d’évolution similaire des phénoménes météorologiques. <A,
Poéy. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des sGances de Vacadémie des
sciences, tome Ixxiii, No. 14.

HAIL.

Salzhagel vom St. Gotthard. Vierteljahrsschrift der naturforschen-
den Gesellschaft in Ziirich.

Sur la gréle tombée le 22 mai 1870, par M. Trecul. Mémoires de
Vacadémie des sciences de Vinstitut de France, tome Ixx.

Mémoire sur les zones @orages 4 gréle dans les départements d’Eure-
et-Loir et Loir-et-Cher. Mémoires de ’académie des sciences de Vinstitut
impérial de France, tome xxxv.

La bourrasque du 11 juillet et les orages 4 gréle dans Vest de la France.
Guyot. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des séances de Vacadémie des
sciences, tome Ixxiii, No. 5.

HALOS.

Halo lunaire vu de deux stations différentes. W. De Fonvielle. Comp-
tes-rendus hebdomadaires des séaneces de V’académie des sciences, tome
Ixxii, No. 9.

Unusual exhibition of halos. American Journal of Science and Art,
vol. i, p. 150.

INSTRUMENTS.

A barometer without mercury. Journal of the Franklin Institute,
vol. 62, p. 81.

Notes on aneroid-barometers and on a method of obtaining their errors.
Ellery. Transactions and proceedings of the Royal Society of Victoria,
Ol, 1X.

‘Tide-gauge for cold climates. American Journal of Science and Art,
vol. li, p. 67. J. M. Batchelder.

Description @’un météorographe enregistreur, construit pour Yobser-
vatoire @Upsal. Dr. A.G. Theorell.

Ueber die Leistungen eines an der k. k. Centralanstalt fiir Meteo-
rologie befindlichen registrirenden Thermometers. Von Dr. C. Jelinek.

Ein Barometer ohne Quecksilber. Aus der Natur, neue Folge, 46. Band.

Formel fiir barometrische H6henmessung. Verhandlungen der natur-
forschenden Gesellschaft in Basel, fiinfter Theil, drittes Heft.

Fiillung von Barometerréhren ohne Kochen. Aus der Natur, neue
Folge, 46. Band.

Ueber eine Methode zur Fiiltung der Barometerréhren. Archiv der
Mathematik und Physik, dreiundfiinfzigster Theil, viertes Heft.

Descrizioni dell’ igrotermografo del R. osservatorio di Modena del Prof.
Domenico Ragona: Annuario della societa dei naturalisti in Modena,
anno V.

—————
METEOROLOGICAL ARTICLES. es

On a new instrument for recording minute variations of atmospheric
pressure. Whitehouse Wildman. Proceedings of the Royal Society,
vol. xix, No. 129.

LOCAL METEOROLOGY.
EUROPE.
AUSTRIA.

Zeitschrift der 6sterreichischen Gesellschaft tiir Meteorologie. Redi-
girt von Dr. C. Jelinek und Dr. J. Hahn. Wien, 1870, 1871.

Materyaly do klimatografil galicyi zebrane przéz sekcye meteorolo-
giezna komisgi fizyografiezny nauk Krakow kok 1870. C.K. Towarzetwa.

Ueber die tagliche und jiabrliche Periode der relativen Feuchtigkeit,
Wien, Sitzungsberichte der kaiserlichen Akademie der Wissenschaften.
Oct. 1870. Woiittek.

BELGIUM.

Observations des phénomenes périodiques pendant Vannée 1869.
(Extrait du tome xxix des Mémoires de Vacadémie royale de Belgique.)
Annales météorologiques de Vobservatoire royal de Bruxelles, par A.
Quetelet, 1869.
q DENMARK.

Aarsberething fra det kongelige Landhusholdningselskabs meteo-
rologiske Komite for 1868 and 1869.

ENGLAND AND SCOTLAND.

London.— Quarterly weather-reports of the Meteorological Office, April
to September, 1870.

Remarks on the weather during the quarter ending June 30, 1871, by
James Glaisher.

Proceedings of the Meteorological Society, June, 1871.

Oxford.—Results of astronomical and meteorological observations at
Radcliffe Observatory, Oxford, for the year 1868, by Robert Main. Ox-
ford, 1871.

Brighton.—The climate of Brighton, by Samuel Barker, Edwin Row-
ley, and Fredk. Ernest Sawyer. (Reprinted from the Brighton Daily
News, June, 1871.)

Cornwall.—Meteorological notes for 1870. Journa! of the Royal Insti-
tution of Cornwall, April, 1871.

Scotland.—Journal of the Scottish Meteorological Society, with tables,
1871.

_—

FRANCE.

Note sur le service météorologique de Vobservatoire de Paris. Comp-
_ tes-rendus hebdomadaires des séances de l’académie des sciences, tome
 Ixxii, No. 8. Delaunay.
Note sur Vhiver de 1870-71. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des
séances de Vacadémie des sciences, tome Ixxii, No. 10.

8A METEOROLOGICAL ARTICLES.

Sur le froid du 9 décembre 1871. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires
des séances de l’académie des sciences, tome Ixxiii, No. 24.

Sur les froids de décembre 1871. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires
des séances de ’académie des sciences, tome Ixxiii, No. 25.

Des retours périodiques de certains phénoménes en mai, aotit et no-
vembre 1868, février 1869. Meémoires de Vacadémie des sciences de
Vinstitut de France, tome xxxv. Ch. Sainte Claire Deville.

Observations sur le froid de 9 décembre en divers points de la France.
Comptes rendus hebdomadaires des séances de Vacadémie des sciences,
tome Ixxili, No. 25.

Observations sur “les relations qui existent entre les apparitions des
aurores boréales et les variations de température. Comptes-rendus heb-
domadaires des séances de Vacadémie des sciences, tome Ixxti, No. 13.

Sur la préeocité du froid en 1871. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires
des séances de ’académie des sciences, tome Ixxii, No. 24.

Sur le froid de décembre 1870, et sur la période des grands hivers
signalée, par M. Renon. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des séances
de Vacadémie des sciences, tome Ixxii, No. 1.

Sur les caractéres de Vhiver 1870-71, et sur la comparaison de la tem-
pérature moyenne a Vobservatoire de Paris et & Vobservatoire météo-
rologique central de Montsouris. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des
séances de l’académie des sciences, tome Ixxii, No. 13.

Sur les froids du 18 mai et des premiers jours de juin. Comptes-ren-
dus hebdomadaires des séances.de lacadémie des sciences, tome 1xxii,
No. 23.

Balan.—Odservations météorologiques faites par M. Doumet, jan.—juin
1869. Annales de la societé Vhorticulture d’Allier, tome cinquiéme.

Colmar.—Observations météorologiques faites a V’école normale de
Colmar pendant Vannée 1869. Relevé dressé par M. Ambruster. Bulle-
tin de la société dhistoire naturelle de Colmar, 1870.

Paris.—Bulletin météorologique de l’observatoire de Paris. Comptes-
rendus hebdomadaires des séances de ’académie des sciences, tome 1xii,
No. 6.

The same. Tome l]xxiii, Nos. 1, 6,10, 14, 18, 19, 22.

Annuaire de la société météorologique de France, 1868.

Montpellier.—L’hiver de 187071 dans le Jardin des plantes de Mont-
pellier. Ch. Martins. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des séances de
lacadémie des sciences, tome Ixxii, No. 18.

Montsouris.—Bulletin de Vobservatoire central de Montsouris. June
to December, 1870, and 1871 complete.

Nouvelles météorologiques. Publiées sous les auspices de la société
météorologique de France et de Vobservatoire météorologique central
de Montsouris. Oct. Nov. Dec. 1870.

Le Mans.—Observatious météorologiques, par D. Bonhomet. Bulletin
de la société Vagriculture, sciences et arts.

Tours.—Observations météorologiques faites par M. De Tastes. An-
METEOROLOGICAL ARTICLES. SD

nales de la société d’agriculture, sciences, arts et belles-lettres du dé-
partement d@’Indre-et-Loire.

Observations météorologiques des mois @aotit et septembre. Annales
de la société Vagriculture, sciences, arts et belles-lettres du département
d’Indre-et-Loire. Cent-dixiéme année, tome 1.

Alsace.—Essais sur le climat de l’Alsace et des Vosges. Chas. Grad.

Bulletin de Ja société Whistoire naturelle de Colmar, 1870.

Introduction & Vétude météorologique de l’Alsace, par G. A. Hirn.
Bulletin de la société Whistoire naturelle de Colmar, 1870.

Lyons.—Commission météorologique de Lyon, 1869, 26° année.

Douai.—Observations météorologiques, par M. Offret. Mémoires de
la société impériale @agriculture, de sciences et darts, scant & Douai,
deuxieme série, tome ix, 1866-67.

Etudes de météorologie. Mémoires de la société impériale Wagri-
culture, de sciences et darts, séant a Douai, deuxieme série, tome viii,
1865~-'65.

RKenon.—Sur les caractéres de Vhiver 1870, 1871. Comptes-rendus
hebdomadaires des séances de Pacadémie des sciences, tome Ixxii, No. 25.

Salicis.—Sur un phénomeéne météorologique observé a Houlgate (pres
Dives) le 7 sept. 1871. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des séances de
Vacadémie des sciences, tome Ixxiii, No. 11.

GERMANY.

Resultate aus den meteorologischen Beobachtungen angestellt an den
fiinfundzwanzig kéniglich-siichsischen Stationen im Jahre 1868 und 1869.
Bearbeitet von Dr. C. Brubns, Dresden.

Meteorologische Beobachtungen angestellt auf der Leipziger Stern-
warte im Jabre 1870. Zehnter Jahresbericht des Vereins von Freunden
der Erdkunde zu Leipzig, 1870. C. Bruhns.

Diirkheim.—Meteorologische Station zu Diirkheim. xxvill. und xxix.
Jahresbericht der Pollichia.

Rostock.—Meteorologische Beobachtungen. Festschrift fiir die 44.
Versammlung deutscher Naturforscher und Aerzte, Rostock, 1871.

Meissen.—Zusammenstellung der Monats- und Jahresmittel aus den
zu Meissen im Jahre 1871 angestellten tiiglich dreimaligen meteorolo-
gischen Beobachtungen.

Posen.—Das Klima von Posen. Resultate der meteorologischen Beo-
bachtungen auf der kéniglich-meteorologischen station zu Posen in den
Jahren 1848 bis 1865. Dr. Albert Magener. Posen, 1868.

Ueber die tigliche und jiihrliche Periode der relativen Feuchtigkeit
in Wien. Wittek. Aus dem lxii. Bde. d. Sitzb. d. k. Akad. d. Wissen-
sch., ii. Abth., Oct.-Heft, Jahrg. 1870.

Gorlite.—Meteorologische Beobachtungen vom 1. Dec. 1866 bis 30.
Nov. 1870, von R. Peck. Abhandlungen der naturforschenden Gesell-
schaft zu Gorlitz, vierzehnter Band.

Leipzig.—Meteorologische Beobachtungen angestelit auf der Leipziger
86 METEOROLOGICAL ARTICLES. 7

Sternwarte im Jahre 1870, von C. Bruhns. Zehnter Jahresbericht des
Vereins von Freunden der Erdkunde.

ITALY.

Milan.—Osservazioni meteorologiche. Effemeridi astronomiche di
Milano per Vanno 1871. Publicate dal direttore del reale osservatorio
di Brera.

Modena.—Meteorografia del? autonno 1869 in Modena del Ing. Anni-
bale Ricco. Annuario della societa dei naturalisti in Modena, anno v.

Moncalieri—Bulletino meteorologico dell’ osservatorio del real collegio

Jarlo Alberto, vol. iii, 1867-68.

The same. 1869-70.

Naples.—Specola reale di Napoli a 149™°t sul mare osservatione meteo-
riche fatte dal astronomo assistente, T. Briosch. Rendiconti dell acade- ©
mia delle scienze fisiche e matematiche.

Palermo.—Bulletino meteorologico del R. osservatorio di Palermo. G.
Jacciatore.

Padova.—Meteorologia Italia, delle leggi del clima di Padova. Fran-
cesco Zantedeschi. Commentari dell’ ataneo di Brescia per gli anni 1865,
1866, 1867.

Turin.—Bulletino meteorologico ed astronomico del regio osservatorio
delli universita di Torino, 1869.

Osservazioni meteorologiche di Decembre 1871. Rendiconti reale isti-
tuto Lombardo di scienze e lettere, vol. iv, p. 779.

Ancona.—Meteorologia anconitana dal 1 Dec. 1863 al 30 Noy. 1868.
F. De Bosis.

Sulla organizzioni del servizio meteorologico nei porti di mare del
regno d'Italia.

NETHERLANDS.

Nederlandsch met. Jaarboek voor 1869, utgegeven door het koninklijk
nederlandsch meteorologische Instituut. [2 vols.] Utrecht, 1870.

NORWAY.

Mémoire sur les orages en Norvége, par M. Mohn. Mémoires de
‘académie des sciences de institut de France :
Vacadémie des es de V’institut de France, tome xxxv
servations des orages en Norvége pend: année 9, par M.
Observations des ges en N ge pendant Vannée 1869, par M
in. smoires de Vacadémie des sciences insti ance
Mohn. Mé as de Vacadémie des sciences de Vinstitut de France,
tome Ixx.
PORTUGAL.

Lisbon.—Annaes do observatorio do Infante a Luiz, 1565, ’66, 767, 768,
69, and 770. ;
RUSSIA.

Annales de l’observatoire physique central de Russie. Publi¢ées par
H. Wild. Années 1867 et 1868.
METEOROLOGICAL ARTICLES. 87

Dorpat.—Meteorologische Beobachtungen angestellt in Dorpat im
Jahre 1866-1870.

St. Petersburg.—Jahresbericht des physikalischen Centralobgervato-
riums fiir 1870. Von H. Wild.

Repertorium fiir Meteorologie. Herausgegeben von der kaiserlichen
Akademie der Wissenschaften. Redigirt von Dr. H. Wild. Band ii,
Heft i.

Moscow.—Observations météorologiques faites & Vinstitut des arpen-
teurs de Moscou par J. Weinberg, juillet & décembre 1870. Bulletin de
la société impériale des naturalistes de Moscou, 1871.

SPAIN.

Madrid.—Observaciones meteorologieas efectuadas en el observatorio

de Madrid, Dec. 1867-Nov. 1868. Madrid, 1869.

Resumen de las observaciones meteorologicas efectuadas en el penin-
sula, Dec. 1866. Madrid, 1869. Dec. 1867—Nov. 1868. Madrid, 1870

SWEDEN.

Upsal.—_LBulletin meteorologique mensuel de Pobservatoire de Puniver-
sité d’Upsal, vol. i, 1-5; vol. ii, 1-6, 7-12; vol. iii, 1-6.

SWITZERLAND.
Schweitzerische meteorologische Beobachtungen. Deec., 1869; Jdan.,
Feb., Aug., Sept., Dec., 1870; Jan., Feb., March, June, July, 1871.
Neuchdtel.—_Résumé ae observations eioraiber ues faites & Neu-

chatel dans le 18™° siecle, de Vannée 1760 a 1800. Bulletin de la société
des sciences naturelles de Neuchatel, tome ix, premier cahier. Ch. Kopp.

NORTH AMERICA.

CANADA.

Toronto Magnetic Observatory.—General Meteorological Register for
1870.

Meteorological tables for Toronté. Canadian Journal of Science, Lit-
erature and History.

Le naturaliste canadien.

NOVA SCOTIA.

Halifax.—Diurnal and annual variations of temperature at Halifax,
Nova Scotia, from bi-hourly observations by T. Allison, M. A., during
the three years 186769. G. T. Kingston. Canadian Journal of Sei-
ence, Literature and History, May, 1871.

UNITED STATES.

Lower California.—‘La Baja California.” Observaciones meteorologicas
hechas en el puerto de La Paz por José Fidel, Pujol socio corresponsal
88 METEOROLOGICAL ARTICLES.

de las sociedades di geographica y estadistica y historiea natural. Jan-
uary to December, 1870.

District of Columbia, Washington.—Astronomical and meteorological
observations, United States Naval Observatory.

Georgia, climatology—Health and profit as found in the hilly pine-
region of Georgia and South Carolina. §S,. EH. Habersham, M. D.

Maine, Orono.—Meteorological register for 1870. M. C. Fernald.

teport of the College of Agriculture and the Mechanic Arts, Orono,
Maine.

South Carolina.—Aiken, by Amory Coffin, M. D., and W. H. Ged-
dings, M. D.

New York.—Report of the director of the meteorological observatory.
First annual report of the board of commissioners of the department
of public parks.

Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.—Meteorological data. Journal of the
Franklin Institute, vol. 62, p. 224.

A. general abstract of meteorological phenomena for 1868. Journal
of the Franklin Institute, February, 1869.

Comparison of meteorological phenomena of 1868 with those of 1867
and the last 17 years. Journal of the Franklin Institute, February,
1869.

Comparison of meteorological phenomena of December, 1868, with
those of December, 1867, and of the same month for eighteen years.
Journal of the Franklin Institute, February, 1869.

New Hampshire, Mount Washington.—Meteorological observations.
American Journal of Science and Art, vol. i, p. 149.

WEST INDIES.

Trinidad.—On weather. G. Webbe. Proceedings of the Scientific
Association of Trinidad.
SOUTH AMERICA.

Contributions to our knowledge of the meteorology of Cape Horn
and the west coast of South America? London, 1871.

Caracas.—Cuadros meteorologicos. Vargasia. Boletin de ciencias
fisicas y naturales de Caracas, No. 1-3, 1868. A. Aveledo.

Estrellas cadentes de Noviembre 1869. Vargasia. Boletin de la so-
ciedad de ciencias fisicas y naturales de Caracas, No. 7.

Observaciones meteorologicas en Caracas, atio de 1869. Vargasia.
Boletin de ciencias fisicas y naturales de Caracas, No. 5, 1868. No. 7.

AUSTRALIA.

New South Wales.—Abstract of meteorological observations made in
New South Wales during the years 1865-66.
Abstract of meteorological observations made in New South Wales
up to the end of 1869, with remarks on the climate, by H. C. Russell.
*
METEOROLOGICAL ARTICLES,

(oe)

9

Results of meteorological observations made in New South Wales
during 1870, under the direction of H. C. Russell.
Meteorological observations made at the government observatory,

Sydney, under the direction of George R. Smalley, 1867—68—69~70.
Meteorological observations made at the government observatory,
Sydney, for April, May, and June, 1871, by H. C. Russell.

NEW ZEALAND.

Meteorological report for 1870, including returns for 1869 and ab-
stracts for previous years, by James Hector.

ASTA,.

India, Caleutta.—Abstract of the results of the hourly meteorological
observations taken at the surveyor general’s office, Caleutta. Proceed-
ings of the Asiatic Society of Bengal. .

Meteorological observations, July and August, 1871. Proceedings ot
the Asiatic Society of Bengal, No. ix, September, 1871.

Report on the meteorology of the Punjab for the year 1870, by A. Neil.
Lahore, 1871.

AFRICA.

Suez.—Recherches sur le climat de Visthme de Suez, par M. Rayet.
Mémoires de ’académie des sciences de Vinstitut de France, tome xxxy.
*
MAGNETISM.

Contributions to terrestrial magnetism, No. xii. The magnetie survey
of the British Islands reduced to the epoch 1842-45, by General Sir Ed-
ward Sabine. Philosophical transactions of the Royal Society of Lon-
don for the year 1870, vol. 160, part ii.

Magnetic observations made during a voyage to the north of Europe,
and the coasts of the Arctic Sea, in the summer of 1870. By Captain
Ivan Belavenetz. Proceedings of the Royal Society, vol. xix, No. 127.

Note sur la variation diurne lunaire et sur la variation séculaire de
la déclinaison magnétique. M. Brown. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires
des séances de l’académie des sciences, tome Ixxiii, No. 2.

Observations des déclinaisons de Vaiguille aimantée faites 4 Vobserva-
toire de la marine & Toulon depuis Vannée 1866 a4 Th. 30m. du matin.
Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des séances de ’académie des sciences,
tome Ixxiii, No. 15.

Observations magnétiques de 1870. D. Miiller. Comptes-rendus
hebdomadaires des séances de Vacadémie des sciences, tome Ixxiii,
ING:.9:

Results of seven years’ observations of the dip and horizontal force
at Stonyhurst College observatory, from April, 1863, to March, 1870.
Proceedings of the Royal Society, vol. xix.
90 METEOROLOGICAL ARTICLES.

Magnetical observations made at Stonyhurst College observatory from
April, 1863, to March, 1870, by Rev. S. J. Perry.

Halley's Magnetic Chart.—(Photographie copy of the original in the

library of the British Museum.)
| Observations on the variation of the magnetic declination in con-
‘nection with the aurora of October 14, 1870. Alfred M. Mayer. Ameri-
-ean Journal of Science and Art, vol. i, p. 77.
Note sur la variation diurne lunaire et sur la variation séculaire de la
déclinaison magnétique. Brown. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des
séances de Vacadémie des sciences, tome Ixiii, No. 2.

Note sur les indications de Vaiguille aimantée a Vapproche dune
tempéte. Fortin. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des séances de ’acadeé
mie des sciences, tome Ixxiii, No. 3.

tecords of the magnetic observations made at the Kew Observatory,
No.IV. Analysis of the principal disturbances shown by the horizon-
tal and vertical foree magnetometers of the Kew Observatory, from 1859
to 1864, by General Sir Edward Sabine.

Osservazioni della declinazioni magnetica. A. de Gasparis. Rendi-
conti dell’ academia della scienze fisiche e matematiche, June, 1569.

MAGNETIC AND METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

Results of the magnetical and meteorological observations made at
the Royal Observatory, Greenwich, England, 1869.

Stonyhurst College observatory. Results of meteorological and mag-
neti¢al observations, 1570.

Observations made at the magnetical and meteorological observatory
at Trinity College, Dublin, vol. ii, 1844~50. Dublin, 1869. Humphrey
Lioyd.

Observaciones magneticas y meteorologicas hechas per los alumnos
del colegio de Belen. Habana, 1871.

Magnetische und meteorologische Beobachtungne auf der k. k.
Sternwarte zu Prag im Jahre 1870.

Beobachtungen an der k. k. Centralanstalt fiir Meteorologie und
Erdmagnetismus, July, December, 1870.

Jahrbiicher der k. k. Centralanstalt fiir Meteorologie und Erdmagne-
tismus. Neue Folge, v. Band, Jahrgang 1868, Carl Jelinek und Carl
Fritsch. VI. Band, Jahrgang 1869.

METEORS.

Le stelle cadenti, dei periode di Noviembre 1868 ed Agosta 1569, osser-
vate in Piemonte ed in altre contrade d'Italia. P. Francesco Denza.

Norme per le osservazioni delli meteore luminose.

Observations of luminous meteors, Royal Observatory, Greenwich,
1871.

Osservazioni delle meteore luminose nel 1871—72.

Sopra gli aeroliti, caduti il giorno 29 Feb. 1868, nel territorio di

*
METEOROLOGICAL ARTICLES. 91

Villanova e motta dei conti. Memoria dei professori Agostino, Goiran,
Antonio, Bertolio, Arturo, Zannetto, Luigi, Masso.

Aerolito en la hacienda de la Conception municipalidad de Allende,
estado de Chihuahua. Boletiu dela sociedad de geografia y estadistic:
de la Republicana Mexicana, segunda epoca, tomo iii, Nos. 8, 9, 10.

Composition of the meteoric stone that fell near Searsmont, Maine,
May 21, 1871, by J. L. Smith, American Journal of Science and Art,
1871, p. 200.

Der Ainsa-Tueson Meteoreisenring in Washington und die Rotation
der Meteoriten in ihrem Zuge. Sitzungsberichte der kaiserlichen Aka-
demie der Wissenschaften, April 1870. V. Haidinger.

Der Meteorit in Kriihenbere. G. Neumayer xxviil. und xxix. Jahres-
bericht der Pollichia.

Der Meteorit von Lodran. Sitzungsberichte der kaiserlichen Akade-
mie der Wissenschaften, April 1870. .

_Die Meteorite. Aus der Natur, neue Folge, 46. Band.

‘Mode du rupture de Vastre d’ou dérivent les météorites. St. Meunier.
Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des séances de l'académie des sciences,
tome Ixxii, No. 5.

Nachrichten iiber den Meteoritenfall bei Murzuk in December 1869.
Sitzungsberichte der kaiserlichen Akademie der Wissenschaften, Jum
1870.

Situation astronomique du globe @ou dérivent les météorites. St.
Meunier. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des séances de Vacadémie des
sciences, tome Ixxii, No. 8.

Structure du globe dot proviennent les météorites. St. Meunier.
Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des séances de Pacadémie des sciences,
tome Ixxii, No. 4.

Sur un bolide obseryé a Tours le 17 mars 1871. Comptes-rendus heb-
domadaires des séancges de Vacadémie des sciences, tome Ixxii, No, 24.
A. Buffault.

Etoiles filantes du mois d’aott. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des
séances de l’académie des sciences, tome lxxiii, No. 8.

Le bolide du 15 juillet. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des séanees
de l’académie des sciences, tome Ixxiii, No. 3.

Mémoire sur la direction des étoiles filantes. Comptes-rendus heb-
domadaires des séances de Vacadémie des sciences, tome Ixxili, No. 2.

Observation d'un bolide faite, a Yobservatoire de Marseilles le 1° aotit.
Coggia. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des séances de Vacadémie des
sciences, tome Ixxiii, No. 6.

Observation relative & la dénomination de bolide donnée au météore
recemment observé par M. Coggia. Elie De Beaumont. Comptes-ren;
dus hebdomadaires des séances de ’académie des sciences, tome 1xxiii,
INOe, Ts

Bolides observés en Italie pendant le mois de juillet. Denza. Comp-
tes-rendus hebdomadaires des séances de Vacadémie des sciences, tome
Ixxiil, No. 6.
92 METEOROLOGICAL ARTICLES.

Sur les bolides du 11 aoft 1871 et du 24 juin 1870. P. Guyot.
Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des séances de V’académie des sciences,
tome Ixxili, No 8.

On a meteor seen at Alexandria, Egypt. American Journal of Science
and Art, vol. ii, p. 474. Beverly Kennon.

Bolide observé le 4 aotit 1871 a Trémont, pres Tournus. Lemosy.
Comptesrendus hebdomadaires des séances de Vacadémie des sciences,
tome Ixxiil, No. 6.

Observation du bolide du 17 mars, faite 4 Nerac. Lespiault. Comptes-
rendus hebdomadaires des séances de Vacadémie des sciences, tome
xxi, No: ds:

Diverses séries (observations @’étoiles filantes. Le Verrier. Comptes-
rendus hebdomadaires des séances de Vacadémie des sciences, tome
exis NO. W1.:

Observations de Vessaim d’étoiles filantes du mois d’aotit, faites pen-
dant les nuits des 9, 10 et 11 aotit 1871, dans un grand nombre de
stations correspondantes. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des séances
de Vacadémie des sciences, tome xxiii, No. 7.

Observation de Vessaim d’étoiles filantes de novembre dans les sta-
tions de Vassociation scientifique de France. Comptes-rendus hebdo-
madaires des séances de V’académie des sciences, tome Ixiii, No. 15.

Observation du bolide du 17 mars, faite & Castillon sur Dordogne.
Paquenei. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des séances de Vacadémie
des sciences, tome Ixxii, No. 15.

Observation du bolide du 17 mars, faite & Trenois. Vanquelin.
Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des séances de l’académie des sciences,
tome Ixxii, No. 13.

Rapport sur les effets du météore du 26 janvier 1846. Bulletin de la
société Vémulation du département de Aller, tome 1°.

Remarkable meteor, by R. H. Thurston. American Journal of Science
and Art, vol. ii, p. 63.

Shooting-stars of August 10 and 11. American Journal of Science
and Art, vol. ii, p. 227.

Sur un bolide observé au Semaphore du eap Sicié le 14 juin 1871,
Sagols. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des séances de Vacadémie des
sciences, tome Ixxii, No. 24.

Sur un météore remarquable observé dans la nuit du 19 oct. 1871.
M. Chapelas. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des séances de Vacadé-
mie des sciences, tome Lxxiii, No. 16.

Meteor seen at Wilmington, North Carolina. American Journal of
Science and Art, vol. ii, p. 227.

Meteors of November 13 and 14, 1870. American Journal of Science
and Art, vol. i, p. 30.

November meteors in 1871, by H. A: Newton. American Journal of
Science and Art, vol. ii, p. 470.

Estrellas cadentes de Noviembre 1869. A. Aveledo. Vargasia. Bole-
tin de la sociedad de ciencias fisicas y naturalessde Caracas, No. 7.
METEOROLOGICAL ARTICLES. 93

Meteorografia dell autonno 1869 in Modena. <Annibale Ricco. An-
nuario della societa dei naturalisti in Modena, anno V.

Observation du bolide du 17 mars, faite a Castillon sur Dordogne.
Paquenée. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des séances de Vacadémie
des sciences, tome Ixxii, No. 15.

OCEAN CURRENTS AND TIDES.

Currents of air and ocean. Bb. H. Babbage. Annual report and
transactions of the Adelaide Philosophical Society for the year ending
September 50, 1871.

Etudes sur Vorigine des courants Mair principaux, par M. Lartique.
Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des séances de Vacadémie ces sciences,
tome Ixiii, No. 2.

Ocean-currents, by J. Croll. American Journal of Science and Art,
vol. ii, p. 140.

Sketch of anew theory of oceanic tides, based upon examination of
the causes assigned to exceptional tidal waves. J. W. Bilby. Trans-
actions and proceedings of the Royal Society of Victoria, vol. 9.

Sur extension du Gulf-stream dans le nord et sur la température des
mers, par Ch. Grad. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des séances de
Vacadémie des sciences, tome Ixxiii, No. 2.

OZONE.

Esperienze ozonometriche fatte nel laboratorio chemico dell’ univer-
sita di Pisa sotto la direzione del Prof. S. De Lucas.

Note relative a la nature de Vozone. M. Pigeon. Comptes-rendus
hebdomadaires des séances de Vacadémie des sciences, tome Ixxiii, No. 3.

PRESSURE OF THE ATMOSPHERE.

Barometrical measurements in Ecuador by W. Reiss and A. Stubel.
American Journal of Science and Art, 1871, p. 267.

Sul movimento straordinario del barometrogratfo della R. specola di
Napoli. A.de Gasparis. Rendiconti dell’ academia delle scienze fisiche e
matematiche. August, 1867.

Recherches expérimentales sur V’influence que les changements dans
la pression barométrique exercent sur les phénomeénes de la vie. P.
Bert. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des séaneces de Vacadémie des
sciences, tome Ixxili, No. 3 and No. 8.

Note sur les relations simples entre la pression de la vapeur aqueuse
et la température. Duperray. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des

92

séances de Vacadémie des sciences, tome Ixxiil, No. 23.
RAIN.

Cyclical rain-falls at Lisbon. Proceedings of the American Philo-
sophical Society, vol. xii, July—Dec., 1871.
94 METEOROLOGICAL ARTICLES.

Monthly rain-fall at San Francisco. Journal of the Franklin Insti-
tute, March, 1872. P. BE. Chase.

Summary of rain and melted snow for the winter 1870-71. Canada.

Some observations on the rain-fall at Adelaide, Australia. Annual
report and transactions of the Adelaide Philosophical Society for the
year ending September 30, 1571.

Fall of rain at Hilo, Hawaii. American Journal of Science and Art,
vol. i, p. 232.

Sur le régime pluvial de ?Allemagne septentrionale et de la Russie
WEurope. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des séances de Yacadémie
des sciences, tome Ixxii, No. 24.

Observations pluviométriques dans le Loiret en 1867 et 1868. Me-
moires de l’académie des sciences de Vinstitut de France, tome xxxv.

Sur le régime pluvial de Algérie, d’aprés les observations de Vad-
ministration des ponts et chaussées. V. Raulin. Mémoires de Vaca-
démie des sciences de Vinstitut de France, tome xxxv.

Sur le régime pluvial de Asie septentrionale et orientale. V. Raulin.
Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des séances de Pacadémie des sciences,
tome Ixxiii, No. 4.

Artificial production of rain. American Journal.of Science and Art,
vol. ii, p. 315.

Mémoire sur les pluies, par M. Becquerel. Mémoires de Vacadémie
des sciences de Vinstitut impérial de France, tome xxxv.

Ménoire sur les quantités @eau tombées prés et loin des bois, par M
Beecquerel. Mémoires de Vacadémie des sciences de Vinstitut impérial
de France, tome xxxv.

On rain-falls, by Pliny E. Chase. American Journal of Science and
Art, vol. ii, p. 69.

Sur les pluies de poussiére et les pluies de sang, par M. Tarry.
Mémoires de Vacadémie des sciences de Vinstitut de France, tome Ixx.

SNOW.

5

Observations relatives aux chutes de neige 4 Montréal, (Canada,) et a
Stykisholm, (Islande.) Buchan. Mémoires de Vacadémie des sciences
de institut de France, tome xxxv.

Sur les circonstances météorologiques qui ont accompagné la chute de
neige du 16 mars 1870. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des séances
de Vacadémie des sciences, tome Ixxii, No. 12.

Chute de neige extracrdinaire a Collimére, (Pyrénées orientales.) |
Naudin. Mémoires de Vacadémie des sciences de Vinstitut de France,
tome Ixx.

Influence of snow-covering on climate. A. Wojeikof. American Jour-
nal of Science and Art, vol. ii, p. 64.

De Vinfluence de la neige sur la température du sol a diverses pro-
fondeurs, selon quwil est gazonné ou dénudé. Becquerel. Comptes-rendus
hebdomadaires des séances de Vacadémie des sciences, tome 1xxiii,
No. 25. :
,

METEOROLOGICAL ARTICLES. 95
SOLAR HEAT.

Actinometrical observations made at Dehra and Mussoorie, in India,
October and November, 1869. Proceedings of the Royal Society, vol. xix,
No. 125.

Temperature of solar radiation as measured by the black-bulb ther-
mometer, by Mr. Ellery. Transactions and proceedings of the Royal
Society of Victoria, vol. ix, Melbourne, 1869.

The daily motion of a brick tower caused by solar heat. C. G. Rock-
wood. American Journal of Science and Art, 1871, p. 177.

STORMS AND TORNADOES.

Sur un orage quia éclaté le 29 mai, aux environs d@’Alais, France,
par M. Bourgoyne. Mémoires de Vacadémie des sciences de Vinstitut
de France, tome Ixx.

Note sur des phénoménes singuliers observés en Ecosse pendant les
périodes orageuses du 18 juin et du 5 juillet 1871. Comptes-rendus
hebdomadaires des séances de Pacadémie des sciences, tome Ixxiii, No. 2.

Stormenes Love. Christiania, 1868.

Det norske meteorologische Instituts Storm-Atias. Af H. Moba.
Christiania, 1870.

Norsk meteorologisch aarbog for 1869. Christiania, 1870.

Mémoire sur les orages en Norvége. Mohn. Mémoires de Vacadé-
mie des sciences de Vinstitut de France, tome xxxy.

Observations des orages en Norvége pendant V’année 1869. Mémoires
de ’académie des sciences de Vinstitut de France, tome Ixx.

Ueber die jihrliche Vertheilung der Gewittertage, nach den Beobach-
tungen an den meteorologischen Stationen Oesterreichs und Ungarns.
Sitzungsberichte der kaiserlichen Akademie der Wissenschaften, May
1870.

Tornadoes, by H.S. Whitfield. American Journal of Science and Art,
vol. ii, p. 96.

Note sur des phénoménes singuliers observés en Ecosse pendant les
périodes orageuses du 18 juin et du 5 juillet 1871. M. W. de Fonvielle.
Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des séances de V’académie des sciences;
tome lxiii, No. 2.

Guide des ouragans. F. R. Roux. Revue maritime et coloniale, tome
xxxi, nov. 1871.

La bourrasque du 11 juillet 1871. Chapelas. Comptes-rendus heb-
domadaires des séances de Vacadémie des sciences, tome Ixxiii, No. 3.

TELEGRAPHIC WEATHER-REPORTS.

Systems of weather-telegraphy, by C. Abbe. American Journal of
Science, vol. ii, p. 81.

Signal-service weather-reports, by Pliny E. Chase. Journal of the
Franklin Institute, vol. 62, p. 278.
96 METEOROLOGICAL ARTICLES.
TEMPERATURE.

Mémoire sur la distribution de la chaleur et de ses variations depuis
le sol jusqu’a trente-six métres au-dessous. Mémoires de lacadémie
des sciences de Vinstitut impérial de France, tome xxxyv.

Mémoire sur la distribution de la chaleur au-dessous du sol. Mémoires
de Vacadémie des sciences de linstitut impérial de France, tome xxxv.

Mémoire sur la température des sols couverts de bas végétaux ou
dénudés. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des séances de Vacadémie
des sciences, tome ]xxiii, No. 20.

Sur les caractéres de Vhiver 187071, et sur la comparaison de la tem-
pérature moyenne a Vobservatoire de Paris et a Vobservatoire météoro-
logique central de Montsouris. Ch. Sainte Claire Deville. Comptes-ren-
dus hebdomadaires des séances de V’académie des sciences, tome xxii,
No. 13. Atee

Sur le froid de la nuit du 17 au 18 mai. Comptes-rendus hebdoma-
daires des séances de l’académie des sciences, tome Ixxii, No. 25.

Quelques nouveaux documents sur le froid anormal observé dans la
nuit du 17 au 18 mai. De Biseau. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des
séances de ’académie des sciences, tome Ixxili, No. 6.

Sur le froid des premiers jours de juin 1871. H. Bardy. Comptes-
rendus hebdomadaires des séances de Vacadémie des sciences, tome
Ixxii, No. 25.

Sur les précautions a prendre pour la détermination de la température
dun lien. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des séances de Vacadémie
des sciences, tome Ixxii, No. 12.

Mémoire sur la température sous bois et hors des bois. Mémoires de
Vacadémie des sciences de V’institut impérial de France, tome xxxv.

Sur les températures observées & Montsouris pendant le mois de
février 1871. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des séances de ’académie
des sciences, tome ]xxii, No. 10.

Water unfrozen at 18°. Bouissingault. American Journal of Sci-
ence and Art, vol. ii, p. 304.

On the temperature of the interior of the earth, as indicated by obser-
rations made during the construction of the great tunnel through the
Alps. D. T. Ansted. Proceedings of the Royal Society, vol. xix, No. 129.

Die Temperatur-Verhiiltnisse und die mit der Héhe zunehmende Tem-
peratur in der Schicht des Luftmeeres, welche die Erdoberfliiche
unmittelbar beriihrt. Von Prof. Dr. Prestel.

Die Wiirmeabnahme mit der Hohe an der Erdoberfliche und ihre jiihr-
liche Periode, von Dr. J. Hann.

Observations to accompany and elucidate the diagram of mean tem-
perature for ten years at the Albion mines, Nova Scotia. Henry Poole.

Diurnal and annual variations of temperature at Halifax, Nova Scotia,
from bi-hourly observations by F. Allison, M. A., during the three years
1867-69. G. T. Kingston. Canadian Journal of Science, Literature
and History, May, 1871.
METEOROLOGICAL ARTICLES. ot

Ueber den jihrlichen Gang der Temperatur zu Klagenfurt, Triest und
Arvavaralza. C. Jelinek. Aus dem lxii. Bde. d. Sitz. d. k. Akademie d.
Wissensch., ii. Abth., Juni-Heft, Jahrg. 1870.

On an approximately decennial variation of the temperature at the ob-
servatory at the Cape of Good Hope between the years 1841 and 1870,
viewed in connection with the variation of the solar spots. E. J. Stone.
Proceedings of the Royal Society, vol. xix.

Sur les froids de mai et juin 1871, et sur les froids tardifs. Comptes-
rendus hebdomadaires des séances de l’académie des sciences, tome 1xxii,
No. 24.

Temperature at great depths. Journal of the Franklin Institute, vol.
Ia, Daoel.

Sur le froid du 9 décembre. Edw. Delaunay. Comptes-rendus heb-
domadaires des séances de Pacadémie des sciences, tome Ixxili, No. 25.

Sur le froid du 9 décembre 1871. Delaunay. Sur la précocité du
froid en 1871. Ch. Sainte Claire Deville. Comptes-rendus hebdoma-
daires des séances de ’académie des sciences, tome Ixxiii, No. 24.

Sur les froids de décembre 1871. M. Delaunay. Comptes-rendus
hebdomadaires des séances de l’académie des sciences, tome Ixxiii, No.
25.

Sur le froid de décembre 1870 et sur la période des grands hivers si-
gnalée par M. Renon. Ch. Sainte Claire Deville. Comptes-rendus heb.
domadaires des séances de l’académie des sciences, tome Ixxii, No. 1.

VOLCANOES.

Eruption of the voleano of Colima, Mexico, by C. Sartorius. American
Journal of Science and Art, vol. ii, p. 381.
Volcano of Kilanea. American Journal of Science and Art, vol. ii.
pp. 76, 404,
WINDS.

On the general circulation and distribution of the atmosphere. J. D.
Everett. [Reprint from the Philosophical Magazine for September, 1871.]

Untersuchungen tiber die Winde der nérdlichen Hemisphiire und ihre
klimatologische Bedeutung. J. Hann. Zweiter Theil. Der Sommer.
Sitzb. der k. Akad. d. Wissensch., lxiv. Band, ii. Abth., Oct.-Heft.,
Jahrg. 1871.

Die Wirmeabnahme mit der Hohe an der Erdoberfliiche und ilre
jiihrliche Periode. J. Hann. .

Etudes sur loriginedes courants (air principaux. Lartique. Comptes-
rendus hebdomadaires des séances de Vacadémie des sciences, tome
Tats, IN 0:2;

Force and direction of wind. F. E. Loomis. American Journal of
Science and Art, vol. ii, p. 231.

Sur les mouvements généraux de Vatmosphére. Peslin. Mémoires
de V’académie des sciences de institut de France, tome Ixix.

TSiTh
98 METEOROLOGICAL ARTICLES.

, 2

Atlas des mouvements généraux de Vatmosphere. Rédigé par l’obser-
vatoire impérial de Paris, sur les documents fournis par les observa-
toires et les marines de la France et de Vétranger. Publié sous les
auspices du ministre de V’instruction publique et avec le concours de
Vassociation scientifique de France. Année 1865, juillet, aott, sep-
tembre, octobre, novembre, décembre.

ZODIACAL LIGHT.

Observation de la lumiere zodiacale le 20 février 1871. Flammarion,
Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des séances de l’académie des sciences,
tome Ixxii, No. 9.

Sur la lumiére zodiacale observée 4 Angers le 19 février 1871, by A.
Cheux. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des séances de ’académie des
sciences, tome Ixxii, No. 24.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE,

The Executive Committee of the Board of Regents respectfully submit
the following report in relation to the funds of the Institution, the
receipts and expenditures for the year 1871, and the estimates for the

year 1872:

Statement of the fund at the beginning of the year 1872.

The amount originally received as the bequest of James
Smithson, of England, deposited in the Treasury of the
United States, in accordance with the act of Congress
Of Aueust 10, S46 .. one cee ee eee re

The residuary legacy of Smithson, received in 1865, deposited
in the Treasury of the United States, in accordance with
the act of Congress of February 8, 1867 ...... ........

MOvalDC(UESh Of (OMEN SON: 5 .-2Se sire 1 Stig acura oe dsm
Amount deposited in the Treasury of the United States,
as authorized by act of Congress of February 8, 1867,
derived from savings of income and increase in value of
INWESLIMETIIS 1.4). 25 <1. <8 eee ee eae ere

Total permanent Smithson fund in the Treasury of the
United States, bearing interest at 6 per cent., payable
SoMa etl OMe ate wo cae Scie ale awe Sores oa ees

In addition to the above, there remains of the extra fund
derived from savings, &e., in Virginia bonds, at par value

$88,125.20, now valued at..... ee ieee aecpere aie ahaa
The cash balance in First National Bank,
UGHU INE S785 (s(t ea re $16,515 02

Amount of congressional appropriation for
the fiscal year ending June 30, 1872, $10,000,
one-half of whieh available January, 1872.. 5, 000 00

Total of Smithson funds January, 1872............

S515, 169 00

26,210 63

541, 379 63

108, 620 37

$650, 000 00

35, 500 00

21,315 02

$706, 815 02

The interest due on the Virginia bonds, instead of being paid, has
been funded by the State, and has thus increased the amount of the

bonds from $72,760, as stated in the last report, to $88,125

.18, as given

in the foregoing statement. The market value of this stock, which was
100 REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

given last year at $48,000, has fallen, during 1871, to $35,500, on account

of the uncertain policy of the State.

The balance at the beginning of the year 1872, viz, $21,315.02, is
very nearly the same as that at the beginning of the year 1871, which
was $21,477.81. This balance is not invested as a part of the perma-
nent fund, because it is required in order to pay cash for bills as they

become due, and previous to receiving the semi-annual income.

Statement of receipts from the Smithson fund for 1871.

Interest on $650,000, at 6 per cent. in gold .............. $59, 000 60
Premium on gold, June and December, 123 and 8{....-... 4,192 50
Motal. EOCEIPUS Ho sas.c2e la ae ce eee ae eae so 43,192 50
Statement of expenditures from the Smithson fund for 1871.
BUILDING.
Reconstruction of parts destroyed by fire, and

OP ANUS att renaysarelegsisl aiarhin tote euniateratelnars ep aiate ears $8, 827 12

HULNIGULO ANC MXCNLOS.<).7..0/c'je 1p) oi 25 Se Felayaterarel= 205 29
$9, 032 41

GENERAL EXPENSES.

Meetings of the board< A520. <1 ee ocewete,. $127 12

imnehiines the building 122. 2is.ci. 3-45. Si isatetets 267 15

Pr oatine the WUllaie 2 tate a screies ihe eee ee ie 79 69

POstAge oo. 4 Sls Losi oe cts rte oes ome ree repeee te 448 76

Hvanouenry ~ Le TST ees se sive cameos 452 55

Tnewmentals..o 02.55% sinc ctecavenabais tata shetatehabe d04 75

Salariesand clerk Mine *: 25 2 se See teers © Sorc arate 9,572 62
11, 302 64

PUBLICATIONS AND RESEARCHES.

Smithsonian Contributions, quarto........-... $9, 753 68

Miscellaneous collections, octavo ............. 608 12

eporis, OChAVO 22.,..32 500 oe ee eee eee aA + 739 48

Meteorology, computations, rain-gauges, &e... 2,000 55

Apparatus for researches”... so8 - -caccceree 744 03

Explorations, natural history, and archeology. 1,301 07

MECUULESES: «<. . 2.25522 e Sees eee eee 285 00
15, 431 93

MUSEUM, LIBRARY, AND EXCHANGES.

Museum, in addition to the sum drawn from the
appropriation by Congress, ($4,976)... -. .s-- $8,132 95
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 101

Literary and scientific exchanges through agen-
cies in London, Paris, Leipsic, Amsterdam,

ZAI 0 EC a ee ----- $4,201 50

Purchase of books and periodicals.........-... 253 86

Total expenditures, (repayments having been de-
UNG WU ere ays eee 5 Be, Soe dices Sloe dia eke «=< 5.2 sks $48, 355 2

From the above statement, it appears that the expenditures were
$5,162.79 in excess of the receipts; but to meet this deficiency, $5,000
of the congressional appropriation for the museum, as was stated before,
is still in the Treasury of the United States. Had this sum been drawn
during the year, it would have been deducted from the $8,152.95 charged
to the museum.

During the past year the Institution has advanced money for the pay-
ment of freight on specimens and articles directed to its care, and for
fitting out the expedition toward the north pole. It has also sold pub-
lications, old and useless material, and meteorological instruments, the
payments for which have been deducted from the several items of the
previous accounts of expenditures, as follows:

From the museum, for repayments for freight.............. $592 92
From exchanges, for repayments on expense of literary and
BUIGM te (OMChaAN Ses 5622 6c. see nee cee <Sessare Scaresaere sre 945 17
From explorations, forrepayments onaccountof Hall’s expedi-
tion toward thenorth pole, &...............0ccsceeceee 522 27
From Smithsonian contributions and miscellaneous collee-
tions, for sales of publications ..-............0..0sse000 525 70
Building and incidentals general, repayments for old mate-
rial, postage refunded, &¢...2..........2+00--%: ae te 622 59
Apparatus—sale of meteorological apparatus ...........--- 40 00
Total repayments and miscellaneous credits.......-.-. 3, 248 65

Appropriations and expenditures from Congress on account of the museum
and care of the Government collections.

In addition to the receipts from the Smithson fund, the following
amounts have been received :
From appropriation by Congress for fitting up halls for

COMCC UO pret rare So sass ls oe eam Lefeeit a jee eae e eds $20, 000 00
From appropriation by Congress for annual care of collee-

tions, being part of the $10,000 appropriated for the fiscal

year ending June 30, 1871, ($5,024 having been drawn

ANG Veal NOLO cle sec net. dle od <02 eee eae eaiancisee csc 4,976 00

24,976 00
102 REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

The appropriation of $20,000 was expended, under the direction of
the Secretary of the Interior, and accounted for to that Department, in
ceiling, flooring, plastering, and painting the large hall in the upper
story of the main building, repairing the roof, fire-proofing the west
wing, and fitting up the basement of the same for the preparation of
specimens and storage.

The appropriation of $4,976 was expended for salaries, taxidermy,
labor, &c., in preserving the Government collections, and was accounted
for to the Interior Department.

The estimates for the year 1872 are as follows:

RECEIPTS. |

From mterest on the permanent fonds i228. J is. 2 he Je $39, 000 00
Probable premium on gold, 10 per cent* .<... 6.2 2.02. 3,900 00

42,900 00

APPROPRIATIONS.

TSE Teo CAD OLED ef eas hgh ees ronan al chiagShni ct Sagateele hoya aithane he cpa tera $5, 000 00
HOT SONeTAIVOXDCHSES e o..0 coin slslager e/a aise nie Sips hee eae 10, 000 00
Hor publications and reséarches)...2..... os sass ea ee . 20,000 00
IBOT@ MCM AMPS a 2 Sraca au 2 oaks apencrercials sloia soci aie ROMee ate Re ae 5, 000 60
HE OLOOOKS ANG APPARATUS «sie. ooo ces Sle ms cue Suse reset ee 900 00
For museum, additional to Congress appropriation .....-- 2,000 00

42,900 00

The Executive Committee have examined seven hundred and fifty-
seven receipted vouchers for payments made during the four quarters
of the year 1871, both from the Smithson fund and the appropriations
from Congress. In every voucher the approval of the Secretary of the
Institution is given, and the certificate of an authorized agent of the
Institution is appended, setting forth that the materials and property
and services rendered were for the Institution, and to be applied to the
purposes stated.

The quarterly accounts-current, bank-book, check-book, and ledger
have also been examined and found correct, showing a balance in bank
December 51, 1871, of $16,515.02.

Respectfully submitted.

PETER PARKER,
JOHN MACLEAN,
Brecutive Committee.*
MARCH 13, 1872.

* Major General W. T. Sherman, member of committee, absent, in Europe.
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS
OF

TERE BOARD OF REGENTS
OF THE

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

WASHINGTON, D. C., January 25, 1872.

A meeting of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution
was held this day in the Regents’ room, at 7 o’clock p.m. Present:
Hon. H. Hamlin, Hon. L. Trumbull, Hon. G. Davis, Hon. L. P. Poland,
Hon. 8. 8. Cox, Hon. P. Parker, Hon. H. D. Cooke, and Prefessor Henry,
the Secretary.

Mr. Hamlin was called to the chair.

The Secretary stated that an act of Congress had substituted the
governor of the District of Columbia as an ex-officio Regent, in place of
the mayor of Washington, the latter office having ceased to exist.
Governor Cooke was then introduced as a member of the Board.

Dr. Parker, from the Executive Committee, presented a preliminary
statement of accounts.

On motion of Mr. Trumbull, the report was accepted.

The Secretary made a statement relative to the Virginia stocks held
by the Institution. It had been deemed advisable that the registered
stock should be converted into coupon bonds, because the coupons were
receivable for taxes, and the State had not paid interest on its stock for
several years. The transfer had therefore been made for the Institution
by Riggs & Co. ;

On motion of Judge Poland, the Secretary was directed to deposit the
Virginia coupon bonds, now in Riggs’ Bank, in the Treasury of the
United States for safe-keeping.

The Secretary gave an account of the improvements made in the build-
ing during the past year.

A communication from Dr. C. H. F. Peters, of the observatory at
Clinton, New York, was read, asking the Institution to defray the expense
and act as the medium of communicating discoveries of planets, comets,
ete., by ocean telegraph.

The Secretary stated that he had applied to the ocean telegraph com-
pany for the free transmission of astronomical discoveries, but had not
received a reply.

Several of the Regents expressed the opinion that the Institution
104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

should have the franking privilege, to enable it to distribute scientific
reports, &e., to libraries and other institutions of the country.

The Secretary stated that a stable had recently been erected on the
grounds, with the approval of General Babcock, Commissioner of Public
Buildings. This was necessary for the use of the Institution, though
the horse and carriage used by the Secretary had been purchased by
himself.

On motion of Mr. Trumbull, the action of the Secretary was approved.

A claim, presented by T. R. Peale, esq., of Washington, for a portrait
of Washington, painted by his father, Charles Wilson Peale, now in the
Smithsonian museum, was referred to the Executive Committee.

A communication was presented from Henry O’Rielly, relative to the
discovery of the electro-magnetic telegraph, which, on motion of Mr.
Davis, was read, and ordered to be placed in the archives of the Insti-
tution.

Adjourned to meet at the call of the Secretary.

MARCH 28, 1872.

A meeting of the Board was called for this evening at 7 o’clock. Pres-
ent: Hon. 8. P. Chase, Chancellor of the Institution ; Hon. L. P. Poland,
Hon. J. A. Garfield, Hon. P. Parker, and Prof. Henry, the Secretary.

On account of a night session of the Senate, the Vice-President, Hon.
Mr. Colfax, and Senators Trumbull and Hamlin were prevented from
attending the meeting.

No quorum being present, adjourned to meet at the call of the Secre-
tary.

APRIL 3, 1872.

A meeting of the Board of Regents was held at 7 o’clock at the Insti-
tution. Present: Vice-President Colfax, Hon. H. Hamlin, Hon. L. Trum-
bull, Hon. L. P. Poland, Hon. P. Parker, Hon. H. D. Cooke, and Prof.
Henry, Secretary.

Mr. Colfax was called to the chair.

The minutes of the previous meeting were read and approved.

Dr. Parker, in behalf of the Executive Committee, presented the re-
port of the committee, which was read, and, on motion of Mr. Hamlin,
accepted.

Dr. Parker stated that the Virginia coupon bonds which had been
received from the State had no seal affixed to them. In regard to this,
the Secretary presented the following communication from Jos. Mayo,
jr., treasurer of Virginia:

COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA, TREASURER’S OFFICE,

Richmond, March 30, 1872.

The following coupon bonds Nos. 11521 to 11578, both inclusive, for
$1,000 each ; No. 1380 for $500, and Nos. 4191 and 4192 for $100 each, of
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 105

Virginia consolidated debt, exchanged December 9, 1871, for the Smith-
sonian Institution, and standing in its name on the books of this office,
were regularly issued and are good and valid. The omission of the State
seal upon them was an inadvertance, which will be corrected whenever
the bonds are returned for the purpose. In fact the seal is not necessary
to give validity to the bonds, though it is customary to place it upon
them.
Very respectfully, yours,
JOS. MAYO,
Treasurer of Virginia.

On motion of Mr, Hamlin, it was

Resolved, That the Secretary return the bonds to Richmond for the
purpose of having the State seal affixed to them.

The Secretary gave an account of Major Powell’s expedition, which
was authorized by Congress at its last session and had by law been
placed under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution. He stated
that he had addressed a communication to Congress recommending
an additional appropriation for continuing the survey.

The Secretary stated that, for many years, harmonious relations had
existed between the Institution and the Department of Agriculture for
co-operation in advancing the science of meteorology. The blanks had
been furnished and distributed by that Department, and the observers
sent their returns to the Commissioner, saving a large item of expense
in the way of postage. The monthly summaries of observations of rain,
temperature, ete., had been published in the monthly reports of the
Department, and had done much to encourage and stimulate the ob-
servers and to furnish valuable data for agricultural and scientific pur-
poses. Judge Watts, the present Commissioner, had recently decided,
however, to discontinue this publication, and this was an additional
reason why the Institution should have the franking privilege. The
Institution had a large number of computers at work in reducing and
discussing all the meteorological observations it had collected during the
last twenty years, and would soon publish the results.

The Secretary presented his annual report for the year 1871, which
was read, and, on motion of Mr. Trumbull, accepted.

A communication from F. O. J. Smith, esq., of Portland, relative to
the electro-magnetic telegraph, was presented to the Board, and ordered
to be placed in the archives.

The board then adjourned sine die.
hth ely ee
Tony * His sie .
& . ino, S
if th |
hae es ie 1
TA (ea ey fe

GENERAL APPENDIX

SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1871.

The object of this appendix is to illustrate the operations of the
Institution by reports of lectures and extracts from correspondence, as
well as to furnish information of a character suited especially to the
meteorological observers and other persons interested in the promotion
of knowledge.
MEMOIR OF SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCHEL.
By N.S. DopDGE.

About the year 1760, as Dr. Miller, the organist, better known, per-
haps, as the historian of Doncaster, England, was dining at Pontefract
with the officers of the Durham militia, one of them told him that they
had a young German in their band who was an excellent performer on
the violin, and if he would step into another room he might judge for
himself. The invitation was gladly accepted, and Miller heard a solo
of Giardini’s executed in a manner that surprised him. Learning after-
ward that the engagement of the young musician was only from month
to month, he invited him to leave the band and come and live with him.
“Tama single man,” he said, “and we doubtless shall be happy to-
gether; beside, your merit will soon entitle you to a more eligible situ-
ation.” The offer was accepted as frankly as it was made; and the sat-
isfaction with which the old organist always plumed himself upon this
act of generous feeling is not surprising, since the German hautboy-
player turned out at last to be Herschel the astronomer.

The Jew Snetzler, a famous organ-builder a hundred years and more
ago, was at this time setting up a new organ for the parish church of
Halifax. Herschel, at Dr. Miller’s advice, became one of the seven can-
didates for the place of organist. They drew lots how they were to per-
form in succession. Herschel drew the third. The second fell to Dr.
Wainwright, of Manchester, whose rapid execution astonished the
judges. ‘I was standing in the middle aisle with Herschel,” wrote Dr.
Miller, ‘and I said to him, ‘ What chance have you to follow this man?
He replied, ‘I don’t know; I am sure fingers will not do” He ascended
the organ-loft, however, and produced from the instrument so uncom-
mon a fullness, such a volume of slow, solemn harmony, that I could
not account for the effect. After a short extempore eftusion, he finished
with the old Hundredth Psalm tune, which he played better than his
opponent. ‘Ay, ay,’ cried old Snetzler, ‘tish is very goot ; I vill luf tish
man, for he gives my piphes room for to spheak’” Having afterward asked
Mr. Herschel by what means he produced so uncommon an effect, he
replied, “I told you fingers would not do;” and taking two pieces of
lead from his pocket, “ One of these,” he said, “I placed on the lowest
key of the organ and the other on the octayveabove ; thus, by accommo-
dating the harmony, I produced the effect of four hands instead of two.”

In 1780, twenty years after this, when Miller talked of his friend Her-
Sschel’s great fame, and of his sister, Caroline Herschel, who, when her
brother was asleep, amused herself in sweeping the sky with his twenty-
ELE SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCHEL.

feet reflector and searching for comets, the kind-hearted old man used to
wish that the science of acoustics had been advanced in the same degree
as the science of optics, ‘* For,” he said, “* had William constructed audi-
‘tory tubes of proportionate power to his great telescope, who knows
but we might have been enabled to hear the music of the spheres! ”
From this date, fourscore and twelve years ago, until the present time,
no name among modern scientific men has attained a higher rank than
that of Herschel. Ninety volumes of the Philosophical Transactions of
the Royal Society have been enriched with papers bearing the well-
known signature. Genius, though often hereditary, is quite as often
wayward. It not unfrequently skips a generation. It descends some-
times to daughters. It reappears in other cases, after being dormant
in children and grandchildren, in a fourth or fifth step of descent. But
with the two Herschels the transmission was immediate. The original
circumstances of the two great philosophers were indeed widely differ-
ent. Sir William, the father, by genius and application succeeded in rising
from obscurity to the proud position of the first astronomer of the age.
His son, Sir John Herschel, had the advantage of the highest university
training. But both were gifted with extraordinary talents, keen scien-
tific tastes, and those great mathematical powers which so materially
assist in abstruse inquiries. In the case of the subject of this memoir,
the combination of high education with an extraordinary natural talent
for communicating his thoughts in an attractive manner, has been one
of the means of making him the most distinguished philosopher of the
nineteenth century.

John Frederick William Herschel was born at Slough, March 7, 1792.
His father was already famous. People came from distant lands to see
the great telescope. There are traditions about the wonder with which
mail-travelers used to stare, in passing, at the mechanism by which the
monster tube was used. A thousand stories of its revelations passed
current among the vulgar. The astronomer let nobody use his forty-foot
telescope, but the fame of it could not be hidden. It went through all
the civilized world. And it was under the shadow of that mysterious
erection that this only child of the house—born when his father, then of
twoscore and twelve years, was absorbed alike in the fame he had
achieved and the wonders he was every night discovering ; reared in
infancy with an uncle who spent his days in adjusting instruments, and
an aunt whose nights were devoted to discovering new comets in the
heavens ; without a boy’s associations and playmates, ina house kept quiet
all the day that the star-watchers might sleep; and wandering through
rooms whose silence no sports were permitted to disturb and no youth-
ful buoyaney to interrupt—it was here that he passed his boyhood.
Twelve years before the boy’s birth the ‘Observations of the periodical
star Mira Ceti,” read before the Royal Society, had established his
father’s position among scientific men, and one year later his discovery
of Uranus brought him into the foremost rank of astronomical observers.

" 4
SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCHEL. PEL

Amid such a childhood, separated from boys of his own age, suppressed in
every demonstration which youthful spirits naturally give to feeling,
without the school antagonisms that teach a lad his real worth, or the
school rivalries that lead him to rate his fellow according to the plucky
boyhood he exhibits, at the form or on the play-ground, in the dormi-
tory or at the sparring-match, it is strange that the boy did not grow
up full of eccentricities. His detractors—and even he, the gentlest of
nen, Was not without them—say that he did. But there was in him,
from first to last, no lack of manliness, no insincerity, no jealousy, no
indifference even to rival merit. And then the man’s life-long and con-
spicuous veneration for his father is perhaps the best proof of a happy
childhood and youth. No want pinched the household; warm affection
existed between the parents; the boy was the idol of a fond aunt and a
fonder uncle; and it must have been from a happy home that he went
to Eton.

At the usual period of life young Herschel entered St. John’s Col-
lege, Cambridge, from which he graduated B. A. in 1813, as senior
wrangler, having for his competitors the late Dr. Peacock, Dean of Ely,
who was second wrangler, and the late Rev. Fearon Fallows, formerly
astronomer at the Cape of Good Hope, as third wrangler. The names
of several other men of mark appear in the honor-list as contemporary
students, such as Professor Mill, Dr. Robinson, Master of the Temple,
and Bishop Carr, of Bombay. Mr. Herschel had no sooner attained
his degree than he forwarded a mathematical paper to the Royal Society,
‘On aremarkable application of Cotes’s Theorem.” This was published
in the Philosophical Transactions. In the same year he was elected a
Fellow of the Royal Society, and though barely past his majority be-
came at once an active member.

The early researches of Herschel were confined to pure mathematies.
For papers on this subject, published in the Philosophical Transactions,
the Copley medal was awarded him in 1821. In 1822 he turned his
attention to ‘‘observing” astronomy, that practical branch which
descended to him as a hereditary duty. This occupation led him to
associate with others in forming a special society for the general ad-
vancement of astronomical science. A few years previous to the death
of his father, in consequence of the improvement in astronomical tele-
scopes, amateur observers sprang up, who took great interest in the delin-
eation of the heavens. It was considered an epoch favorable to the
formation of a body that should be exclusively devoted to the encourage-
ment of astronomy ; and Mr. Herschel drew up an address which forms
the first publication of the present Royal Astronomical Society.

All the while, hdwever, the imagination of the young philosopher
was dwelling on the last discovery of his father—the binary stars.
It was a secret, won from the unknown, that opened a new view
into the universe. The boy was scarcely in adolescence, the father
passing into old age, when the constitution of the nebule was an-
112 SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCHEL.

nounced. It was the great achievment of the one; it was the first
dictate to the young manhood of the other. Three years of conversa-
tion and thought passed away, when the son, then twenty-four, took
from his father, then seventy-eight, the work of examining the double
stars. The old man’s end of life was gained. What of nobility was in
him had descended right royally. In the space of five years the young
astronomer had mapped 580 double and triple stars, obtained by above
10,000 separate measurements. The record of these observations was
acknowledged by the French Academy of Sciences in bestowing their
astronomical medal, and followed by a similar reward in England. This
occurred in 1824. The old astronomer had foreseen the honors which his
son would win, but did not live to rejoice in them. Sir William had died
two years before. With his death came great changes to the pleasant
family at Slough. The good mother survived, indeed, but the strange,
ancient household was broken up. ‘The aunt, who had watched the clock
and catalogued the stars up to the last, returned to her old home in Ger-
many. The cheerful old uncle had desisted from mechanical adjustments
only when apoplexy felled him at his work, and the young inheritor of
all the honors was left to perform his task alone.

To those who have had no experience in continuous astronomical
observations there can be no conception of its anxious toil. Money
cannot repay it, nor honors, nor fame. In the pursuit day must be
turned into night, society abandoned, the round of home comforts
broken in upon, intercourse with friends and neighbors discontinued ;
and the astronomical observer, quitting all the amenities of life, finds
his compensation in the brotherhood of the stars. This self-sacrifice
young Herschel made. The objects to observe required a calm atmos-
phere. The best time for this is between midnight and sun-rise. This
continuous night-work requires health. Herschel felt the severity of it.
“Should I be fortunate enough,” he writes, when he was but thirty years
old, “to bring this work to a conclusion, I shall then joyfully yield up
a subject on which I have bestowed a large portion of my time, and
expended much of my health and strength, to others who will hereafter,
by the aid of those masterpieces of workmanship which modern art
places at their disposal, pursue with comparative ease and convenience
an inquiry which has presented to myself difficulties such as at one
period had almost compelled me to abandon it in despair.”

In 1831 Mr. Herschel received the honor of knighthood from the
hands of King William, in acknowledgment of his eminent scientific
Services.

In 1833 he was awarded the royal medal of the Royal Society for his
paper “On the investigation of the orbits of revolving double stars.”
The Duke of Sussex then said of him, “ Sir John Herschel has devoted
himself for many years, as much from filial piety, perhaps, as from in-
clination, to the examination of those remote regions of the universe
into which his illustrious father first penetrated, and which he trans-
SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCHEL. Lts3

mitted to his son as a hereditary possession, with which the name of
Herschel must be associated for all ages. He bas subjected the whole
sphere of the heavens within his observation toarepeated and systematic
serutiny. Hehasdetermined the position and described the character of
themostremarkable of thenebule. Hehas observed and registered many
thousand distances and angles of position of double stars, and has shown,
from comparison of his own with other observations, that many of them
form systems whose variations of position are subject to invariable laws.
He has succeeded, by a happy combination of graphical construction
with numerical calculations, in determining the relative elements of the
orbjts which some of them describe round each other, and in forming
tables of their motions; and he has thus demonstrated that the laws of
gravitation, which are exhibited, as it were, in miniature in our own
planetary system, prevail also in the most distant regions of space—a
memorable conclusion, justly entitled, by the generality of its character,
to be considered as forming an epoch in the history of astronomy, and
presenting one of the most magnificent examples of the simplicity and
universality of those fundamental laws of nature by which their great
Author has shown that he is the same to day and forever, here and
every where.”

It is impossible to give any analysis of the results of the numerous
researches which occupied the time of Sir Jobn Herschel at the various
periods of his life. From a rough and evidently incomplete list of his
papers it would appear that out of seventy, twenty-eight are on astronom-
ival subjects, thirteen on optics, ten on pure mathematics, eight on
geology, and eleven on miscellaneous science.

There are, however, two of his astronomical works to which we may
fittingly refer here, since they furnish a key which unlocks much of Sir
John’s personal history. These are, first, his ‘‘ Catalogue of nebule
and clusters,” published in the Philosophical Transactions for the year
1833, for which the gold medals of the Royal Society and the Astro-
nomical Society were awarded; and, second, “ Results deduced from
observations made at the Cape of Good Hope.” For this latter work he
received the Copley medal for the second time from the Royal Society,
and an honorary testimonia! from the Astronomical Society.

The interest which Sir John Herschel always exhibited in the minute
details of nebule and double stars must be considered as the result of his
association with his illustrious father. M. Arago, in his admirable and
exhaustive biographical notice of Sir William Herschel, translated from
the French, and published recently in the report of the Smithsonian
Institution, refers gracefully to this fact. Sir John’s early familiarity
with his father’s instruments, in familiarity with which he may be said to
have grown up, and with their necessary use in making observations,
had its influence doubtless in the same direction. Hence, probably, the
reason why so long a period of his observing time was devoted to this

_ Section of astronomical research. One of his first communications to the
Cased!
be

114 SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCHEL. op

memoirs of the Astronomical Society is an account of the great nebule
of Andromeda and Orion, accompanied by an admirable engraving of
the latter. From 1825 to 1835 nearly all his astronomical energies were
given to this kindof observation. The catalogue of nebule and clusters,
previously mentioned, contains a list of more than twenty-five hundred
of both; their right ascensions and declinations determined ; the char-
acter of their general appearance recorded; and those which present an
unusual constitution, or an extraordinary shape, (of which there are
nearly one hundred,) are drawn with a precision, delicacy, and taste
worthy of the most accomplished artist. The astronomer royal, on pre-
senting the gold medal of the Astronomical Society to Captain Smyth,
on behalf of Sir John Herschel, who was then residin g at the Cape of
Good Hope, remarks: ‘‘That one of the most important parts of this
work is the division containing the engraved representations of the most
remarkable nebule. The peculiarities they represent cannot be described
by words nor by numerical expressions. These drawings contain that
which is conspicuous and distinctive to the eye, and that which will en-
able the eyes of future observers to examine whether secular variation
is perceptible. They are, in fact, the most distinct and most certain
records of the state of a nebule at a given time.”

The second series of investigations to which it is desired here to draw
especial attention, is that described in the unique volume entitled “ Re-
sults of Astronomical Observations made during the years 1834-1835,
at the Cape of Good Hope; being the completion of a telescopic survey
of the whole surface of the visible heaveus.” After the publication of
the catalogue of nebule in 1833, Sir John Herschel determined to
undertake a voyage to South Africa, for the purpose of continuing his
researches in another hemisphere under anew heaven. He had the
same plan in view and the same instruments. It had been irksome to
his honored father, and was alike fretful to his own spirit, that the
clouded sky of England allowed free sweep of the great telescope along
the path of the stars at arate so niggardly. Hardly more than thirty
hours in thrice that number of nights were the mysteries of the great
vault exposed to his search. He resolved, therefore, to seek a clearer at-
mosphere and a wider field of inquiry. The southern extremity of Africa,
where was an English colony, in which seclusion could be found without
loss of ‘means of communication with the philosophic world, and an un-
clouded sky bending above a healthy climate, seemed to offer the
greatest advantages. He consequently fixed upon the Cape of Good
Hope as the most fitting place fora protracted residence away from Eng-
land, and the broadest field for thorough researches.

Sir John Herschel embarked at Portsmouth, in company with his
family, on the 15th ef November, 1833, and arrived safely at Table Bay
on the 18th of January, 1834, after a pleasant voyage, diversified by
few nautical incidents.

No one knew so well as the great astronomer of whom we write, even
SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCHEL. fi

before, while recumbent on the deck of the vessel that was bearing
him through the tropic zone, he watched for hours together the shift-
ing panorama of the star fretted vault, how the moon appeared brighter,
fairer, and better defined through a more transparent atmosphere ;
how the planets seemed to be other orbs; how the stars, long watched
in a northern sky, drooped toward the horizon, and were at length
looked for in vain; how orbs, which, to his former vision, had modestly
moved along the southern outskirts of visible creation, now marched
majestically overhead, each
“Walking the heavens like a thing of life,”

while new and strange bodies ascended high and higher, until the old
earth had passed away and a new heaven was aloft; nor how the Via
Lactea, in the neighborhood of the Centaur and the Cross, coupled
with profuse collections of nebulz and asteroids, stars and constella-
tions, makes the southern sky the most magnificent star-view from any
part of earth. Like the sources of the Nile to the untraveled geogra-
pher, or the ice-cliffs of Greenland to the student of arctic voyages, he
knew well what a personal inspection would place before him, and
though the civilized world rang with applause at his sacrifice of home
and its comforts, and country and its honors, for the sake of science,
yet true philosophers knew that the compensation, present and future,
far outweighed the loss.

After a temporary residence at Wilterfreiden, he engaged a suitable
mansion, bearing the name of Feldhausen, about four miles from Cape
Town—a spot full of rural beauty, within sight of lofty hills, and situa-
ted on the last of the terraced slopes by which Table Mountain lets
itself down to the lowlands and meadows near the sea. In this place,
removed from all the noise of traffic and exposure to intrusion, surrounded
on all sides by a grove of planted trees, he caused a suitable building
to be erected for the equatorial, while the 20-foot reflector was mounted
in the open air.

The observatory at Feldhausen was situated in south latitude 33° 58/
50” 56, and longitude 22° 46’ 9” 11 east from Greenwich. Its altitude
was 142 feet above the level of the sea in Table Bay. During the erec-
tion of his instruments, Sir John resided at Welterfreiden, and so quickly
were his plans completed, that on the 22d of February, 1834, he was
enabled to gratify his curiosity by viewing, with his 20-foot reflector.
9 Crucis, the interesting nebula about 7 Argus, and ou the evening of
the 5th of March to begin a regular series of observations.

After erecting his observatory and determining its geographical posi-
tion, the attention of Sir John was directed to the fitting up of the
telescope with which his observations were to be made. He had carried
out with him three specula, one of which was made by his father, and
used by him in his-20-foot sweeps; another was made by Sir John him-
self, under his father’s inspection and instructions, and the other, of the
very same metal as the last, was ground and figured by himself alone.
116 SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCHEL.

‘They had each a clear diameter of 184 inches of polished surface, and
were all equally reflective when freshly polished, and perfectly similar
in their performance. The operation of re-polishing, which was more
frequently required than in England, was performed by himself with
the requisite apparatus, which he also brought from England.

Although Sir John Herschel never exhibited—as indeed he had no
occasion to do—the wonderful mechanical genius of his father, he never-
theless fully understood all the former’s methods of preparing and treating
specula. When it was stated ata meeting of the British Association in
1842, that Lord Ross had attained such skill in the treatment of metallic
specula that he could dismount the mirror of his large telescope,
repolish it, and replace it the same day, Sir John four years previously
had written to Arago these words: “By following my father’s rules
minutely and using his apparatus, I have succeeded in a single day,
without the least assistance, in polishing completely three Newtonian
mirrors of nineteen-inch aperture.”

In the use of reflecting specula of considerable weight, it is of the
utmost importance that the metal shouid be supported in its case so as
not to suffer any change of figure from its own weight. Sir John found
that a speculum was totally useless by allowing it to rest horizontally
on three metallic points at its circumference. The image of every con-
siderable star became triangular, throwing out long flaming caustics at
the angles. Having on one occasion supported the speculum simply
againsta flat board, inclined atan angle of about 45°, he found that its per-
formance was tolerably good; but on stretching a thin pack-thread verti-
cally down the middle of the board, so as to bring the weight of the metal
to rest upon the thread, the images of the stars were lengthened hori-
zontally “to a preposterous extent, and all distinet vision utterly de-
stroyed by the division of the mirror into two lobes, each retaining
something of its parabolic figure, separated by a vertical band in a state
of distortion, and of no figure at all!” The method which Sir John
found the best was the following: Between the mirror and the back of
the case he interposed six or seven folds of thick woolen baize, of
uniform thickness and texture, stitched together at their edges. The
metal, when laid flat on this bed, was shaken so as to be concentric
with the rim of the case, and two supports, composed of several strips
of similar baize, were introduced so as to occupy about 30° each, and
to leave an are of about 40° unoceupied opposite the point which was
to be lowermost in the tube. ‘‘ When the case is raised into an inclined
position, and slightly shaken, the mirror takes its own free bearing on
these supports, and preserves its figure. It is essential, however, to
the successful application of this method that many thicknesses of the
baize should be employed, by which only the effect of flexure in the
wooden back of the case can be eliminated.”

This simple plan, adopted by Sir John Herschel, is mentioned to
show how mechanical genius aided him, as it did his father before
SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCHEL. 117

him, in overcoming what had seemed to be insurmountable difficulties.
The ingenious method by which Lord Ross afforded an equable support
to a large speculum, and which is now generally adopted, was then
unknown to him.

The labors of Sir John Herschel in South Africa were chiefly confined
to different subjects of observation. Stellar astronomy, however,
occupied his principal attention. Two of the most celebrated ne-
bule—that in the sword-handle of Orion and that surrounding the
variable star Eta Argus, as well as portions of the Milky Way, he de-
lineated with particular care. The published drawings of these objects
are acknowledged by all astronomers to be the most perfect represent-
ations of these beautiful ornaments of the southern sky. The nebula
of Orion, magnificent as it is north of the equator, comes out in much
grander detail in the southern hemisphere, where its great elevation in
the heavens renders it comparatively free from the ill effects of an
impure atmosphere. During the cooler months at the Cape of Good
Hope, from May to October inclusive, and more especially in June and
July, the finest opportunities for delicate astronomical observation oc-
curred, and were quite equal to the observer’s most sanguine ex-
pectations. Sir John remarks that the state of the atmosphere
in these months was habitually good, and imperfect vision rather the
exception than the rule. The best nights, when the stars were most
steady, always occurred after the heavy rains had ceased for a day or
two, when “the tranquillity of the images and sharpness of vision was
such that hardly any limit was set to magnifying power, but what the
aberrations of the specula necessitated.”

Upon occasions like these Sir John found that optical phenomena of
extraordinary splendor were produced by viewing a bright star through
diaphragms of card-board or zine, pierced in regular patterns of circular
holes by machinery. These phenomena, arising from the interferences
of the intromitted rays, and produced less perfectly in a moderate state
of the air, surprised and delighted every one. A result of a more
interesting kind was obtained when the aperture of the telescope had the
form of an equilateral triangle, the center of which coincided with the
center of the speculum. When close double stars were viewed with the
telescope, having a diaphragm of this form, the discs of the two stars,
which are exact circles, are reduced to about a third of their size, and
possess a clearness and perfection almost incredible. These discs, how-
ever, are accompanied with six luminous radiations running from them
at angles of 60°, forming straight, delicate, and brilliant lines, like
illuminated threads, reaching far beyond the sea of view, and capable
of being followed like real appendages to the star, long after the orb
itself had left the field.

Another optical phenomenon, arising from a peculiar condition of the
atmosphere, is described as ‘‘nebulous haze.” The effect of it was to
encircle every star of the ninth magnitude and upward with a faint
118 SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCHEL.

sphere of light of an extent proportioned to the brightness of the star.
This phenomenon presented itself very suddenly in a perfectly clear
sky, free from suspicion of mist or cloud, and disappeared as suddenly
after the lapse of about a hundred seconds. Sir John Herschel stated
that similar nebulous affections occurred in England, but with less fre-
quency of coming and going. Heat first suspected that the phenomena
arose from dew upon the eye-piece; but repeated observations satisfied
him that they were atmospheric.

Under the favorable circumstances in which he was now placed, the
opportunity of studying the grand nebula in the sword-handle of Orion
was eagerly embraced. He had himself delineated this remarkable
object in 1824. Four representations of it, differing essentially from his,
had been subsequently published, and it therefore became of the deepest
interest to discover the causes of these discrepancies, and to ascertain
whether in form or light a change had taken place. The splendid draw-
ing of thisnebula, twelve inches square, is viewed with mute admiration.
The mysterious assemblage of suns and systems which it sets before the
observer is at first almost overlooked in his wonder at the patience and
skill of the artist astronomer. No fewer than one hundred and fifty
stars are accurately depicted, and the faint luminosity shades away on
the picture, as in the heavens, into the dark sky. That this marvelous
thing of beauty, having no relation to the stars which bespangle it and
no union with the stars themselves, has recently undergone or is under-
going great and rapid changes, Sir John did not believe. He writes:
‘*Comparing my only drawings made at epochs (1824 and 1837) differ-
ing by thirteen years, the disagreements, though confessedly great, are
not more so than I am disposed to attribute to inexperience in such
delineations, (which are really difficult) at an early period; to the far
greater care, pains and time, bestowed upon the later drawings; and,
above all, to the advantage of local situation, and the very great superi-
ority in respect both of light and defining power in the telescope at the
latter, over what it possessed at the former epoch, the reasons of which
I have already mentioned. These circumstances render it impossible to
bring the figures into comparison, except in points which cannot be in-
fluenced by such causes. Now there is only one such particular on which
Lam at all inclined to insist as evidence of change, viz: in respect of the
Situation and form of the ‘nebula oblongata,’ which my figure of 1824
represents as a tolerably regular oval. Comparing this with its present
appearance, it seems hardly possible to avoid the conclusion of some sensible
alteration having taken place. No observer now, I think, looking ever so
cursorily at this point of detail, would represent the broken, curved, and
unsymmetrical nebula in question as it is represented in the earlier of
the two figures, and to suppose it seen as in 1837, and yet drawn in 1824,
would argue more negligence than I can believe myself fairly chargeable
with.”

The magnificent Catalogue of Nebule and Clusters of Stars in the
SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCHEL. 119°

Southern Hemisphere, comprehending 4.015, was reduced, arranged, and
executed by Sir John’s own hands, and appears like the work of a life-
time.

In treating of the Magellanic clouds, two fine eye-sketches are given,
“drawn without telescopic aid, when seated at a table in the open air,
in the absence of the moon, and with no more light than was absolutely
necessary for executing a drawing at all.” He was compelled to this
method in consequence of his attempts to represent other than very
small portions of the Nubecula Major in the telescope, having been com-
pletely baffled by the perplexity of its details.

On the 25th of October, 1837, Sir John was fortunate enough to ob-
tain a view of the anxiously expected comet of Dr. Halley. In the fifth
chapter of the “ Astronomical Observations” he has given the results of
his notice of this singular member of oursolar system. Thirteen draw-
ings illustrate the comet. We have it as it appeared night after night.
On the 1st of November he describes its nucleus as small, bright, and
highly condensed, shielded on the side next the sun by a narrow cres-
cent of vivid, nebulous light, the front presenting an outline nearly cir-
cular, and having an amplitude of 90° from horn to horn. Four days
afterward it had the common appearance of a comet, with its nucleus and
slightly diverging tail; but on its return from the sun, on the 26th of
January, it assumed a new and surprising appearance. Its head was
sharply terminated “ likea ground-glass lamp-shade, and within this head
was seen a vividly luminous nucleus, as ifa miniature comet, perfect in
itself, possessing head and tail, and considerably exceeding the surround-
ing head in intensity of light ;” in fact,a comet within a comet. As the
nights followed each other, and the stranger advanced across the heav-
ens, its increase in dimensions was so rapid “that it might be said it
was almost seen to grow.” On the 26th the nucleus appeared as a star
of the tenth magnitude, furred and nebulous, and more than double in
Size within twenty-four hours. On the 28th, upon looking through the
20-foot reflector, Sir John exclaimed, “ Most astonishing! The comais all
but gone, and there are long irregular tails everywhere.” The nucleus
was then a sharp point, like one of Jupitev’s satellites in a thick fog of
hazy light—no well defined disk could be raised upon it—and its body
was Clearly discernable from itscoma. ‘I can hardly doubt,” he writes,
‘“‘ that this comet was fairly evaporated in perihelio by the sun’s ents
resolved into transparent vapor, and is now in process of rapid conden-
sation and reprecipitation on the nucleus.”

Sir John concludes his ‘astronomical observations” by notices of
the solar spots, and conjectures of their causes. Thirteen figures, delin-
eated from magnified images formed on a screen by means of a 7-foot
achromatic refractor, are given in a single plate. Oneof these spots
occupied an area equal to 3,786,000,000 square miles. Of one huge spot
he makes no measurement. of saline not one tenth in size, he says,
“Its black center would have allowed the globe of our earth to drop
120 SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM EERSCHEL.

through it, leaving a thousand miles clear of contact. on all sides of
that tremendons gulf” Of his theories of the causes of these vast
spots on the surface of the sun no mention need here be made. Galileo,
Kepler, Huygens, Kant, Lambert, and others, each gave their views upon
these recondite phenomena. Sir John Herschel gave his as his father
had done before him. Others are giving, and others still, perhaps as
accurate observers and logical reasoners as eitherof the two, will give
theirs. The world can afford to wait. Astronomy advances. It may
be, in the distant future, that the mysterious center around which our
sun and his worlds revolve may be detected and afford a solution for
other mysteries as well as these. The greatest astronomer is equipped
for no more than a Sabbath-day’s journey. Mountain-tops rise to his
view aS he moves along, and peaks of precipices disappear beyond the
horizon which he leaves behind, but the Canaan he seeks to explore is
still a terra incognita.

The work from which we have taken the foregoing, entitled “ Results
of Astronomical Observations made during the years 1834,~35~36~37,
and —38, at the Cape of Good Hope, being the completion of a tele-
scopic survey of the whole surface of the visible heavens, commenced in
1825,” which occupies seven chapters, extending over four hundred and
fifty pages, and illustrated by seventeen beautifully executed plates,
would doubtless have appeared in a series of unconnected memoirs
among the transactions of the Royal or Astronomical Societies, had it
not been for the munificence of the late Duke of Northumberland, who
gave a large sum forits publication as a single and separate work. The
following are the subjects which are treated in the volume:

CHAPTER I. On the nebule and clusters of stars in the southern
hemisphere.

CHAPTER II. On the double stars in the southern hemisphere.

CHAPTER III, On astronomy, or the numerical expression of the
apparent magnitude of stars.

CHAPTER IV. Of the distribution of stars, and of the constitution of
the galaxy or milky way in the southern hemisphere.

CHAPTER V. Observations on Halley’s comet, with remarks on its
physical condition and that of comets in general. e

CHAPTER VI. Observations on the satellites of saturn.

CHAPTER VII. Observations on the solar spots.

Here let us turn back fora moment to fix our attention upon the author
of these marvelous works. The father, Sir William Herschel, had been
notonly a great astronomer, but a fortunate man. He was fortunate in
having George the Third for a patron. Again he was fortunate in having
Arago for a biographer, who, while complete master of his subject, was
superior to envy and»a lover of true greatness. But thrice fortunate
was he in transmitting his name and fame to one, who, with the amplest
intellectual resources of an accomplished scholar and philosopher,
cherished the characteristic boldness of his predecessor's spirit, and
SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCHEL. 124

upheld that liberty of conjecture whichis the mainspring of sagacity. It
is rare that the parent’s purple of intellect falls upon the child. By no
culture however skillful, and no anxieties however earnest, can we trans-
mit to our successors the qualities or the capacities of the mind. In lofty
destinies father and son are rarely associated ; and in the few cases where
a joint commission has issued to them, it has generally been to work in
different spheres, or at different levels. In the universe of mind a double
star is more rare than its prototype in the firmament, and when it does
appear we watch its phases and mutations with corresponding interest.
The case of the two Herschels is a remarkable one, and appears an excep-
tion to the general law. The father, however, was not called to the sur-
vey of the heavens, till he had passed the middle period of life, and it
was but a just arrangement that the son, in his youth and manhood,
should continue the labors of his sire. As has been eloquently said,
‘The records of astronomy do not emblazon a more glorious day than
that in which the semi-diurnal are of the father was succeeded by the
semi-diurnal are of the son. No sooner had the evening luminary disap-
peared, amid the gorgeous magnificence of the west, than the morning
star arose bright and cloudless in its appointed course.” When it is
considered that these two men, father and son, have carefully examined
the whole starry firmament with 20-foot telescopes—instruments of
which, in their present state of perfection, the elder Herschel may be
said to have been the inventor—and that they have made known to us
thousands of the most interesting phenomena, if is hardly an exaggera-
tion to say that the science of moderate siderial astronomy rests chiefly
on their labors.

It is worthy of remark, in connection with Sir John Herschel’s labors
at the Cape of Good Hope, that his residence was productive of benefits
to meteorology as well as to astronomy. While occupied there, he sug-
gested a plan of having meteorological observations made simultaneous-
ly at different places—a plan subsequently developed at greater length
in his Instructions for making and registering meteorological observations
at various stations in Southern Africa, published under official authority
in 1844, The result has been the almost universal adoption of a simi-
lar plan in Europe and the United States.

The record of the site of the 20-foot reflector at Feldhausen, South
Africa, has been preserved. No sooner had Sir John embarked for Eng-
land, than his numerous friends at the Cape raised by subscription a
sufficient sum to erect a granite obelisk on the spot. There, in the quiet
dell, surrounded by trees, at the foot of Table Mountain, stands an
enduring memorial, not only of ‘the pleasing and grateful recollections
of years spent in agreeable society, cheerful occupations, and unalloyed
happiness,” as he gracefully expressed it, but of the discovery of thou-
sands of nebula and double stars in the remote regions of the sidereal
firmament.

Sir John Herschel returned to England in May, 1838. London re-
122 SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCHEL.

ceived him with enthusiasm. The whole scientific world joined in
the acclamation. He was entertained at a great public dinner. At
the meeting of the British Association, at Newcastle, he was honored as
the principal guest. The Crown made him a baronet. Oxford conferred
upon him the highest university honor; and Scotland, not to be behind,
elected him lord rector of Marischal College at Aberdeen. Without
doubt, the Duke of Sussex having vacated the office, he might have
been elected president of the Royal Society, and the British Govern-
ment proposed to reimburse all his four years’ pecuniary outlays; but
he declined them both. His motives for his long expatriation had not
been money, nor pleasure, nor health, nor fame, but increase and diffu-
sion of knowledge among men. That object he had gained the means
of reaching, and his largest ambition was satisfied.

Sir John was the author of the articles on‘‘ lsoperimetrical Problems,”
and of ‘ Meteorology,” and “ Physical Geography,” in tho Hneyclopadia
Britannica, (the last two of which have been republished separately,) and
also of several articles on scientific subjects inthe Edinburg snd Quarterly
Reviews, which were collected and published in a separate form in 1857,
together with some of his lectures. He contributed besides to “Good
Words” some popular papers on the wonders of the universe; and, two
or three years before he died, he gave to the world, in the pages of
“Cornhill Magazine,” a poetical version of part of the Inferno of Dante.
He was also one of the many sexegenarian translators of Homer’s Iliad.

Sir John Herschel was either an honorary or corresponding member
of the academies of Vienna, St. Petersburg, Gottingen, Turin, Bologna,
Bruxelles, Nuremberg, Copenhagen, Stockholm, Prague, Warsaw, and
Naples, as well as of almost all other scientific associations existing in
Europe and America, Asia, and the southern hemisphere. To his other
honors was added that of ‘Chevalier of Merit,” founded by Frederick
the Great, and given at the recommendation of the Academy of Sciences
at Berlin.

We have hitherto confined our remarks to the principal original
researches of Sir John Herschel, which are doubtless the most striking
to the man of science; but still there can be no question that his popular
reputation has arisen chiefly from his two well-known works, ‘A pre-
liminary discourse on the study of natural philosophy” and ‘“ Outlines
of astronomy,” both of which contain internal evidence of his great
attainments in almost every department of human knowledge, and of his
high powers as a philosophical writer. We give a short extract from
each of these works as examples of his style. Upon their contents it is
not possible to enter here.

In the “Preliminary discourse,” writing upon a subject with which
he was more intimately acquainted than any man had ever been in the
past, or was in the present, he says:

‘Among the most remarkable of the celestial objects are the revolving
double stars, or stars which, to the naked eye, or to inferior telescopes, ap-
SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCHEL. E23

pear single, but if examined with high magnifying powers are found to
consist of two individuals placed almost close together, and which, when
sarefully watched, are (many of them) found to revolve in regular
elliptic orbits about each other, and, so far as we have yet been able to
ascertain, to obey the same laws which regulate the planetary move-
ments. There is nothing calculated to give a grander idea of the seale
on which the sidereal heavens are constructed than these beautiful sys-
tems. When we see such magnificent bodies united in pairs, undoubt-
ediy by the same bond of mutual gravitation which holds together our
own system, and sweeping over their enormous orbits in periods com-
prehending many centuries, we admit at once that they must be acecom-
plishing ends in creation which will remain forever unknown to man;
and that we have here attained a point in science where the human
intellect is compelled to acknowledge its weakness, and to feel that no
onception the wildest imagination can form will bear the least com-
parison with the intrinsic greatness of the subject.”

Eloquently and nobly said; and yet not more eloquent and noble
are the thoughts themselves, or the language that clothes the thoughts,
in the passages we have quoted, than are others to be found on almost
every page of the volume.

In the other volume alluded to, “The outlines of astronomy,” a work
clustered with brilliant thoughts thick as the stars which stud the mid-
night heavens, he writes:

“There is no science which, more than astronomy, draws more largely
on that intellectual liberality which is ready to adopt whatever is
demonstrated, or concede whatever is rendered highly probable, how-
ever new and uncommon the points of view may be in which objects the
most familiar may thereby become placed. Almost all its conclusions
stand in open and striking contradiction with those of superficial and vul-
gar observations, and with what appears to every one, until he has under-
stood and weighed the proofs to the contrary, the most positive evidence
of his senses. Thus the earth on which he stands, and which has served
for ages as the unshaken foundation of the firmest structures, either of art
or of nature, is divested by the astronomer of its attribute of fixity, and
conceived by him as turning swiftly on its center, and at the same time
moving onwards through space with great rapidity. The sun and the
moon, which appear to untaught eyes round bodies of no very consid-
erable size, become enlarged in his imagination into vast globes; the
one approaching in magnitude to earth itself, the other immensely sur-
passing it. The planets, which appear only as stars somewhat brighter
than the rest, are to him spacious, elaborate, and habitable worlds, sev-
eral of them much greater, and far more curiously furnished, than the
earth he inhabits, as there are also others less so ; and the stars themselves,
properly so-called, which, to ordinary apprehension, present only lucid
sparks or brilliant atoms, are to him suns of various and transcendent
glory, effulgent centers of life and light to myriads of unseen worlds.
124 SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCHEL.

So that when, after dilating his thoughts to comprehend the grandeur
of those ideas his calculations have called up, and exhausting his imag-
ination and the powers of his language to devise similes and inetaphors
illustrative of the immensity of the scale on which his universe is con-
_ Structed, he shrinks back to his native sphere, he finds it in comparison
a mere point; so lost, even in the minute system to which it belongs,
as to be invisible and unsuspected from some of its principal and re-
moter members.”

In the year 1851 Sir John Herschel accepted the appointment of
master of the mint. This office, once held by Sir Isaac Newton, had
degenerated into a place for politicians. Irrespective of qualification,
the existing ministry had been accustomed for more than a hundred
years to give it to the member of the House of Commons who had
served them best. From the date of Herschel’s acceptance of the office
its political character ceased. He brought to the duties of the position
the same thorough search, conscientious dealing, and indefatigable in-
dustry that characterized his life. He abolished old charters, did away
with antiquated indentures, and refused to renew contracts for meltings
and coinages. His work was so thorough that it is still styled by the
employés at the mint the “ revolution of ’51.” Like all innovations, it
caused alarm. <A faction grew up in opposition. Members of Parlia-
ment and of the ministry took sides against his plans; but that firmness
for the right which never yielded, and that gentleness toward opponents
which never lost its equipoise, ultimately achieved success. The ‘trial
plates”—he called them “fiducial pieces”’—which had been used for
centuries, were abandoned; standard tables for the qualities of the
precious metals were prepared ; the conventional purity of British coin—
gold as 916.6 and silver as 925—was settled; and the mathematical coin-
cidence of the result of the pyx with the legal standard, established
the correct result of the assays.

The subject of our memoir, however, was not made for office-work.
Though present at his labors throughout every day, and with papers
spread before him, revising and calculating his work far into the hours
of every night, the toil was not congenial. Bodily infirmity followed.
He was unable to work. His friends became alarmed. For himself he
had not sought the place. Nature still needed his interpretations, and
he desired to be at liberty to pass his last days in her domain. He
therefore resigned his office as master of the mint in 1855, and betook
himself to the well-earned repose of a veteran of science.

His mind, upon the recovery of his health, resumed its wonted activity,
and though passing his life in comparative retirement at Collingwood,
he prepared and published his catalogue of nebuleze and star-clusters.
This splendid work was presented to the Royal Society on November
19, 1863, and contains all the nebule and clusters which had been any-
where described, and identified in position sufficiently to warrant their
inclusion. The number of objects comprised init is 5,078, including all
SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCHEL. 125

observed by Sir William Herschel, Sir John Herschel, the Earl of Rosse,
and others. This truly noble undertaking will ever remain a monument
of the energy and perseverance of Sir John Herschel, who at an age
past three score and ten years found time and inclination to arrange and
republish the great astronomical work of the century.

From the rank which Sir John Herschel held among scientific men,
his services were in almost constant demand on committees, boards, and
royal commissions, whose object was the attainment of information for
the advancement of science. For many years he was one of the “ vis-
itors” to inspect annually the Royal Observatory. To him was made
the annual report of the Astronomer-Royal on the efficiency of that
establishment, and he was an important member of the royal com-
mission appointed to prepare new standards of length and weight in lieu
of those destroyed by fire in 1835. As member of the council, and one
of. the secretaries of the Royal Society, he was one of its leading mem-
bers for years. In 1830, on the resignation of the presidency by the
late Mr. Davis Gilbert, a strong effort was made to elect Sir Jobn
Herschel to the vacant chair, in opposition to the Duke of Sussex, on
the ground that his appointment would be peculiarly acceptable to men
of science in Europe. But a commoner, however great, has in England
little chance of success when a royal duke is his rival. There were
special reasons which influenced a large number of the fellows to sup-
port a member of the royal family, and the duke was elected. In the
Royal Astronomical Society Sir John filled the office of president for
six years, and in 1845 he presided over the meeting of the British Asso-
ciation.

It was the peculiar privilege—let us say in the conclusion of this part
of our memoir—of Sir John Herschel, or peculiar gift, if the phrase be
preferred, to combine with his special studies a breadth of view and
power of expression that made him the Homer of science. Take, for
example, what he has said of the vast practical importance of scientific
knowledge, ‘As showing us how to avoid impossibilities, in securing us
from important mistakes when attempting what is in itself possible by
means either inadequate or actually opposed to the end in view; in
enabling us to accomplish our ends in the easiest, shortest, most eco-
nomical and most effectual manner; and in inducing us to attempt and
enabling us to accomplish objects which, but for such knowledge, we
would never have thought of undertaking.”

Or again, ‘The character of the true philosopher is to hope all things
not impossible, and to believe all things not unreasonable. When once
embarked on any physical research, it is impossible for any one to pre-
dict where it will ultimately lead him. The true answer of science is that
which again is at once the parallel and the illustration of the language
of the apostle, “The mysteries of knowledge, which in other ages were
not made known unto the sons of men, are now revealed, and will be
still more revealed to those whom God has chosen.”
126 SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCHEL.

Or still again, ‘“‘The students of science are as messengers from Heaven
to earth to make such stupendous announcements, that they may claim
to be listened to when they repeat in every variety of urgent instance,
that these are not the last announcements they have to communicate ;
that there are yet behind, to search out and to declare, not only secrets
of nature which shall increase the wealth and power of men, but truths
which shall ennoble the age and country in which they are divulged,
and, by dilating the intellect, react upon the moral character of man-
kinds”

We have called Sir John Herschel the Homer of science because he
was its highest poet. It is the poet’s function to move the soul—rous-
ing the emotions, animating the affections, and inspiring the imagina-
tion; and all this Herschel did on almost every page of his writings. It
is true that he avoids all fanciful representations of the facts of nature
just as he eschews the meagerness of literal narration, but he has drawn
beautiful pictures of nature’s doings—so beautiful that they have dis-
posed two generations to find their recreation and joy in science.

There is, besides, poetry of no mean order in such a life as that of Sir
John Herschel—a life wholly given to lofty, unselfish aims—a life of
labor, working, as he expresses it, “like a working-bee” to the very end,
reserving his almost only indignation for that spirit of idleness and
Juxury which spends life but does not use it.

There is a passage in one of Sir John’s popular addresses that fur-
nishes so admirable an insight to his own character, that itis worth trans-
cribing. Speaking of the advantages of a taste for reading, he says:
“Give a man this, and you place him in contact with the best society
in every period of history—with the wisest, wittiest, tenderest, bravest,
and purest of characters who have adorned humanity ; you mike him a
denizen with all nations, a contemporary of allages. It is hardly possible
but the character should take a higher and better tone from the con-
stant habit of associating with thinkers above the average of humanity.
It is morally impossible but that the manners should take a tinge of
good breeding from having before one’s eyes the ways in which the best
bred and the best informed men have talked and acted.”

No word he ever spoke, no sentence he ever wrote, so exactly depicts
himself. He was in the utmost degree a well-bred man, not from gentle
birth and careful training, not from scholarly pursuits and polite society,
not from association with persons of rank and intimacy with men of
taste and thought, not even from his loving nature and noble aspira-
tions—not from all these together, so much as from the lofty ideal he
cherished trom boyhood to old age of perfect manhood. The upright
form grew bent with passing years, the firm footstep staggered, the
hand that poised instruments so accurately that well-nigh impossible
angles of space could be measured to a hair’s breadth became tremu-
lous, the lines of thought on his face deepened into wrinkles, the
strageling, grizzled hair turned to snow-like whiteness, and the absent

SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCHEL. 12%

expression of the eyes grew more thoughtful, but the air and manner,
and bearing and address of the well-bred man never left him. He
received criticisms upon his own speculations with the same equanimity
that he pointed out the errors of his opponents. His action in discus-
Sion was never violent, nor his voice loud. He readily acknowledged a
fault, and still more readily apologized for a wrong. To the capacity of
the young, whether in May-day sports or Christmas gambols, even when.
past his fourthscore year, he was as yielding as he was stern against
any inroad upon morals or violation of truth. He never lost his equi-
poise, was never betrayed into anger, shrank from injustice to others as
if the pain to be endured were his own, looked beneath the rough exte-
rior of many who approached him for honest motives, and, more than
most of the best and wisest of our race, night have said truly:
“Write me as one who loves his fellow-men.”

Sir John Herschel’s life-long contemplation of the infinite in number
and magnitude, exalting and hallowing his mind, was exhibited in its
effects upon his character, The truths he had learned from the stars
were converted into principles of action. Lofty thoughts promoted noble
deeds. “Surely,” he himself had said in a yet higher mood of the same
vein of thought as that of the last passage quoted, ‘Surely, if the worst
of men were transported to Paradise for only half an hour amongst the
company of the great and good, he would come back converted.”

There is one feature in Sir John Herschel’s character of which some
delineation cannot be omitted in any approximately correct picture of his
long life. - It is his filial piety. In a soul full of the gentlest feelings,
his love for his father while the veteran lingered on the stage of life.
and his reverence for the great and good man’s memory after his de-
parture, constituted the strongest sentiment. Perhaps there is no other
instance in all history where filial affection became for so long a time
the ruling motive ofa life. The son was born for a successor in the line
of chemistry to Sir Humphrey Davy and arival to Michael Faraday ; for
his father’s sake he became an astronomer. His tastes led him into dis-
coveries of the properties of hyposulphate salts and the actinic relations
of light; his reverence for his illustrious sire determined him to complete,
to the abandonment of every favorite pursuit, what the latter had so
nobly begun. The pursuit of astronomy was neither the voluntary choice
nor the principal bias of his intellectual life. His inborn aptitude lay in
another direction. Unecontrollable circumstances determined his career,
and these were framed out of impressions of the happy home of his
childhood. He became a great astronomer, not through the promptings
of natural taste but by the dictates of filial piety. And no man was
ever more emphatically, in thought and work, in hostility to error and
search after truth, the son of his father. Over the two the eulogy of
David over Saul and Jonathan might be fitly pronounced.

“They were lovely and pleasant in their lives,
And in their death they were not divided :

They were swifter than eagles; they were stronger than lions.”
»
128 SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCHEL.

This deep reverence for his father’s memory, and this high apprecia-
tion of the value of his discoveries—neither undeserved nor overrated—
possessed Sir John Herschel to the last. His “idolatry” of the great
telescope by which the sidereal heavens had been first unveiled to
human sight has been called ‘“* weak in sentiment and dubious in taste.”
Arago did not so regard the means by which its remains were pre-
served, nor do other philosophers who hold the heart to be ever
superior to the intellect. On the 1st of January, 1840, Sir John Her-
schel and his family, the old servants among the number, assembled at
Slough. The metal tube had been placed horizontally in the meridian.
At noon they walked in procession around the instrument, entered the
capacious cylinder, seated themselves on benches previously prepared,
sung a requiem, and then, ranging themselves around that—ceall it
a piece of metal if you will—which had been the means of opening the
star-world to human sight, witnessed its hermetical sealing. “I know
not,” says Arago, ‘“‘ whether those persons who can only appreciate
things from the peculiar point of view from which they have been
accustomed to look, may think there was something strange in several
of the details of this ceremony; I affirm, however, that the whole world
will applaud the pious feeling which actuated Sir John Herschel, and
that all the friends of science will thank him for having consecrated the
humble garden where his father achieved such immortal labors by a
monument more expressive in its simplicity than pyramids or statues.”

The true place of Sir John Herschel among the great lights of his age
eannot be accurately fixed until this generation shall have passed away.
The feelings, prejudices, and partialities of contemporaneous life warp
correct judgment. Proximity is unfavorable to true appreciation. No
one knew this better than Biot, when he replied, in answer to the ques-
tion, * Whom of all the philosophers of Europe do you regard as the
most worthy successor of Laplace?” ‘If I did not love him so much, I
should unhesitatingly say Sir John Herschel.” Indeed, through his
long confinement and protracted old age, the seekers after scientific
truth not only in the English universities, but over all Europe, in their
difficulties, anticipations, and successes, betook themselves to the aged
philosopher of Collingwood.

Of the work done by the Herschels, father and son, during a period
of almost one hundred years, it is fitting that something be said in the
conclusion of this memoir. That work is not in general correctly un-
derstood. The labors of the elder Herschel are indeed associated in the
public mind with those of his son, but the real end and aim of those
labors, the qualities which characterized the labors of each, and the
steps by which the two men moved on, each like a star in its orbit,

‘ Making no haste and taking no rest,”

towards the grand consummation, it is only necessary to peruse the
obituary notices which appeared upon his death to see are wholly mis-
understood, even by men of intelligence.

a]
SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCHEL. 129

The.real work of the Herschels, then, that to which all their labors
were directed, was the survey of those regions of space which lie beyond the
range of the unaided vision. Other work they did which well deserves
attention. Sir William Herschel, in particular, left papers describing
observations of the planets, careful studies of the sun’s surface, and
researches into a variety of other subjects of interest. But all the
work thus recorded was regarded by him rather as affording practice
whereby he might acquire a mastery over his instruments than as a work
to which he cared to devote his powers. Even the discovery of a planet
traveling outside the path of Saturn—although, in popular estimation,
this discovery is regarded as the most note-worthy achievement of Her-
schel’s life—was in reality but an almost accicental result of his real
work among the star-depths. It was, in truth, such an accident as he
may be said to have rendered a certainty. No man can apply the pow-
ers of telescopes, larger than any before constructed, to scrutinize as he
did every portion of the celestial depths, without being rewarded by
some such discovery. He never swept the star-depths for an hour with-
out meeting multitudes of hitherto unknown orbs, far mightier than the
massive bulk of Uranus. These discoveries pass unrecorded save nu-
merically, but they tended to the solution of the noblest problem which
men have yet attempted to master. It was the same with the son. All
discoveries, all studies, were subordin ated to this one purpose, a know!-
edge of the construction of the heavens.

In the pursuit of this single end it is not strange that the great pio-
neer of star-observers should have formed opinions from time to time
which he afterwards abandoned as unsupported by facts. In his paper,
printed in the Philosophical Transactions of 1785, Sir William Herschel
had said, ‘*I have now viewed and gauged the milky way in almost
every direction, and find it composed of stars whose number constantly
increases and decreases in proportion to its apparent brightness to the
naked eye. That this shining zone is a most extensive stratum of stars
of various sizes admits no longer of the least doubt, and that our sun
is actually one of the heavenly bodies belonging to it is evident.” In
the plate accompanying this paper, our sun makes one of innumerable
stars, all comparable with each other in magnitude, and distributed with
approach to uniformity.

In 1802, after his telescope had been asking seven years longer the
secret of the skies, writing of our sun, magnificent as its system is, as
only a single individual of the insulated stars, he says: ‘To this may
be added that the stars we consider as insulated are also surrounded by
a magnificent collection of innumerable stars called the milky way.
For, though our sun and all the stars we see may truly be said to be
in the plane of the milky way, yet I am now convinced by a long in-
spection that the milky way itself consists of stars differently scattered
from those which are immediately about us.”

Similar changes of opinion in regard to the nature of double stars,
Osi TL
130 SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCHEL.

to the constitution of the vast star system, and to the nature of the
nebule, occurred, as he modified the principle of interpreting his ob-
servations. In 1811 he writes: “I find that by arranging the nebulze
in certain successive, regular order, they may be viewed in a new light,
which cannot be indifferent to an inquiring mind.” He now expressed
the opinion that these mebule did not consist of multitudes of stars,
but of some self-luminous substance of exceeding tenuity. He recog-
nized the existence of this luminous vapor amidst large tracts of the
heavens, and regarded it as lying within the limits of the galaxy. Nay
more, he believed this vaporous matter to be the material from which
the stars were made. According to this view, vast as has been the age
of our galaxy, it has not completely formed itself into compact bodies.
For many years he had held that all the nebula are composed of stars.
He now believed that some nebule were not of a starry nature; that a
luminous matter existed in the universe in an elemental state; that
the globular nebule were the earliest formed and most advanced in
growth; and that this vaporous or luminous matter lay within the line
of the milky way, and formed part and parcel of its constitution.

This new view taken by Sir William Herschel of the construction of
the heavens, whether as respects exteusion in space or duration in time,
is singularly impressive. It implies indeed an enormous diminution of
dimensions. It reduces the supposed countless millions of stars around
Orion to chaotic vapor. It contracts distances, so far beyond our star-
system as not to be separately discerned by the most powerful glass,
into spaces midway only between us and our galaxy. In reducing these
distances many hundred times, this theory reduced the vastness of the
objects many million times. But, on the other hand, it showed the
milky way to be a more wonderful scheme than had ever been sup-
posed. Vast as has been the period of its existence it had not yet
entirely shaped itself into stars; over the regions where it extends,
enormous masses of nebulous matter are still condensing into suns, and
it becomes to the imagination a stupendous laboratory where systems of
worlds have been produced and countless suns have had their genesis.

Despite the ingenuity of illustration and incontestable force of reason-
ing by which Sir William Herschel sought to establish this bold hyyoth-
esis, it has not won general favor since his day. Observation seems
conclusively to show that the greater the optical power of the telescope
the more certain is the evidence that the nebule are aggregations of
stars. Sir John Herschel, too, with his usual reverential caution about
controverting his father’s dicta, seems to entertain this last opinion.
‘It may very reasonably be doubted,” he wrote, ‘‘ whether there is any
essential physical distinction between clusters of stars and those nebule
which my father regarded as composed of ashining nebulous fluid, and
whether such distinction as there is be anything else than one of degree,
arising merely from the excessive minuteness and multitude of the stars
of which the latter compared with the former consist.”
SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCHEL. 131

In the course of that stupendous work which has already been pomted
out—the work of surveying those regions of space too distant to be seen
by the naked eye—it would be a greater marvel than all their united dis-
coveries had the Herschels never found occasion to change their views
and remodel their theories. They did this, both father and son, once
and again. ‘If it should be remarked,” wrote Sir William Herschel in
1811, “that in this new arrangement [ am not entirely consistent with
what I have already in former papers said on the nature of some objects
that have come under my observation, I must freely confess that, by
continuing my sweeps of the heavens, my opinion of the arrangement
of stars and their magnitudes, and of some other particulars, has un-
dergone a gradual change; and, indeed, when the novelty of the subject
is considered, we cannot be surprised that many things, formerly taken
for granted, should on examination prove to be different from what they
were generally but incautiously supposed to be. For instance, an equal
scattering of the stars may be admitted in certain calculations; but
when we examine the milky way, or the closely compressed clusters of
stars, this supposed equality of scattering must be given up. We may
also have surmised nebule to be no other than clusters of stars dis-
cuised by their very great distance, but a longer experience and better
acquaintance with the nature of nebule will not allow a general adimis-
sion of such a principle, although undoubtedly a cluster of stars may
assume a nebulous appearance when it is too remote for us to discern
the stars of which it is composed.” In fact, M. Arago’s memoir of Sir
William Herschel, as well as the numerous papers of himself and Sir
John Herschel, which appeared from time to time, during more than
three-quarters of a century, in the Transactions of the Royal Society
and the Astronomical Society, show not only that the former modified his
theories, gradually, indeed, but not infrequently, in accordance with
newly-discovered facts, but also that Sir John Herschel’s discoveries,
though considerably in advance of the points reached by his father, but
lying, nevertheless, strictly in the direction along which the elder had
been progressing, led to the same result. Sir William modified his views
about unequal double stars, concluding that the fainter orb is physically
associated with the brighter one, instead of being far beyond it. He
modified his views as to star-groups, regarding at last the masses of the
milky way as aggregations of stars instead of depths extending into
space. He had come to regard many star-clusters as part and parcel of
the milky way; large numbers of nebula as vaporous luminous masses ;
and galaxies external to our system, as he once believed, a portion of
the heavens with which he was familiar. Neither father nor son ever
regretted to see hypotheses, though never so dearly cherished, pass
beyond the field of controversy into the domain of the known.

Let us now turn to another consideration of Sir John Herschel—still
necessarily but less closely, perhaps, connecting him with his father—
the consideration of his character as a theorist in astronomy. As an
Loe SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM: HERSCHEL..

astronomical observer he was undeniably facile princeps, not merely
among the astronomers of his own country, but among all his astro-
nomical contemporaries. His mastery extended over the widest range.
In his general knowledge of the science of astronmy he was unap-
ropached ; in the mathmetical department of the science he was proficient
above most; in his knowledge of the details of observatory-work he
Was surpassed by none; and as a gauger of the heavens by the largest
telescopes he dwarfs into insignificance all the observational work ac-
complished by astronomers living or dead. He went over the whole
range of his father’s work through the northern skies, and then coi-
pleted the survey of the heavens that bend over the southern hemis-
phere. He alone could boast that no part of the celestial depths had
escaped his scrutiny. As an interpreter of nature, he was unrivaled;
as an expounder of astronomical truths he had no living peer, and as
a theorist he commanded universal attention and compelled large as-
sent..

In order to be clearly understood as to the meaning attached to the
words “ astronomical theorist,” let us quote a passage from one of the
papers of Sir William Herschel. It is taken from that noble essay con-
tributed to the Transactions of the Royal Society, in which he first pre-
sented his ideas respecting the constitution of the celestial depths.

* First let me mention,” he says, “ that if we should hope to make
any progress in investigations of a delicate nature, we ought to avoid
two opposite extremes, of which I can hardly say which is the most dan-
gerous. If we indulge a fanciful imagination snd build worlds of our
own, We must not wonder at our going wide from the path of truth and
nature ; but these will vanish like the Cartsian vortices that soon gave
way when better theories were offered. On the other hand, if we add
observation to observation, without attempting to draw, not only certain
conclusions, but also conjectural views from them, we offend against the
very end for which only observations ought to be made.”

Sir John Herschel has also described the quality primarily requisite
in a theorist. “As a first preparation,” the paper goes on to say, ‘‘ he
must loosen his hold on all crude and hastily-adopted notions, and must
strengthen himself by something like an effort and a resolve for the un-
prejudiced admission of any conclusion which shall appear to be supported
by careful observation and logical argument, even should it prove of a
nature adverse to notions he may have previously formed for himself,
or taken up, without examination, on the credit of others. Such an ef-
fort is, in fact, a commencement of that intellectual discipline which
forms one of the most important.ends of all science. It is the first
movement of approach towards that state of mental purity which alone
ean fit us fora full and steady perception of moral beauty as well as
physical adaptation. It is the ‘euphrasy and rue’ with which we must
‘purge our sight’ before we can receive and contemplate as they are
the lineaments of truth and nature.” "
SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCHEL. 135

These principles Sir John Herschel strictly observed. He approached
every subject on which he proposed to theorize with “enforced mental
purity.” He divested himself of prejudice. Previous views, precon-
ceived notions, pride of opinion were cast aside. Like a child, he went to
Nature’s school to learn what’she had to teach. When he entered on
his astronomical labors, double stars were supposed to be two stars seen
accidentally in the same direction, and his father had propounded the
grandest views respecting galaxies beyond our own. Sir John Her-
schel must have regarded these two theories with great favor, for they
were associated with the name of his father. Notwithstanding this, Sir
John devoted twenty-one years—eight in resurveying the fields of
space which had been swept by his father’s telescope, four in observa-
tion of the southern heavens, and nine in reducing his work to form
—in order to confirm or overturn, as facts might warrant, these hypo-
theses of his father. From him we now know that double stars are not
stars seen accidentally in the same direction, but are star-couples, asso-
ciated by the mighty bond of common gravity. We also know that the
second hypothesis did not bear thecrucial test to which it was subjected.
Other theories, indeed, of the elder Herschel, in their important feat-
ures, were confirmed. It is not of that, however, that we speak, but
of the conscientious honesty and philosophic spirit with which the son
reviewed and continued his father’s work, forever setting scientific
truth higher than filial reverence.

Sir John Herschel was most sagacious in the interpretation of facts.
Take, for example, his examination of the Magellanic clouds, those two
curious patches on the southern celestial vault. He mapped their out-
lines, pictured their minute stars, and colored and shaded their star-
cloudlets. At this point others might have stopped. There was an
array of interesting objects in certain regions of the heavens. What
more could he say? But Sir John Herschel was not thus satisfied. He
reasoned from the globular shape of the Magellanic clouds to the dis-
tance of the star-cloudlets within them, thence to the scale on which
they were formed, and thus deduced the most important conclusion,
perhaps, ever arrived at in astronomy by abstract reasoning, to wit, that
all the orders of star-cloudlets belong to our own system.

Again, Sir John Herschel was deeply impressed with the existence of
analogies throughout the whole range of creation. In a private letter
written to Richard A. Procter, as late as 1869, we find him saying:
‘An opinion which the structure of the Magellanic clouds has often
suggested to me, has been strongly recalled by what you say of the
inclusion of every variety of nebulous form within our galaxy, viz, that
if such be the case, that is, if these forms belong to the galactic system,
then that system includes within itself miniatures of itself on an almost
infinitely reduced scale, and what evidence then have we that there
exists @ universe beyond, unless a sort of argument from analogy, that
the galaxy, with all its contents, may be but one of these miniatures of
134 SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCHEL.

that vast universe, and so on an infinitum, and that in that universe there
may exist multitudes of other systems on a. Scale as vast as our galaxy,
the analogues of those other nebulous and clustering forms which are
not miniatures of our galaxy?”

As an illustration of his power of tracing the chain that binds cause
and effect, we may refer to a passage in his Treaties on Astronomy.
Tracing the connection between the central luminary of our system and
terrestrial phenomena, Sir John remarks that ‘‘the sun’s rays are the
ultimate source of almost every motion that takes place on the surface of
the earth.. By its heat are produced the winds and those disturbances on
the electric equilibrium of the atmosphere which give rise to the
phenomena of lightning, and probably also to those of terrestrial
magnetism and the aurora. By their vivifying action vegetables are
enabled to draw support from inorganic matter, and become in their
turn the support of animals and man, and the sources of those great
deposits of dynamical efficiency which are laid up for human use in our
coal strata. By them the waters of the sea are made to circulate in
vapors through the air and irrigate the land, producing springs and
rivers. By them are produced all disturbances of the chemical equi-
librium of the elements of nature, which by a series of compositions and
decompositions give rise to new products and originate transfers of
material. Even the slow degradation of the solid constituents of the
surface, in which its chief geological changes consist, is almost entirely
due, on the one hand to the abrasion of wind and rain, and the alterna-
tion of heat and frost, and on the other hand to the continual beating
of sea-waves, the result of solar radiation.”

He was an admirable expounder of scientific principles. His style of
writing is perhaps cumbrous, and his sentences are often long and in-
volved. But the thought he would express, like a thread of silver
running through a web of purple, is always clear. The popular taste for
astronomical studies is due to his writings more than to those of all other
men.

He, of all others, held mastery over pride of self-opinion. His own
errors he admitted instantly they were discovered. Upon theories of
others he worked as fairly and patiently as upon his own. He never
struggled for a known error nor declined to accept aproventruth. With
untiring patience, observing skill, and ingenious device, he sought earn-
estly to detect falsehood in his own opinions, and to discover truth in the
opinions of others. It is said that he had a feeble grasp upon facts ; that
while his father clung with vise-like grip to the sure and the known, he
at times allowed them to slip from his grasp. ‘If so, it were a grievous
fault.” But so few are the instances—not above two or three—cited by
those who allege this, so unimportant are the facts named, so apparent is
the motive, unconscious it may be to themselves, of the theorizers who
urge the objection, that it would seem probable that his opinions upon the
facts had been misinterpreted or his statements of them misunderstood.
SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCHEL. 135

Even if this blemish exists, it is but as a spot upon the sun. It argues
no more than that in one particular the son was second to the father.
But without more satisfactory evidence we prefer to range ourselves
among the doubters, and to be among the number of those who believe
that Sir John Herschel’s reasoning was never in a single instance marred
by a forgotten fact.

In the contemplation of the work of the two Herschels, let us remark
in conclusion, and what that work has revealed to us, the mind stands
appalled. Reason shrinks before the specter of boundless creation.
If our sun and all his planets, primary and secondary, are in rapid
motion round an invisible focus—if from that mysterious center no ray
of light has ever reached our globe, then the buried relics of primeval
life have taught us less of man’s brief tenure on this terrestrial paradise
than we learn from the lesson of the stars. The one may date back
unnumbered centuries, the other declares that from the origin of the
human race to its far distant future the system to which it belongs will
have described but an infinitesimal are of an immeasurable cirele in
which it is destined to revolve.

He married Margaret Brodie, daughter of Dr. Stewart, in 1829; she
and a numerous family survive him. Two of his sons are already very
favorably known in the realm of science, and their father lived to see
one of them selected by the council for election to the Royal Society.
Another son has an important professorship in the north of England.
The eldest son, the present Sir William Herschel, occupies, with dis-
tinguished merit, a very important post in the civil service of Bengal.

Herschel’s whole life, like the lives of Newton and Faraday, confutes
the assertion, and ought to remove the suspicion, that a profound study
of nature is unfavorable to a sincere acceptance of the Christian faith.
Surrounded by an affectionate family, of which he was long spared to
be the pride, the guide, and the life, John Herschel died, as he had lived,
in the unostentatious exercise of a devout, yet simple, faith.
i - =
off a Le per

=nepag sit,

As jee “7 ya ee A Reg 1" eat edt cy

ae! Haniel Hip”
1 4 : ie 7 it i¥ 4 é. PS
: mifspias} : ORIEN * 49 |) 1 j eetse ge) 44) 0 0) te (GP Rees bh aah _

u _
i : a F, Vad “ads ‘*

J Rs >
. gS } «
7 Ras biee p b MT é; Shy LD PEAR Tas Gh > Ce Sit

? .
- - i Pi i 4 , ‘, 7
rc, OAR ele on y. Wil Sa Say dos raves TES “oc Cee oie Ihre a

PAs seuchioely patna aor), UE ea ks Aaa es airy Le ci ee
] ‘ 7 + 4 : —
iAD WPA en vt)? f Ahi g 9 GN ei >> ae 1) ee ee

e) i ' ; Fe LSE PVM DARWIN PEG Ae iPalaw island's -

iMac ti: Tih 4 ni tired Tee 3 1 (5 et ae
Seka ASIST S ici Pda. yh tele Rit ie an euegeutie ¥
Ran Peat as is 7) ; i (a Pi RTgES ge dies a ee’ ae Wi eeu
aad 2 sti few Obals {hrs ALid ceevaioes
| ct Pat ' ~ Te +A bag hl Hite aah
in t a 4. ae en oe
- ie PUAN» Wadd ort “Bee Ce AOE ns a ;

Sod of ita? ‘ Sheva ii esi ive pitti! Ubi GEES eld UC) MEY rok dees a a ene
eet cfibh! boy OA) tiv a ee eee Merci oe irs iri ate dit Siete tM be ih
BRANT bf helt vader De Ue be pertain apa, ae pose dead Shae
aber: ibe Cee tis by wie Tid a Geil a ee aay MeriJiay Caltitokie Let wt aes ; :
Pree h 1.49 cans wh WAI ey a ae wth hia one irae avian gbtat

Be Srieie teuaten Vis | Seda halo nid nite i iar hea ires fads es nab [i
' : ‘a -
wee? pi a i) (hide 7 Ve Qin soil 2 bf) VALE +0) Piist <j hemmenly. :
nr Sivek eh aed). 3 (Sc idee et SE a a ad Bs TM SLE + atone sibtiden

Pe ime diday AL dashes, allio Ree eet

vee meriliy eid mate wend

Ariel 4 ee sk ai genie the pit
eaton ©» «lee
warn viet i ey eect a -
wey ; . ci ae Mee Ppa me
) ~~ ‘ rors “alle he if ayer tip
it cpeais . be aie io cte ownitedg 5 anti rhe:
- ia 1. , 9, } a" wmigat fil ye Payee |
Pe rh okoh > «Ohad UR PMA RAPID Vy! 0c

Li ieee Wee (Tri } ' i Le ppg aie!

agit apis « > at As taity af wit -
| ew fe a =. we
Dy eee a Lalaas 7 1 @ a a ee

— ve

JOSEPH FOURIER.

BIOGRAPHY READ BEFORE THE FRENCH ACADEMY OF SCIENCES, BY M. ARAGO.

GENTLEMEN: In former times one Academician differed from another
only in the number, the nature, and the brilliancy of his discoveries.
Their lives, thrown in some respects into the same mold, consisted of
events little worthy of remark. A boyhood more or less studious; pro-
gress sometimes slow, sometimes rapid; inclinations thwarted by capri-
cious or shortsighted parents; inadequacy of means, the privations which
it introduces in its train; thirty years of a laborious professorship and
difficult studies—such were the elements from which the admirable tal-
ents of the early secretaries of the Academy were enabled to execute
those portraits so piquant, so lively, and so varied, which form one of
the principal ornaments of your learned collections.

In the present day, biographies are less confined in their object. The
convulsions which France has experienced in emancipating herself from
the swaddling-clothes of routine, of superstition, and of privilege, have
cast into the storms of political life citizens of all ages, of all conditions,
and of all characters. Thus has the Academy of Sciences figured during
forty years in the devouring arena, wherein might and right have alter-
nately seized the supreme power by a glorious sacrifice of combatants
and victims!

Recall to mind, for example, the immortal National Assembly. You
will find at its head a modest Academician, a pattern of all the private
virtues, the unfortunate Bailly, who, in the different phases of his politi-
cal life, knew how to reconcile a passionate affection for his country with
a moderation which his most cruel enemies themselves have been com-
pelled to admire.

When, at a later period, coalesced Europe launched against France a
million of soldiers ; when it became necessary to organize for the crisis
fourteen armies, it was the ingenious author of the Lssat sur les Machines
and of the Géométrie des Positions who directed this gigantic operation.
It was again Carnot, our honorable colleague, who presided over the
incomparable campaign of seventeen months, during which French
troops, novices in the profession of arms, gained eight pitched battles,
were victorious in one hundred and forty combats, occupied one hun-
dred and sixteen fortified places, and two hundred and thirty forts or
redoubts, enriched our arsenals with four thousand cannon and seventy
thousand muskets, took a hundred thousand prisoners, and adorned
the dome of the Invalids with ninety flags. During the same time
13 JOSEPH FOURIER.

the Chaptals, the Fourcroys, the Monges, the Berthollets, rushed also
to the defense of French independence, some of them extracting from
our soil, by prodigies of industry, the very last atoms of saltpeter
which it contained; others transforming, by the aid of new and rapid
methods, the bells of the towns, villages, and smallest hamlets into a
formidable artillery, which our enemies supposed, as indeed they had a
right to suppose, we were deprived of. At the voice of his country in
danger, another Academician, the young and learned Meunier, readily
renounced the seductive pursuits of the laboratory; he went to distin-
guish himself upon the ramparts of K6énigstein, to contribute as a hero
to the long defense of Mayence, and met his death, at the age of forty
years only, after having attained the highest position in a garrison
wherein shone the Aubert-Dubayets, the Beaupuys, the Haxos, the
Klebers.

How could I forget here the last secretary of the original Academy ?
Follow him into a celebrated assembly, into that convention, the sanguin-
ary delirium of which we might almost be inclined to pardon, when we
call to mind how gloriously terrible it was to the enemies of our inde-
pendence, and you will always see the illustrious Condorcet occupied
exclusively with the great interests of reason and humanity. You will
hear him denounce the shameful brigandage which for two centuries
laid waste the African continent by a system of corruption ; demand in
a tone of profound conviction that the code be purified of the frightful
stain of capital punishment, which renders the error of the judge for-
ever irreparable. He is the official organ of the Assembly on every occa-
sion when it is necessary to address soldiers, citizens, political parties,
or foreign nations in language worthy ot France; he is not the tactician
of any party; he incessantly entreats all of them to occupy their atten-
tion less with their own interests and a little more with public mat-
ters; he replies, finally, to unjust reproaches of weakness by acts which
leave him the only alternative of the poison cup or the scaffold,

The French Revolution thus threw the learned geometer, whose dis-
coveries Lam about to celebrate, far away from the route which destiny
appeared to have traced out for him. In ordinary times it would be
about Dom * Joseph Fourier that the secretary of the Academy would
have deemed it his duty to have occupied your attention. It would be
the tranquil, the retired life of a Benedictine which he would have
unfolded to you. The life of our colleague, on the contrary, will be agi-
tated and full of perils; it will pass into the fierce contentions of the
forum and amid the hazards of war; it will bea prey to all the anxieties
which accompany a difficult administration. We shall find this life inti-
mately associated with the great events of our age. Let us hasten to
add, that it will be always worthy and honorable, and that the personal
qualities of the man of science will enhance the brilliancy of his dis-
coveries.

*An abbreviation of Dominus, equivalent to the Englishprefix Reverend.—Translator.
JOSEPH FOURIER. 39

Fourier was born at Auxerre on the 21st of March, 1768. His father,
like that of the illustrious geometer Lambert, was a tailor. This cir-
cumstance would formerly have occupied a large place in the éloge of
our learned colleague; thanks to the progress of enlightened ideas, I
may mention the circumstance as a fact of no importance: nobody, in
effect, thinks in the present day, nobody even pretends to think, that
genius is the privilege of rank or fortune.

Fourier became an orphan at the age of eight years. A lady who
had remarked the amiability of his manners and his precocious natural
abilities, recommended him to the bishop of Auxerre. Through the
influence of this prelate, Fourier was admitted into the military school
which was conducted at that time by the Benedictines of the Convent
of St. Mark. There he prosecuted his literary studies with surprising
rapidity and success. Many sermons very much applauded at Paris in
the mouth of high dignitaries of the church were emanations from the
pen of the schoolboy of twelve years of age. It would be impossible in
the present day to trace those first compositions of the youth Fourier,
since, while divulging the plagiarism, he had the discretion never to
name those who profited by it.

At thirteen years Fourier had the petulence, the noisy vivacity of
most young people of the same age; but his character changed all at
once, and as if by enchantment, as soon as he was initiated in the first
principles of mathematics, that is to say, as soon as he became sensible
of his real vocation, The hours prescribed for study no longer sufficed
to gratify his insatiable curiosity. Ends of candles carefully collected
in the kitchen, the corridors and the refectory of the college, and placed
on a hearth concealed by a screen, served during the night to illuminate
the solitary studies by which Fourier prepared himself for those labors
which were destined, a few years afterward, to adorn his name and his
country.

In a military school directed by monks, the minds of the pupils neces-
sarily waver only between two careers in life—the church and the sword.
Like Descartes, Fourier wished to be a soldier; like that philosopher,
he would doubtless have found the life of a garrison very wearisome.
But he was not permitted to make the experiment. His demand to
undergo the examination for the artillery, although strongly supported
by our illustrious colleague Legendre, was rejected with a severity of
expression of which you may judge yourselves: ‘ Fourier,” replied the
minister, ‘not being noble, could not enter the artillery, although he
were a second Newton.”

Gentlemen, there is in the strict enforcement of regulations, even
when they are most absurd, something respectable, which I have a
pleasure in recognizing; in the present instance nothing could soften
the odious character of the minister’s words. It is not true in reality
that no one could formerly enter into the artillery who did not possess
a title of nobility: a certain fortune frequently supplied the want of
140 JOSEPH FOURIER.

parchments. Thus it was not a something undefinable, which, by the
way, our ancestors, the Franks, had not yet invented, that was wanting
to young Fourier, but rather an income of a few hundred livres, which
the men who were then placed at the head of the country would have
refused to acknowledge the genius of Newton as a just equivalent for!
Treasure up these facts, gentlemen; they form an admirable illustration
of the immense advances which Hieance has made during the last forty
years. Posterity, moreover, will see in this, not the excuse, but the
explanation of some of those sanguinary dissensions which stained our
first revolution.

Fourier, not having been enabled to gird on the sword, assumed the
habit of a Benedictine, and repaired to the Abbey of St. Benoit-sur-Loire,
where he intended to pass the period of his novitiate. He had not yet
taken any vows when, in 1789, every mind was captivated, with beauti-
fully seductive ideas relative to the social regeneration of France.
Fourier now renounced the profession of the church; but this cireum-
stance did not prevent his former masters from appointing him to the
principal chair of mathematics in the military school of Auxerre, and
bestowing upon him numerous tokensof a lively and sincere affection. I
venture to assert that no event in the life of our colleague affords a more
striking proof of the goodness of his natural disposition and the amia-
bility of his manners. It would be necessary not to know the human
heart to suppose that the monks of St. Benoit did not feel some chagrin
upon finding themselves so abruptly abandoned, to imagine especially
that they should give up without lively regret the glory which the order
might have expected from the ingenious colleague who had just escaped
from them.

Fourier responded worthily to the confidence of which he had just
become the object. When his colleagues were indisposed, the titular
professor of mathematics occupied in turns the chairs of rhetoric, of
history, and of philosophy; and whatever might be the subject of his
lectures, he diffused among an audience which listened to him with de-
light the treasures of a varied and profound erudition, adorned with all
the brillianey which the most elegant diction could impart to them.

About the close of the year 1789, Fourier repaired to Paris and read
before the Academy of Sciences a memoir on the resolution of numerical
equations of all degrees. This work of his early youth our colleague, so
to speak, never lost sight of. He explained it at Paris to the pupils of
the Polytechnic School; he developed it upon the banks of the Nile in
presence of the Institute of Egypt ; at Grenoble, from the year 1802, it was
his favorite subject of conversation with the professors of the Central
School and of the faculty of sciences. This finally contained the elements
of the work which Fourier was engaged in seeing through the press when
death put an end to his career.

A scientific subject does not occupy so much space in the life of a man
of science of the first rank without being important and difficult.
JOSEPH FOURIER. 14)

The subject of algebraic analysis above mentioned, which Fourier had
studied with a perseverance so remarkable, is not an exception to this
rule. It offers itself in a great number of applications of calculation to
the movements of the heavenly bodies, or to the physies of terres-
trial bodies, and in general in the problems which lead to equations of
a high degree. As soon as he wishes to quit the domain of abstract re-
lations, the calculator has occasion to employ the roots of these equa-
tions; thus the art of discovering them by the aid of a uniform method,
either exactly or by approximation, did not fail at an early period to
excite the attention of geometers.

An observant eye perceives already some traces of their efforts in the
writings of the mathematicians of the Alexandrian school. ‘These traces,
it must be acknowledged, are so slight and so imperfect that we should
truly be justified in referring the crigin of this branch of analysis only
to the excellent labors of our countryman Vieta. Descartes, to whom
we render very impertect justice when we content ourselves with saying
that he taught us much when he taught us to doubt, occupied his atten-
tion also for a short time with this problem, and left upon it the indelible
impress of his powerful mind. Hudde gave for a particular but very
important case rales to which nothing has since been added. . Rolle, of
the Academy of Sciences, devoted to this one subject his entire life.
Among our neighbors on the other side of the channel, Harriot, Newton,
Maclaurin, Stirling, Waring—I may say all the illustrious geometers
which England produced in the last century—made it also the subject of
their researches. Some years afterward the names of Daniel Bernoulli,
of Euler, and of Fontaine came to be added to so many great names.
Finally, Lagrange in his turn embarked in the same career, and at the
very commencement of his researches he succeeded in substituting for
the imperfect, although very ingenious, essays of his predecessors, a
complete method which was free from every objection. From that
instant the dignity of science was satisfied; but in such a case it would
not be permitted to say with the poet—

“Le temps ne fait rien & Vaffaire.”

Now, although the processes invented by Lagrange, simple in princi-
ple and applicable to every case, have theoretically the merit of leading
to the result with certainty, still, on the other hand, they demand e¢al-
culations of a most repulsive length. It remained then to perfect the
practical part of the question: it was necessary to devise the means of
shortening the route without depriving it in any degree of its certainty.
Such was the principal object of the researches of Fourier, and this he
has attained to a great extent.

Descartes had already found, in the order according to which the
signs of the different terms of any numerical equation whatever sueceed
each other, the means of deciding, for example, how many real positive
roots this equation may have. Fourier advanced a step further: he
142 JOSEPH FOURIER.

discovered a method for determining what number of the equally posi-
tive roots of every equation may be found included between two given
quantities. Here certain calculations become necessary, but they are
very simple, and whatever be the precision desired, they lead without
any trouble to the solutions sought for.

I doubt whether it were possible to cite a single scientifie discovery
of any importance which has not excited discussions of priority. The
new method of Fourier for solving numerical equations is in this respect
amply comprised within the common law. We ought, however, to ac-
knowledge that the theorem which serves as the basis of this method

yas first published by M. Budan; that according to a rule which the
principal academies of Europe have solemnly sanctioned, and from which
the historian of the sciences dares not deviate without falling into arbi-
trary assumptions and confusion, M. Budan ought to be considered as
the inventor. I will assert with equal assurance that it would be im-
possible to refuse to Fourier the merit of having attained the same ob-
ject by his own efforts. I even regret that, in order to establish rights
which nobody has contested, he deemed it necessary to have recourse
to the certificates of early pupils of the Polytechnic School or profes-
sors of the University. Since our colleague had the modesty to suppose
that his simple declaration would not be sufficient, why (and the argu-
ment would have had much weight) did he not remark in what respect
his demonstration differed from that of his competitor?—an admirable
demonstration, in effect, and one so impregnated with the elements of
the question, that a young geometer, M. Sturm, has just employed it to
establish the truth of the beautiful theorem by the aid of which he de-
termines not the simple limits, but the exact number of roots of any
equation whatever which are comprised between two given quantities.

We had just left Fourier at Paris, submitting to the Academy of Sci-
ences the analytical memoir of which I have just given a general view.
Upon his return to Auxerre, the young geometer found the town, the
surrounding country, and even the school to which he belonged, occu-
pied intensely with the great questions relative to the dignity of human
nature, philosophy, and politics, which were then discussed by the ora-
tors of the different parties of the National Assembly. Fourier aban-
doned himself also to this movement of the human mind. Heembraced
with enthusiasm the principles, of the Revolution, and he ardently asso-
ciated himself with everything grand, just, and generous which the pop-
ular impulse offered, His patriotism made him accept the most difficult
missions. We may assert, that never, even when his life was at stake,
did he truckle to the base, covetous, and sanguinary passions which dis-
played themselves on all sides.

A member of the popular society of Auxerre, Fourier exercised there
an almost irresistible ascendency. One day—all Burgundy has pre-
served the remembrance of it—on the occasion of a levy of three bun-
dred thousand men, he made the words honor, country, glory, ring so
JOSEPH FOURIER. 143

eloquently, he induced so many voluntary enrollments, that the ballot
was not deemed necessary. At the command of the orator the contin-
gent assigned to the chief town of the Yonne formed in order, assembled
together within the very enclosure of the Assembly, and marched forth-
with to the frontier. Unfortunately these struggles of the forum, in
which so many noble lives then exercised themselves, were far from
having always a real importance. Ridiculous, absurd, and burlesque
notions injured incessantly the inspirations of a pure, sincere, and en-
lightened patriotism. The popular society of Auxerre would furnish us,
in case of necessity, with more than one example of those lamentable
contrasts. Thus [ might say that in the very same apartment wherein
Fourier knew how to excite the honorable sentiments which I have with
pleasure recalled to mind, he had on another occasion to contend with
a certain orator, perhaps of good intentions, but assuredly a bad astron-
omer, who wishing to escape, said he, from the good pleasure of munici-
pal rulers, proposed that the names of the north, east, south, and west
quarters should be assigned by lot to the different parts of the town of
Auxerre.

Literature, the fine arts, and the sciences appeared for a moment to
flourish under the auspicious influence of the French Revolution. Ob-
serve, for example, with what grandeur of conception the reformation
of weights and measures was planned; what geometers, what astrono-
mers, What eminent philosophers presided over every department of this
noble undertaking! Alas! frightful revolutions in the interior of the
country soon saddened this magnificent spectacle. The sciences could
not prosper in the midst of the desperate contest of factions. They
would have blushed to owe any obligations to the men of blood, whose
blind passions immolated a Saron, a Bailly, and a Lavoisiére.

A few months after the 9th Thermidor, the convention being desirous
of diffusing throughout the country ideas of order, civilization, and in-
ternal prosperity, resolved upon organizing a system of public instrue-
tion, but a difficulty arose in finding professors. The members of the
corps of instruction had become officers of artillery, of engineering, or
of the staff, and were combating the enemies of France at tie frontiers.
Fortunately at this epoch of intellectual exaltation, nothing seemed im-
possible. Professors were wanting: it was resolved without delay to
create some, and the normal school sprung into existence. Tifteen hun-
dred citizens of all ages, dispatched from the principal district towns,
assembled together, not to study in all their ramifications the different
branches of human knowledge, but in order to learn the art of teaching
under the greatest masters.

Fourier was one of these fifteen hundred pupils. It will, no doubt,
excite some surprise that he was elected at St. Florentine, and that
Auxerre appeared insensible to the honor of being represented at Paris
by the most illustrious of her children. But this indifference will be
readily understood. The elaborate scaffolding of calumny which it has
144 JOSEPH FOURIER.

served to support will fall to the ground as soon as I recall to mind,
that atter the 9th Thermidor the capital, and especially the provinces,
became a prey to a blind and disorderly reaction, as all political reae-
tions invariably are; that crime (the crime of having changed opinions—
it was nothing less hideous) usurped the place of justice; that excellent
citizens; that pure, moderate, and conscientious patriots were daily
massacred by hired bands of assassins in presence of whom the inhabit-
ants remained mute with fear. Such are, gentlemen, the formidable
influences which for a moment deprived Fourier of the suffrages of his
countrymen ; and caricatured, as a partisan of Robespierre, the individ-
ual whom St. Just, making allusion to his sweet and persuasive elo-
quence, styled a patriot in music ; who was so often thrown into prison
by the Decemvirs; who, at the very height of the reign of terror, offered
before the revolutionary tribunal the assistance of his admirable talents to
the mother of Marshal Davoust, accused of the crime of having at that
unrelenting epoch sent some money to the emigrants; who had the in-
credible boldness to shut up at the inn of Tonnerre an agent of the com-
mittee of public safety, into the secret of whose mission he penetrated,
and thus obtained time to warn an honorable citizen that he was about
to be arrested; who, finally, attaching himself personally to the san-
guinary proconsul before whom every one trembled in Yonne, made him
pass for a madman, and obtained his recall! You see, gentlemen, some
of the acts of patriotism, of devotion, and of humanity which signalized
the early years of Fourier. They were, you have seen, repaid with in-
gratitude. But ought we, in reality, to be astonished at it? To expect
gratitude from the man who cannot make an avowal of his feelings with-
out danger would be to shut one’s eyes to the frailty of human nature
and to expose one’s self to frequent disappointments.

In the normal school of the convention, discussion from time to time
sueceeded ordinary lectures. On those days an interchange of charac-
ters was effected: the pupils interrogated the professors. Some words
pronounced by Fourier at one of those curious and useful meetings suf-
ficed to attract attention toward him. Accordingly, as soon as a ne-
cessity was felt to create masters of conference, all eyes were turned to-
ward the pupil of St. Florentine. The precision, the clearness, and the
elegance of his lectures soon procured for him the unanimous applause
of the fastidious and numerous audience which was confided to him.

When he attained the height of his scientific and literary glory,
Fourier used to look back with pleasure upon the year 1794, and upon
the sublime efforts which the French nation then made for the purpose
of organizing a corps of public instruction. If he had ventured, the title
of pupil of the original normal school would have been beyond doubt that
which he would have assumed by way of preference. Gentlemen, that
school perished of cold, of wretchedness, and of hunger, and not, what-
ever people may say, from certain defects of organization, which time and
reflection would have easily rectified. Notwithstanding its short exist-
JOSEPH FOURIER. 145

ence, it imparted to scientific studies quite a new direction, which has
been productive of the most important results. In supporting this
opinion at some length, I shall acquit myself of a task which Fourier
would certainly have imposed upon me, if he could have suspected that
with just and eloquent eulogiums of his character and his labors there
should mingle within the walls of this apartment, and even emanate
from the mouth of one of his successors, sharp critiques of his beloved
normal school.

It is to the normal school that we must inevitably ascend if we would
desire to ascertain the earliest public teaching of descriptive geometry,
that fine creation of the genius of Monge. It is from this source that it
has passed almost without modification to the Polytechnic School, to
founderies, to manufactories, and the most humble workshops.

The establishment of the Normal School accordingly indicates the com-
mencement of a veritable revolution in the study of pure mathematics ;
with it demonstrations, methods, and important theories, buried in
academical collections, appeared for the first time before the pupils, and
encouraged them to recast upon new bases the works destined for
instruction.

With some rare exceptions, the philosophers engaged in the cultiva-
tion of science constituted formerly in France a class totally distinct
from that of the professors. By appointing the first geometers, the first
philosophers, and the first naturalists of the world to be professors, the
convention threw new luster upon the profession of teaching, the ad-
vantageous influence of which is felt in the present day. In the opinion
of the public at large, a title which a Lagrange, a Laplace, a Monge, a
Berthollet, had borne, became a proper match to the finest titles. If
under the empire, the Polytechnic School counted among its active pro-
fessors councilors of state, ministers, and the president of the senate,
you must look for the explanation of this fact in the impulse given by
the Normal School.

You see in the ancient great colleges professors concealed in some
degree behind their portfolios, reading as from a pulpit, amid the indif-
ference and inattention of their pupils, discourses prepared beforehand
with great labor, and which reappear every year in the same form.
Nothing of this kind existed at the Normal School; oral lessons alone
were there permitted. The authorities even went so far as to require of
the illustrious savants appointed to the task of instruction the formal
promise never to recite any lectures which they might have learned by
heart. From that time the chair has become a tribune where the pro-
fessor, identified, so to speak, with his audience, sees in their looks,
in their gestures, in their countenance, sometimes the necessity for pro-
ceeding at greater speed, sometimes, on the contrary, the necessity of
retracing his steps, of awakening the attention by some incidental ob-
Servations, of clothing in a new form the thought which, when first
expressed, had left some doubts in the minds of his audience. And do

10s 71
146 JOSEPH FOURIER.

not suppose that the beautiful impromptu lectures with which the amphi-
theater of the Normal School resounded remained unknown to the
public. Short-hand writers paid by the State reported them. The
sheets, after being revised by the professors, were sent to the fifteen
hundred pupils, to the members of convention, to the consuls and agents
of the republic in foreign countries, to all governors of districts. There
was in this something certainly of profusion compared with the parsi-
monious and mean habits of our time. Nobody, however, would concur
in this reproach, however slight it may appear, if I were permitted to
point out in this very apartment an illustrious Academician, whose.
mathematical genius was awakened by the lectures of the Normal School
in an obscure district town.

The necessity of demonstrating the important services, ignored in the
present day, for which the dissemination of the sciences is indebted to
the first Normal School, has inducod me to dwell at greater length on the
subject than I intended. I hope to be pardoned; the example in any
case will not be contagious. Eulogiums of the past, you know, gentle-
men, are no longer fashionable. Everything which is said, everything
which is printed, induces us to suppose that the world is the creation of
vesterday. This opinion, which allows to each a part more or less
brilliant in the cosmogonie drama, is under the safeguard of too many

vanities to have anything to fear from the efforts of logic.

I have already stated that the brilliant success of Fourier at the Nor-
mal School assigned to him a distinguished place among the persons
whom nature has endowed in the highest degree with the talent of pub-
lic tuition. Accordingly, he was not forgotten by the founders of the
Polytechnic School. Attached to that celebrated establishment, first
with the title of superintendent of lectures on fortification, afterward
appointed to deliver a course of lectures on analysis, Fourier has lett
there a venerated name, and the reputation of a professor distinguished
by clearness, method, and erudition; I shall add even the reputation of
a professor full of grace, for our colleague has proved that this kind of
merit may not be foreign to the teaching of mathematics.

The lectures of Fourier have not been collected together. The Jour-
nal of the Polytechnic School contains only one paper by him, a memoir
upon the “ Principle of virtual velocities.” This memoir, which prob-
ably had served for the text of a leoture, shows that the secret of our
celebrated professor’s great success consisted in the combination of
abstract truths, of interesting applications, and of historical details
little known, and derived, a thing so rare in our days, from original
sources.

We have now arrived at the epoch when the peace of Leoben brought
back to the metropolis the principal ornaments of our armies. Then
the professors and the pupils of the Polytechnic School had sometimes
the distinguished honor of sitting in their amphitheaters beside Gen-
erals Desaix and Bonaparte. Everything indicated to them then an
JOSEPH FOURIER. 147

active participation in the events which each foresaw, and which in fact
were not long in occurring.

Notwithstanding the precarious condition of Europe, the Directory
decided upon denuding the country of its best troops, and launching
them upon an adventurous expedition. The five chiefs of the republic
were then desirous of removing from Paris the conqueror of Italy, of
thereby putting an end to the popular demonstrations of which he every-
where formed the object, and which sooner or later would become a real
danger.

On the other hand, the illustrious general did not dream merely of the mo-
mentary conquestof Egypt; he wished to restore to that country its ancient
splendor; he wished to extend its cultivation, to improve its system of
irrigation, to create new branches of industry, to open to commerce
numerous outlets, to stretch out a helping hand to the unfortunate in-
habitants, to rescue them from the galling yoke under which they had
groaned for ages—in a word, to bestow upon them without delay all the
benefits of European civilization. Designs of such magnitude could not
have been accomplished with the mere personnel of an ordinary army.
It was necessary to appeal to science, to literature, and to the fine arts ;
it was necessary to ask the codperation of several men of judgment and
of experience. Monge and Berthollet, both members of the Institute
and professors in the Polytechnic School, became, with a view to this
object, the principal recruiting aids to the chief of the expedition. Were
our-colleagues really acquainted with the object of this expedition? I
dare not reply in the affirmative; but I know at all events that they
were not permitted to divulge it. We are going to a distant country ;
we shall embark at Toulon; we shall be constantly with you; General
Bonaparte will command the army, such was in form and substance the
limited amount of confidential information which had been imperiously
traced out to them. Upon the faith of words so vague, with the chances
of a naval battle, with the English hulks in perspective, go in the pres-
ent day and endeavor to enroll a father of a family, a savant already
known by useful labors and placed in some honorable position, an artist
in possession of the esteem and confidence of the public, and I am much
mistaken if you obtain anything else than refusals ; but in 1798, France
had hardly emerged from a terrible crisis, during which her very ex-
istence was frequently at stake. Who, besides, had not encountered
imminent personal danger? Who had not seen with his own eyes enter-
prises of a truly desperate nature brought to a fortunate issue? Is any-
thing more wanted to explain that adventurous character, that absence
of all care for the morrow, which appears to have been one of the most
distinguishing features of the epoch of the Directory. Fourier accepted
then, without hesitation, the proposals which his colleagues brought to
him in the name of the commander-in-chief; he quitted the agreeable
duties of a professor of the Polytechnic School to go—he knew not where;
to do—he knew not what.
148 JOSEPH FOURIER.

Chance placed Fourier during the voyage in the vessel in whieh
Kleber sailed. The friendship which the philosopher and the warrior
vowed to each other from that moment was not without some influence
upon the events of which Egypt was the theater after the departure of
Napoleon.

He who signed his orders of the day, the ember of the Institute, Com-
mander-in-chief of the Army in the East, could not fail to place an academy
among the means of regenerating the ancient kingdom of the Pharaohs.
The valiant army which he commanded had barely conquered at Cairo,
on the occasion of the memorable battle of the Pyramids, when the In-
stitute of Egypt sprung into existence. It consisted of forty-eight mem-
bers, divided into four sections. Monge had the honor of being the
first president. As at Paris, Bonaparte belonged to the section of
mathematics. The situation of perpetual secretary, the filling up of
which was left to the free choice of the society, was unanimously assigned
to Fourier.

You have seen the celebrated geometer discharge the same duty at
the Academy of Sciences; you have appreciated his liberality of mind,
his enlightened benevolence, his unvarying affability, his straightforward
and conciliatory disposition; add in imagination to so many rare quali-
ties the activity which youth, which health, can alone give, and you will
have again conjured into existence the secretary of the Institute of
Egypt; and yet the portrait which I have attempted to draw of him
would grow pale beside the original.

Upon the banks of the Nile, Fourier devoted himself to assiduous
researches on almost every branch of knowledge which the vast plan of
the Institute embraced. The Decade and the Courier of Egypt will
acquaint the reader with the titles of his different labors. I find
in these journals a memoir upon the general solution of algebraic
equations; researches on the methods of elimination; the demonstra-
tion of anew theorem of algebra; a memoir upon the indeterminate
analysis; studies on general mechanics; a technical and historical
work upon the aqueduct which conveys the waters of the Nile to the
Castle of Cairo; reflections upon the oases; the plan of statistical
researches to be undertaken with respect to the state of Egypt; pro-
gramme of an intended exploration of the site of ancient Memphis, and
of the whole extent of burying-places; a descriptive account of the
revolutions and manners of Egypt, from the time of its conquest by
Selim.

I find also in the Egyptian Decade, that, on the first complementary
day of the year VI, Fourier communicated to the Institute the descrip-
tion of a machine designed to promote irrigation, and which was to be
driven by the power of wind.

This work, so far removed from the ordinary current of the ideas of
our colleague, has not been printed. It would very naturally find a
place in a work of which the expedition to Egypt might again furnish
JOSEPH FOURIER. 149:

the subject, notwithstanding the many beautiful publications which it
has already called into existence. It would be a description of the man-
ufactories of steel, of arms, of powder, of cloth, of machines, and of
instruments of every kind which our army had to prepare for the ocea-
sion. If, during our infancy, the expedients which Robinson Crusoe
practiced in order to escape from the romantic dangers which he had
incessantly to encounter, excite our interest in a lively degree, how, in
mature age, could we regard with indifference a handful of Frenchmen
thrown upon the inhospitable shores of Africa, without any possible
communication with the mother-country, obliged to contend at once
with the elements and with formidable armies, destitute of food, of
clothing, of arms, and of ammunition, and yet supplying every want by
the force of genius!

The long route which I have yet to traverse will hardly allow me to
add a few words relative to the administrative services of the illustrious
geometer. Appointed French commissioner at the Divan of Cairo, he
became the official medium between the general-in-chief and every
Egyptian who might have to complain of an attack against his person,
his property, his morals, his habits, or his creed. An invariable suavity
of manner, a scrupulous regard for prejudices to oppose which directly
would have been vain, an inflexible sentiment of justice, had given him
an ascendency over the Mussulman population, which the precepts of
the Koran could not lead any one to hope for, and which powerfully
contributed to the maintenance of friendly relations between the inhab-
itants of Cairo and the French soldiers. Fourier was especially held in
veneration by the Cheiks and the Ulémas. A single anecdote will serve
to show that this sentiment was the offspring of genuine gratitude.

The Emir Hadgey, or Prince of the Caravan, who had been nominated
by General Bonaparte upon his arrival in Cairo, escaped during the
campaign of Syria. There existed strong grounds at the time for sup-
posing that four Cheiks Ulémas had rendered themselves accomplices of
the treason. Upon his return to Egypt, Bonaparte confided the investi-
gation of this grave affair to Fourier. ‘Do not,” said he, “‘ submit half-
measures tome. You have to pronounce judgment upon high person-
ages: we must either cut off their heads or invite them to dinner.” On
the day following that on which this conversation took place, the four
Cheiks dined with the general-in-chief. By obeying the inspirations of
his heart, Fourier did not perform merely an act of humanity; it was,
moreover, one of excellent policy. Our learned colleague, M. Geoffroy
Saint-Hilaire, to whom I am indebted for this anecdote, has stated in
fact that Soleyman and Fayoumni, the principal of the Egyptian chiefs,
whose punishment, thanks to our colleague, was so happily transformed
into a banquet, seized every occasion of extolling among their country-
men the generosity of the French.

Fourier did not display less ability when our generals confided diplo-
matic missions to him. It is to his tact and urbanity that our army is
150 JOSEPH FOURIER.

indebted for an offensive and defensive treaty of alliance with Mourad
Bey. Justly proud of this result, Fourier omitted to make known the
details of the negotiation. This is deeply to be regretted, for the pleni-
potentiary of Mourad was a woman, the same Sitty Nefigah whom Kle-
ber bas immortalized by proclaiming her beneficence, her noble character,
in the bulletin of Heliopolis, and who, moreover, was already celebrated
from one extremity of Asia to the other, in consequence of the bloody
revolutions which her unparalleled beauty bad excited among the
Mamelukes.

The incomparable victory which Kleber gained over the army of the
Grand Vizier did not damp the energy of the janissaries, who had seized
upon Cairo while the war was raging at Heliopolis. They defended
themselves from house to house with heroic courage. The besieged had
to choose between the entire destruction of the city and an honorable
capitulation. The latter alternative was adopted. Fourier, charged,
as usual, with the negotiations, conducted them to a favorable issue;
but on this occasion the treaty was not discussed, agreed to, and signed
within the mysterious precincts of a harem, upon downy couches, under
the shade of balmy groves. The preliminary discussions were held in
a house half ruimed by bullets and grape-shot, in the center of the
quarter of which the insurgents valiantly disputed the possession with
our soldiers, before even it would have been possible to agree to the
basis of a treaty of a few hours. Accordingly, when Fourier was pre-
paring to celebrate the welcome of the Turkish commissioner conform-
ably to oriental usages, a great number of musket-shots were fired from
the house in front, and a ball passed through the coffee-pot which he
was holding in his hand. Without calling in question the bravery of
any person, do you not think, gentlemen, that if diplomatists were usu-
ally placed in equally perilous positions, the public would have less rea-
son to complain of their proverbial slowness ?

In order to exhibit, under one point of view, the various administrative
duties of our indefatigable colleague, I should have to show him to you
on board the English fleet, at the instant of the capitulation of Menou,
stipulating for certain guarantees in favor of the members of the Insti-
tute of Egypt; but services of no less importance and of a different nature
demand also our attention. They will even compel us to retrace our
steps, to ascend even to the epoch of glorious memory when Desaix
achieved the conquest of Upper Egypt, as much by the sagacity, the
moderation, and the inflexible justice of all his acts, as by the rapidity
and boldness of his military operations. Bonaparte then appointed two
numerous commissions to proceed to explore in those remote regions a
multitude of monuments of which the moderns hardly suspected the
existence, Fourier and Costas were the commandants of these com-
missions. I say the commandants, for a sufficiently imposing military
force had been assigned to them; since it was frequently after a combat
with the wandering tribes of Arabs that the astronomer found in the
JOSEPH FOURIER. 151
movements of the heavenly bodies the elements of a future geographical
map; that the naturalist collected unknown plants, determined the
geological constitution of the soil, occupied himself with troublesome
dissections; that the antiquary measured the dimensions of edifices; that
he attempted to take a faithful sketch of the fantastic images with which
everything was covered in that singular country, from the smallest
pieces of furniture, from the simple toys of children, to those prodigious
palaces, to those immense facades, beside which the vastest of modern
constructions would hardly attract a look. |

The two learned commissions studied with scrupulous care the mag-
nificent temple of the ancient Tentyris, and especially the series of
astronomical signs which have excited in our days such lively discus-
sions; the remarkable monuments of the mysterious and sacred Isle of
Elephantine; the ruins of Thebes, with her hundred gates, before which
(and yet they are nothing but ruins) our whole army halted, ina state of
astonishment, to applaud.

Fourier also presided in Upper Egypt over these memorable works,
when the commander-in-chief suddenly quitted Alexandria, and returned
to France with his principal friends.. Those persons then were very
much mistaken who, upon not finding our colleague on board the frigate
Muiron, beside Monge and Berthollet, imagined that Bonaparte did not
appreciate his eminent qualities. If Fourier was not a passenger, this
arose from the circumstance of his having been a hundred leagues from
the Mediterranean when the Muiron set sail. The explanation contains
nothing striking, but it is true. In any case, the friendly feeling of
Kleber toward the secretary of the Institute of Egypt, the influence which
he justly granted to him on a multitude of delicate occasions, amply
compensated him for an unjust omission.

I arrive, gentlemen, at the epoch so suggestive of painful recollec-
tions, when the Agas of the janissaries, who had fled into Syria, having
despaired of vanquishing our troops so admirably commanded by the
honorable arms of the soldier, had recourse to the dagger of the assassin.
You are aware that a young fanatic, whose imagination had been
wrought up to a high state of excitement in the mosques by a month of
prayers and abstinence, aimed a mortal blow at the hero of Heliopolis at
the instant when he was listening, without suspicion, and with his usual
kindness, to a recital of pretended grievances, and was promising redress.

This sad misfortune plunged our colony into profound grief. The
Egyptians themselves mingled their tears with those of the French
soldiers. By a delicacy of feeling which we should be wrong in sup-
posing the Mahometans not to be capable of, they did not then omit,
they have not since omitted, to remark, that the assassin and his three
accomplices were not born on the banks of the Nile.

The army, to mitigate its grief, desired that the funeral of Kleber
should be celebrated with great pomp. It wished, also, that on that
solemn day some person should recount the long series of brilliant
1573 JOSEPH FOURIER.

actions which will transmit the name of the illustrious general to the
remotest posterity. By unanimous consent this honorable and perilous
mission was confided to Fourier.

There are very few individuals, gentlemen, who have not seen the
brilliant dreams of their youth wrecked one after the other against the
sad realities of mature age. Fourier was one of those few exceptions.

In effect, transport yourselves mentally back to the year 1789, and
consider what would be the future prospects of the humble convert of St.

senoit-sur-Loire. No doubt, asmall share of literary glory ; the favor of
being heard occasionally in the churches of the metropolis; the satis-
faction of being appointed to eulogize such or such a public personage.
Well, nine years have hardly passed aud you find him at the head of
the Institute of Egypt, and he is the oracle, the idol, of a society which
counted among its members Bonaparte, Berthollet, Monge, Malus,
Geoffroy St. Hilaire, Conté, &c.; and the generals rely upon him for
overcoming apparently insurmountable difficulties, and the army of the
East, itself so rich in adornments of all kinds, would desire no other
interpreter when it is necessary to recount the lofty deeds of the hero
which it had just lost.

It was upon the breach of a bastion which our troops had recently
taken by assault, in sight of the most majestic of rivers, of the mag-
nificent valley which it fertilizes, of the frightful desert of Lybia, of the
colossal pyramids of Gizeh; it was in presence of twenty populations
of different origins which Cairo unites together in its vast basin; in
presence of the most valiant soldiers that had ever set foot on a land,
wherein, however, the names of Alexander and of Cesar still resound ;
it was in the midst of everything which could move the heart, excite
the ideas, or exalt the imagination, that Fourier unfolded the noble
life of Kleber. The orator was listened to with religious silence; but
soon, addressing himself with a gesture of his hand to the soldiers
ranged in battle-array before him, he exclaims: ‘‘Ah, how many of you
would have aspired to the honor of throwing yourselves between Kleber
and his assassin! I call you to witness, intrepid cavalry, who rushed
to save him upon the heights of Koraim, and dispelled in an instant
the multitude of enemies who had surrounded him!” At these words
an electric tremor thrills throughout the whole army, the colors droop,
the ranks close, the arms come into collision, a deep sigh escapes from
some ten thousand breasts torn by the saber and the bullet, and the
voice of the orator is drowned amid sobs.

A few months after, upon the same bastion, before the same soldiers,
Fourier celebrated with no less eloquence the exploits, the virtues, of
the general whom the people conquered in Africa saluted with the name
so flattering of Just Sultan, and who sacrificed his life at Marengo to
secure the triumph of the French arms.

Fourier quitted Egypt only with the last wreck of the army, in virtue
of the capitulation signed by Menou. On hig return to France the
JOSEPH FOURIER. 153

object of his most constant solicitude was to illustrate the memorable
expedition of which he had been one of the most active and most useful
members. The idea of collecting together the varied labors of all his
colleagues incontestably belongs to him. I find the proof of this in a
letter still unpublished, which he wroteto Kleber from Thebes on the 20th
Vendémiaire, in the year VI. No public act in which mention is made
of this great literary monument is of an earlier date. The Institute of
Cairo having adopted the project of a Work upon Egypt as early as the
month of Frimaire, in the year VIII, confided to Fourier the task of
uniting together the scattered elements of it, of making them consistent
with each other, and drawing up the general introduction.

This introduction was published under the title of Historical Preface.
Fontanes saw in it the graces of Athens and the wisdom of Egypt united
together. What could Ladd to such an eulogium? I shall say only
that there are to be found there, in a few pages, the principal features
of the government of the Pharaohs, and the results of the subjection
of ancient Egypt by the kings of Persia, the Ptolemies, the successors
of Augustus, the emperors of Byzantium, the first Caliphs, the cele-
brated Saladin, the Mamelukes, and the Ottoman princes. The different
phases of our adventurous expedition are there characterized with the
greatest care. T*ourier carries his scruples to so great a length as to
attempt to prove that it was just. I have said only so far as to attempt,
for in that case there might have been something to deduct from the
second part of the eulogium of Fontanes. If, in 1797, our countryman
experienced at Cairo or at Alexandria outrages and extortions which
the Grand Seignior either would not or could not repress, one may in all
rigor admit that France ought to have exacted justice to herself; that
she had the right to send a powerful army to bring the Turkish eustom-
house officers to reason. But this is far from maintaining that the Divan
of Constantinople ought to have favored the French expedition; that
our conquest was about to restore to him, in some sort, Egypt and Syria;
that the capture of Alexandria and the battle of the Pyramids would
enhance the luster of the Ottoman name! However, the public hastened
to acquit Fourier of what appears hazarded in this small part of his
beautiful work. The origin of it has been sought for in political exi-
gencies. Let us be brief; behind certain sophisms the hand of the orig-
inal commander-in-chief of the army of the East was suspected to be
seen !

Napoleon then would appear to have participated, by his instructions,
by his counsels, or, if we choose, by his imperative orders, in the com-
position of the essay of Fourier. What was not long ago nothing more
than a plausible conjecture has now become an incontestable fact.
Thanks to the courtesy of M. Champollion-Figeac, I held in my hands,
within the last few days, some parts of the first proof-sheets of the his-
torical preface. These proofs were sent to the Emperor, who wished to
make himself acquainted with them at leisure before reading them with
154 JOSEPH FOURIER.

Fourier. They are covered witb marginal notes, and the additions which
they have occasioned amount to almost a third of the original discourse.
Upon these pages, as in the definitive work given to the. public, one
remarks a complete absence of proper names; the only exception is
in the case of the three generals-in-chief. Thus Fourier had imposed
upon himself the reserve which certain vanities had blamed so severely.
IT shall add that nowhere throughout the precious proof-sheets of M.
Champollion do we perceive traces of the miserable feelings of jealousy
which have been attributed to Napoleon. It is true that upon pointing
out with his finger the word illustrious applied to Kleber, the Emperor
said to our colleague, “‘Some one has directed my attention to this
epithet ;” but, after a short pause, he added, “It is desirable that you
should leave it, for it is just and well deserved.” These words, gentle-
men, honored the monarch still less than they branded with disgrace
the some one whom I regret not being able to designate in more definite
terms; one of those vile courtiers whose whole life is occupied in spying out
the frailties, the evil passions of their masters, in order to make them
subservient in conducting themselves to honors and fortune!

Fourier had no sooner returned to Europe than he was named (Jan-
uary 2d, 1802) prefect of the department of VIsere. The ancient Dau-
phiny was then a prey to ardent political dissensions. The republicans,
the partisans of the emigrants, those who had ranged themselves under
the banners of the consular government, formed so many distinct castes,
between whom all reconciliation appeared impossible. Well, gentle-
men, this impossibility Fourier achieved. His first care was to cause
the Hotel of the Prefecture to be considered as neutral ground, where
each might show himself without even the appearance of a concession.
Curiosity alone at first brought the people there, but the people returned ;
for in France they seldom desert the saloons wherein are to be found a
polished and benevolent host, witty without being ridiculous, and
learned without being pedantic. What had been divulged of the opin-
ions of our colleague, respecting the anti-biblican antiquity of the Egyp-
tian monuments, inspired the religious classes especially with lively
apprehensions ; they were very adroitly informed that the new prefect
counted a saint in his family; that the blessed Pierre Fourier, who
established the religious sisters of the Congregation of Notre-Dame, was
his grand-unele, and this cireumstance effected a reconciliation which
the unalterable respect of the first magistrate of Grenoble for all con-
scientious opinions cemented every day more and more.

As soon as he was assured of a truce with the political and religious
parties, Fourier was enabled to devote himself exclusively to the duties
of his office. These duties did not consist with him in heaping up old
papers to no advantage. He took personal cognizance of the projects
which were submitted to him; he was the indefatigable promoter of all
those which narrow-minded persons sought to stifle in their birth; we
may include in this last class the superb road from Grenoble to Turin
~

JOSEPH FOURIER. 155

by Mount Genevre, which the events of 1814 have so unfortunately
interrupted, and especially the drainage of the marshes of Bourgoin.

These marshes, which Louis XIV had given to Marshal Turenne,
were a focus of infection to the thirty-seven communes, the lands of
which were partially covered by them. Fourier directed personally
the topographic operations which established the possibility of drainage.
With these documents in his hand he went from village to village—I
might almost say from house to house—to fix the sacrifice which each
family ought to impose upon itself for the general interest. By tact
and perseverance, taking ‘the ear of corn always in the right direction,”
thirty-seven municipal councils were induced to contribute to a common
fund, without which the projected operation would not even have been
commenced. Success crowned this rare perseverance. Rich harvests,
fat pastures, numerous flocks, a robust and happy population now
covered an immense territory, where formerly the traveler dared not
remain more than a few hours.

One of the predecessors of Fourier, in the situation of perpetual
secretary of the Academy of Sciences, deemed it his duty, on one
occasion, to beg an excuse for having given a detailed account of certain
researches of Leibnitz, which had not required great efforts of the
intellect: “We ought,” says he, ‘*to be very much obliged to a man
such as he is, when he condescends, for the public good, to do some-
thing which does not partake of genius!” I cannot conceive the ground
of such scruples; in the present day the sciences are regarded from too
high a point of view, that we should hesitate in placing in the first rank
of the labors with which they are adorned those which diffuse comfort,
health, and happiness amidst the working population.

In presence of a part of the Academy of Inscriptions, in an apartment
wherein the name of hieroglyph has so often resounded, I cannot refrain
from alluding to the service which Fourier rendered to science by retain-
ing Champollion. The young professor of history of the faculty of
letters of Grenoble had just attained the twentieth year of his age.
Fate calls him to shoulder the musket. Fourier exempts him by investing
him with the title of pupil of the School of Oriental Languages which he
had borne at Paris. The minister of war learns that the pupil formerly
gave inhis resignation; he denounces the fraud, and dispatches a peremp-
tory order for his departure, which seems even to exclude all idea of
remonstrance. Fourier, however, is not discouraged ; his intercessions
are skillful and of a pressing nature; finally, he draws so animated a
portrait of the precocious talent of his young friend, that he succeeds in
wringing from the government an order of special exemption. It was
not easy, gentlemen, to obtain such success. At the same time, a con-
seript, «@ member of our Academy, succeeded in obtaining a revocation of
his order for departure only by declaring that he would follow on foot
in the costume of the Institute the contingent of the arrondissement of
Paris in which he was classed.
156 JOSEPH FOURIER.

The administrative duties of the prefect of lIsere hardly interrupted
the labors of the geometer and the manof letters. It is from Grenoble
that the principal writings of Fourier are dated ; it was at Grenoble that
he composed the Théorie Mathématique de la Chaleur, which forms his
principal title to the gratitude of the scientific world.

I am far from being unconscious of the difficulty of analyzing that
admirable work, and yet I shall attempt to point out the successive
steps which he has achieved in the advancement of science. You will
listen to me, gentlemen, with indulgence, notwithstanding several minute
details which I shall have to recount, since I thereby fulfill the mission
with which you have honored me.

The ancients had a taste, let us say rather a passion, for the marvel-
ous, which caused them to forget even the sacred duties of gratitude.
Observe them, for example, grouping together the lofty deeds of a great
number of heroes, whose names they have not even deigned to preserve,
and investing the single personage of Hercules with them. The lapse
of ages has not rendered us wiser in this respect. In our own time the
public delight in blending fable with history. In every career of life,
in the pursuit of science especially, they enjoy a pleasure in creating
Herculeses. According to vulgar opinion, there is no astronomical dis-
covery which is not due to Herschel. The theory of the planetary
movements is identified with the name of Laplace; hardly is a passing
allusion made to the eminent labors of D’Alembert, of Clairaut, of Euler,
of Lagrange. Watt is the sole inventor of the steam-engine. Chaptal
has enriched the arts of chemistry with the totality of the fertile and
ingenious processes which constitute their prosperity. Even within this
apartment has not an eloquent voice lately asserted that, before Fourier,
the phenomenon of heat was hardly studied, that the celebrated geom-
eter had alone made more observations than all his predecessors put
together; that he had with almost a single effort invented a new science ?

Although he runs the risk of being less lively, the organ of the
Academy of Sciences cannot permit himself such bursts of enthusiasm.
He ought to bear in mind that the object of these solemnities is not
merely to celebrate the discoveries of Academicians ; that they are also
designed to encourage modest merit; that an observer, forgotten by his
contemporaries, is frequently supported in his laborious researches by
the thought that he will obtain a benevolent look from posterity. Let us
act, so far as it depends upon us, in such a manner that a hope so just, so
natural, may not be frustrated. Let us award a just, a brilliant homage
to those rare men whom nature has endowed with the precious privilege
of arranging a thousand isolated facts, of making seductive theories
spring from them; but let us not forget to state, that the scythe of the
reaper had cut the stalks before one had thought of uniting them into
sheaves !

Heat presents itself in natural phenomena, and in thease which are the
products of art, under two entirely distinct foyms, which Fourier has
JOSEPH FOURIER. 157

separately considered. I shall adopt the same division, commencing,
however, with radiant heat the historical analysis which I am about
to submit to you.

Nobody doubts that there is a physical distinction which is eminently
worthy of being studied between the ball of iron at the ordinary temper-
ature which may be handled at pleasure, and the ball of iron of the same
dimensions which the flame of a furnace has’very much heated, and
which we cannot touch without burning ourselves. This distinction,
according to the majority of physical inquirers, arises from a certain
quantity of an elastic imponderabie fluid, or at least a fluid which has
not been weighed, with which the second ball has combined during the
process of heating. The fluid which upon combining with cold bodies
renders them hot, has been designated by the name of heat or calorie.

Bodies unequally heated act upon each other even at great distances,
even through empty space, for the colder becomes more hot, and the hotter
becomes more cold; for after a certain time they indicate the same
degree of the thermometer, whatever may have been the difference of
their originaltemperatures. According to the hypotheses above explained,
there is but one way of conceiving this action at a distance: this is to
suppose that it operates by the aid of certain effluvia which traverse
space by passing from the hot body to the cold body ; that is, to admit
that a hot body emits in every direction rays of heat, as luminous bodies
emit rays of hght.

The effluvia, the radiating emanations by the aid of which two distant
bodies form a calorific Communication with each other, have been very
appropriately designated by the name of radiating calorie.

Whatever may be said to the contrary, radiating heat had already
been the object of important experiments before Fourier undertook his
labors. The celebrated Academicians of the Cimento found, nearly two
centuries ago, that this heat is reflected like light; that, as in the case
of light, a concave mirror concentrates it at the focus. Upon substi-
tuting balls of snow for heated bodies, they even went so far as to prove
that frigorific foci may be formed by way of reflection. Some years
afterward Mariotte, a member of this Academy, discovered that there
exist different kinds of radiating heat; that the heat with which rays
of light are accompanied traverses all transparent media as easily as
light does; while, again, the caloric which emanates from a strongly
heated, but opaque substance, as well as the rays of heat which are found
mingled with the luminous rays of a body moderately incandescent, are
almost entirely arrested in their passage through the most transparent
plate of glass!

This striking discovery, let us remark in passing, will show, notwith-
standing the ridicule of pretended savants, how happily inspired were
the workmen in founderies, who looked at the incandescent matter of
their furnaces only through a plate of ordinary glass, thinking by the
158 JOSEPH FOURIER.

aid of this artifice to arrest the heat which would have burned their
eyes.

In the experimental sciences, the epochs of the most brilliant progress
are almost always separated by long intervals of almost absolute repose.
Thus, after Mariotte, there elapsed more than a century without history
having to record any new property of radiating heat. Then, in close
succession, we find in the solar light obscure calorific rays, the existence
of which could admit of being established only with the thermometer,
and which may be completely separated from Juminous rays by the aid
of the prism; we discover, by the aid of terrestrial bodies, that the
emission of caloric rays, and consequently the cooling of those bodies,
is considerably retarded by the polish of the surfaces; that the color,
the nature, and the thickness of the outer coating of these same sur-
faces exercise also a manifest influence upon their emissive power.
Experience, finally, rectifying the vague predictions to which the most
enlightened minds abandon themselves with so little reserve, shows that
the calorific rays which emanate from the plane surface of a heated
body, have not the same force, the same intensity in all directions; that
the maximum corresponds to the perpendicular emission, and the min-
imum to the emissions parallel to the surface.

Between these two extreme positions, how does the diminution of the
emissive power operate? Leslie first sought the solution of this import-
ant question. His observations seem to show that the intensities of
the radiating rays are proportional (it is necessary, gentlemen, that I
employ the scientific expression) to the sines of the angles which these
rays form with the heated surface. But the quantities upon which the
experimenter had to operate were too feeble; the uncertainties of the
thermometric estimations compared with the total effect were, on the
contrary, too great not to inspire astrong degree of distrust; well, gen-
tlemen, a problem before which all the processes, all the instruments of
modern physics, have remained powerless, Fourier bas completely solved
without the necessity of having recourse to any new experiment. He
has traced the law of the emission of caloric sought for, with a perspi-
euity which one cannot sufficiently admire, in the most ordinary pheno-
mena of temperature, in the phenomena which at first sight appeared
to be entirely independent of it.

Such is the privilege of genius; it perceives, it seizes relations where
vulgar eyes see only isolated facts.

Nobody doubts, and besides experiment has confirmed the fact, that
in all the points of a space terminated by any envelope maintained at a
constant temperature, we ought also to experience a constant tempera-
ture, and precisely that of the envelope. Now, Fourier has established
that if the calorific rays emitted were equally intense in all directions,
if the intensity did not vary proportionally to the sine of the angle of
emission, the temperature of a body situated in the inclosure would
depend on the place which it would occupy there; that the temperature
JOSEPH FOURIER. 159

of boiling water or of melting iron, for example, would exist in certain
points of a hollow envelope of glass! In all the vast domain of the
physical sciences we should be unable to find a more striking application
of the celebrated method of the reductio ad absurdum of which the
ancient mathematicians made use in order to demonstrate the abstract
truths of geometry.

I shall not quit this first part of the labors of Fourier without adding,
that he has not contented himself with demonstrating with so much
felicity the remarkable law which connects the comparative intensities
of the calorific rays, emanating under all angles from heated bodies ; he
has sought, moreover, the physical cause of this law, and he has found
it in a circumstance which his predecessors had entirely neglected. Let
us Suppose, says he, that bodies emit heat not only from the molecules
of their surfaces, but also from the particles in the interior. Let us
suppose, moreover, that the heat of these latter particles cannot arrive
at the surface by traversing a certain thickness of matter without
undergoing some degree of absorption. Fourier has reduced these two
hypotheses to calculation, and he has hence deduced mathematically the
experimental law of the sines. After having resisted so radical a test,
the two hypotheses were found to be completely verified; they have
become laws of nature; they point out latent properties of calorie
which could only be discerned by the eye of the intellect.

In the second question treated by Fourier, heat presents itself under
anew form. ‘There is more difficulty in following its movements; but
the conclusions deduced from the theory are also more general and more
important.

Heat excited, concentrated into a certain point of a solid body, com.
municates itself by way of conduction, first to the particles nearest the
heated point, then gradually to all the regions of the body. Whence
the problem of which the following is the enunciation.

By what routes, and with what velocities, is the propagation of heat
effected in bodies of different forms and different natures subjected to
certain initial conditions ?

Fundamentally, the Academy of Sciences had already proposed this
problem as the subject of a prize as early as the year 1736. Then the
terms heat and caloric were not in use; it demanded the study of nature,
and the propagation OF FIRE! The word fire, thrown thus into the pro-
gramme without any other explanation, gave rise to a mistake of the
most singular kind. The majority of philosophers imagined that the
question was to explain in what way burning communicates itself, and
increases in‘a mass of combustible matter. Fifteen competitors pre-
sented themselves; three were crowned.

This competition was productive of very meager results. However, a
Singular combination of circumstances and of proper names will render
the recollection of it lasting.

Has not the public a right to be surprised upon reading this academic

*
160 JOSEPH FOURIER.

declaration : ‘“* The question affords no handle to geometry!” In matter
of inventions, to attempt to dive into the future is to prepare for one’s self
striking mistakes. One of the competitors, the great Euler, took these
words in their literal sense: the reveries with which his memoir abounds
are not compensated in this instance by any of those brilliant discover-
ies in analysis—I had almost said of those sublime inspirations—which
were so familiar to him. Fortunately Euler appended to his memoir a
supplement truly worthy of his genius. Father Lozeran de Fiese and
the Count of Créqui were rewarded with the high honor of seeing their
names inscribed beside that of the illustrious geometer, although it
would be impossible in the present day to discern in their memoirs any
kind of merit, not even that of politeness, for the courtier said rudely
to the Academy: “The question which you have raised interests only
the curiosity of mankind.”

Among the competitors less favorably treated, we preceive one of the
ereatest writers whom France has produced—the author of the Henriade.
The memoir of Voltaire was, no doubt, far from solving the problem
proposed ; but it was at least distinguished by elegance, clearness, and
precision of language; I shall add, by a severe style of argument; for
if the author occasionally arrives at questionable results, it is only when
he borrows false data from the chemistry and physics of the epoch,—
sciences which had just sprung into existence. Moreover, the anti-
Cartesian color of some of the parts of the memoir of Voltaire was eal-
culated to find little favor in a society where Cartesianism, with its
incomprehensible vortices, was everywhere held in high estimation.

We should have more difficulty in discovering the causes of the failure
of a fourth competitor, Madame the Marchioness du Chatelet, for she
also entered into the contest instituted by the Academy. ‘The work of
Emilia was not only an elegant portrait of all the properties of heat
known then to physical inquirers; there were remarked, moreover, in it
different projects of experiments, among the rest, one which Herschel
has since developed, and from which he has derived one of the principal
flowers of his brilliant scientific crown.

While such great names were occupied in discussing this question,
physical inquirers of a less ambitious stamp laid experimentally the solid
basis of a future mathematical theory of heat. Some established that
the same quantity of calorie does not elevate by the same number of
degrees equal weights of different substances, and thereby introduced
into the science the important notion of capacity. Others, by the aid of
observations no less certain, proved that heat, applied at the extremity
of a bar, is transmitted to the extreme parts with greater or less velocity
or intensity, according to the nature of the substance of which the bar
is composed: thus they suggested the original idea of conduetibility. The
same epoch, if I were not precluded from entering into too minute
details, would present to us interesting experiments. We should find
that it is not true that, at all degrees of the thermometer, the loss of
JOSEPH FOURIER. 161

heat of a body is proportional to the excess of its temperature above
that of the medium in which it is plunged; but [ have been desirous of
showing you geometry penetrating, timidly at first, into questions of
the propagation of heat, and depositing there the first germs of its fer-
tile methods. ,

It is to Lambert, of Mulhouse, that we owe this first step. This inge-
nious geometer had proposed a very simple problem, which any person
may comprehend, A slender metallic bar is exposed at one of its ex-
tremities to the constant action of a certain focus of heat. The parts
nearest. the focus are heated first. Gradually the heat communicates
itself to the more distant parts, and, after a short time, each point ae-
quires the maximum temperature which it can ever attain. Although
the experiment were to last a hundred years, the thermometric state of
the bar would not undergo any modification.

As might be reasonably expected, this maximum of heat is so much
less considerable as we recede from the focus. Is there any relation
between the final temperatures and the distances of the different parti-
cles of the bar from the extremity directly heated? Such a relation ex-
ists. It is very simple. Lambert investigated it by calculation, and
experience confirmed the results of theory.

In addition to the somewhat elementary question of the longitudinal
propagation of heat, there offered itself the more general but much more
difficult problem of the propagation of heat in a body of three dimen-
sions terminated by any surface whatever. This problem demanded the
aid of the higher analysis.. It was Fourier who first assigned the equa-
tions. It is to Fourier, also, that we owe certain theorems, by means of
which we may ascend from the differential equations to the integrals,
and push the solutions, in the majority of cases, to the final numerical
applications.

The first memoir of Fourier on the theory of heat dates from the year
1807. The Academy, to which it was communicated, being desirous of
inducing the author to extend and improve his researches, made the
question of the propagation of heat the subject of the great mathemati-
cal prize which was to be awarded in the beginning of the year 1812.
Fourier did, in effect, compete, and his memoir was crowned. But, alas!
as Fontenelle said, “in the country even of demonstrations, there are
to be found causes of dissension.” Some restrictions mingled with the
favorable judgment. The illustrious commissioners of the prize, La-
place, Lagrange, and Legendre, while acknowledging the novelty and
importance of the subject, while declaring that the real differential
equations of the propagation of heat were finally found, asserted that
they perceived difficulties in the way in which the author arrived at
them. They added that his processes of integration left something to be
desired, even on the score of rigor. They did not, however, support
their opinion by any arguments.

Fourier never admitted the validity of this decision. Even at the

1 S71
162 JOSEPH FOURIER:

close of his life he gave unmistakable evidence that he thought it un-
just, by causing his memoir to be printed in our volumes without chang-
ing a single word. Still, the doubts expressed by the commissioners of
the Academy reverted incessantly to his recollection. Fyrom the very
beginning they had poisoned the pleasure of his triumpit These first
impressions, added to a high susceptibility, explain how Fourier ended
by regarding with a certain degree of displeasure the efforts of those
geometers who endeavored to improve his theory. This, gentlemen,
was a very strange aberration of a mind of so elevated an order. Our
colleague had almost forgotten that it is not allotted to any person to
conduct a scientific question to a definitive termination, and that the
important labors of D’Alembert, Clairaut, Euler, Lagrange, and La-
place, while immortalizing their authors, have continually added new
luster to the imperishable glory of Newton. Let us act so that this ex-
ample may not be lost. While the civil law imposes upon the tribunes
the obligation to assign the motives of their judgments, the academies,
which are the tribunes of science, cannot have even a pretext to escape
from this obligation. Corporate bodies, as well as individuals, act
wisely when they reckon in every instance only upon the authority of
reason.

At any time the “Théorie Mathématique de la Chaleur” would have
excited a lively interest among men of reflection, since, upon the suppo-
sition of its being complete, it threw light upon the most minute pro-
cesses of the arts. In our own time the numerous points of affinity ex-
isting between it and the curious discoveries of the geologists have
made it, if 1 may use the expression, a work for the occasion. To point
out the intimate relation which exists between these two kinds of
researches would be to present the most important part of the discov-
eries of Fourier, and to show how happily our colleague, by one of
those inspirations reserved for genius, had chosen the subject of his
researches.

The parts of the earth’s crust which the geologists call the sediment-
ary formations were not formed all at once. The waters of the ocean,
on several former occasions, covered regions which are situated in the
present day in the center of the continent. There they deposited, in
thin horizontal strata, a series of rocks of different kinds. These rocks,
although superposed like the layers of stones of a wall, must not be con-
founded together. 'Their dissimilarities are palpable to the least prac-
ticed eye. It is necessary, also, to note this capital fact, that each
stratum has a well-defined limit; that no process of transition connects
it with the stratum which it supports. The ocean, the original source
of all these deposits, underwent then formerly enormous changes in its
chemical composition, to which it is no longer subject.

With some rare exceptions, resulting from local convulsions, the effects
of which are otherwise manifest, the order of antiquity of the successive
strata of rocks which form the exterior crust of the globe ought to be
JOSEPH FOURIER. 163

that of their superposition. The deepest have been formed at the most
remote epochs. The attentive study of these different envelopes may
aid us in ascending the stream of time, even beyond the most remote
epochs, and enlightening us with respect to those stupendous revolu-
tions which periodically overwhelmed continents beneath the waters of
the ocean, or again restored them to their former condition. Crystalline
rocks of granite upon which the sea has effected its original deposits
have never exhibited any remains of life. Trages of such are to be found
only in the sedimentary strata.

Life appears to have first exhibited itself on the earth in the form of
vegetables. The remains of vegetables are all that we meet with in the
most ancient strata deposited by the waters; still they belong to plants
of the simplest structure—to ferns, to species of rushes, to lycopodes.

AS we ascend into the upper strata, vegetation becomes more and
more complex. Tinally, near the surface, it resembles the vegetation
actually existing on the earth, with tbis characteristic circumstance.
however, which is well deserving attention, that certain vegetables
which grow only in southern climates—that the large palm-trees, for
example—are found in their fossil state in all latitudes, and even in the
center of the frozen regions of Siberia.

In the primitive world, these northern regions enjoyed then, in winter,
a temperature at least equal to that which is experienced in the present
day under the parallels where the great palms commence to appear ; at
Tobolsk, the inhabitants enjoyed the climate of Alicante or Algiers.

We shall deduce new proofs of this mysterious result from an atten-
tive examination of the size of plants.

There exist, in the present day, willow-grass or marshy rushes, ferns,
and lycopodes, in Europe as well as in the tropical regions; but they
are not met with in large dimensions, except in warm countries. Thus,
to compare together the dimensions of the same plants is, in reality, to
compare, in respect to temperature, the regions where they are pro-
duced. Well, place beside the fossil plants of our coal mines, I will not
say the analogous plants of Europe, but those which grow in the coun-
tries of South America, and which are most celebrated for the richness
of their vegetation, and you will find the former to be of incomparably
greater dimensions than the latter.

The fossil flora of France, England, Germany, and Scandinavia offer,
for example, ferns ninety feet high, the stalks being six feet in diameter
or eighteen feet in circumference.

The licopodes which, in the present day, whether in cold or temperate
climates, are creeping-plants, rising hardly to the height of a decimeter
above the soil; which, even at the equator, under the most favorable
circumstances, do not attain a height of more than one meter, had in
Europe, in the primitive world, an altitude of twenty-five meters.

One must be, blind to all reason not to find in these enormous dimen-
164 ,OSEPH FOURIER.

sions a new proof of the high temperature enjoyed by our country before
the last irruptions of the ocean.

The study of fossil animals is no less fertile in results. I should digress
from my subject if I were to examine here how the organization of
animals is developed upon the earth; what modifications, or more
strictly speaking, what complications it has undergone after each cata-
clysm, or if I even stopped to describe one of those ancient epochs
during which the earth, the sea, and the atmosphere had for inhabitants
cold-blooded reptiles of enormous dimensions; tortoises, with shells three
feet in diameter; lizards seventeen meters long; pterodactyles, veritable
flying dragons of such strange forms that they might be classed on
good grounds either among reptiles, among mammiferous animals, or
among birds. The object which I have proposed does not require that
I should enter into such details; a single remark will suffice.

Among the bones contained in the strata nearest the present surface
of the earth are those of the hippopotamus, the rhinoceros, and the
elephant. These remains of animals of warm countries are to be found
in all latitudes. Travelers have discovered specimens of them even at
Melville Island, where the temperature descends, in the present day,
50° beneath zero. In Siberia they are found in such abundance as
to have become an article of commerce. Finally, upon the rocky
shores of the Arctic Ocean, there are to be found not merely fragments
of skeletons, but whole elephants still covered with their flesh and skin.

I should deceive myself very much, gentlemen, if I were to suppose
that each of you had not deduced from these remarkable facts a conelu-
sion no less remarkable, to which, indeed, the fossil flora had already
habituated us; namely, that as they have grown older the polar regions
of the earth have cooled down to a prodigious extent.

In the explanation of so curious a phenomenon, cosmologists have not
taken into account the existence of possible variations of the intensity
of the solar heat; and yet the stars, those distant suns, have not the
constant brightness which the common people attribute to them. Nay,
some of them have been observed to diminish in a sufliciently short
space of time to the hundredth part of their original brightness ; and
several have even totally disappeared. They have preferred to attrib-
ute everything to an internal or primitive heat with which the earth
was at some former epoch impregnated, and which is gradually being
dissipated in space.

Upon this hypothesis the inhabitants of the polar regions, although
deprived of the sight of the sun for whole months together, must have
evidently enjoyed, at very ancient epochs, a temperature equal to that
of the tropical regions, wherein exist elephants in the present day.

It is not, however, as an explanation of the existence of elephants in
Siberia that the idea of the intrinsic heat of the globe has entered for
the first time into science. Some savants had adopted it before the dis-
covery of those fossil animals. Thus, Descartes was of opinion that
JOSEPH FOURIER. — 165

originally (I cite his own words) the earth did not differ from the sun in
any other respect than in being smaller. Upon this hypothesis, then, it
ought to be considered aS an extinet sun.

Leibnitz conferred upon this hypothesis the honor of appropriating it
to himself. He attempted to deduce from it the mode of formation of
the different solid envelopes of which the earth consists. Buffon, also,
imparted to it the weight of his eloquent authority. According to that
great naturalist, the planets of our system are merely portions of the
sun, which the shock of a comet had detached from it some tens of thou-
sands of years ago.

In support of this igneous origin of the earth, Mairan and Buffon
cited already the high temperature of deep mines, and, among others,
those of the mines of Giromagny. It appears evident that if the earth
was formerly incandescent, we should not fail to meet in the interior
strata—that is to say, in those which ought to have cooled last—traces
of their primitive temperature. The observer who, upon penetrating
into the interior of the earth, did not find an increasing heat, might then
consider himself amply authorized to reject the hypothetical conceptions
of Descartes, of Mairan, of Leibnitz, and of Buffon. But has the con-
verse proposition the same certainty? Would not the torrents of heat,
which the sun has continued incessantly to launch for so many ages,
have diffused themselves into the mass of the earth, so as to produce
there a temperature increasing with the depth? This is a question of
high importance. Certain easily satisfied minds conscientiously sup-
posed that they had solved it, when they stated that the idea of a con-
stant temperature was by far the most natural; but woe to the sciences
if they thus included vague considerations, which escape all criticism,
among the motives for admitting and rejecting facts and theories! Fon-
tenelle, gentlemen, would have traced their horoscope in these words,
so well adapted for humbling our pride, and the truth of which the his-
tory of discoveries reveals in a thousand places: ‘When a thing may
be in two different ways, it is almost always that which appears at first ®
the least natural.”

Whatever importance these reflections may possess, I hasten to add
that, instead of the arguments of his predecessors, which have no real

value, Fourier has substituted proofs, demonstrations; and we know
what meaning such terms convey to the Academy of Sciences.

In all places of the earth, as soon as we descend to a certain depth,
the thermometer no longer experiences either diurnal or annual varia-
tion. It marks the same degree, and the same fraction of a degree, from
day to day, and from year to year. Such is the fact: what says theory ?

Let us suppose, for a moment, that the earth has constantly received
all its heat from the sun. Descend into its mass to a sufficient depth,
and you will find, with Fourier, by the aid of caleulation, a constant
temperature for each day of the year. You will recognize further, that
this solar temperature of the inferior strata varies from one climate to
166 JOSEPH FOURIER.

another; that in each country, finally, it ought to be always the same,
so long as we do not descend to depths which are too great relatively
to the earth’s radius.

Well, the phenomena of nature stand in manifest contradiction to this
result. The observations made in a multitude of mines, observations
of the temperature of hot springs coming from different depths, have
all given an increase of one degree of the centigrade for every twenty
or thirty meters of depth. Thus, there was some inaccuracy in the hy-
pothesis which we were discussing upon the footsteps of our colleague.
It is not true that the temperature of the terrestrial strata may be
attributed solely to the action of the solar rays.

This being established, the increase of heat which is observed in all
climates when we penetrate into the interior of the globe is the mani-
fest indication of an intrinsic heat. The earth, as Descartes and Leib-
nitz maintained it to be, but without being able to support their asser-
tions by any demonstrative reasoning,—thanks to a combination of the
observations of physical inquirers with the analytical calculations of
Fourier,—is an incrusted sun, the high temperature of which may be
boldly invoked every time that the explanation of ancient geological
phenomena will require it.

After having established that there is in our earth an inherent heat—
a heat the source of which is not the sun, and which, if we may judge
of it by the rapid inerease which observation indicates, ought to be
already sufficiently intense at the depth of only seven or eight leagues
to hold in fusion all known substances—there arises the question, what
is its precise value at the suriace of the earth; what weight are we td
attach to it in the determination of terrestrial temperatures ; what part
does it play in the phenomena of life ?

According to Mairan, Buffon, and Bailly, this part is immense. For
France, they estimate the heat which escapes from the interior of the
arth at twenty-nine times insummer, and four hundred times in winter,
the heat which comes to us from the sun. Thus, contrary to general
opinion, the heat of the body which illuminates us would form only a
very small part of that whose propitious influence we feel.

This idea was developed with ability and great eloquence in the
Memoirs of the Academy, in the Epoques sur la Nature ot Buffon, in the
letters from Bailly to Voltaire upon the Origin of the Sciences and upon the
Atlantide. But the ingenious romance to which it has served as a base
has vanished like a shadow before the torch of mathematical science.

Fourier having discovered that the excess of the aggregate temper-
ature of the earth’s surface above that which would result from the sole
action of the solar rays has a determinate relation to the increase of
temperature at different depths, succeeded in deducing from the exper-
imental value of this increase a numerical determination of the excess
in question. This excess is the thermometric effect which the solar heat
produces at the surface. Now, instead of the large numbers adopted by
JOSEPH FOURIER. 167

Marian, Bailly, and Buffon, what has our colleague found? A thirtieth
of a degree; not more.

The surface of the earth, which originally was perhaps incandescent,
has cooled then in the course of ages so as hardly to preserve any
sensible trace of its primitive heat. However, at great depths, the
original heat is still enormous. Time will alter sensibly the internal
temperature; but at the surface (and the phenomena of the surface can
alone modify or compromise the existence of living beings) all the
changes are almost accomplished. The frightful freezing of the earth,
the epoch of which Buffon fixed at the instant when the central heat
would be totally dissipated, is then a pure dream. At the surface, the
earth is no longer impregnated except by the solar heat. So long as
the sun shall continue to preserve the same brightness, mankind will
find, from pole to pole, under each latitude, the climates which have
permitted them to live and to establish their residence. These, gentle-
men, are great, magnificent results. While recording them in the annals
of science, historians will not neglect to draw attention to this singular
peculiarity-—that the geometer, to whom we owe the first certain demon-
stration of the existence of a heat independent of a solar influence in
the interior of the earth, has annihilated the immense part which this
primitive heat was made to play in the explanation of the phenomena
of terrestial temperature.

Besides divesting the theory of climates of an error which occupied a
prominent place in science, supported as it was by the imposing authority
of Marian, of Bailly, and of Buffon, Fourier is entitled to the merit of
a still more striking achievement; he has introduced into this theory
a consideration which hitherto had been totally neglected; he has
pointed out the influence exercised by the temperature of the celestial
regions, amid which the earth describes its immense orb around the sun.

When we perceive, even under the equator, certain mountains covered
with eternal snow, upon observing the rapid diminution of temperature
which the strata of the atmosphere undergo during ascents in balloons,
meteorologists have supposed that, in the regions wherein the extreme
rarity of the air will always exclude the presence of mankind, and that
especially beyond the limits of the atmosphere, there ought to prevail a
prodigious intensity of cold. It was not merely by hundreds, it was by
thousands of degrees, that they had arbitrarily measured it. But, as
usual, the imagination (cette folie de la maison) had exceeded all reason-
able limits. The hundreds, the tens of thousands of degrees, have
dwindled down, after the rigorous researches of Fourier, to fifty or sixty
degrees only. Fifty to sixty degrees beneath zero, such is the temper-
ature which the radiation of heat from the stars has established in the
regions furrowed indefinitely by the planets of our system.

You recollect, gentlemen, with what delight Fourier used to converse
upon this subject. You know well that he thought himself sure of
having assigned the temperature of space within eight or ten degrees.
168 JOSEPH FOURIER.

By what fatality has it happened that the memoir, wherein, no doubt,
our colleague had recorded all the elements of that important determi-
nation, is not to be found? May that irreparable loss prove at least to
so many observers that, instead of pursuing obstinately an ideal perfec-
tion, which it is not allotted to man to attain, they will act wisely in
placing the public, as soon as possible, in the confidence of their labors?

I should have yet a long course to pursue if, after having pointed out
some of those problems of which the condition of science enabled our
learned colleague to give numerical solutions, I were to analyze all those
which, still enveloped in general formule, await merely the data of
experience to assume a place among the most curious acquisitions of
modern physics. Time, which is not at my disposal, precludes me
from dwelling upon such developments. I should be guilty, however,
of an unpardonable omission if I did not state that, among the formule
of Fourier, there is one which serves to assign the value of the secular
cooling of the earth, and in which there is involved the number of cen-
turies which have elapsed since the origin of this cooling. The question
of the antiquity of the earth, including even the period of incandescence,
which has been so keenly discussed, is thus reduced to a thermometric
determination. Unfortunately this point of theory is subject to serious
difficulties. Besides, the thermometric determination, in consequence
of its excessive smallness, must be reserved for future ages.

I have just exhibited to you the scientific fruits of the leisure hours
of the prefect of V’Isere. Fourier still occupied this situation when
Napoleon arrived at Cannes. His conduct during this grave conjuncture
has been the object of a hundred false rumors. I shall then discharge
a duty by establishing the facts in all their truth, according to what I
have heard from our colleague’s own mouth.

Upon the news of the Emperor having disembarked, the principal
authorities of Grenoble assembled at the residence of the prefect.
There each individual explained ably, but especially, said Fourier, with
much detail, the difficulties which he perceived. As regards the means
of vanquishing them, the authorities seemed to be much less inventive.
Confidence in administrative eloquence was not yet worn out at that
epoch; it was resolved accordingly to have recourse to proclamations.
The commanding officer and the prefect presented each a project. The
assembly was discussing minutely the terms of them, when an officer of
the gensdarmes, an old soldier of the imperial armies, exclaimed rudely,
“ Gentlemen. be quick, otherwise all deliberation will become useless.
Believe me, I speak from experience; Napoleon always follows very
closely the couriers who announce his arrival.” Napoleon was in fact
close at hand. After a short moment of hesitation, two companies of
sappers, which had been dispatched to cut down a bridge, joined their
former commander. A battalion of infantry soon followed their example.
Finally, upon the very glacis of the fortress, in presence of the numerous
population which crowned the ramparts, the fifth regiment of the line to
JOSEPH FOURIER. 169

aman assumed the tricolor cockade, substituted for the white flag the
eagle—witness of twenty battles—which it had preserved, and departed
with shouts of Vive VEmpereur! After such a commencement, to
attempt to hold the country would have been an act of folly. General
Marchand caused accordingly the gates of the city to be shut. He still
hoped, notwithstanding the evidently hostile disposition of the inhab-
itants, to sustain a siege with the sole assistance of the third regiment
of engineers, the fourth regiment of artillery, and some weak detach-
ments of infantry which had not abandoned him.

From that moment, the civil authority had disappeared. Fourier
thought then that he might quit Grenoble, and repair to Lyons, where
the princes had assembled together. At the second restoration, this
departure was imputed to him as a crime. He was very near being
brought before a court of assizes, or even a provost’s court. Certain
personages pretended that the presence of the prefect of the chief place
of VIsere might have conjured the storm; that the resistance might have
been more animated, better arranged. People forgot that nowhere, and
at Grenoble even less than anywhere else, was it possible to organize
even a pretext of resistance. Let us see then, finally, how this martial
city—the fall of which Fourier might have prevented by his mere pres-
ence—let us see how it was taken.” It is eight o’clock in the evening.
The inhabitants and the soldiers garrison the ramparts. Napoleon pre-
cedes his little troop by some steps; he advances even to the gate; he
knocks, (be not alarmed, gentlemen, it is not a battle which [ am about
todescribe,) he knocks with his snuff-box ! ** Who isthere?” cried the officer
of the guard. “It is the Emperor! Open!” “Sire, my duty forbids
me.” ‘Open, I tell you; I have no time to lose.” “But, sire, even
though I should open to you, I could not. The keys are in the posses-
sion of General Marchand.” “Go, then, and fetch them.” ‘Tam cer-
tain that he will refuse them to me.” “If the general refuse them, tell
him that I will dismiss him.”

These words petrified the soldiers. During the previous two days,
hundreds of proclamations designated Bonaparte as a wild beast which
it was necessary to seize without scruple; they ordered everybody to run
away from him, and yet this man threatened the general with depriva-
tion of his command! The single word dismissal effaced the faint line of
demarkation which separated for an instant the old soldiers from the
young recruits ; one word established the whole garrison in the interest
of the Emperor.

The circumstances of the capture of Grenoble were not yet known
when Fourier arrived at Lyons. He brought thither the news of the
rapidadvance of Napoleon; that of the revolt of two companies of sappers,
of a regiment of infantry, and of the regiment commanded by Labé-
doyere. Moreover, he was a witness of the lively sympathy which the
country people along the whole route displayed in favor of the pro-
scribed exile of Elba.
170 JOSEPH FOURIER.

The Count d’Artois gave a very cold reception to the prefect and his
communications. He declared that the arrival of Napoleon at Grenoble
was impossible; that no alarm need be apprehended respecting the dis-
position of the country people. “As regards the facts,” said he to
Fourier, ‘ which would seem to have occurred in your presence at the
very gates of the city, with respect to the tricolored cockades substi-
tuted for the cockade of Henry IV, with respect to the eagles which you
say have replaced the white flag, I do not suspect your good faith, but
the uneasy state of your mind must have dazzled your eyes. Prefect,
return then without delay to Grenoble; you will answer for the city
with your head.”

You see, gentlemen, after having so long proclaimed the necessity of
telling the truth to princes, moralists will act wisely by inviting princes
to be good enough to listen to its language.

Fourier obeyed the order which had just been given him. The wheels
of his carriage had made only a few revolutions in the direction of
Grenoble, when he was arrested by hussars and conducted to the head-
quarters at Bourgoin. The Emperor, who was engaged in examining a
large chart with a pair of compasses, said upon seeing him enter, “ Well,
prefect, you also have declared war against me?” “Sire, my oath of
allegiance made it my duty to do so!” “A duty you say? and do you
not see thatin Dauphiny nobody is of the same mind? Do not imagine,
however, that your plan of the campaign will frighten me much. It
only grieved me to see among my enemies an Egyptian, a man who had
eaten along with me the bread of the bivouac, an old friend!”

It is painful to add that to those kind words succeeded these also:
“ How, moreover, could you have forgotten, Monsieur Fourier, that I
have made you what you are?”

You will regret with me, gentlemen, that a timidity, which cireum-
stanees would otherwise easily explain, should have prevented our col-
league from at once emphatically protesting against this confusion,
which the powerful of the earth are constantly endeavoring to estab-
lish between the perishable bounties of which they are the dispensers
and the noble fruits of thought. Fourier was prefect and baron by the
favor of the Emperor; he was one of the glories of France by his own
genius.

On the 9th of March, Napoleon, in a moment of anger, ordered Four-
ier, by a mandate, dated from Grenoble, to quit the territory of the sev-
enth military division within five days, under pain of being arrested and
treated as an enemy of the country! On the following day our colleague
departed from the conference of Bourgoin, with the appointment of pre-
feet of the Rhone and the title of count, for the Emperor after his return
from Elba was again at his old practices.

These unexpected proofs of favor and confidence afforded little pleas-
ure to our colleague, but he dared not refuse them, although he per-
JOSEPH FOURIER. Big |

ceived very distinetly the immense gravity of the events in which he
was led by the vicissitude of fortune to play a part.

‘“ What do you think of my enterprise?” said the Emperor to him on
the day of his departure from Lyons. ‘Sire,’ replied Fourier, ‘+ I am
of opinion that you will fail. Let buta fanatic meet you on your way,
and all is at an end.” ‘ Bah!” exclaimed Napoleon, “the Bourbons
have nobody on their side, not even a fanatic. In connection with this
circumstance, you have read in the, journals that they have excluded
me from the protection of the law. I shall be more indulgent on my
part; I shall content myself with excluding them from the Tuileries.”

Fourier held the appointment of prefect of the Rhone only till the
Istof May. It has been alleged that he was recalled, because he refused
to be accessory to the deeds of terrorism which the minister of the hun-
dred days enjoined him to execute. The Academy will always be
pleased when I collect together and place on record actions which,
while honoring its members, throw new luster around the entire body.
I even feel that in such a case I may be disposed to be somewhat cred-
wlous. On the present occasion, it was imperatively necessary to insti-
tute a most rigorous examination. If Fourier honored himself by
refusing to obey certain orders, what are we to think of the minister of
the interior from whom those orders emanated? Now, this minister, it
must not be forgotten, was also an Academician, illustrious by his mil-
itary services, distinguished by his mathematical works, esteemed and
cherished by all his colleagues. Well, I declare, gentlemen, with a sat:
isfaction which you will all share, that a most scrupulous investigation
of all the acts of the hundred days has not disclosed a trace of any-
thing which might detract from the feelings of admiration with which
the memory of Carnot is associated in your minds.

Upon quitting the prefecture of the Rhone, Fourier repaired to Paris.
The Emperor, who was then upon the eve of setting out to join the
army, perceiving him amid the crowd at the Tuileries, accosted him in
a friendly manner, informed him that Carnot would explain to him why
his displacement at Lyons had become indispensable, and promised to
attend to his interest as soon as military affairs would allow him some
leisure time. The second restoration found Fourier in the capital with-
out employment, and justly anxious with respect to the future. He,
who, during a period of fifteen years, administered the affairs of a great
department; who directed works of such an expensive nature; who, in
the affair of the marshes of Bourgoin, had to contract engagements for
so many millions, with private individuals, with the communes, and with
public companies, had not twenty thousand francs in his possession. This
honorable poverty, as well as the recollection of glorious and important
Services, was little calculated to make an impression upon ministers influ-
enced by political passion, and subject to the capricious interference of
foreigners. A demand for a pension was accordingly repelled with
rudeness. be reassured, however, France will not have to blush for
e2 JOSEPH FOURIER.

having left in poverty one of her principal ornaments. The prefect of
Paris—I have committed a mistake, gentlemen; a proper name will not
be out of place here—M. Chabrol, learns that his old professor at the
Polytechnic School, that the perpetual secretary of the Institute of
Egypt, that the author of the Théorie Analytique de la Chaleur, was
reduced, in order to obtain the means of living, to give private lessons
at the residences of his pupils. The idea of this revolts him. He ac-
cordingly shows himself deaf to the clamors of party, and Fourier
receives from him the superior direction of the Bureau de la Statistique
of the Seine, with a salary of 6,000 frances. It has appeared to me,
gentlemen, that [ ought not to suppress these details. Science may show
herself grateful toward all those who give her support and protection,
when there is some danger in doing so, without fearing that the burden
should ever become too heavy.

Fourier responded worthily to the confidence reposed in him by M. de
Chabrol. The memoirs with which he enriched the interesting volumes
published by the prefecture of the Seine, will serve henceforth as a guide
to all those who have the good sense to see in statistics something else
than an indigestible mass of figures and tables.

The Academy of Sciences seized the first occasion which offered itself
to attach Fourier to its interests. On the 27th of May, 1816, he was
nominated a free Academician. This election was not confirmed. The
solicitations and influence of the Dauphin, whom circumstances detained
at Paris, had almost disarmed the authorities, when a courtier exclaimed
that an amnesty was to be granted to the civil Labédoyére!* This
word—for during many ages past the poor human race has been gov-
erned by words—decided the fate of our colleague. Thanks to political
intrigue, the ministers of Louis XVIII decided that one of the most
learned men of France should not belong to the Academy ; that a citizen
who enjoyed the friendship of all the most distinguished persons in the
metropolis should be publicly stricken with disapprobation!

In our country the reign of absurdity does not last long. Accordingly
in 1817, when the Academy, without being discouraged by the ill suecess
of its first attempt, unanimously nominated Fourier to the place which
had just been vacant in the section of physics, the royal confirmation
was accorded without difficulty. I ought to add that soon afterward
the ruling authorities, whose repugnances were entirely dissipated,
frankly and unreservedly applauded the happy choice which you made
of the learned geometer to replace Delambre as perpetual secretary.
They even went so far as to offer him the directorship of the fine arts ; but
our colleague had the good sense to refuse the appointment.

Upon the death of Lémontey, the French Academy, where Laplace
and Cuvier already represented the sciences, called also Fourier into its
bosom. The literary titles of the most eloquent of the writers connected

* In allusion to the military traitor, Colonel Labédoyére, who was condemned to death
for espousing the cause of Napoleon.—TRANSLATOR. :
JOSEPH FOURIER. 12

with the work on Egypt were incontestable; they even were not con-
tested, and still this nomination excited violent discussions in the jour-
nals, which profoundly grieved our colleague. And yet, after all, was it
not a fit subject for discussion, whether these double nominations are
of any real utility? Might it not be maintained, without incurring the
reproach of paradox, that it extinguishes in youth an emulation which
we are bound by every consideration to encourage? Besides, with
double, triple, and quadruple Academicians, what would eventually
become of the justly boasted unity of the Institute? Without insisting
further on these remarks, the justness of which you will admit if I mis-
take not, I hasten to repeat that the academic titles of Fourier did not
form even the subject of a doubt. The applause which was lavished
upon the eloquent éloges of Delambre, of Bréguet, of Charles, and of
Herschel, would sufficiently evince that, if their author had not been
already one of the most distinguished members of the Academy of Sci-
ences, the public would have invited him to assume a place among the
judges of French literature.

Restored at length, after so many vicissitudes, to his favorite pursuits,
Fourier passed the last years of his life in retirement and in the dis-
charge of academic duties. Zo converse had become the half of his ex-
istence. Those who have been disposed to consider this the subject of
just reproach have, no doubt, forgotten that constant reflection is no
less imperiously forbidden to man than the abuse of physical powers.
Repose, in everything, recruits our frail machine; but, gentlemen, he
who desires repose may not obtain it. Interrogate your own recollee-
tions and say if, when you are pursuing a new truth, a walk, the in-
tercourse of society, or even sleep, have the privilege of distracting you
from the objects of your thoughts? The extremely shattered state of
Fourier’s health enjoined the most careful attention. Aftermany attempts,
he found only one means of escaping from the contentions of mind which
exhausted him: this consisted in speaking aloud upon the events of his
life; upon his scientific labors, which were either in course of being
planned, or which were already terminated ; upon the acts of injustice
of which he had reason to complain. Every person must have remarked
how insignificant was the state which our gifted colleague assigned to
those who were in the habit of conversing with him; we are now ae-
quainted with the cause of this.

Fourier had preserved, in old age, the grace, the urbanity, the varied
knowledge which, a quarter of a century previously, had imparted so
great a charm to his lectures at the Polytechnic School. There was a
}Jeasure in hearing him relate the anecdote which the listener already |
knew by heart, even the events in which the individual had taken a
direct part. I happened to be a witness of the kind of fascination which
he exercised upon his audience, in connection with an incident which
deserves to be known, for it will prove that the word which I have just
employed is not in any wise exaggerated.
wes JOSEPH FOURIER.

We found ourselves seated at the same table. The guest from whom
I separated him was an old officer. Our colleague was informed of this,
and the question ‘‘ Have you been in Egypt?” served as a commence-
ment of a conversation between them. Thereply was in the affirmative.
Fourier hastened to add: ‘As regards myself, [ remained in that mag-
nificent country until the period of its complete evacuation. Although
foreign to the profession of arms, I have, in the midst of our soldiers,
fired against the insurgents of Cairo; I have had the honor of hearing
the cannon of Heliopolis.” Hence to give an account of the battle was
but a step. This step was soon made, and we were presented with four
battalions drawn up in squares in the plain of Quoubbeéh, and maneuver-
ing, with admirable precision, conformably to the orders of the illustrious
geometer. My neighbor, with attentive ear, with immovable eyes, and
with outstretched neck, listened to this recital with the liveliest inter-
est. He did not lose a single syllable of it; one would have sworn that
he had for the first time heard of those memorable events. Gentlemen,
it is so delightful a task to please! After having remarked the effect
which he produced, Fourier reverted, with still greater detail, to the
principat fight of those great days: to the capture of the fortified vil-
lage of Mattaryeh, to the passage of two feeble columns of French
grenadiers across ditches heaped up with the dead and wounded of the
Ottomanarmy. ‘Generals, ancient and modern, have sometimes spoken
of similar deeds of prowess,” exclaimed our colleague, “but it was in
the hyperbotie style of the bulletin; here the fact is materially true—
it is true like geometry. I feel conscious, however,” added he, ‘“ that
in order to induce you to believe it, all my assurances will not be more
than sufficient.”

“Do not be anxious upon this point,” replied the officer, who at that
moment seemed to awaken from along dream. ‘In case of necessity,
I might guarantee the accuracy of your statement. It was I who, at
the head of the grenadiers of the 13th and 85th semi-brigades, forced
the entrenchments of Mattaryeh, by passing over the dead bodies of
the janissaries.”

My neighbor was General Tarayre. You may imagine much better
than I can express, the effect of the few words which had just escaped
from him. Fourier made a thousand excuses, while I reflected upon
the seductive influence, upon the power of language, which for more
than half an hour had robbed the celebrated general even of the recol-
lection of the part which he had played in the battle of giants he was
listening to,

The more our secretary had occasion to converse the greater repug-
nance he experienced to verbal discussions. Fourier cut short every
debate as soon as there presented itself a somewhat marked difference
of opinion, only to resume afterward the same subject upon the modest
pretext of making a small step in advance each time. Some one asked
Fontaine, a celebrated geometer of this Academy, how he occupied his
JOSEPH FOURIER. 175

thoughts in society, wherein he maintained an almost absolute silence.
‘*T observe,” he replied, “the vanity of mankind, to wound it as ocea-
sion offers.” If, like his predecessor, Fourier also studied the baser pas-
sions which contend for honors, riches, and power, it was not in order
to engage in hostilities with them; resolved never to compromise matters
with them, he yet so calculated his movements beforehand as not to
tind himself in their way. We perceive a wide difference between this
disposition and the ardent, impetuous character of the young orator of the
popular society of Auxerre. But what purpose would philosophy serve,
if it did not teach us to conquer our passions? It is not that oceasion-
ally the natural disposition of Fourier did not display itself in full relief.
“Tt is strange,” said one day a certain very influential personage of the
court of Charles X, whom Fourier’s servant would not allow to pass
beyond the antechamber of our colleague, “it is truly strange that
your master should be more difficult of access than a minister!” Fou-
rier heard the conversation, leaped out of his bed to which he was con-
fined by indisposition, opened the door of the chamber, and exclaimed,
face to face with the courtier, ‘Joseph, tell Monsieur, that if I was
minister, I should receive everybody, because it would be my duty to do
so; but being a private individual, I receive whomsoever I please, and
at what hour soever I please!” Disconeerted by the liveliness of the
retort, the great seignior did not utter one word in reply. We must
even believe that from that moment he resolved not to visit any but
ministers, for the plain man of science heard nothing more of him.

Fourier was endowed with a constitution which held forth a promise
of long life; but what can natural advantages avail against the anti-
hygienic habits which men arbitrarily acquire? In order to guard
against slight attacks of rheumatism, our colleague was in the habit of
clothing himself, even in the hottest season of the year, after a fashion
which is not practiced even by travelers condemned to spend the winter
amid the snows of the polar regions. ‘One would suppose me to be
corpulent,” he used to say occasionally with a smile; ‘ be assured, how-
ever, that there is much to deduct from this opinion. If, after the
example of the Egyptian mummies, I was subjected to the operation of
disembowelment,—from which heaven preserve me,—the residue would
be found to be a very slender body.” I might add, selecting also my
comparison from the banks of the Nile, that in the apartments of Fou-
rier, Which were always of smali extent and intensely heated, even in
summer, the currents of air to which one was exposed resembled some-
times the terrible simoon, that burning wind of the desert, which the
caravans dread as much as the plague.

The prescriptions of medicine which, in the mouth of M. Larrey, were
blended with the anxieties of a long and constant friendship, failed to
induce a modification of this mortal régime. Fourier had already expe-
rienced, in Egypt and Grenoble, some attacks of aneurism of the heart.
At Paris it was impossible to be mistaken with respect to the primary
176 JOSEPH FOURIER.

cause of the frequent suffocations which he experienced. A fall, how-
ever, which he sustained on the 4th of May, 1830, while descending a
flight of stairs, aggravated the malady to an extent beyond what could
have been ever feared. Our colleague, nothwithstanding pressing sol-
icitations, persisted in refusing to combat the most threatening symp-
toms, except by the aid of patience and a high temperature. On the
16th of May, 1830, about four o’clock in the evening, Fourier experienced
in his study a violent crisis, the serious nature of which he was far from
being sensible of; for, having thrown himself completely dressed upon
his bed, he requested M. Petit, a young doctor of his acquaintance, who
carefully attended him, not to go far away, in order, said he, that we
may presently converse together. But to these words succeeded soon.
the cries, “ Quick, quick, some vinegar; I am fainting!” and one
of the men of science, who has shed the brightest usber upon the Aca-
demy, had ceased to live.

Gentlemen, this cruel event is too recent that I should recall here the
grief which the Institute experienced upon losing one of its most
important members; and those obsequies, on the occasion of which so
many persons, usually divided by interests and opinions, united together
in one common feeling of admiration and regret, around the mortal
remains of Fourier; and the Polytechnic School swelling in a mass the
cortege, in order to render homage to one of its earliest, of its most
celebrated professors ; and the words which on the brink of the tomb
depicted so eloquently the profound mathematician, the elegant writer,
the upright administrator, the good citizen, the devoted friend. We
shall merely state that Fourier belonged to all the great learned societies
of the world, that they united with the most touching unanimity in the
mourning of the Academy, in the mourning of all France: a striking
testimony that the republic of letters is no longer, in the present day,
merely a vain name. What, then, was wanting to the memory of our
colleague? A more able successor than I have been, to exhibit in full
relief the different phases of a life so varied, so laborious, so gloriously
interlaced with the greatest events of the most Hea epochs of
our history. Fortunately, the scientific discoveries of the illustrious
secretary had nothing to dread from the incompetency of the panegy-
rist. My object will have been completely attained if, notwithstanding
the imperfection of my sketches, each of you will have learned that the
progress of general physics, of terrestrial physics, and of geology will
daily multiply the fertile applications of the Théorie Analytique de la
Chaleur, and that this work will transmit the name of Fourier down to
the remotest posterity.
ON PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM’S SCIENTIFIC WORK.*

By WILLIAM ODLING, M.B., F.R.S.,
Fullerian Professor of Chemistry, I. I.

The simple story of Mr. Graham’s life, though not without its measure
of interest, and certainly not without its lessons, is referred to in the
following pages only in illustration of the grander story of his work.
Thomas Graham was born in Glasgow, on the 21st December, 1805. He
entered as a student at the University of Glasgow, in 1819, with a view
to becoming ultimately a minister of the Established Church of Scot-
land. At that time the university chair of chemistry was filled by Dr.
Thomas Thomson,a man of very considerable mark, and one of the
most erudite and thoughtful chemists of his day. The chair of natural
philosophy was also filled by a man of much learning, Dr. Meikleham,
who appears to have taken a warm personal interest in the progress of
his since distinguished pupil. Under these masters, Mr. Graham ac-
guired a strong liking for experimental science, and a dislike to the
profession chosen for him by his father; who, for a time at least, seems
to have exerted the authority of a parent somewhat harshly, but quite
unavailingly, to effect the fulfillment of his own earnest wishes in the
matter.

After taking his degree of master of arts at Glasgow, in 1826, Mr.
Graham worked for nearly two years in the laboratory of the University
of Ediaburgh, under Dr. Hope. He then returned to Glasgow ; and,
while supporting himself by teaching, at first mathematics and after-
ward chemistry, yet found time to follow up the path of experimental
inquiry, on which he had already entered.

His first original paper appeared in the Annals of Philosophy for
1826, its author being at that time in his twenty-first year. It is inter-
esting to note that the subject of this communication, ‘On the absorp-
tion of gases by liquids,” forms part and parcel of that large subject of
spontaneous gas-movement with which Mr. Graham’s name is now so
inseparably associated ; and that, in a paper communicated to the Royal
Society just forty years later, he Bie of the liquefiability of gases by
chemical means, in language almost identical with that used in this ear-
liest of his published memoirs.

Having, in the interval, contributed several other papers to the scien-
tific journals, in the year 1829 he published in the Quarterly Journal
of Science—the journal, that is to say, of the Royal Institution—the
first of his papers relating specifically to the subject of gas-diffusion. It

* From the proceedings of the Royal Institution, London.

12 sil
178 PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM’S SCIENTIFIC WORK.

was entitled ‘‘A short account of experimental researches on the diffu-
sion of gases through each other, and their separation by mechanical
means.” In the same year, he became lecturer on chemistry at the
Mechanics’ Institute, Glasgow; and in the next year, 1830, achieved
the yet more decisive step of being appointed professor of chemistry at
the Andersonian University. By this appointment he was relieved from
anxiety on the score of living, and afforded, in a modest way, the means
of carrying out his experimental work.

In 1831 he read, before the Royal Society of Edinburgh, a paper “ On
the law of the diffusion of gases,” for which the Keith prize of the society
was shortly afterward awarded him. Although several of his earlier
papers, and especially that ‘On the diffusion of gases,” published in
the Quarterly Journal of Science, had given evidence of considerable

power, it was this paper—in which he established the now well-recog-'

nized law that the velocities of diffusion of different gases are inversely
as the square roots of their specific gravities—that constituted the first
of what may properly be considered his great contributions to the
progress of chemical science.

In 1853 he communicated a paper of scarcely less importance, to the
Royal Society of London, entitled ‘* Researches on the arseniates, phos-
phates, and modifications of phosphoric acid.” It afforded further evi-
dence of Mr. Graham’s quiet, steady power of investigating phenomena,
and of his skill in interpreting results; or rather of his skill in setting
forth the results in all their simplicity, undistorted by the gloss of
preconceived notions, so as to make them render up their own in-
terpretation. It is difficult nowadays to realize the independence of
mind involved in Mr. Graham’s simple interpretation of the facts
presented to him in this research, by the light of the facts themselves,
irrespective of all traditional modes of viewing them. Their investiga-
tion let in a flood of light upon the chemistry of that day, and formed
a starting-point from which many of our most recent advances may be
directly traced. In this paper, Mr. Graham established the existence
of two new, and, at that time, wholly unanticipated classes of bodies,
namely, the class of polybasie acids and salts, and the class of so-called
anhydro acids and salts. The views of Graham on the polybasicity of
phosphoric acid were soon afterward applied by Liebig to tartaric
acid, and by Gerhardt to polybasic acids in general, as we now recog-
nize them. After a long interval, the idea of polybasicity was next ex-
tended to radicals and to metals by Williamson and myself successively ;
afterward to alcohols by Wurtz, and to ammonias by Hofmann. The
notion of anhydro-salts was extended by myself to the different classes
of silicates ; by Wurtz to the compounds intermediate between oxide of
ethylene and glycol; and by other chemists to many different series of
organic bodies.

The next most important of the researches completed by Mr. Gra-
ham while at Glasgow was the subject of a paper communicated to the
PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM’S SCIENTIFIC WORK. 179

o~

Royal Society of Edinburgh, in 1835, “On water as a constituent of
salts,” and of a second paper communicated to the Royal Society of
London, in 1836, entitled “ Inquiries respecting the constitution of salts,
&e.,” for which latter a royal medal of the society was afterward
awarded. The subject of hydration had yielded him such a harvest of
results in .the case of phosphoric acid, that it was only natural he should
wish to pursue the inquiry further. Indeed, it is a curious illustration
of the persistency of the man that he never seems to have left out of
sight the subjects of his early labors. Almost all his subsequent
original work is but a development, in different directions, of his youth-
ful researches on gas-diffusion and water of hydration; and so com-
pletely did he bridge over the space intervening between these widely
remote subjects, that, with regard to several of his later investigations,
it is difficult to say whether they are most directly traceable to his primi-
tive work on the one subject or on the other.

In 1837, on the death of Dr. Edward Turner, Mr. Graham was ap-
pointed professor of chemistry at University College, London, then
called the University of London. On his acceptance of this appoint-
ment he began the publication of his well-known Elements of Chem-
istry, Which appeared in parts, at irregular intervals, between 1837 and
1841. Elementary works, written for the use of students, have neces-
sarily much in common; but the treatise of Mr. Graham, while giving
an admirably digested account of the most important individual sub-
stances, was specially distinguished by the character of the introductory
chapters, devoted to chemical physics, wherein was set forth one of
the most original and masterly statements of the first principles of chem-
istry that has ever been placed before the English student. ‘The
theory of the voltaic circle” had formed the subject of a paper com-
municated by Mr. Graham to the British Association in 1839; and the
account of the working of the battery, given in his Elements of Chem-
istry, and based on the above paper, will long be regarded as a model of
lucid scientific exposition.

In 1841 the now flourishing Chemical Society of London was founded ;
and though Mr. Graham had been, at that time, but four years in Lon-
don, such was the estimation in which he was held by his brother chem-
ists, that he was unanimously chosen asthe first president of the society.
The year 1844 is noticeable in another way. Wollaston and Davy had
been dead for some years. Faraday’s attention had been diverted from
chemistry to those other branches of experimental inquiry in which his
highest distinctions were achieved ; and, by the death of Dalton in this
year, Mr. Graham was left as the acknowledged first of English chem-
ists, as the not unworthy successor to the position of Black, Priestley,
Cavendish, Wollaston, Davy, and Dalton.

From the period of his appointment at University College, in 1837,
Mr. Graham’s time was fully occupied in teaching, in writing, in advising
on chemical manufactures, in investigating fiscal and other questions for
180 PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM’S SCIEN1iFIC WORK.

the Government, and in the publication of various scientific merdirs,
several of them possessing a high degree of interest; but it was not till
1846 that he produced a research of any considerable magnitude. In
that year he presented to the Royal Society the first part of a paper
“On the motion of gases,” the second part of which he supplied in 1849.
For this research Mr. Graham was awarded a second royal medal of
the society in 1850. The preliminary portion of the first part of the
paper related to an experimental demonstration of the law of the effu-
sion of gases, deduced from Torricelli’s theorem on the efflux of liquids
—a demonstration that was achieved by Mr. Graham with much inge-
nuity, and without his encountering any formidable difficulty. But the
greater portion of the first part, and whole of the second part, of this
most laborious paper were devoted to an investigation of the velocities
of transpiration of different gases through capillary tubes, with a view
to discover some general law by which their observed transpiration rates
might be associated with one another. Again and again, with charac-
teristic pertinacity, Mr. Graham returned to the investigation; but,
although much valuable information of an entirely novel character was
acquired—information having an important bearing on his subsequent
work—the problem itself remained, and yet remains, unsolved. Why,
for example, under an equal pressure, oxygen gas should pass through a
capillary tube at a slower rate than any other gas is a matter that still
awaits interpretation.

Near the end of the same year, 1849, Mr. Graham communicated, also
to the Royal Society, a second less laborious, but in the novelty and
interest of its results more successful, paper “On the diffusion of
liquids.” It was made the Bakerian lecture for 1856, and was supple-
mented by further observations communicated to the society in 1850 and
1851. In his investigation of this subject, Mr. Graham applied to liquids
the exact method of inquiry which he had applied to gases just twenty
years before, in that earliest of his papers on the subject of gas-diffusion
published in the Quarterly Journal of Science; and he succeeded in
placing the subject of liquid-diffusion on about the same footing as that
to which he had raised the subject of gas‘diffusion prior to the discovery
of his numerical law.

In 1854 Mr. Graham communicated another paper to the Royal
Society, ‘‘ On osmotic force,” a subject intimately connected with that
of his last previous communication. This paper was also made the
Bakerian lecture for the year; but, altogether, the conclusions arrived
at were hardly in proportion to the very great labor expended on the
inquiry. In the next year, 1855, just five-and-twenty years after his ap-
pointment at the Andersonian University, Mr.Graham was made master
of the mint; and, as a consequence, resigned his professorship at Uni-
versity College. During the next five years he published no original
work.

Thus, at the beginning of the year 1861, My, Graham, then fifty-six
PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM’S SCIENTIFIC WORK. 181

years of age, had produced, in addition to many less important com-
munications, five principal memoirs ; three of them in the highest degree
successful ; the other two less successful in proportion to the expendi-
ture of time and labor on them, but, nevertheless, of great originality
and value. The most brilliant period, however, of his scientific career
was to come. In the year 1861, and between then and his death in 1869,
Mr. Graham communicated four elaborate papers to the Royal Society,
three of them far exceeding in novelty, interest, and philosophic power
anything that he had before produced; and the other of them, relating
to a certain physical effect of that hydration of compounds, from the
consideration of which his attention could never wholly be withdrawn.
This least important paper, “On liquid transpiration in relation to
chemical composition,” was communicated to the Royal Society in 1861,
Of the three greater papers, that “ On liquid diffusion applied to anal-
ysis” was communicated also in 1861. For this paper more especially,
as well as for his Bakerian lectures “On the diffusion of liquids” and
“On osmotic force,” Mr. Graham received, in 1362, the Copley medal
of the Royal Society; and, in the same year, was also awarded the
Jecker prize of the Institute of France. Following in quick succession,
his paper “On the molecular mobility of gases” was presented to the
Royal Society in 1863; and that “On the absorption and dialytic
Separation of gases by colloid septa,” in 1866. With regard to these
three great papers, two of them were each supplemented by a communi-
vation to the Chemical Society; while the third was supplemented by
four successive notes to the Koval Society, containing an account of
further discoveries on the same subject, hardly less remarkable than
those recorded in the original paper. The last of these supplementary
notes was communicated on June 10, 1869, but a few months before the
death, on September 13, of the indefatigable but physically broken-
down man.

In considering Mr. Graham as a chemical philosopher and lawgiver,
we find him characterized by a pertinacity of purpose peculiarly his
own. Wanting the more striking qualities by which his immediate pre-
decessors, Davy, Dalton, and Faraday, were severally distinguished, he
displayed a positive zeal for tedious quantitative work, and a wonder-
ful keen-sightedness in seizing the points which his innumerable deter-
minations of various kinds, conducted almost incessantly for a period of
forty years, successively unfolded. His work itself was essentially that
of detail, original in conception, simple in execution, laborious by its
quantity, and brilliant in the marvelous results to which it led. As
regards its simplicity of execution, scarcely any investigator of recent
times has been less a friend to the instrument-maker than Mr. Graham.
While availing himself, with much advantage, of appliances devised by
Bunsen, Poiseuille, Sprengel, and others, all the apparatus introduced
by himself was of the simplest character, and for the most part of labor-
atory construction.
if ROFESS af BA iY .
182 PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM’S SCIENTIFIC WORK

Essentially inductive in his mode of thought, Mr. Graham developed
his leading ideas, one after another, directly from experiment, scarcely,
if at all, from the prevailing ideas of the time. As well observed by
Dr. Angus Smith, ‘he seemed to feel his way by his work.” His records
of work are usually, in a manner almost characteristic, preceded each by
a statement of the interpretation or conclusion whieh he formed; but
the records themselves are expressed in the most unbiased matter-of-
fact language. Singularly cautious in drawing his conclusions, he
announces them from the first with boldness, making no attempt to con-
vince, but leaving the reader to adopt them or not as he pleases.
Accordingly, in giving an account of his various researches, Mr. Gra-
ham rarely, if ever, deals with argument; but he states succinctly the
experiments he has made, the conclusions he has himself drawn, and
not unfrequently the almost daring speculations and generalizations on
which he has ventured. Some of these speculations, on the constitution
of matter, are reproduced in his own words further on.

Mr. Graham was elected a fellow of the Royal Society in 1837; cor-
responding member of the Institute of I'rance in 1847; and doctor of
civil law of Oxford in 1855.

The remaining pages of this abstract are devoted to an account of his
principal discoveries—the generalizations they suggested to him, and
the relations in which they stood to precedent knowledge.

I.

Modifications of phosphoric acid.—At the date of Mr. Graham’s inves-
tigation of this subject, when oxy-salts were usually represented as com-
pounds of anhydrous base with anhydrous acid, the point of greatest
importance, with regard to each class of salts, was held to be the ratio
borne by the oxygen of the base to the oxygen of the acid. Thus, in
the carbonates, this ratio was as 1 to 2; in the sulphates, as 1 to 3; and
in the nitrates, as 1 to 5. But with regard to the phosphates, taking
common phosphate of soda as a type of phosphates in general, there
was a difficulty. Dr. Thomson maintained that, in this salt, the ratio
of the oxygen of the base to the oxygen of the acid was as 1 to 2; and
his view was substantially supported by Sir Humphrey Davy. Berzelius
contended, however, that the ratio was as 1 to 24, or, to avoid the use
of fractions, as 2 to 5; but, notwithstanding the excellence of the
Swedish chemist’s proof, and its corroboration by the researches of
others, the simpler and, as it seemed, moré harmonious view of Dr.
Thomson prevailed very generally in this country. Anyhow, those
phosphates in which the oxygen ratio was the same as that in phosphate
of soda were taken as the neutral salts. But phosphate of soda was
found to have the peculiar and quite inexplicable property of reacting
with nitrate of silver to throw down, as a yellow precipitate, a phosphate
of silver, in which the proportion of metallic base exceeded that in the
original phosphate of soda—the precipitation ef the basic salt being
PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM’S SCIENTIFIC WORK. 183

accompanied correlatively by the formation of a strongly acid liquid
According to Berzelius, the ratio of the oxygen of the base to that of
the acid, in this yellow precipitate, was as 3 to 5.

In 1821 Mitscherlich, then working in Berzelius’s laboratory, obtained,
by treating ordinary phosphate of soda with aqueous phosphoric acid,
a new crystallizable phosphate of soda, in which the ratio of acid to
base was twice as great as that in the ordinary phosphate. This new
salt, which had a strongly acid reaction to test paper, he called the bi-
phosphate of soda. He observed that it was a hydrated salt, and that
while the ratio init of the oxygen of the base to the oxygen of the acid,

yas as 1 to 5, the ratio of the oxygen of the base to the oxygen of the
water was 1 to 2.

In 1827 Mr. Grahain’s fellow-townsman, and predecessor at the Me-
chanics’ Institute, Dr. Clark, discovered another new phosphate of soda,
in which the ratio of the oxygen of the base to the oxygen of the acid

vas identical with that in the ordinary phosphate, namely, as 2 to 5,
But whereas the ordinary phosphate crystallized with 25 proportions of
water, the new phosphate crystallized with only 10; and whereas the
ordinary phosphate gave a yellow precipitate with nitrate of silver and
a strongly acid supernatant liquid, the new phosphate gave a chalk-
white precipitate with nitrate of silver and a perfectly neutral superna-
tant liquid. This new phosphate, being formed by heating the common
phosphate to redness, was accordingly designated the pyrophosphate.
By dissolution in water and evaporation of the liquid, it could be ob-
tained in the 10-hydrated crystalline state; and by desiccation at a
sand-bath heat, the crystalline salt could be again rendered anhydrous.
With regard to the 25 proportions of water belonging to the ordinary
salt, Dr. Clark noticed that 24 proportions could be driven off by a sand-
bath heat, and that this moderate heat did not alter the nature of the
salt. He found that the 25th proportion of water, however, could only
be driven off by a full red heat; and that, simultaneously with its ex-
pulsion, the change in the nature of the salt was effected. But he care-
fully guarded himself against being supposed to think that the change
in properties of the salt was consequent upon an elimination of its
water. The driving off of water from salts being, as he justly remarked,
a common effect of heat, he regarded this effect as a concomitant only
of the peculiar effect of heat in altering the nature of the phosphate.

Other anomalies with regard to phosphoric acid and the phosphates
were also known to chemists; and, on referring now to standard chem-
ical works written before the year 1833, the whole subject of the phos-
phates will be seen to be in the greatest confusion. It was in this year
that Mr. Graham communicated his paper, entitled ‘Researches on the
arseniates, phosphates, and modifications of phosphoric acid,” to the
Royal Society.*

In the course of these researches he established the existence of a

* Philosophical Transactions, 1833, p. 253.

184 PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM’S SCIENTIFIC WORK.

elass of soluble sub-phosphates analogous to the yellow insoluble phos-
phate of silver; and he showed, with great clearness, that in the three
classes of phosphates, namely, the sub-phosphates, the common phos-
phates, and the bi-phosphates, the ratio borne to the oxygen of the acid
by the other oxygen of the salt is the same, namely, as 3 to 5; only that,
in the three classes of salts, the non-acid oxygen is divided between
different proportions of metallic base and water, thus:

Sub-phosphate of/sodale < 2.5.2 Sa edeessteecee ane == 3NaO.POs;.
Commoniphosphate of isodai. «2 22cc. 2 eee ese HO.2Na0O.POs;.
Bi-phosphateotyso@ay.2ce sys eae cetera wrayer alata mel 2H 0. Na0cP O;.

He further pointed out that, to these three series of salts, there cor-
responded a definite phosphate of water, or,

Hydrated phosphoric acid..- -<-2'- -<222 ss cece ce cone sce oe SHO .EOr:

Compounds of one and the same anhydrous acid with one and the
same anhydrous base, in different proportions, had long been known;
but it was thus that Mr. Graham first established the notion of poly-
basic compounds—the notion of a class of hydrated acids having more
than one proportion of water replaceable by metallic oxide, and that
successively, so as to furnish more and more basic salts, all preserving,
as we should now say, the same type.

Mr. Graham further showed that Dr. Clark’s pyrophosphate of soda,
like the common phosphate, yielded an acid-salt or bi-phosphate; and
that these two compounds were related to a hydrated phosphoric acid
differing in composition and properties from the above-mentioned hy-
drate, and yielding, after neutralization with alkali, a white instead of
a yellow precipitate with nitrate of silver. This series of compounds
he expressed by the following formule :

Clark’s pyrophosphate of soda .....----. -------------- 2Na0.POs.
Acid or bi-pyrophosphate of soda...-.-...---.---------- HO.NaO. POs.
Hydrated pyrophosphoric acid .....-----------------+- Pals KO) Fal eG)

Lastly, Mr. Graham showed that when the bi-phosphate or bi-pyro-
phosphate of soda was ignited, there was left a new variety of phos-
phate, which he called the metaphosphate, having the same proportions
of soda and anhydrous phosphoric acid as the original compound, but
differing from it in several properties, more particularly in its inability
to furnish any acid salt. From this new phosphate he obtained the cor-
responding hydrated acid, and found it to be identical with that variety
of phosphoric acid then, and still, known as glacial phosphoric acid,
which had previously been noticed to possess the distinctive property
of causing a precipitate in solutions of albumen. This salt and acid
he represented as follows:

Metaphosphate of soda ...--. -.-.---- +--+ ---- 22 eens eee NaO. POs.
Metaphosphoric acidw..--.-----.-.----- e+ +--+ e222 2 eee eee -- EEO LIOs:

Speaking of the acid obtainable from, and by its neutralization recon-
verted into, the phosphate, pyrophosphate, and metaphosphate of soda
respectively, Mr.Grahamremarked: ‘‘The acid, when separated trom the

>

PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM’S SCIENTIFIC WORK. 185

base, will possess and retain for some time the characters of its peculiar
modification. * * * But Isuspectthat the modifications of phosphoric
acid, when in what we would calla free state, are still in combination with
their usual proportion of base, and that that base is water. Thus the
three modifications of phosphoric evidence may be composed as follows :

IRHOSPWOTIC ACR eerie cee citeisncelecsaee jes oss. ais'si cece ce SELOR Pees
Pyrophosphorie acid..-...-... ee ete ae area ce ace ee 2H OWE OF.
Metaplos pi OnlGra Cl haem ajo as) lestoesetale r= lonely cie EE Orgke Olas

or they are respectively a tri-phosphate, a bi-phosphate, and phosphate
of water.” These remarks be followed up by analytical evidence, show-
ing the existence of the three hydrates, each in its isolated state.

Just as in his demonstration of the relationship to one another of
sub-phosphate of soda, phosphate of soda, bi-phosphate of soda, and
common phosphoric acid, Mr, Graham originated the notion of polybasic
compounds, so, in his demonstration of the natare of the pyrophosphates
and metaphosphates, as bodies differing from the normal compounds
by an abstraction of water or metallic base, did he originate the notion
of anhydro-compounds—so did he discover, for the first time, an in-
stance of that relationship between bodies which is now known to pre-
vail most extensively among products of organic as well as of mineral
origin.

The different properties manifested by phosphoric acid, in its differ-
ent reputedly isomeric states, having been shown by Mr. Graham to be
dependent on a difference of hydration; that is to say, on a difference
of chemical composition, he was inclinéd to view the difference of prop-
erties observed in the case of other reputedly isomeric bodies as being
also dependent on a difference of composition, the difference occasionally
consisting in the presence of some minute disregarded impurity. Accord-
ingly he communicated to the Royal Society of Edinburgh in 1834* a
paper “On phosphureted hydrogen,” in which he showed that the spon-
taneously inflammable and non-spontaneously inflammable varieties of
the gas “ are not isomeric bodies, but that the peculiarities of the spon-
taneously inflammable species depend upon the presence of adventitious
matter,” removable in various ways, and existing but in very minute
proportion.t He further showed that the vapor of some acid of nitro-
gen, apparently “ nitrous acid, is capable of rendering phosphureted
hydrogen spontaneously inflammable when present to the extent of one
ten-thousandth part of the volume of the gas.” In connection with this
research may be mentioned Mr. Graham’s earlier experiments on the
influence of minute impurities in modifying the chemical behavior of
different substances. In some *“¢ Observations on the oxidation of phos-
phorus,” published in the Quarterly Journal of Science, for 1829, he
showed that the presence of 71, of olefiant gas, and even 7755, by vol-

300

*Edinburgh Royal Society Transactions, xiii, 1836, p. 88.
tIt was afterward isolated by P. Thenard.
$ Quarterly Journal Science, ii, 1829, p. 83.
186 PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM’S SCIENTIFIC WORK.

ume, of turpentine vapor, in air under ordinary pressure, rendered it
incapable of effecting the slow oxidation of phosphorus. He also ob-
served and recorded the influence upon the oxidation of phosphorus of
various additions of gas and vapor to air, under different circumstances
of pressure and temperature.

LUE

Hydration of compounds.—In the earliest of Mr. Graham’s published
memoirs, that “ On the absorption of gases by liquids,”* he contended
that the dissolution of gases in water, at any rate of the more soluble
gases, is a chemical phenomenon, depending on their essential property
of liquefiability being brought into play by their reaction with the sol-
vent, that is to say by their hydration. The results of some further
work on the same subject he published under the title of ‘¢ Experiments
on the absorption of vapors by liquids.” t

In 1827 he gave to the Royal Society of Edinburgh “An account of the
formation of alcoholates, definite compounds of salts and alcohol analo-
gous to the hydrates.”¢{ In this paper, after a description of some ex-
periments on the desiccation of alcohol, he showed that anhydrous
chloride of calcium, nitrate of lime, nitrate of magnesia, chloride of zine,
and chloride of manganese have the property of uniting with alcohol, as
with water, to form definite compounds. The crystalline compound with
choride of zine, for instance, containing 15 per cent. of alcohol, he rep-
resented by the formula Zn Cl. 2 C,H;0; corresponding to the modern
formula Zn Cl,.2C,H,O.

In 1835 Mr. Graham communicated a paper, also to the Royal Society
of Edinburgh, “‘ On water as a constituent of salts.”§ In this paper he
showed more particularly that the so-called magnesian sulphates, crys-
tallizing usually with 7, 6, or 5 proportions of water, gave up all but the
last proportion of water at a moderate heat, but retained this last propor-
tion with great tenacity. The comparatively stable mono-hydrated salts,
mono-hydrated sulphate of zine, for instance, Zn O.S O;.H O, he re-
garded as the analogues of erystallizable sulphuric acid H O.S O;. HO.
He showed further that the firmly retained water of sulphate of zine,
for instance, differed from the firmly retained water of phosphate of
soda, in not being basic, or replaceable, that is to say, by metallic oxide.
He conceived, however, that in the double sulphates, potassio-sulphate
of zinc, for instance, Zn O.S O;, KO.S Og, the water of the compound,
ZnO.8O;.H 0, was replaced by alkali-sulphate, and he accordingly
designated the water of this last, and of similar compounds, by the name
of saline or constitutional water.

In the following year, 1836, Mr. Graham communicated to the Royal

*Thomson, Annals of Philosophy, xii, 1826, p. 69.

+ Edinburgh Journal of Science, vill, 1828, p. 326.

{ Edinburgh Royal Society Transactions, xi, 1837, p. 175.
§ Ibid., xiii, 1836, p. 297.
PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM’S SCIENTIFIC WORK. 187

Society of London an elaborate paper, entitled ‘“‘ Inquiries respecting the
constitution of salts, of oxalates, nitrates, phosphates, sulphates, and
chlorides.”* In it are recorded careful analyses of very many salts,
more particularly in respect to their water of hydration ; with remarks
upon the greater or less tenacity with which the water is retained in
different instances. In this paper he put forward the notion that truly
basic salts are nevertheless neutral in constitution; and that the excess
of metallic base does not stand in the relation of a base to the anhy-
drous acid, but as a representative of the water of hydration of the
neutral salt. He illustrated this position by a comparison of the defi-
nite hydrate of nitric acid with other hydrated nitrates, thus:

Hrydrated@nitric acid, sp. or. 1.42 2-26 cccn secs ce meen HO. NO;.3HO.
Hydrated Mitrabeor ZING: 5.20.6 ec escee aes sone ZnO.NO;.3H 0.
Hydrated nitrate of copper...-..-.-..----.-- Bee ee Cud).NO;.3 HO:
asic Nitraver Ot COPPer-.cs-2csses ease -osece scenes) ILO*T NO;.o CuO:

He contended that, in the last cupric salt, it is the water and not the
oxide of copper which acts as a base; and, in support of this view, he
remarked that if the water of the salt were water of hydration simply,
it ought, in presence of so large an excess of metallic base, to be very
readily expelled by heat; whereas it is actually inexpulsable by any
heat whatever, short of that effecting an entire decomposition of the
salt. Again, he pointed out that when the strongest nitric acid HO.NO;
is added, in no matter what excess, to oxide of copper, the basic salt is
alone produced, apparently by a direct addition of the oxide of copper
to the nitrate of water.

In 1841 Mr. Graham gave to the Chemical Society “An account of
experiments on the heat disengaged in combination.” + These experi-
ments included numerous determinations of the heat evolved in the
hydration of salts, and more particularly of the sulphates, including
sulphate of water, or hydrated sulphuric acid. Starting from oil of
vitriol HO.SO;, he found that each successive addition of a proportion
of water HO, evolved an additional, but successively smaller and smaller
increment of heat; and that, even after the addition of fifty propor-
tions of water to the acid, the further addition of water was yet followed
by a perceptible development of heat.

The relation of ether to alcohol being regarded as that of an oxide to
its hydrate, and expressed by the formule C,H;O, and C,H;O.HO,
the conversion of alcohol into ether became a matter of dehydration ;
and, accordingly, could not escape the examination of Mr. Graham,
who, in 1850, presented to the Chemical Society some ‘ Observations on
etherification.”~ The process of manufacture consisting in the distil-
Jation of a mixture of alcohol with sulphuric acid, and being attended
by an intermediate production of sulphate of ether or sulphethylic acid,
the substitution of ether for the basic water of sulphuric acid at one

* Philosophical Transactions, 1837, p. 47.
t Chemical Society Memoirs, i, p. 106.
{Chemical Society Journal, iii, p. 24.
188 PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM’S SCIENTIFIC WORK.

temperature, and the reverse substitution of water for the basic ether
of sulphethylic acid at a higher temperature, had been represented as
depending on the augmented elasticity of the ether vapor at the higher
temperature. Mr. Graham showed, however, that ether could be very
readily formed by heating the mixture of sulphuric acid and alcohol in
sealed tubes—that is, under conditions in which the augmentation of
volatility due to heat was pari passu counterbalanced by the diminution
of volatility due to pressure. Altogether, Mr. Graham supported the
contact theosy of ether formation, as opposed to the then received re-
action theory; but several of his experiments afforded clear, though in-
deed supererogatory, support to the reaction theory soon afterward in-
troduced by Williamson.

In addition to the memoirs cited above, the question of hydration
formed an express or incidental subject of many other of Mr. Graham’s
investigations. It is noteworthy that, for him, osmosis became a me-
chanical effect of the hydration of the septum; that the interest attach-
ing to liquid-transpiration was the alteration in rate of passage conse-
quent on an altered bydration of the liquid; that the dialytic difference
between erystalloids and colloids depended on the dehydration of the
dialytic membrane by the former class of bodies only ; and similarly in
many other instances.

[iT

Movements of liquids under pressure. Transpiration—That the ve-
locities with which different liquids, under the same pressure, issue
from a hole in the side or bottom of a vessel should be inversely as
the square roots of their respective specific gravities is a proposition
deducible from well-known mechanical principles. As demonstrated,
however, by Dr. Poiseuille, this law is not applicable to the case of
liquids issuing under pressure through capillary tubes. In addition
to determining experimentally the laws of the passage of the same
liquid—that the velocity is directly as the pressure, inversely as the
length of the capillary, and directly as the fourth power of the
diameter, and that it is accelerated by elevation of temperature—
Dr. Poiseuille further showed that the rate of passage of different liquids
through capillary tubes is for the most part a special property of the
particular liquids; and that while the rate of passage of water, for
instance, is scarcely affected by the presence of certain salts in solution,
it is materially accelerated by the presence of chlorides and nitrates of
potassium and ammonium, and materially retarded by the presence of
alkalies. He also showed that while the rate of passage of absolute
aleohol is much below that of water, the rate of passage of aleohol
diluted with water in such proportion as to form the hydrate, H, C,0.
3 Aq, is not only much below that of alcohol, but also below that of
any other mixture of alcohol and water.

Some time after Dr. Poiseuille’s death Mr. Graham, starting from this
last observation, took up the inquiry. Giving to the phenomenon itself
PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM’S SCIENTIFIC WORK. 189

the name of “transpiration,” which he had previously applied to the
similar passage of gases through capillary tubes, he communicated
his results to the Royal Society in a paper * On liquid transpiration
in relation to chemical composition.”* The method he followed in his
experiments was precisely that of Dr. Poiseuille, and the principal
results at which he arrived are the following:

1. That dilution with water does not effect a pari passu alteration
in the transpiration velocity of certain liquids ; but that dilution up to a
certain point, corresponding to the formation of a definite hydrate, not
unfrequently retards the transpiration velocity (or increases the trans-
piration time) to a maximum, from which the retardation gradually
diminishes with further dilution. This is well seen in the following
table, giving the transpiration times of certain liquids in their undi-
luted state, and also the maximum transpiration times observed with
the same liquids when diluted with a regularly increasing quantity of
water, the particular dilution causing the maximum retardation corre-
sponding in every case to the production of a definite hydrate:

Transpiration times.
Water os-s-<- <2 Et O eg cuatet seen aitesey 1. 000 1. 000 x Aq.
Sulphuric acid. HgS O¢..2..2-.. swsve. - Si bol 771 H,S O4. Aq.
INTUTLIC AEIM Sess GN Ogee oases ner ace . 990 2lOs 2HNOs.3 Aq.
Acetic acid....- er Opi Og sceass oaeece soe 1. 280 2.704 H4C202.2 Aq.
Alcohol .--. ---- 15 le OO) ae See eee rere 1.195 2.787 Hs C20.3 Aq.
WHiOOG-SDITIC cesta CiOn cease aa cces =n . 630 1. 802 H,C0O.3 Aq.
Acetone ......-- lg © sO) Se ech sheets a .401 1. 604 H,C30.6 Aq.

2. That the transpiration times of homologous liquids increase reg-
ularly with the complexity of the several molecules constituting terms
of the same series—certain first terms of the different series, however,
presenting some anomalies, as was, indeed, to be expected. The trans-
piration times of the fatty ethers are given below in illustration. Similar
results were obtained with the series of fatty acids and their correspond-

ing alcohols:
Transpiration times.

Water s7e see eese Diy Oe LAR ed A Ry Fa ct ed, on ee, I 1. 000
( Formie Ser i H (P ¢ 3 Oz Be cain leere pala ciple ela eh alata a) el wvaiciaislaiatete wietal dal tatats(an ate (nla . 511

| A 2 a
| Acetic,.....- 1G bel Bieri Gh i Ae areal eR MR Ne ee a | Aes RR aa aoe
Av a) ;
Ethers. ) Butyrio.-.. His Cg Oa.-.-2.22.- 222-2 s20eee cece ceeeedec cone eeeeee 750

\ Valerie: 32... H 14 (@ 7 Og a een es eal ates cal aa Yetie a= (aft teahvart atone toaieat atest oa leet aca oat Aaa es res ea a Ome,

In this paper Mr. Graham also recorded the results of two very full
series of determinations of the transpiration rates of water at different
temperatures between 0° and 70°, and of two similar series of ex-
periments made with alcohol. The transpiration velocity of water was
found to increase uniformly from 0.559 at 0° to 1.000 at 20°, and thence

* Philosophical Transactions, 1861, p. 573.
190 PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM’S SCIENTIFIC WORK.

to 2.350 at 70°; and correlatively the transpiration times were found to
decrease in the same proportion. The results obtained with alcohol
were precisely similar.

1G

Diffusion of liquids—Mr. Graham’s early study of the spontaneous
movements of gases, So aS to mix with one another, naturally led him
to investigate the similarly occurring movements of liquids. His results
formed the subject of two papers communicated to the Royal Society,
one in 1849, “On the diffusion of liquids,”* and the other in 1861, “ On
liquid diffusion applied to analysis.”t In the series of experiments
described in the first of these papers and in two supplementary com-
munications an open. wide-mouthed vial, filled with a solution of some
salt or other substance, was placed in a jar of water; when, in course of
time, a portion of the dissolved salt, described as the diffusate, passed
gradually from the vial into the external water. By experimenting in
this manner, the amounts of diffusate yielded by different substances
were found to vary greatly. Thus, under precisely the same conditions,
common salt yielded twice as large a diffusate as Epsom salt, and this
latter twice as large a diffusate as gum-arabic. Every substance ex-
amined was in this way found to have its own rate of diffusibility in the
same liquid medium—the rate varying with the nature of the medium—
whether water or aleohol, for instance. It is noticeable that the method
of vial diffusion resorted to in these experiments is exactly similar to
that employed by Mr. Graham in his earliest experiments on the diffu-
sion of gases, published in the Quarterly Journal of Science for 1829.

in the series of experiments recorded in the paper “On liquid diffu-
sion applied to analysis,” the solution of the salt to be diffused, instead
of being placed in a vial, was conveyed by means of a pipette to the
bottom of a jar of water; when, in course of time, the dissolved salt
eradually rose from the bottom, through the superincumbent water, to
a height or extent proportional to its diffusibility. The results of this
method of jar-diffusion were found to bear out generally those attained
by the method of vial-diffusion ; while they further showed the absolute
rate or velocity of the diffusive movement. Thus, during a fourteen
days’ aqueous diffusion from 10 per cent. solutions of guim-arabie,
Epsom salt, and common salt respectively, the gum-arabic rose only
through ;7, of the superincumbent water, or toa height of 55.5 milli-
meters; the Epsom salt rose through the whole +4 of superineumbent
water, or to a height of 111 millimeters; and the common salt not only
rose to the top, but would have risen much higher, seeing that the up-
permost or fourteenth statum of water, into which it had diffused, con-
tained about fifteen times as much salt as was contained in the upper-
most or fourteenth stratum of water into which the Epsom salt had
diffused.

: Philosophical Transactions, 1850, pp. 1, 805; 1851, p. 483.
tIbid., 1861, p. 183. .
PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM’S SCIENTIFIC WORK. 191

But of all the results obtained, the most interesting, from their bear-
ing on various natural phenomena, were those on the partial separa-
tion of different compounds from one another, brought about by their
unequal diffusibility. Thus, with a solution of equal weights of com-
mon salt and gum-arabie placed in the diffusion-vial, for every 100 milli-
grams of salt, not more than 22.5 milligrams of gum were found to
pass into the external water; or a separation of the salt from the gum,
to this large extent, took place spontaneously by the excess of its own
proper diffusive movement. Again, when a solution, containing 5
per cent. of common salt and 5 per cent. of Glauber’s salt, was sub-
mitted for seven days to the process of jar-diffusion, the upper half, or
yz Of superincumbent water was found to contain 380 milligrams of
common salt and only 53 milligrams of Glauber’s salt; or the ratio of
common salt to Glauber’s salt in the upper half of the liquid was as 100
to 14, the ratio in the original stratum of solution being as 100 to 100.
And not only a partial separation of mixed saits, but even a partial
decomposition of chemical compounds, was found to result from the pro-
cess of liquid diffusion. Thus the double sulphate of potassium and
hydrogen, when submitted to diffusion, underwent partial decomposi-
tion into the more diffusible sulphate of hydrogen and the less diffusible
sulphate of potassium; and, similarly, ordinary alum, a double sulphate
of aluminum and potassium, underwent partial decomposition into the
more diffusible sulphate of potassium, and the less diffusible sulphate of
aluminum. Strictly speaking, perhaps, the decomposition of the
original salts was not caused by, but only made evident by, the differ-
ence in diffusibility of the products.

As a general result of his experiments, Mr. Graham inferred that
liquid diffusibility is not associated in any definite way with chemical
composition or molecular weight. Thus he found the complex organic
bodies picric acid and sugar to have much the same diffusive rates as
common salt and Epsom salt respectively. Isomorphous compounds,
however, proved for the most part to be equi-diffusive; although the
groups of equi-diffusive substances habitually comprehended other than
those which were isomorphous.

Observing further that, in many cases, the diffusion-rates of different
equi-diffasive groups stood to one another in some simple numerical
relation, Mr. Graham remarked that, ‘In liquid diffusion we no longer
deal with chemical equivalents or the Daltonian atoms; but with masses
even more simply related to each other by weight.” We may suppose
that the chemical atoms “group together in such numbers as to form
new and larger molecules of equal weights for different substances,
or * * * of weights which appear to have a simple relation to each
other ;” and he inferred that the relative weights of these new molecules
would be inversely as the square roots of the observed diffusion rates of
the substances—that is inversely as the squares of their diffusion times.
Thus the squares of the times of equal diffusion of hydrate, nitrate, and
192 PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM’S SCIENTIFIC WORK.

sulphate of potassium being 5, 6, and 12, the densities of their diffusion
molecules would be as the reciprocals of these numbers, or as 4, 2,and 1.

Lastly, in comparing highly diffusive substances on the one hand,
with feebly diffusive substances on the other, one broad dissimilarity
became apparent, namely, that highly diffusible substances affected the
crystalline state, while feebly diffusive substances were amorphous, and
characterized, in particular, by a capability of forming gelatinous
hydrates. Hence the distinction established by Mr. Graham between
highly diffusive bodies, or crystalloids, and feebly diffusive bodies, or
colloids. Compounds capable of existing both in the crystalline and
gelatinous states he found to be possessed of two distinct diffusive rates
corresponding respectively each to each.

V.

Dialysis and osmose.—The subject of dialysis was included in the paper
“On liquid diffusion applied to analysis,” referred to in the preceding
section; aud some further results were communicated in 1864 to the
chemical society, in a paper “On the properties of silicie acid and other
analogous colloidal substances.” *

In the course of his experiments on diffusion, Mr. Graham made the
curious discovery that highly diffusible crystalloid bodies were able to
diffuse readily, not only into free water, but also into water that was
already in a low form of combination, as in the substance of a soft solid,
such as jelly or membrane. Common salt, for instance, was found i
diffuse into a semi-solid mass of jelly almost as easily and as extensively
as into a similar bulk of free water; but the introduction of a gelatinous
substance, though not interfering i any appreciable degree with the
diffusion of a erystalloid, was found to arrest almost entirely the diffu-
sion of a colloid. The colloid, of but little tendency to diffuse into free
water, proved quite incapable of diffusing into water that was already
in a state of combination, however feeble. Hence, although the partial
separation: of a highly diffusible from a feebly diffusible substance might
be effected by the process of free diffusion into water, a much better
result was obtained by allowing the diffusion to take place into, or
through, the combined water of a soft solid such as a piece of membrane
or parchment-paper. In the process of dialysis, then, crystalloid and
colloid bodies, existing in solution together, are separated from one
another by pouring the mixed solution into a shallow tray of membrane
or parchment-paper, and letting the tray rest on the surface of a con-
siderable excess of water, once or twice renewed. By this means the
crystalloid, in process of time, diffuses completely away through the
membranous septum into the free water; but the colloid, being quite
incapable of permeating the membrane, however thin, is retained com-
pletely on the ee unable to reach the free water on the other side.

‘ ieieeaioal Society Teena XVii, p- 318.

PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM'S SCIENTIFIC WORK. 193

By means of the process of dialysis, Mr. Graham succeeded in obtain-
ing various colloid organic substances, such as tannin, albumen, gum,
caramel, &¢., in a very pure state; some of them, indeed, in a state of
purity exceeding any in which they had before been met with. But the
most curious results were obtained with different mineral substances,
usually thrown down from their dissolved salts in the state of gelatin-
ous or colloid precipitates. Most of these precipitates being soluble in
some or other crystalloid liquid, on submitting the so-produced solutions
to dialysis, the crystalloid constituents diffuse away, leaving the colloid
substances in pure aqueous solution. By proceeding in this manner,
Mr. Graham was able to obtain certain hydrated forms of silica, ferric
oxide, alumina, chrome, prussian-blue, stannic acid, titanic acid, tungstic
acid, molybdie acid, &c., &c., in the state of aqueous solution—these
bodies having never before been obtained in solution, save in presence
of strongly acid or alkaline compounds serving to dissolve them. Alto-
gether, the production of these colloid solutions of substances, such as
Silica and alumina—in their crystalline state, as quartz and corundum,
completely insoluble—threw an entirely new light upon the conditions of
aqueous solution.

The colloidal solutions, obtained as above, of substances usually crys-
talline, were found to be exceedingly unstable. Either spontaneously,
or on the addition of some or other crystalloid reagent, even in very
minute quantity, they pectized or became converted into solid jellies.
Hence Mr. Graham was led to speak of two colloidal states ; the peptous
or dissolved, and the pectous or gelatinized. In addition to their power
of gelatinizing, their mutability, their non-erystalline habit, and their
low diffusibility, substances in the colloid state were found to be further
characterized by their chemical inertness and by their high combining
weights. Thus the saturating power of colloid silica was only about
giz Of that of the ordinary acid.

In his supplementary paper communicated to the Chemical Society,
Mr. Graham showed how the pectous forms of different mineral colloids
could, in many cases, be reconverted into their peptous forms. He
further showed how the water of different peptous and pectous colloids
could be mechanically displaced by other liquids, as alcohol, glycerine,
sulphuric acid, &c. To the different classes of compounds so formed,
he gave distinctive names. Thus, the alcoholic solution and jelly, of
silicic acid for instance, he designated as the alcosol and aleogel respect-
ively.

Closely associated with the passage of different liquids through men-
branes is the action known as endosmose, discovered by Dutrochet.
Mr. Graham’s principal results on this subject are recorded in a very
elaborate paper ‘On osmotic force,” communicated to the Royal Society
in 1854; * but a few further results and a statement of his final views
are contained in the paper, referred to immediately above, ‘On liquid

* Philosophical Transactions, 1854, p.177.
13 8 71
194. PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM’S SCIENTIFIC WORK.

diffusion applied to analysis.” When the solution of a saline or other
compound is separated from an adjacent mass of water by a membra-
nous septum, a greater or less quantity of the water very commonly
passes through the septum into the solution; andif the solution be con-
tained in a vessel of suitable construction, having a broad membranous
base and a narrow upright stem, the water, in some cases, flows into the
vessel through the membrane, with a force sufficient to raise and sus-
tain a column of 20 inches or more of liquid in the stem. The problem
is to account for this flow; which, with acid fluids more particularly,
takes place in the reverse direction—i. e. from the solution into the
water.

In the course of his experiments Mr. Graham examined the osmotic
movement produced with liquids of most diverse character, employing
osmometers of animal membrane, albuminated calico, and baked earth-
enware. Wis results were, moreover, observed and recorded in very
great detail. As an illustration of these results, it may be mentioned
that with 1 per cent. solutions in the membranous osmometer, the liquid
rose in the stem 2 millimeters in the case of common salt, 20 millimeters
with chloride of calcium, 88 millimeters with chloride of nickel, 121
millimeters with chloride of mercury, 289 millimeters with proto-chloride
of tin, 351 millimeters with chloride of copper, and 540 millimeters with
chloride of aluminum. Mr. Graham showed, further, in opposition to
the views of Dutrochet, that the velocity of the osmotic flow was not
proportional to the quantity of salt or other substance originally con-
tained in the solution; and that the flow did not depend on capillarity,
as Dutrochet had inferred; or yet on diffusion, as some of his own
experiments might be thought to indicate. Eventually he was led to
the conclusion that osmose was essentially dependent on a chemical
action taking place between one or other of the separated liquids and
the material of the septum. He appears to have held somewhat
different views of the nature of this chemical action at different times,
and not to have considered it as being in all cases of the same character.

The following extracts, expressing his latest views on the subject, are
taken from the conclusion of his paper ‘“‘ On liquid diffusion applied to
analysis.”

‘Tt now appears to me that the water movement in osmose is an affair
of hydration and of de-hydration in the substance of the membrane, or
other colloid septum, and that the diffusion of the saline solution placed
within the osmometer has little or nothing to do with the osmotic result
otherwise than as it affects the state of hydration of the septum. * * *
Placed in pure water, such colloids (as animal membrane) are hydrated
to a higher degree than they are in neutral saline solutions. Hence the
equilibrium of hydration is different on the two sides of the membrane
of an osmometer. The outer surface of the membrane being in contact
with pure water, tends to hydrate itself in a higher degree than the
inner surface does, the latter surface being supposed to be in contact
PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM’S SCIENTIFIC WORK. 195

with a saline solution. When the full hydration of the outer surface
extends through the thickness of the membrane, and reaches the inner
surface, it there receives a check. The degree of hydration is lowered,
and the water must be given up by the inner layer of the membrane,
and it forms the osmose. * * * Far from promoting this separation of
water, the diffusion of the salt throughout the substance of the mem-
brane appears to impede osmose by equalizing the condition as to saline
matter of the membrane through its whole thickness. The advantage
which colloidal solutions have in inducing osmose, appears to depend in
part upon the low diffusibility of such solutions, and their want of power
to penetrate the colloidal septum.”

VI.

Movements of Gases under pressure. Effusion and transpiration.—
The mechanical law of the passage of different gases under the same
pressure througha mere perforation, as of the passage of different liquids,
being that the velocities are inversely as the square roots of the specific
gravities, Mr. Graham subjected this law to an experimental verification,
and made known his results in a paper communicated to the Royal
Society in 1846. The mode of experimenting was as follows: A jar
standing on the plate of an air-pump was kept vacuous by continued
exhaustion, and a measured quantity of gas allowed to find its way into
the jar through a minute aperture in a thin metallic plate. The admis-
sion of 60 cubic inches of dry air into the vacuous, or nearly vacuous
jar, being arranged to take place in about 1,000 seconds, the times of
passage of the same volume of air were found not to vary from each
other by more than two or three seconds in successive experiments.
Operating with different gases, the relative times of passage, or of “ effu-
sion,” as it was denominated by Mr. Graham, proved to be approxima-
tively identical with the square roots of the specific gravities of the several
gases; or, in other words, their velocities of effusion were shown exper-
imentally to be inversely as the square roots of their specific gravities.
The rate of effusion of a mixed gas corresponded in most cases with the
calculated mean rate of its constituents ; but the rates of effusion of the
light gases, marsh gas and hydrogen, were very disproportionately re-
tarded by the admixture with them, even toa small extent, of the heavier
gases, oxygen and nitrogen.

Passing from the study of the effusion of gases through a perforated
plate, Mr. Graham next submitted their “transpiration” through a
capillary tube to a similarly conducted experimental inquiry. His re-
sults were communicated to the Royal Society in two very elaborate
papers, ‘On the motion of gases,” Parts I and II,* the first part con-
taining also his above-described results on the effusion of gases. With
« very short capillary, the relative rates of passage of different gases
were found to approximate to their relative rates of effusion ; but with

* Philosophical Transactions, 1846, p. 573; 1849, p. 349.
196 PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM'S SCIENTIFIC WORK.

every elongation of the capillary, a constantly increasing deviation from
these rates was observed—the increase of the deviation, however,
becoming less and less considerable with each successive increment
of elongation, until, when the tube had acquired a certain length in
proportion to its diameter, a maximum deviation of the relative rates of
passage of the different gases from their relative rates of effusion was
arrived at. These ultimate rates of passage, unaffected in relation to
each other -by further elongation of the capillary, constitute the true
transpiration velocities of the different gases, as distinguished from their
velocities of effusion. Of all the gases experimented on, oxygen was
found to have the longest transpiration time, or slowest transpiration
velocity. In the following table its time of transpiration is taken as
unity, and the times ofa few other gases compared therewith. In other
columns are given the specific gravities of the same gases, referred to
the specific gravity of airas unity; and the square roots of their specific
eravities, which also express their relative times of effusion.

|

Specific | vo. Transpiration

gravity. | \ gravity. | time.
ROP OME S- co ais ctemal sialals att allele cls Sic reinimtrale 069 | . 263 | . 437
INIGHES INCH Be seue agnesd moSord Sue rEBU mon OOO me 5999 | 747 = ODL
INTRO) ly SE Aceon Ocoee are aaaRUuIeae ceo an aaar SOLS | . 985 877
Oey POM ates se feiniecieiel sem etee eels mess Sis ola 1.105 | 051" 4 1. 000
Carbone Pas) fa. .cc- see tee secs seem l= - 1.529 | 1.236 | . 730

That gas transpiration has no direct relation to gas specific gravity is
shown by the transpiration times of oxygen and nitrogen exceeding the
transpiration times both of the much lighter hydrogen and marsh gas,
and of the much heavier carbonie gas. Again, ammonia, olefiant gas,
and cyanogen, with the different specific gravities .590, .978, and 1.806
respectively, have the almost identical transpiration times .511, .005,
and .506; or, approximatively, half the transpiration time of oxygen,
1.000. Nevertheless the transpiration times of oxygen and nitrogen are
directly as their specific gravities; and further, the specific gravities of
nitrogen, carbonic oxide, and nitric oxide being .971, .968, and 1.039,
their transpiration times are .877, .874, and .876 respectively. But then
olefiant gas, with the same specific gravity .978, has the much shorter
transpiration time .505; and similarly in other cases. Altogether the
discordance between transpiration and specific gravity is of greater fre-
quency than the accordance; but still the circumstance of gases having
the same, or about the same, specific gravity, having also the same, or
about the same, rate of transpiration, is of too frequent occurrence to
be merely accidental.

As arule, the observed transpiration rate of a mixture of gases cor-
responded with the calculated mean rate of its constituents; but the
transpiration rates of the light gases, hydrogens and marsh gas, were
PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM’S SCIENTIFIC WORK. Le

found to be disproportionately retarded to a greater extent even than
their effusion rates by the admixture with them of heavier gases. Fur-
ther, by employing mixtures of gas and vapor, Mr. Graham extended
his inquiry so as to include a determination of the transpiration times
of several vapors; the results being calculated on the assumption
that the observed transpiration time of the mixture was the mean of
the transpiration times of the permanent gas and of the coercible vapor
experimented on. In this way the transpiration time of ether vapor,
sp. gr. 2.586, was shown to be identical with that of hydrogen gas, Sp.
gr. 0.069; and the transpiration time of carbonic sulphide vapor, sp. gr.
2.645, identical with that of sulphureted hydrogen gas, sp. gr. 1.191.

With respect to gas transpiration in general, the rates of transpira-
tion of different gases were found to be independent of the nature of
the material of the capillary; apparently from the capillary, of what
material soever, becoming lined with a film of gas, with which alone the
current of gas could come in contact; so that the friction was purely
intestine, and suggestive of a sort of viscosity in the gas itself. The
rate of passage was further shown to be inversely as the length of the
capillary ; and directly, in some high but undetermined ratio, as its di-
ameter. Lastly, the rate of “effusion” of a given volume of any par-
ticular gas being independent of pressure and temperature, the rate of
transpiration of a given volume of any particular gas was observed to
vary directly with its variation of density, whether the result of altera-
tion of pressure or of temperature; 100 cubic inches of dense air, for
example, transpiring more rapidly than 100 cubic inches of tenuous air,
in proportion to the excess of density.

Speaking of the importance and fundamental nature of the physical
properties manifested by bodies in the gaseous state, and of the extent
of his own inquiries on gas-transpiration, Mr. Graham observed: “ It
was under this impression that I devoted an amount of time and atten-
tion to that class of constants (transpiration-velocities) which might
otherwise appear disproportionate to their value and the importance
of the subject. As the results, too, were entirely novel, and wholly un-
provided for in the received view of the gaseous constitution, of which
indeed they prove the incompleteness, it was the more necessary to
verify each fact with the greatest care.”

‘ VER:

Diffusion of gases—In 1801, Dalton, in an essay “On the constitu-
tion of mixed gases, and particularly of the atmosphere,” propounded
the now celebrated view that ‘where two elastic fluids denoted by A
and B are mixed together, there isno mutual repulsion among their par-
ticles; that is, the particles of A do not repel those of B, as they do one
another; consequently the pressure or whole weight upon any one par-
ticle arises solely from those of its own kind.’ During the act of ad-
mixture, ‘the particles of A meeting with no repulsion from those of
198 PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM'S SCIENTIFIC WORK.

B... . would instantaneously recede from each other as far as possible
under the circumstances, and consequently arrange themselves just as in
a void space.” At the beginning of 1803, in a supplementary paper
‘On the tendency of elastic fluids to diffusion through each other,” he
made known the remarkable action of intermixture which takes place,
even in opposition to the influence of gravity, when any two gases are
allowed to communicate with each other. Thus, in a particular experi-
ment, he showed that when a vial of hydrogen is connected with a vial
of EMipinte gas by means of a narrow piece of tubing, so that the vial
of light hydrogen may be inverted over the other vial of heavy carbonic
gas, the heavy carbonic gas actually ascends through the light hydro-
gen, and the light hydrogen descends through the heavy carbonic gas
until the uniform admixture of the two gases with each other is effected.
The subject was afterward investigated by Berthelot, who, in a series of
experiments performed with great care, while opposing Dalton’s theo-
retical conclusions, corroborated his results, and indicated further the
high diffusiveness of hydrogen. Here it was that Mr. Graham took up
the inquiry. The first of his papers relating directly to the subject
of gas-diffusion appeared in the “Quarterly Journal of Science” for
1829, under the title, “‘A short account of experimental researches
on the diffusion of gases through each other, and their separation by
mechanical means.”* The mode of proceeding adopted in these re-
searches was as follows: Each gas experimented on was allowed to
diffuse from a horizontally placed bottle through a narrow tube,
directed either upward or downward according as the gas was heavier
or lighter than air, so that the diffusion always had to take place in
opposition to the influence of gravity. The result was that equal
volumes of different gases escaped in very unequal times, the rapidity
of the escape having an inverse relation to the specific gravity of the
gas. Thus hydrogen was found to escape four or five times more
quickly than the twenty-two times heavier carbonic gas. Again, with
a mixture of two gases, the lightest or most diftusible of the two was
found to leave the bottle in largest proportion, so that a sort of mechani-
cal separation of gases could be effected by means of their unequal
diffusibility. Most of these last results were obtained by allowing the
gaseous mixture to diffuse into a limited atmosphere of some other
gas or vapor, capable of subsequent removal by absorption or condensa-
tion. ¢
But these methods of operating, by free or adiaphragmatie diffusion,
were soon abandoned by Mr. Graham for the more practicable method
of diffusion through porous septa. Once again, however, many years
afterward, in a paper “On the molecular mobility of gases,” to be more
fully considered presently, Mr. Graham made some additional and very
curious observations on the free diffusion of hydrogen and carbonic
gas into surrounding air, showing the absolute velocities of the molecu-

* Quarterly Journal of Science, ii, 1829, p. 83
J ? ?
PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM’S SCIENTIFIC WORK. 199

lar movements in each of the two cases. <A glass cylinder, .57 meter
high, had the lowest tenth of its height filled with carbonic gas. Then,
after different intervals of time, the uppermost tenth of air in the
cylinder was drawn off and examined. In five minutes the ecarbonie
gas in this upper tenth of air amounted to .04, and in seven minutes
to 1.02 per cent.; or 1 per cent. of carbonic gas had diffused to the
distance of half a meter in seven minutes, being at the rate of 73 mil-
limeters per minute. Now, the conditions of this movement always
prevail in the air of the atmosphere, and, using the words of Mr. Graham,
“it is certainly most remarkable that in perfectly still air its molecules
should spontaneously alter their position, and move to a distance of
half a meter in any direction in the course of five or six minutes.”
By similar experiments made with an inverted cylinder, 1 per cent. of
hydrogen was found to diffuse downward at the rate of 350 millimeters
per minute, or about five times as rapidly as the carbonic gas diffused
upward.

With regard to Mr. Graham’s experiments on the diffusion of gases
through porous septa, his earliest results on this subject were communi-
cated to the Royal Society of Edinburgh, in a paper “ On the law of
the diffusion of gases,” already referred to as the first-born of what may
be considered his great papers.* Prior even to Dalton’s above-mentioned
experiments on free diffusion, Dr. Priestly, when transmitting different
gases through stoneware tubes surrounded by burning fuel, perceived
that the tubes were porous; and that not only was there an escape of
the gas, under pressure, from within the tube outward to the fire, but
that there was also a penetration of the exterior gases of the fire into
the tube, notwithstanding the superior pressure of the current of gas
passing through the tube.

Mr. Graham, however, appears to have had his attention originally
directed to the study of the transmission of gases through porous
diaphragms by the curious observations and experiments of Débereiner,
who, having occasion to collect and store some quantities of hydrogen
over water, accidentally made use of a fissured jar, and was surprised
to find that the water of the pneumatic trough rose in this jar to the
height of an inch and a half in twelve hours, and to not far short of
three inches in twenty-four hours. Having assured himself of the
constancy of the phenomenon, Débereiner attributed it to capillary
action, conceiving hydrogen to be alone attractable by, and, on account
of the assumed minuteness of its atoms, admissible through the fissure.
In repeating Doébereiner’s experiments, however, Mr. Graham soon
observed that the escape of hydrogen outward was always accompanied
by a penetration of air inward, the volume of air finding an entrance
through the fissure amounting to about one-fourth of the volume of
hydrogen making its escape; or the fissure proved permeable to the
grosser air as well as to the finer hydrogen. Having arrived at this

* Edinburgh Royal Society Transactions, xii, 1834, p. 222.
‘

200 PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM’S SCIENTIFIC WORK.

point, he replaced the fissured jar by an instrument admitting of
much greater experimental precision. For the jar itself he substituted
a piece of glass tube about half an inch in diameter, and from eight to
fourteen inches long, and for the fissure in the jar he substituted a
plate of stucco serving to close one end of the tube. Operating with a
diffusion-tube of this kind standing in a jar of water, it was found, as
in Dalton’s experiments, that the two gases, say external air and internal
hydrogen, exhibited a powerful tendency to intermix or change places
with each other; but more than this, it was found that the air did not
exchange with its own volume of hydrogen, but instead with 3.8 times
its volume. Using the word diffusion-volume to express the bulks of
different gases exchanging thus with one another by the process of
diffusion, the diffusion-volume of hydrogen would be 3.8, that of air being
taken as 1. Similarly, it was ascertained that every gas has a diffusion-
volume which is peculiar to itself, and is indeed inversely as the square
root of its specific gravity; and since the unequal diffusion volumes of
different gases are consequences of their unequal diffusion velocities, it
follows that the relative velocities at which different gases diffuse into
one another, by virtue of their own inherent mobility, are identical with
those at which they effuse under pressure into a vacuum—a result quite
in accordance with, and indeed deducible from, Dalton’s aphorism. But
although the relative rates of effusion and diffusion are alike, it is
important, wrote Mr. Graham, in the later paper already quoted from,
“to observe that the phenomena of effusion and diffusion are distinct
and essentially different in their nature. The effusion movement affects
masses of gas, the diffusion movement affects molecules; and a gas is
usually carried by the former kind of impulse with a velocity many
thousand times as great as is demonstrated by the latter.”*

Thus the result arrived at by Mr. Graham, in his original paper, was
the enunciation of the now well-recognized law of the diffusion of gases ;
but some thirty years afterward, he again subjected the phenomena of
gas-diffusion to an elaborate experimental investigation—going over the
old and penetrating into new ground with an activity by no means im-
paired, and with intellectual powers largely expanded by increase of
years. His results were communicated to the Royal Society of London,
in a paper “On the molecular mobility of gases,” t and it is impossible
to read this and his original paper “On the law of the diffusion of
gases” together, without being struck by the great adyance in philo-
sophic grasp and breadth of view which had become developed in the long
interval between the publication of the two memoirs. These later ex-
periments on gas-diffusion were made principally with septa of com-
pressed graphite; and it will be well to preface their consideration by
Mr. Graham’s own introductory remarks. He observes: |
PS is ea ek A, | a ee

*The motions of effusion under pressure, and of spontaneous diffusion, would appear
to be alike traceable to the elasticity of the gas itself, exerted under the conditions to
which it is exposed at the time.

t Philosophical Transactions, 1863, p. 385.
PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM’S SCIENTIFIC WORK. 20%

‘The pores of artificial graphite appear to be really so minute thata
gas in mass cannot penetrate the plate at all. It seems that molecules
only can pass; and they may be supposed to pass wholly unimpeded by
friction, for the smallest pores that can be imagined to exist in graphite
must be tunnels in magnitude to the ultimate atoms of a gaseous body.
The sole motive agency appears to be that intestine movement of
molecules which is now generally recognized as an essential property of
the gaseous condition of matter.

‘* According to the physical hypothesis now generally received, a gas
is represented as consisting of solid and perfectly elastic spherical par-
ticles or atoms, which move in all directions, and are animated with dif-
ferent degrees of velocity in different gases. Confined in a vessel, the
moving particles are constantly impinging against its sides and occasion-
ally against each other, and this contact takes place without any Joss of
motion, owing to the perfect elasticity of the particles. If the contain-
ing vessel be porous, like a diffusiometer, then gas is projected through
the open channels, by the atomic motion described, and escapes. Simul-
taneously the external air is carried inward in the same manner, and
takes the place of the gas which leaves the vessel. To this atomie or
molecular movement is due the elastic force, with the power to resist
compression, possessed by gases. The molecular movement is accelera-
ted by heat and retarded by cold, the tension of the gas being
increased in the first instance and diminished in the second. Even
when the same gas is present both within and without the vessel, or is
in contact with both sides of our porous plate, the movement is sustained
without abatement—molecules continuing to enter and leave the vessel
in equal number, although nothing of the kind is indicated by change
of volume or otherwise. If the gases in communication be different, but
possess sensibly the same specific gravity and molecular velocity, as
nitrogen and carbonic oxide do, an interchange of molecules also takes
place without any change in volume. With gases opposed of unequal
density and molecular velocity, the permeation ceases of course to be
equal in both directions.”

One set of novel experiments recorded in the later paper, from which
the above remarks are extracted, had reference to the diffusion of single
gases through porous septa, into a vacuous or partially vacuous space.
The diffusion-tube was substantially the same as that formerly employed,
except in the circumstance of its being closed by a plate of compressed
graphite instead of by stucco, and in the further circumstance of the
tube itself being in some cases so far lengthened and otherwise modified
as to admit of the production within it of a barometric vacuum of com-
paratively large dimensions. The mode of experimenting was as fol-
lows: The short tubes, when employed, were filled with mercury, and
inverted in a mercurial trough. Then, by means of a very simple
arrangement, the gas under examination was allowed to sweep over the
surface of, and diffuse through, the graphite plate, so as to depress the
202 PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM’S SCIENTIFIC WORK.

mercury within the tube until it stood at a height of 100 millimeters
only—that is, until the external pressure exceeded the internal pressure
by 100 millimeters only. Matters being in this state, the experiment
consisted in observing the number of seconds required for the admission
through the graphite septum, into the graduated tube, of a given
volume of gas—the mercury in the tube being kept throughout at the
constant height of 100 millimeters, by a gradual lifting up of the tube,
effected by a mechanical arrangement originally devised and employed
by Professor Bunsen. The long tubes were filled with mercury in a dif-
ferent manver; but the conduct of the experiments made with them
differed only from that of the experiments made with the short tubes, in
that the level of mercury in the long tubes was maintained throughout
at or near to the barometric height, so that the external gas diffused
into the tube under full atmospheric pressure. Experimenting in this
way, the relative times of permeation of equal volumes of different
gases were found to be almost identical with the square roots of the
specific gravities of the respective gases, as shown in the following
table:

Times of equal | Square roots of
diffusion. specific gravities.
Oxggen Assess Sanne see =Sehertae sent seen sane 1.0 1.0
INANE 5 GNSS Ee COOH Us Gone cabieer Bond Sse eBarosbar | 9501 9507
Carbonic, Cass. psc spcisinee- eeeine eye eis me 1.1860 1.1760
FEV GLOC CM. i502 6s onete = cape e minie Uminislam's': 2 anin)ala-e'sinin | £2505 2002

These results are of great value from the simplicity and constancy of
the conditions under which they were obtained, and from their close ac-
cordance with the induced law. By allowing the diffusion to take place
into a complete or partial vacuum, instead of into an atmosphere of
other gas, the results were not complicated with those of interdiffusion ;
and by employing a thin plate of highly compressed graphite, instead
of a comparatively thick plug of more porous stucco, the results were
not complicated with those of transpiration, as happened in some other-
wise admirable experiments of Professor Bunsen, which led that dis-
tinguished investigator to question at one time the accuracy of Mr. Gra-
ham’s law.

The absence of any transpiration of gas through the graphite wafer
was made evident by the want of any approximation, in the rates of
passage, to the characteristic rates of transpiration ; and was conse-
quent on the impermeability of the exceedingly minute pores of the
graphite to any enforced bodily transmission of gas through them. It
may be as well to state this conclusion in Mr. Graham’s own words:

“The movement of gases through the graphite plate appears to be
solely due to their own proper molecular motion, quite unaided by trans-
piration. It seems to be the simplest possible exhibition of the mole-
PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM’S SCIENTIFIC WORK. 203

cular or diffusive movement of gases. This pure result is to be ascribed
to the wonderfully fine (minute) porosity of the graphite. The intersti-
tial spaces appear to be sufficiently small to extinguish capillary trans-
piration entirely. The graphite plate is a pneumatic sieve which stops
all gaseous matter in mass, and permits molecules only to pass.”

By similarly conducted experiments, a determination was also made
of the difference of rate, if any, at which hydrogen diffuses through a
graphite plate into a vacuum and into atmospheric air. Thus, in one
minute of time, the following quantities of hydrogen passed through
the graphite plate, in the two cases respectively :

1.289 cubic centimeters into a vacuum.

1.243 cubic centimeters into air.
These numbers indicate a close approach to equality in the velocities of
passage into a vacuum and into a space of other gas—a yet closer equal-
ity being probably attainable by a modified form of experimenting.

The diffusion of hydrogen into air, as in the above-referred-to experi-
ment, is of course accompanied by a diffusion of air into hydrogen,
which had to be allowed for in caleulating out the above result. More-
over, Mr. Graham made a special repetition of his early experiments on
iuterdiffusion, operating with dry instead of moist gas, substituting
mercury for water in the diffusion-tube, maintaining a constant pressure
by Bunsen’s mechanism instead.of by a pitcher of water, and using a
wafer of graphite instead of a plug of stucco as the porous diaphragm.
The theoretical exchange of hydrogen for air being 3.8 volumes for 1,
and that of hydrogen for oxygen being 4.0 volumes for one, the ex-
changing volumes actually found were 3.576 and 4.124 respectively.

teferring to the approximatively equally rapid passage of hydrogen
into a vacuous and aerial space, Mr. Graham remarks as follows on the
subject of interdiffusion :

‘In fine, there can be little doubt left on the mind that the permea-
tion through the graphite plate into a vacuum, and the diffusion into a
gaseous atmosphere, through the same plate, are due to the same inher-
ent mobility of the gaseous molecule. They are the exhibition of this
movement in different circumstances. In interdiffusion we have two
gases moved simultaneously through the passages in opposite directions,
each gas under the influence of its own inherent force; while with gas
on one side of the plate, and a vacuum on the other side, we have a sin-
gle gas moving in one direction only. The latter case may be assimi-
lated to the former if the vacuum be supposed to represent an infinitely
light gas. It will not involve any error, therefore, to speak of both
movements as gaseous diffusion—the diffusion of gas into gas (double
diffusion) in the one case, and the diffusion of gas into a vacuum (single
diffusion) in the other. The inherent molecular mobility may also be
justly spoken of as the diffusibility or diffusive force of gases.

‘‘ The diffusive mobility of the gaseous molecule is a property of mat-
ter, fundamental in its nature, and the source of many others. The rate
204 PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM’S SCIENTIFIC WORK.

of diffusibility of any gas has been said to be regulated by its specific
gravity, the velocity of diffusion having been observed to vary inversely
as the square root of the density of the gas. This is true, but not in
the sense of the diffusibility being determined or caused by specific grav-
ity. The physical basis is the molecular mobility. The degree of mo-
tion which the molecule possesses regulates the volume which the gas
assumes, and is obviously one, if not the only, determining cause of the
peculiar specific gravity which the gas enjoys. If it were possible to
increase in a permanent manner the molecular motion of gas, its specific
gravity would be altered, and it would become a lighter gas. With the
density is also associated the equivalent weight of a gaseous element,
according to the doctrine of equal combining volumes.”

In addition to the above two sets of experiments, on the diffusion of
a single gas into a vacuum and on the diffusion of one gas into another,
a third set of experiments was made on the diffusion of one gas away
from another; or on the partial separation of mixed gases by the pro-
cess of atimolysis. The experiments on this subject were conducted in
several different ways, but the most striking results were obtained with
what Mr. Graham named his tube atmolyser. This instrument consists
of one or more lengths of ordinary tobacco-pipe, (conveying the current
of mixed gas,) surrounded by a glass tube maintained in a more or less
vacuous state by exhaustion with an air-pump. The most diffusible
constituent of the mixed gas passing away in largest proportion
through the porous material of the tobacco-pipe, the least diffusible con-
stituent becomes concentrated in the residue of gas passing along, and
finally delivered by the pipe. By this simple contrivance the proportion
of oxygen in ordinary air, transmitted by the tobacco-pipe, was increased
from below 21 up to 24.5 per cent., as a result of the small superior diffu-
sive velocity of nitrogen 1.01, over that of oxygen 0.95.

In experiments made with the far more unequally diffusive gases
oxygen and hydrogen, mixed in equal volumes, the proportion of oxy-
gen transmitted by the tobacco-pipe was increased from the original 50
per cent. to 90, and even in some cases, to 95 percent. Electrolytic gas,
consisting of 33.3 per cent. oxygen and 66.6 per cent. hydrogen, was
slowly transmitted through a single tobacco-pipe, in some experiments
inclosed in a vacuum, in others exposed to the air. In the vacuum ex-
periments the transmitted gas was found to consist of 90.7 per cent.
oxygen and 9.3 per cent. hydrogen. In the air experiments, the trans-
mitted gas was found to consist of 40.4 per cent. oxygen, 5.5 per cent.
hydrogen, and 54.1 per cent. air. In both cases it had lost its explosive
character, and acquired the property of re-inflaming a glowing splinter.

This paper of Mr. Graham’s ‘On the molecular mobility of gases” was
supplemented by a communication made to the Chemical Society in 1864,
entitled ‘Speculative ideas respecting the constitution of matter,” *
from which the following extracts are taken:

° OX A -
* Chemical Society Journal, xvii, p 368,
PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM’S SCIENTIFIC WORK. 205

“It is conceivable that the various kinds of matter, now recognized as
different elementary substances, may possess one and the same ultimate
or atomic molecule existing in different conditions of movement. The
essential unity of matter is a hypothesis in harmony with the equal
action of gravity upon all bodies. We know the anxiety with which
this point was investigated by Newton, and the care he took to ascer-
tain that every kind of substance, ‘metals, stones, woods, grain, salts,
animal substances,’ &c¢., are similarly accelerated in falling, and are there-
fore equally heavy.

‘Tn the condition of gas, matter is deprived of numerous and varying
properties, with which it appears invested when in the form of a liquid
or solid. The gas exhibits only a few grand and simple features. These
again may all be dependent upon atomic or molecular mobility. Letus
imagine one kind of substance only to.exist—ponderable matter; and
further, that matter is divisible into ultimate atoms, uniform in size aud
weight. We shall then have one substance and acommon atom. With
the atom at rest the uniformity of matter would be perfect. But the
atom possesses always more or less motion, due, it must be assumed, to
a primordial impulse. This motion gives rise to volume. The more
rapid the movement the greater the space occupied by the atom, some-
what as the orbit of a planet widens with the degree of projectile velo-
city. Matter is thus made to differ only in being lighter or denser
matter. The specific motion of an atom being inalienable, ight matter
is no longer convertible into heavy matter. In short, matter of different
density forms different substances—different inconvyertible elements, as
they have been considered.

“ But further, these more and less mobile, or light and heavy forms
of matter, have a singular relation connected with equality of volume.
Equal volumes of two of them can coalesce together, unite their move-
ment, and form a new atomic group, retaining the whole, the half, or
some simple proportion of the original movement and consequent
volume. This is chemical combination. It is directly an affair of
volume, and only indirectly connected with weight. Combining weights
are different, because the densities, atomic and molecular, are different.
The volume of combination is uniform, but the fluids measured vary in
density. This fixed combining measure—the metron of simple sub-
stances—weighs 1 for hydrogen, 16 for oxygen, and so on with the other
‘elements,’

“To the preceding statements respecting atomic and molecular mo-
bility, it remains to be added that the hypothesis admits of another
expression. Asin the theory of light we have the alternative hypoth-
eses of emission and undulation, so in molecular mobility the motion
may be assumed to reside either in separate atoms and molecules, or in
a fluid medium caused to undulate. A special rate of vibration or pulsa-
tion originally imparted to a portion of the fluid medium enlivens that
portion of matter with an individual existence, and constitutes it a dis-
tinct substanee or element.
206 PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM’S SCIENTIFIC WORK.

“Lastly, molecular or diffusive mobility has an obvious bearing upon
the communication of heat to gases by contact with liquid or solid sur-
faces. The impact of the gaseous molecule upon a surface possessing a
different temperature appears to be the condition for the transference of
heat, or the heat movement, from one to the other. Tbe more rapid the
molecular movement of the gas, the more frequent the contact with con-
sequent communication of heat. Hence, probably, the great cooling
power of hydrogen gas as compared with air or oxygen. The gases
named have the same specific heat for equal volumes, but a hot object
placed in hydrogen is really touched 3.8 times more frequently than it
would be if placed in air, and 4 times more frequently than it would be
if placed in an atmosphere of oxygen gas. Dalton had already ascribed
this peculiarity of hydrogen to the high ‘mobility’ of that gas. The
same molecular property of hydrogen recommends the application of
that gas in the air-engine, where the object is to alternately heat and
cool a confined volume of gas with rapidity.”

VIII.

Passage of gases through colloid septa.—In 1830, Dr. Mitchell, of Phila-
delphia, discovered a power in gases to penetrate thin sheet India
rubber; and, noticing the comparatively rapid transmission of carbonic
gas through the rubber, associated this observation with the further one
that a solid piece of India rubber is capable of absorbing its own volume
of carbonic gas, when left in contact with excess of the gas for a suffi-
cient length of time. By means of a suitable arrangement, Dr. Mitchell
found that various gases passed spontaneously through a caoutchoue
membrane into an atmosphere of ordinary air with different degrees of
velocity—that as much of ammonia gas was transmitted in 1 minute as
of carbonic gas in 54 minutes, as of hydrogen in 374 minutes, and as of
oxygen in 115 minutes. Soon after their publication, these results were
ably commented on and extended by Dr. Draper, of New York; and,
altogether, they attracted considerable attention in scientific circles.
One of Mr. Graham’s earliest observations—having reference to the
spontaneous passage of carbonic gas into a moist bladder of air, so as
ultimately to burst the bladder—had obviously a very close connection
with Dr. Mitchell’s results, and received from Mr. Graham in 1829 the
same explanation that in 1866 he gave to his own India rubber experi-
ments, the account of which he communicated to the Royal Society in a
paper “On the absorption and dialytie separation of gases by colloid
septa.” * In his experiments on the penetration of different gases,
through septa of India rubber, into a vacuum, Mr. Graham employed
a tube considerably exceeding in length the barometric column, open at
one end and closed at the other by a thin film of caoutchoue stretched
over a plate of highly porous stucco. On filling this tube with mercury,

* Philosophical Transactions, 1866, p. 399.
\

PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM’S SCIENTIFIC WORK. 207

:
and inverting it into a cup of mercury, a Torricellian vacuum was left
at the top, into which the external air, or any external gas experimented
on, gradually found its way by passage through the caoutchoue film, so
as to cause a depression of the mercurial column. By experiments made
in this manner, it was found that different gases penetrated the rubber,
and entered the vacuous space with the following relative velocities,
differing widely from the velocities of diffusion and transpiration of the
same gases given in the other two columns of the table:

Rates of passage Transpiration Diffusion

through caoutchoue. velocities. velocities.
NOP OMe sett ta nae nce ces ons 1. 00 1.14 POL
Mar SO 8 Sen on esate see < a's 0's 2.15 1.81 1.34
ORG VEGA sc Seon aan Beers 2.59 1. 00 95
EV CO OC acme taser Saws = =< 5. 50 2.29 3. 80
COnDOMIGHOAS seme em chicm lester 13, 58 1.37 | 81

Bearing in mind the partial separation of gases from one another at-
tainable by reason of their unequal diffusive velocities, the possibility
of effecting a similar separation of gases by reason of their unequal
velocities of transmission through India rubber was easily to be fore-
seen. For example, atmospheric air consisting of 20.8 volumes of oxy-
gen and 79.2 volumes of nitrogen, and the transmission velocities of
these two gases being respectively 2.55 and 1.0, it follows that the air
transmitted through India rubber into a vacuum should consist of 40
per cent. oxygen and 60 per cent. nitrogen, thus:

OSV OC Me stare as oo oie) iscsi eles oisinie se ys baat 20.8 X 2.55 = ol ( 40
Miro potnaca A meee st tee Go eos ee bc 79.2 X 1.0 = 79.20 ors 60

132.24 (400

In subjecting this conclusion to the test of experiment, Mr. Graham
availed himself of Dr. Sprengel’s then newly invented mercurial pump
or exhauster, an instrument which also stood him in good stead in his
subsequent work, and to which he freely acknowledged his obliga-
tions. By a slight alteration in the pump, as originally constructed,
Mr. Graham made it serve not only for its original purpose of creating
and maintaining an almost perfect vacuum, but also for delivering pari
passu any gas penetrating into the vacuum through its caoutchouce or
other walls.

The cacutchouc films employed in these experiments were of various
kinds; but the most readily practicable and, on the whole, successful
results, were obtained with India-rubber varnished silk made up into a
flat bag, exposing on each side about 0.25 meter of square surface.
The interior of such a bag being in communication with the Sprengel
pump, the constituents of the external air were gradually sucked
through the walls of the bag and delivered by the turned-up fall-tube of
208 PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM’S SCIENTIFIC WORK.

the pump. On examining the delivered gas, it was found to contain on
the average 41.6 per cent. of oxygen; and accordingly, to have the prop-
erty of re-intflaming a glowing splinter. Thus, by the simple suction of
atmospheric air through a caoutchoue film, the remarkable result was
arrived at of nearly doubling the proportion of oxygen in the volume
of air sucked through. Unfortunately for the practical application of
the process, the entire volume of air sucked through proved to be very
small, about 2.25 cubic centimeters per minute, per square meter of sur-
face, at 209 C. At 60° C., however,. the passage of air through the rub-
ber was almost exactly three times as rapid as at 20°.

Instead of allowing the gases experimented on to pass through the
India rubber into a vacuous space, they were in some cases allowed to
pass into space already occupied with a different gas, somewhat as in
Dr. Mitchell’s original experiments; but the conditions of the action
were then more complex. The constituent gases of atmospheric air, for
instance, pass through an India-rubber septum into a space containing
xarbonie gas at the relative velocities with which they enter a vacuous
space; but throughout the experiment, not only are oxygen and nitro-
gen continually entering the space, but carbonic gas is continually, and
very rapidly, escaping from it. Eventually, by the rapid escape of ear-
bonie gas, the proportion or pressure of oxygen in the intermal space
comes to exceed that in the external air; whereupon a reverse trans-
mission, through the India rubber, of the excess of oxygen into the ex-
ternal air, at once begins. But by stepping the operation at an early
stage, and then absorbing the carbonic gas with caustic alkali, a residue
of hyperoxygenized air was left, capable, in some cases, of re-inflaming
a glowing splinter, and containing as much as 37.1 volumes of oxygen
to 62.9 volumes of nitrogen.

The interpretation given by their discoverer to the above results
was in accordance with his slowly-developed views on the relations of
eases and liquids to each other and to soft solids. Having satisfied
himself that the merest film of India rubber is quite devoid of porosity,
and that oxygen is at least twice as absorbable by India rubber as by
water at ordinary temperature, (the absorbability of its own volume of
earbonie gas by India rubber, as by water, having been noticed by Dr.
Mitchell,) Mr. Graham came to view the entire phenomenon as having
a very complex character, as consisting in a dissolution of the gas in
the soft India rubber; in a diffusion of the liquefied gas, as a liquid,
through the thickness of the India rubber; in an evaporation of the
liquefied gas from the internal surface of the India rubber; and lastly
in a diffusion of the evaporated gas into the internal space. Thus, in
reference to the remarks of Drs. Mitchell and Draper, he writes :
“These early speculations lose much of their fitness from not taking
into account the two considerations already alluded to, which appear
to be essential to the full comprehension of the phenomenon, namely,
that gases undergo liquefaction when absorbed by liquids and such
PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM'S SCIENTIFIC WORK. 209

colloid substances as India rubber, and that their transmission through
liquid and colloid septa is then effected by the ageney of liquid and
not gaseous diffusion. Indeed, the complete suspension of the gaseous
function during the transit through colloid membrane cannot be kept
too much in view.” Mr. Graham seems thus to have recognized at
least three distinct modes of gas transmission through a solid or semi-
solid septum :

Ist. By a sufficient degree of pressure gases might be forced bodily,
7. €. in masses, through the minute channels of a porous septum; or, in
other words, might pass through such a septum by transpiration, of
course in the direction only of the preponderating total pressure.

2d. As the channels of a porous septum became more and more
minute, their resistance to the bodily transmission of gas would be-
come greater and greater, and the quantity of gas forced through them
less and less, until at length the septum would be absolutely im-
permeabie to transpiration under the particular pressure. But such
a septum, of which the individual capillary channels were so small
as to offer a frictional resistance to the passage of gas greater than
the available pressure could overcome, might nevertheless present a
considerable aggregate of interspace through which the diffusion proper
of gases, consequent on their innate molecular mobility, could take
place freely in both directions.

od, A septum might be quite free from pores, of any kind or degree
of minuteness, and so far be absolutely impermeable to the transmis-
sion of gas in the form of gas; but it might nevertheless permit a
considerable transmission of certain gases by reason of their prior
solution or liquefaction in the substance of the septum. And whereas
the mere passage of gas, by transpiration or diffusion through a porous
septum, would take place in thorough independence of the nature of the
material of the septum, in this last-considered action, the transmission
would take place by virtue of a sort of chemical aftinity between the gas
and the material of the septum—the selective absorption of the gas by
the septum being a necessary antecedent of its transmission; whence
it might be said the gas was tr ansinitted because it was first absorbed’

mi ms att = 1 ae

the septum being a necessary antecedent of its transmission; whence
it might bes said the gas was tr ansinitted because it was first absorbed?

Faw 1 1 oa - re - 1 fae we :
thé septum being a necessary ereecdens of its transmission; whence
it might be said the gas was tr ansinitted because it was first absorbed’

mi 1 ' ms - att = 1 ae

the septum being a necessary antecedent of its transmission; whence
it might bes said the gas was tr ansinitted because it was first absorbed?

Faw 1 1 oa - re - 1 fae we :
the septum being a necessary antecedent of its transmission; whence
it might bes said the gas was tr ansinitted because it was first absorbed?

Faw 1 1 oa - re - 1 fae we :
thé septum being a necessary ereecdens of its transmission; whence
it might bes said the gas was tr ansinitted because it was first absorbed’

oy . ae Ss a, ;
the septum being a nec aches antecedent of its transmission; whence

Ae variceal tee Amica abet ial caine COrkxren Cla atin POIANA EA Waonati Ga 1 area: mat velincagtiiaal ml
