os

wt Seen:
2

a d

 #

Sint Shiv Coveamna tan or. vs bmeas Seymour sueaes Fath

a

uD
2552)
z

x
Bites
RES
Pate

is
r

Shin!

- he 7
Pik we

ANNUAL REPORT

BOARD OF REGENTS

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

SHOWING THE

OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION OF THE
INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR

Ibe (ee.

WASHINGTON: |
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE.
1879.
FORTY-FIFTH CONGRESS—THIRD SESSION.

IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES,
March 3, 1879.

The following resolution was agreed to by the Senate February 10, 1879, and con-
curred in by the House of Representatives March 3, 1879:

Resolved by the Spnate (the House of Representatives concurring), That 10,500 copies
of the Report of the Smithsonian Institution for the year 1878 be printed, 1,000 copies
of which shall be for the use of the Senate, 3,000 copies of which shall be for the use
of the House of Representatives, and 6,500 for the use of the Smithsonian Institution.

Attest:
GEO. C. GORHAM,

Secretary.
LETTER

FROM THE

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

TRANSMITTING

The annual report of the Institution for the year 1878.
FEBRUARY 8, 1879.—Ordered to be printed.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
February 7, 1879.
Srr: In behalf of the Board of Regents, I have the honor to submit
to the Congress of the United States the annual report of the opera-
tions, expenditures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the
year 1878,
I have the honor to be, your obedient servant,
SPENCER F. BAIRD,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution.
Hon. W. A. WHEELER,
President of the Senate.
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR 1878.

This document contains:

1. The annual report of the Secretary, giving an account of the opera-
_ tions and condition of the establishment for the year 1878, with the sta-
tistics of collections, exchanges, ce.

2. The report of the Executive Committee, exhibiting the financial
affairs of the Institution, including a statement of the Smithson fund,
the receipts and expenditures for the year 1878, and the estimates for
1879.

3. The proceedings of the Board of Regents for the sessions of May,
1878, and January, 1879.

4, x general appendix, including translations from foreign journals
or works not generally accessible, but of interest to the collaborators
and correspondents of the Institution, teachers, and others interested in
the promotion of knowledge.

4
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

RUTHERFORD B. HAYES, President of the United States, ex officio Presiding Officer.

MORRISON R. WAITE, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor of the Insti-
tution (President of the Board of Regents).

SPENCER F. BAIRD, Secretary (Director of the Institution).

WILLIAM J. RHEES, Chief Clerk.

REGENTS OF THE INSTITUTION.

MORRISON R. WAITE, Chief Justice of the United States.
WILLIAM A. WHEELER, Vice-President of the United States.
HANNIBAL HAMLIN, member of the Senate of the United States.
AARON A. SARGENT, member of the Senate of the United States.
ROBERT E. WITHERS, member of the Senate of the United States.
HIESTER CLYMER, member of the House of Representatives.
ALEXANDER H. STEPHENS, member of the House of Representatives.
JAMES A. GARFIELD, member of the House of Representatives.
JOHN MACLEAN, citizen of New Jersey.

PETER PARKER, citizen of Washington, D. C.

ASA GRAY, citizen of Massachusetts.

HENRY COPPEE, citizen of Pennsylvania.

WILLIAM T. SHERMAN, citizen of Washington, D. C.

NOAH PORTER, citizen of Connecticut.

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF ‘THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

PETER PARKER. JOHN MACLEAN. WILLIAM T. SHERMAN.

MEMBERS EX-OFFICIO OF THE INSTITUTION.

RUTHERFORD B. HAYES, President of the United States.
WILLIAM A. WHEELER, Vice-President of the United States.
MORRISON R. WAITE, Chief Justice of the United States.
WILLIAM M. EVARTS, Secretary of State.

JOHN SHERMAN, Secretary of the Treasury.

GEORGE W. McCRARY, Secretary of War.

RICBARD W. THOMPSON, Secretary of the Navy.
DAVID M. KEY, Postmaster-General.

CARL SCHURZ, Secretary of the Interior. .
CHARLES DEVENS, Attorney-General.

H. E. PAINE, Commissioner of Patents.
OFFICERS AND ASSISTANTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTI-
TUTION AND NATIONAL MUSEUM, JANUARY, 1879.

SPENCER F. BAIRD,
Secretary, Director of the Institution.
“WILLIAM J. RHEES,
Chief Clerk.
DANIEL LEECH,
Clerk, Correspondence.
CLARENCE B. YOUNG,
Clerk, Accounts.
HERMANN DIEBITSCH,
Clerk, Foreign Exchanges.
JANE A. TURNER,
Clerk, Library.
MAGGIE E. GRIFFIN,
Clerk, Distribution of Publications.
SOLOMON G. BROWN,
Clerk, Transportation.

G. BROWN GOODE,

Curator of the Musewm.
F. M. ENDLICH,

Assistant, Mineralogy.
ROBT. RIDGWAY,

Assistant, Ornithology.
TARLETON H. BEAN,

Assistant, Ichthyology.
CHAS. RAU,

Assistant, Archeology.
EDWARD FOREMAN,

Assistant, Ethnology.
F. H. CUSHING,

Assistant, Ethnology.

JOSEPH PALMER,
Taxidermist.

T. W. SMILLIE,
Photographer.

JOSEPH HERRON,
Janitor.
REPORT OF PROFESSOR BAIRD,

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, FOR 1878.

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution :

GENTLEMEN: I have the honor herewith to present the report of the
operations and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year
1878.

The most important event during that time, and, indeed, in the history
of the establishment, is the death of Professor Henry, its lamented Sec-
retary, to whom was intrusted its organization in 1846, and under whose
firm and judicious direction it has been carried safely forward, surmount-
ing in its progress many obstacles and trials, to its present condition of
efficiency and prosperity.

It is difficult to overestimate the importance to science and humanity
of the administration of Professor Henry in this connection. It was a
mere chance that the right man for the place would be selected, and
whether any other of the candidates would have done equally well it is,
of course, impossible to say. Itis very certain, however, that the chances
would have been adverse to such a result. The most logical methods
of operation and research, the strictest economy of administration, the
restriction of the Institution to its legitimate functions in the increase
and diffusion of knowledge among men, and the avoidance of all en-
tangling alliances of every kind, signally characterized the administra-
tion of affairs by Professor Henry for the long period of nearly one third
of acentury. This time sufficed to impress upon the Institution a defi-
nite policy, and one which will, I trust, be permanent. It will certainly
be my endeavor, as the successor of Professor Henry, vo carry out his
principles during whatever period Providence and your good-will may
grant me the direction of affairs.

The characteristics of the policy adopted by Professor Henry at the
beginning of his administration, and sanctioned by the Board of Regents,
were, first, never to attempt to do with the funds and appliances of the In-
stitution what could equally well be done by other appropriate agencies ;
secondly, to attempt nothing which might not strictly be considered as
coming within the department of science, theoretical or applied; thirdly,
to keep all expenditures within the income of the Institution, and never
to allow the operations of one year to be hampered by indebtedness
carried over from the preceding; and, finally, not to restrict the opera-
tions of the institution to Washington, or even to the United States;
but to extend its benefits to the whole world, in view of the proper inter-

7
8 REPORT Or THE SECRETARY.

pretation of the will of Mr. Smithson that the main functions of the
institution should be “the increase and diffusion of knowledge among
men.”

Numerous illustrations of the policy of Professor Henry in regard to
the first principle adopted by him can be adduced. No matter how
favorite the branch of research might have been with him, nor what
amount of reputation might be gained to the Institution by prosecuting
it, he was always ready to transfer it to those who could carry it on with
success. The most noteworthy instance, perhaps, was that in connection
with the subject of meteorology, which had from the beginning been one
of special interest tohim. The very earliest action in the scientific direc-
tion of the Institution had reference to the adoption of a general system
of meteorological observations throughout the United States and the
adjacent portions of America, and the proper reduction of the results in
a systematic form. Up to the time of the establishment of the Signal
Office, this was by far the most important feature of Smithsonian activity.
It embraced a connection with about six hundred observers from all
the walks of life and in ali parts of the country. With these, constant
communication was held, and from them were received monthly detailed
observations of various degrees of minuteness and accuracy on blanks
furnished to them previously by the Institution; and an extended
correspondence was maintained with them, not only on meteorological
subjects but upon others of scientific interest. For more than twenty-
five years this relation continued with the most important results, the
work extending and enlarging year by year in a rapid ratio.

As soon as the operations of the United States Signal Office were
established by government, under General Myer, Professor Henry
offered to turn over the Smithsonian system with its observers to that
establishment, and this offer being accepted the transfer was made;
since then the Institution has confined itself to working up the results
of a quarter of a century’s labors and publishing them in a systematic
and digested form. The series of such digests has been nearly com-
pleted and the whole will be finished as rapidly as the funds of the
Institution will permit.

It was to this restriction of effort to subjects of importance, in a scien-
tific or practical point of view, which were not otherwise provided for,
that is due the impression made upon the progress of learning by the
Smithsonian Institution as administered by Professor Henry. There
are numerous establishments in the United States, not of precisely sim-
ilar character, but with the same general object, and with equal or larger
funds of endowment, but which are scarcely known or even heard of
outside of the limits of the city in which they may happen to be sit-
uated. The name of the Smithsonian Institution, on the contrary, is a
familiar one in every part of the world; and it may almost be said that
it is even better understood, comprehended, and appreciated in the
remotest parts of Europe than it is in some sections of the United States.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 9

At the beginning of the active operations of the institution, Professor
Henry prepared what he called a “ Programme of organization.” This
was first submitted to the judgment of leading men of science through-
out the United States and Europe, and received general approval. It
was presented to the Board, and adopted as the basis of future opera-
tions. It is interesting to note that whatever new lines of research or
of practical work have been taken up from time to time by the Institu-
tion, were simply the carrying out into practical effect of one or other of
the subdivisions of the proposed programme.

The board at its special meeting, held on the 17th of May, 1878, di-
rected the preparation of a suitable biography of its late Secretary, and
also the holding of a memorial service in one of the halls of Congress, if
it could be obtained for the purpose. The preparation of this biography
was intrusted to a committee, consisting of President Porter, of Yale
College, Dr. Maclean, of Princeton, and Professor Gray, of Harvard ;
and it has been prepared by the latter gentleman, and will be submitted
by him to the Board.

The arrangements for the memorial services have been made, to take
place on the evening of Thursday, January 16, 1879. In addition to
the records prepared by the direction of the Board, two other memoirs
have been written, and were presented, October 26, 1878, to the Philo-
sophical Society of Washington, of which Professor Henry had been the
presiding officer from the time of its organization. One of these me-
moirs, by Dr. Welling, president of Columbian University, gave an
account of Professor Henry’s life and character with reference to his
personal, social, and educational qualities; and the other, by Mr. Will-
iam B. Taylor, set forth more particularly his scientific work and the
succession of his discoveries.

Professor Henry’s last illness dates from the autumn of the year 1877,
and was apparently induced in a considerable measure by exposure
while carrying on a series of experiments in behalf of the Light-House
Board. After hisreturn from Staten Island, he was able to bestow but
little attention to the details of the work of the Institution; although,
up to the very day of his death, he was directing and controlling it as
from the beginning. Shortly after his return in the autumn, he made a
visit to Philadelphia, for the purpose of being under the care of Dr. 8S.
Weir Mitchell, and came back to Washington after an absence of a few
weeks. His death took place on the 15th of May, 1878,—a peaceful and
happy death—surrounded by his family and friends.

After his decease, as in his life, he was signally honored. Congress
adjourned to attend the funeral, which was also marked by the presence
of the highest dignitaries of the country, including the President and
his cabinet, the justices of the Supreme Court of the United States, and
those of the District of Columbia, the diplomatic corps, and numerous
organizations of which he was a member, as well as others from abroad.
10 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Honored by the Board in being selected to succeed Professor Henry,
it was with the greatest diffidence, and with an unaffected distrust in my
ability to administer worthily the operations of the Institution, that I
accepted the trust. Animated by a desire to secure the continuance
of the wise policy inaugurated and maintained by Professor Henry,—
by a consciousness of familiarity with the varied duties required,—and
by a natural sympathy of purpose resulting from a long association with
him—holding steadily before me his example—lI venture upen the ex-
periment; hoping only that the contrast of the present administration
of the Institution with that of the past will not be too unfavorably marked.

I may, perhaps, be pardoned for calling attention to the fact that my
own connection with the Institution and association with Professor
Henry dates back to the year 1850, and that consequently, for more than
twenty-eight years, I have been engaged in carrying out the principles
established by the late Secretary, and that the details of administration,
and the general plans of operation, are consequently not unfamiliar to
me. My association has indeed been, indirectly, longer than the time
mentioned, since as early as 1848 I visited Professor Henry and was en-
gaged by him to carry out certain researches in reference to the natural
history of Pennsylvania, aided by a grant of money from the funds of
the Institution, for the purpose.

Although the fact of the death of Professor Henry was promptly
spread over the United States and transmitted throughout the Old
World by means of the telegraph, it was thought proper, in accordance
with the usage of similar establishments, to make a formal announce-
ment by a circular letter, addressed to the foreign correspondents of the
Institution. A circular was accordingly prepared in the name of the
Chancellor and widely distributed. This has elicited a great number of
responses, containing gratifying expressions of condolence and sympathy.

The regular session of the Board of Regents for the winter of 1877
was held in January, 1878, at which time the report for 1877 was pre-
sented by Professor Henry and approved. An extra meeting was called
on the 17th of May, on the day after Professor Henry’s funeral, at which
an election of his successor took place, and arrangements were made for
a proper eulogy and the memorial meeting in January, 1879.

The law of Congress establishing and organizing the Smithsonian
Institution makes no provision for the discharge of the duties of the
chief officer by any person other than the Secretary; and as no bills for
services, for salaries, labor, supplies, &c., can be paid without his
indorsement, the disability or death of the Secretary during the recess
of the meetings of the Board is likely to involve very serious Gifficulties.
For the purpose of providing for this contingency, Senator Hamlin, a
Regent of the Institution, has introduced a joint resolution into the
Senate, providing that in case of the death, disability, or absence of the
Secretary, the Chancellor be empowered to appoint some one to discharge
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. ie

his duties until any necessary provision can be made by the Board in
full session, it not being expected that the Board could be brought
together outside of the period of the meeting of Congress. This reso-
lution has already passed the Senate, and it is hoped will soon pass the
House and become a law.

The only change in the Board of Regents to be placed on record is
the resignation of Mr. Bancroft and the election of General Sherman, a
former Regent, to fill his place. General Sherman was also elected by
the Board at its special meeting of the 17th of May to serve as one of
the Executive Committee.

The continued expansion of the operations of the Institution, especially
those connected with its department of international exchanges, has
called for accommodations more extended than those that have been
available; and Professor Henry, for some time before his death, had in
contemplation a removal from that portion of the building occupied by
his family, to a private residence in the city. He was considering this
question more urgently when his illness supervened, and of course inter-
rupted any further action on his part.

Although the occupation of the east wing of the building free of rent
was one of the privileges of the Secretary of the Institution, I found
that all the rooms in the building could be used to great advantage as
offices of the Institution; and I therefore determined, with the consent
of the members of the Executive Committee, to devote them to that
purpose. A door was opened in the wall separating the present rooms
from the apartments adjacent to them, and some other trifling inex-
pensive alterations were made, by which the entire house was trans-
formed into a series of offices and work-rooms. Every room is now in
use, and the entire force of clerks and employés has been concentrated
in the east range and wing, so that they are closely connected in their
work, adding very greatly to the efficiency of operations.

A system of electric bells and telephones has been established through-
out the building, by means of which instant communication can be had
between the several offices and work-rooms without involving the loss
of time required to pass from one to another, or without calling any one
from his work.

FINANCES.

In the report of the Executive Committee will be found a detailed
statement of the finances of the Institution, which are believed to be in
a satisfactory state. The amount to the credit of the late Secretary at
the time of his death was $8,522.98. This was transferred on the 28th
of May, 1878, to the credit of his successor, with whom a new account
was opened at the Treasury. The premium oh the gold-bearing interest
of the Smithsonian endowment, which has heretofore constituted a more
or less prominent item of the receipts for the year, has, of course, disap-
peared; only a small percentage having been realized on the July pay-
ment. As the natural counterpart to this, however, the reduction in
12 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

the price of labor and the decrease in the cost of many articles of gen-
eral supply leaves the Institution in a correspondingly better financial
condition than before. ,

The following is a statement of the condition of the Smithson fund at
the beginning of the year 1879:
The amount originally received as the bequest of James

Smithson, of England, deposited in the Treasury of the
. United States in accordance with the act of Congress of

ANTOPOR OFS CD pa bot Cc eS SS Sa $515, 169 00
The residuary legacy of Smithson, received in 1865, depos-

ited in the Treasury of the United States in accordance

with the act of Congress of February 8, 1867.........-- 26, 210 63
Total bequestio£ Smithsom: 22. 42652. 25s6 ese). 541,379 63

Amount deposited in the Treasury of the United States,
as authorized by act of Congress of February 8, 1867,
derived from savings of income and increase in value of

NVESEMMOMES! Jo 1\ 5 2 h)4 5/0 agers) Patines 1 lca eae a as eres 108, 620 37
Amount received as the bequest of James Hamilton, of
Carlisle, Pa., February 24, Uae 148 (22 e e 132 eal =~ 1, 000 00

Total permanent Smithson fund in the Treasury of

the United States, bearing interest at 6 per cent.,
payable semi-annually in gold....-..--.-----.-- 651, 000 00

In addition to the above, there remains of the extra fund

from savings, &c., in Virginia bonds and certificates,

viz: Consolidated bonds, $58,700; deferred certificates,

$29,375.07; fractional certificate, $50.13; total, $88,125.20,

valued, January, 1879) :aib -)..mc2 mo n.6 aes eee 34, 000 00
Cash balance in United States Treasury at the beginning
of the year 1879, for current, expenses. <2 -- = 19, 632 57
Total Smithson funds January 8,1879..........-.. 704, 632 57
BUILDING.

Some damage was done to the Smithsonian building by the severe
storms of the summer of 1878, and considerable expense ineurred in re-
pairs. ‘The finial on the west tower was blown off and a large number
of slates torn away, all of which required reconstruction. The occasion
was taken to give the gutters, spouts, and lightning-rods a thorough
overhauling, leaving everything, it is believed, in the best condition.
The basement has been cleaned and whitewashed, and all unserviceable
material, including scrap-iron, &c., has been suitably disposed of.

PUBLICATIONS.

As has been frequently stated in former reports, the publications of
the Institution consist of three classes: The first, the “Smithsonian Con-
tributions to Knowledge”; the second, the ‘“‘Smithsonian Miscellaneous
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. ie

Collections”; and the third, the “Annual Reports of the Regents” of
the Institution. The works of the first class, the Smithsonian Contribu-
tions to Knowledge, are published in quarto form, and are intended to
embrace original memoirs, either the result of special investigations
authorized and directed by the Institution, or prosecuted under other
auspices and presented to it. The works of the second class, the Mis-
cellaneous Collections, are similar in plan and construction to the “ Con-
tributions,” but are in octavo form, and embrace more particularly mono-
graphie and descriptive papers in natural history, formal or systematic
lists of species of animals or plants, physical tables, reports on the pres-
ent state of knowledge in some department of physical or biologic sci-
ence, &c. As with the “Contributions,” each volume is composed of
several distinct and independent papers, having no necessary connection
with each other, the collection being determined chiefly by the aggregate
number of pages suitable for a volume of average size. The average
number of pages in the quarto volume is about 600; in the octavo volume,
about 800. Each paper or memoir in either class is separately paged and
indexed, with its own title-page, so as to be complete in itself, and sepa-
rately distributed according to its subject. Of the quarto “Contribu-
tions,” twenty-one volumes, and of the “Collections,” fifteen volumes
have been published.

The Smithsonian annual reports commenced in 1847, and being made
to Congress, are published by that authority, and not at the expense of
the Smithson fund. The earlier reports of the Secretary were printed
in small pamphlet editions, but were collected and reprinted with the
report for 1853, and with this the series of bound volumes may be said
to have begun. The number, or edition, ordered by Congress has varied
from year to year, but the proportion of copies placed at the disposal of
the Institution has been distributed to its correspondents as fully and
liberally as possible.

Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge published in 1878.—For sev-
eral years past the Institution has had in its archives a paper by the
late Prof. Henry J. Clark, relating to the Lucernarie, an extremely in-
teresting group of marine animals closely allied to the Acalephs, or
Jelly-fish. The death of the author before the work could go to press,
and the difficulty of finding any one willing to undertake the editing of
it, prevented immediate action on the memoir; but Prof. A. E. Verrill hay-
ing agreed to take charge of the work, it was at length put to press, and
was finally published in 1878. The memoir consists of 138 quarto pages
and eleven plates, and it has been distributed to the leading zoologists.
The Institution is under great obligations to Professor Verrill for the
careful and critical supervision of the typographical execution of the
work, as well as for some important notes and rectifications. Mr.
Samuel F. Clark, of Johns Hopkins University, is also entitled to the
thanks of the Institution for assistance in revising proofs during the
period when Professor Verrill was ill.
14 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

The second quarto memoir, published in 1878, is a paper by Mr.
William H. Dall, “On the Remains of later Prehistoric Man, obtained
from caves in the Catherina Archipelago, Alaska Territory, and espe-
cially from the caves of the Aleutian Islands.” In the Secretary’s re-
port for 1875 (page 48) will be found a brief notice of some interesting
mummified human remains from the Aleutian Islands presented by the
Alaska Commercial Company. These comprised a series of nine mum-
mies from Kagaymil Island and one from Prince William’s Sound. Mr.
Dall’s memoir on the subject has been printed, containing the result of
a careful examination of these remains and the relics found with them,
an account of the tradition and history relating to them, and such ex-
planations of the manufacture, character, and use of the various asso-
ciated articles as the author’s observations during eight years in that
region enabled him to furnish. Ten heliotype illustrations accompany
the memoir, which, though inferior to finely engraved views in an
artistic point of view, offer a style better suited to convey a correct idea
of the complicated details represented than any other mode of illustra-
tion at present in use.

Two remaining quarto papers now in press will be published early in
the year 1879. The first of these is the memoir of Dr. 8. Habel, describ-
ing “The Sculptures of Santa Lucia Cosumalwhuapa, in Guatemala.”
As this interesting work was quite fully described in the Secretary’s last
Report (for 1877, pages 13 to 16), it is unnecessary here to particularize
it further.

The other paper referred to (constituting the fourth of the above-
mentioned series) is ‘A Classification and Synopsis of the Trochilidz,”
by Mr. D. G. Elliot. The beautiful and brilliant-colored “ metallic”
plumage of the humming-birds in many instances assumes, among
individuals of the same species, widely-contrasted hues, rendering
the correct identification of the species by the naturalist only possible
through a considerable experience or the opportunity of examining a
large series of specimens. Within the past ten years a large number of
new species have been discovered in this group, supplying important
links between previously-known species that could not have been here-
tofore harmoniously ranged in the family. The vast collection which
has produced the material for this work contains many types and speci-
mens of great rarity, obtained from such well-known trochilidists as
Bourcier, Gould, Verreaux, &c. Of the 426 species acknowledged in the
work as worthy of such rank, 380 are contained in the author’s collection,
represented by about 1,800 specimens. A novel feature of the work is
the engraving that accompanies the diagnosis of each genus, illustrating
the characteristics by which any specimen may be readily referred to its
proper genus. The characters recognized as most important for deter-
mining a system of classification are taken from the male bird alone, it
being found impossible to harmonize in so large a group any that should
be selected from the two sexes indiscriminately. The present synopsis
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 15

will be useful both to the student and to the naturalist by enabling
them to easily identify their specimens, and will assist them to a natural
classification of the family.

Miscellaneous Collections published #1 1878.—Among the ‘ Collections”
published in the past year have been several very important circulars
intended to facilitate the collection of material for scientific research.
The first of these, prepared by Prof. O. T. Mason, at the request of the
Institution, relates to the various remains of American archeology scat-
tered throughout: different parts of our continent, consisting of mounds,
earthworks, ditches, graves, &e. A vast amount of isolated and discon-
nected research has been directed toward these objects, in most cases
by persons ignorant of the true method of examination or of the precise
nature of the problems to be solved in connection with them. The cir-
cular referred to comprises 15 pages, indicating the features of special
interest, a record of which it is desired to possess, and giving a table of
symbols to be used to seenre uniformity of illustration and facility of
reference. It also invites contributions of notes, surveys, maps, illus-
trations, &¢., of the objects, and also requests the contribution of such
specimens as may be found in the localities described, including stone
implements, pottery, bone tools, &c. Of this circular many thousand
copies have been distributed, and these have elicited a vast amount of
mnaterial. Thisis all carefully and systematically classified and arranged,
and as soon as it appears to be measurably complete it will be placed in
the hands of one or more specialists, by the aid of whom it is hoped the
Institution may be able to prepare an exhaustive treatise on the sub-
ject which will mark as important a stage of progress in the history of
American archeology as was done by its publication, in 1849, of Squier
& Davis’s work upon the ancient mounds of the Mississippi Valley.

The second circular published was one prepared by P. R. Ubler, of
Baltimore, in reference to the collection of specimens of craw-fishes. This
group of fresh-water crustaceans, whichis found in most parts of the world,
withsome curious exceptions, furnishes an interesting field for inquiry into
the modifications produced in animal forms by certain physical or other
conditions, Professor Huxley, among others, having lately prepared an
elaborate paper upon the subject. In previous years quite a number of
new craw-fishes were described from the collections of the National
Museum, by Mr. Charles Girard. The group was afterwards made the
subject of a very comprehensive investigation by Dr. H. Hagen, of
Cambridge. It is, however, thought that there is room for still further
inquiry, and the material in possession of the Smithsonian Institution
will be placed in the hands of competent specialists for investigation.
In the circelar an illustration of the craw-fish is given, for which the
Institution is indebted to Messrs. Appleton & Co., New York.

The third cireular, to form part of a forthcoming volume of Smithson-
ian Miscellaneous Collections, is in reference to the living reptiles of
16 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

North America. The United States Fish Commission, under the au-
spices of the Smithsonian Institution, exhibited at the Philadelphia
Centennial of 1876 an extremely interesting series of plaster and papier
maché casts of fishes, cetaceans, and some reptiles, all carefully colored
from nature, and representing a much larger number of such objects than
had ever been brought together under one roof. Since that time the
artists connected with the National Museum have been diligently en-
gaged in extending and improving the series, and for nearly two years
past their efforts have been conducted especially in the line of the rep-
tiles. The circular in question was intended to indicate precisely the
forms or species desired, and it has been extensively distributed. <As
the result, the Institution was the recipient, in 1878, of very large num-
bers of living turtles, serpents, lizards, salamanders, &c., the greater por-
tion of which has been carefully molded and reproduced in artistic style.
It is believed that no museum extant can show such a series of serpents,
in their natural attitudes, as is now on exhibttion in the National
Museum.

Another publication of 1878 is a new “ List of Foreign Correspond-
ents.” The rapid increase in the number of scientific establishments in
relationship with the Institution requires a new edition of this list every
few years; and although the present cne is much more extensive than
that published in 1872 (containing 2333 numbers of titles as compared
with 1919), even now arrangements are being made by the Institution fora
still more complete and exhaustive edition. With this view a circular
has been sent to all the names upon the present list, asking for rectifi-
cations or typographic corrections, and the addition of any addresses
of public libraries, learned societies, or scientific bureaus of govern-
ments not already included. The Institution alsorequested secretaries
of societies to furnish a list of the names and addresses of persons act-
ively engaged in scientific or literary investigations in their respective
towns, together with the particular branches of learning to which each
was devoted, with the view of facilitating communication and exchanges
with specialists in all parts of the world. The responses to these re-
quests are coming in rapidly ; and when all are received, a suitable ar-
rangement and publication of the material will be made.

Twenty years ago (in 1858), the Institution published a list. of the
Diptera (flies, musquitoes, &c.) of North America, by Baron R. Osten-
Sacken, at that time attached to the Russian Legation at Washington.
The author, although especially a student of the order of diptera, was
interested in other groups, and coming to the United States at a time
when our entomologists were few and widely scattered, he devoted a
considerable part of his leisure to travel over the country, making the
personal acquaintance of most of those interested in this branch of natu-
ral history. In that connection he rendered a valuable aid to the ex-
tension of American entomologic science, which is entitled to public
recognition. Through his efforts numexous entomologists, situated far
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 1%

apart, and prosecuting studies of a similar character, without the knowl-
edge of other labors than their own, were brought into relations of
correspondence and exchange, and thus, by their mutual sympathy and
support, and by the concentration of eftort on the part of each to some
special line of research, the common interest of science was advanced.
Ve regret to say that after many years sojourn in this country, Baron
Osten-Sacken has returned to Europe, where, however, his assistance
is continually invoked by entomologists desiring information in regard
to type specimens, books not procurable in the United States, We.

The list of Diptera aforesaid (published in the Miscellaneous Collec-
tions) brought together a mass of references to the descriptions of about
1,800 species, scattered in more than one hundred ditferent works
and scientific papers. Such a publication was an indispensable prelim-
inary step before any study of the diptera could be attempted. This
formed the first of a series of works undertaken by the Institution to
facilitate the study of entomology, which has included diptera, coleop-
tera, lepidoptera, neuroptera, and hymenoptera.

During the past year the work of Baron Osten-Sacken, much extended
by his later eritical studies, has been republished by the Institution.
This new edition of the work is not merely a revision of the catalogue
published twenty years ago; but it is an entirely new one prepared on
a different plan. The difference between eleven and sixty-six, the num-
ber of species of one genus, Trypeta, represents the addition made to
our knowledge during the interval between the two catalogues. Other
genera give similar results. Another important difference between the
old and new eatalogues consists in the fact that the majority of the
species enumerated in the latter are represented in a collection now in the
Museum of Comparative Zoology in Cambridge, Mass., which contains
over 2,000 named and described species of diptera from North America.
The region embraced in the present catalogue is the whole of North
America, including the West Indies. It has been the effort of the
author to make sure that every name in the list should actually rep-
resent a different species. To attain this result, he visited and examined
the museums in London, Paris, Lille, Berlin, Frankfort, Darmstadt,
Turin, and Vienna. Of all orders of insects the diptera offer probably
the most difficulties to the describer, arising from the minuteness of the
characters on which generic and specific distinction are based. Each
family requires a special study, and a ‘dipterologist may be very well
versed in some families, without being able to express any opinion with
regard to questions concerning others. In the introduction to the ecata-
logue, the author presents some recommendations as to the best course
to be pursued in the study of diptera, and advises specialization.
Amateurs may collect and name specimens, but should not publish
anything until they have chosen some single family and nearly ex-
hausted it by study and collecting. ‘The exhaustive study of a single
fainily is far more remunerative both in pleasure and in usefulness

S. Mis. 59

2

‘
18 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

than the random description of numerous new species.” The catalogue
forms an octavo volume of 324 pages, and includes a full index.
Another paper published in 1878, to be mentioned, is a “ Botanical
Index,” prepared by Prof. Sereno Watson, of Cambridge, Mass. The
purpose of this index is to furnish references to whatever has been pub-
lished respecting the plants of North America, under their Linnean spe-
cifie names, in works or papers that may be classed as belonging to sys-
tematic botany. For the region west of the Mississippi and for British
America, the literature of which is almost wholly fragmentary and
greatly scattered, and on account of which especially the work was orig-
inally begun, it is intended to be complete. And it is essentially so also
for the eastern flora, where, however, there is not the same necessity
that the citations should be exhaustive. To avoid the perpetuation of
errors it was desirable to eliminate false species and to correct wrong
determinations wherever they had gone upon record. This could not
have been thoroughly done without a complete revision of the flora
itself, which was of course out of the question; nevertheless it was ren-
dered to a considerable extent possible as respects the western flora, by
the author’s connection with the “ Botany of California”; and in many
other cases he was enabled to decide upon the validity of species, and
to verify determinations or to settle doubtful synonymy by comparisons
of specimens themselves in the collection of the Harvard Herbarium.
The delays that have arisen in the preparation of the volume have
not been without compensation in the far more complete and satisfactory
results Which were only thus made possible; and the deficiencies of the
earlier portions are largely supplied by the copious appendix, which
makes the whole essentially complete, up to the date of publication.
The portion now printed covers the ground of Torrey and Gray’s Flora
of North America, which was published in 1838-1840, and is now so com-
pletely out of date as to leave this portion of our botany nearly as much
in need of revision as any other. Until such revision can be made
(and it must still be delayed some years), the “‘ Index” will necessarily
be a partial substitute—in some respects sufficient, inasmuch as it shows
what genera and species are recognized as forming our flora, and also as
concerns the synonymy, which could not be given with any such com-
pleteness, within the limits of the desired revision, and moreover suffi-
cient in its references to all existing descriptions of those species. In
any given case, these descriptions may indeed be practically inaccessible,
or they may be incomplete or faulty, and it is herein that nothing can
be a substitute for a “ Flora,” which shall bring together into one vol-
ume perfected descriptions, together with such grouping of genera and
species as to indicate their natural affinities. For the preparation of
such a Flora, or for the study of any special portion ot the field, the
present Index will meantime be an important aid, giving as it were a
skeietonized history of each individual species, and affording a elue to
all that is known toward the needed filling out of the outline. The

\
i ee a

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 19

total number of orders given in the Index is 69; of genera, 545; of
species, 3,038. The work forms an octavo volume of 454 pages.

A work too long delayed, and constituting a most important addition
to the Miscellaneous Collections—a memoir of the founder, James Smith-
son, with a collection of his published contributions to science, followed
by a documentary history of the organization, rise, and progress of the
Tnstitution—has during the past year been collected and prepared, and
is Now in press.

At a meeting of the Board of Regents, held January 23, 1878, it was
resolved that the Secretary be requested to have a memoir of James
Smithson prepared and published, to include all his scientific papers now

accessible; and that the Secretary prepare and publish a history of the

origin and progress of the Institution. In accordance with these resolu-
tions, the Secretary directed Mr. William J. Rhees, the chief clerk, who
had been connected with the Institution for more than twenty-tive years,
to commence the collection of material for these works, and on the death
of Professor Henry, Mr. Rhees was requested to continue hislabors. No
compilation of this character having been previously attempted, the in-
vestigation involved a laborious research.

The scientific papers of Smithson, which originally appeared in the
Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London, and in Thom-
son’s Annals of Philosophy, have been collected and reprinted; they °
occupy 120 octavo pages. These memoirs were submitted to several chem-
ists and mineralogists for an estimate of the scientific value of Smith-
sow’s researches, and the present acceptance or recognition of the results
obtained by him.

The history of the Institution contains the will of Smithson, the man-
ner in which the bequest was obtained by the United States, the corre-
spondence between Hon. Richard Rush, the special agent of this govern-
ment, and the officials and attorneys in England, an account of the suit
in chancery which was found necessary to obtain the fund, an account
of the residuary legacy or sum left in England as the principal of an
annuity to the mother of the nephew of Smithson, and how this was
finally obtained and added to the fund. The legislation of Congress in
reference to the bequest is given, including a reprint of every resolution,
memorial, report, speech, and act from the proceedings of Congress that
have any reference to the fund or to the establishment and objects of the
Smithsonian Institution, from December 17, 1835, when President Jack-
son first informed Congress of the bequest, down to the Ist January,
1878.

The collection of this part of the history involved a minute examina-
tion of every page of the ““Globe,” containing the report of the proceed-
ings of Congress, and also a large number of documents and many of the
records printed and in manuscript on file at the Capitol or elsewhere.
The various plans proposed in the Senate and House of Representatives
for the carrying out the intentions of Smithson, by John Quincy Adams,
20 REPORT OF THE SECRITARY.

.

Mr. Robbins, Mr. Choate, Mr. Marsh, Mr. Owen, and many others are
given in full, and form an exceedingly interesting exhibit of the views
of men in political life as to the best means of increasing and diffusing
knowledge. This part also includes the history of the controversy in
relation to the management of the Institution arising from the resigna-
tion of Mr. Choate from the Board of Regents, and the speeches of Sen-
ators Pearce, Mason, Douglas, Badger, and Clayton, and of Representa-
tives English and Meacham, together with the reports of the Senate
Judiciary Committee, and of a special committee of the House. As
throwing light on much of Congressional action and to show the intense
interest Mr. John Quincy Adams felt in the bequest, copious extracts
are made from his diaries.

The volume also contains the various plans proposed for the organiza-
tion of the Institution by scientific and literary men, including Mr. Rush,
Dr. Wayland, Dr. Cooper, Dr. Chapin, with the report of the committe
of organization of the Board of Regents; the programme presented by
Professor Henry in December, 1847, and the opinions of this programme
expressed by Dr. Beck, Professor Silliman, Dr. Gray, the American
Academy of Arts and Sciences, the presidents of Columbia, Williams,
Hamilton, Delaware, Pennsylvania, Georgetown, Amherst, Saint John’s,
Brown, Bowdoin, Charleston, Hampden Sidney, Madison, William and
Mary, Cumberland, Alabama, Marietta, Tennessee, North Carolina,
Trinity, and many other colleges and societies.

These articles will form parts of the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Col-
lections, and will not only be of interest to the Regents and those imme-
diately connected with the management of the Institution, but to all who
wish to ascertain the views and acts of some of our most prominent men
in relation to science for nearly half a century. The history of the
Institution will show what difficulties surrounded its organization, the
diversity of opinion as to its proper functions, the opposition to be over-
come, and the value of the wide and comprehensive plans of the Secre-
tary, Professor Henry, to Whose clearness of conception, firmness. of
purpose, and purity of character the success of the Institution is mainly
indebted. His views, though but little understood and appreciated at
first, have steadily gained the favor of the scientific and literary world,
and are now universally recognized as the best adapted to accomplish
the great purpose of Smithson.

Bulletins of the National Museum.—In the Secretary’s Report for 1875
(page 14) it was stated that, during the past year another series of pub-
lications, which would form a part of the Miscellaneous Collections, had
been commenced under the abovetitle. Thisseries is intended to illustrate
the collections of natural history and ethnology belonging to the United
States, and constituting the stock of the National Museum, of which
the Smithsonian Institution is the custodian. These bulletins, prepared
at the request and mainly by the attachés of the institution, have been
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. Ze

printed under the authority of the Secretary of the Interior. They form
an independent series, which has proved very acceptable to naturalists,
as enabling them to obtain prompt information as to the additions to
and the components of the National Museum. ;

The following is a list of the Bulletins already published:

No. 1. Check-list of North American Batrachia and Reptilia; by
Edward D. Cope. 1875. 106 pp.

No. 2. Contributions to the Natural History of Kerguelen Island; by
J. H. Kidder, M. D.; Part I, Ornithology; edited by Elliott Coues.
1875. 61 pp.

No.5. Contributions to the Natural History of Kerguelen Island; Pare
II, Gdlogy, Botany, Geology, Mammals, Fish, Mollusks, Insects, Crus-
taceans, Annelids, Echinoderms, Anthozoa; by Kidder, Coues, Gray,
Iwndlich, Gill, Dall, Osten-Sacken, Hagen, 8S. J. Smith, Verrill, and 8. F.
Clark. 1876. 122 pp.

No. 4. Birds of Southwestern Mexico; collected by Francis E. Sumi-
chrast. By George N. Lawrence. 1876. 56 pp.

No. 5. Catalogue of the Fishes of the Bermudas; by G. Brown Goode.
1876. 82 pp.

No. 6. Classification of the collection to illustrate the Animal Resources
of the United States; by G. Brown Goode. 1876. 139 pp.

No. 7. Contributions to the Natural History of the Hawaiian and
Fanning Islands, and Lower California; by Thomas H. Streets, M. D.
onde. Li2unps

No. 8. Index to the names which have been applied to the subdivisions

all erd

of the class Brachiopoda previous to the year 1877; by William H. Dall.
1877. 88 pp.

of Rafinesque’s Memoirs on North American Fishes; by David S. Jordan.
1Sit. 53 pp.

No. 10. Contributions to North American Ichthyology; Part II; Cot-
tid, Etheostomatide, Percide, Centrarchide, Aphododeridz, Doryso-
matidz, Cyprinidie, Siluride. By D. 8S. Jordan. 1878. 120 pp., with
45 plates.

No. 11. Not yet published.

No. 12. Contributions to North American Ichthyology; Part IIL; by
D.S. Jordan and A. W. Brayton. 1878. 237 pp.

Of the above, those published during the past year are the Bulletins
numbered 10 and 12. The former comprises the second part of Prof.
David 8S. Jordan’s Contributions to North American Ichthyology, and
includes notes on Cottide, Etheostomatid, Percide, Centrarchid,
Aphododeride, Dorysomatide, and Cyprinidae, with revisions of the
genera and descriptions of new or little known species; and Synopsis
of the Siluride of the fresh waters of North America, with a bibliogra-
phy of all the genera and species. It forms an octavo pamphlet of 120
pages, with 45 plates.
22 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

The latter (No. 12) comprises the third part of Contributions to North
American Ichthyology, including the distribution of the fishes of the
Allegheny region of South Carolina, Georgia, and Tennessee, with de-
seriptions of new or little known species; by David S. Jordan and
Alembert W. Brayton. This paper is based primarily on the collections
made by the authors and a party of students of Butler University,
Ohio, during the summer of 1877, in various streams in the Southern
States, classified under the following basins: 1, Santee; 2, Savannah;
3, Altamaha; 4, Chattahoochie; 5, Alabama; 6, Tennessee; 7, Cum-
berland. In the course of the investigations detailed in this paper some
light has been thrown on the laws which govern the distribution of fresh-
water fishes in general. A synopsis is also given of the family Catosto-
mid; by David S. Jordan, and a bibliography is given of all the known
works on Catostomidee.

Proceedings of the National Musewm.—In imitation of the practice of
those learned societies which publish periodically descriptions of new
species, &c., in the form of proceedings of weekly or monthly meetings,
and thus present to the world the discoveries connected with the estab-
lishment at the earliest practicable moment, it appeared to be very desir-
able that the National Muserm should have some medium of prompt
publication for announcing descriptions of specimens received (many of
which are new species), aS well as other interesting facts relative to
natural history furnished by the correspondents of the Institution. To
meet this want, an order was obtained from the honorable Seeretary of
the Interior, authorizing the publication of a volume of “ Proceedings
of the National Museum” for the year 1878, not to exceed 500 pages.

The publication of the ‘ Proceedings of the National Museum” has
accordingly been commenced, the work comprising short descriptions of
the additions to the Museum, and accounts of new species, or ilustra-
tions of species collected in particular regions of country. It is printed
in successive signatures, as fast as copy sufficient for 16 pages is pre-
pared, each signature having printed at the bottom of its first page the
date of actual issue, for settling any questions as to priority of publica-
tion. It is at once distributed to scientific societies and leading natu-
ralists in this country and in Europe. A large number of important -
articles of greater or less length have already been printed, to form the
volume for 1878, now nearly completed. They consist of articles
on new species of fishes collected by the United States Fish Commission ;
papers on the birds of the West Indies, collected under the auspices of
the Smithsonian Institution, &e. Of this series, about 250 pages have
been printed during the year 1878, being produced (as in the ease of
‘“‘ Bulletins”) at the expense of the Interior Department, by which all the
disbursements connected with the service of the National Museum are
made.

Reports of the United States Fish Commission.—A series of publications
which may be considered as in some respects connected with the work
of the Institution not only in the personnel, but in the subjects of natu-

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 2a

ral history discussed and in the resulting contributions to our knowledge
may properly be here noticed. ‘The present Secretary being at the head
of the United States Commission of Fish and Visheries, and the work
accomplished by this agency in increasing and diffusing scientific as well
as practical information being quite within the objects and province of
the Institution, much of the material would legitimately form a portion
of the Smithsonian Contributions or Miscellaneous Collections. These
reports are, however, published by the government, and are distributed
by Congress.

Four volumes of this series have been published, each being of octavo
size and comprising about 1,000 pages. The last of these reports, pub-
lished in 1878, contains 1,089 pages, and embraces: (A) General con-
siderations on the progress of operations; (B) Inquiry into the decrease
of the food-fishes; (C) The propagation of food-fishes, as the shad, the
salmon, the white-fish, and the carp; (D) Tables showing the distribu-
tion of shad, salmon, &c., the places, dates, and quantities hatched by
the United States Fish Commission from 1872 to 1876. The Appendix
contains a num ber of important papers, the most elaborate of which is a
history of the American whale fishery, by Capt. Alexander Starbuck.
This is followed by one on the carp and its culture, by Rudolph Hessel.

Smithsonian annual report.—The Annual Report of the Institution for
1877 was transmitted to Congress on the 6th of February, 1878, and
19,500 extra copies of it were ordered to be printed, 1,000 for the use
of the Senate, 3,000 for the House of Representatives, and 6,500 for the
Iastitution. It forms an octavo volume of 500 pages, with 49 wood-cut
illustrations. The principal articles in the Appendix are a list of the
more important explorations and expeditions, the collections of which
have constituted the main sources of supply fer the National Museum
from 1850 (and even earlier) to 1877; a translation of Holmgren’s memoir
on color-blindness, in connection with which is reprinted an article on
the same subject by Professor Henry, published in 1845; translations of
the reports of the transactions of the Geneva Society of Physics and
Natural History for 1875, 1876, and 1877, of Weisman’s article on the
change of the Mexican Axolotl toan Amblystoma, and of short memoirs
on meteorological subjects, by Hann, Reye, Sohncke, Colding, and Pes-
lin; notes on the history and climate of New Mexico, by Thomas Me-
Parlin, and brief articles on ethnological topics, by C. Rau, George L.
Cannon, Moses Strong, J. N. de Hart, E. E. Breed, M. W. Moulton, Mrs.
Gilbert Knapp, W. H. R. Lykins, James Shaw, J. Cochrane, George W.
Hill, H. B. Case, F. Miller, Joseph Friel, W. M. Clark, Charles C. Jones,
jr., W. B. F. Bailey, A. S. Gaines, K. M. Cunningham, 8S. S. Haldeman,
A.M. Harrison, 8. P. Mayberry, Wiliiam M. Taylor, Edwin M. Shepard,
George J. Gibbs, F..L. Galt, and Stephen Bowers.

ANTHROPOLOGY.

As inprevious years, the subject of the anthropology of North America
received special attention fiom the Institution. Its earliest publiea-
24 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

tion, constituting the first volume of the “ Smithsonian Contributions
to Knowledge,” was the work of Squier and Davis on the ancient
monuments of the Mississippi Valley; and to this the inquiries of the
past third of a century into the early history of man in the Northwest
owe their chief impetus. The book is a universal guide, and is even now
a standard. The edition at the command of the Institution has long
since been exhausted, and it has been proposed to republish it to meet
the urgent calls of the public. Unfortunately, the destruction of the
wood-euts by the fire of 1865 would render the cost of reproducing them
so great as to make it doubtful whether it would not be better to use the
money that would be needed for it in the preparation of a more ex-
tended work on the same subject, which has been in contemplation by
the Institution for several years past.

In the list of publications of the year is mentioned an archeological
circular, prepared by Professor Mason, and distributed in very large
numbers. The object of this has been to secure information of the
minutest details in reference to the construction of mounds, earthworks,
and other traces of aboriginal engineering, as well as of articles of every
description and character found in the mounds, in the graves, and in
the superficial soil.

The answers to this cireular have been unexpectedly abundant and
' varied, and a great mass of material is now in the possession of the In-
stitution and in process of elaboration. The papers in relation to the
mounds, earth-works, &c., are placed in the hands of Professor Mason, of
Columbian University, for critical investigation and examination; and
under his editorship they will be arranged and ultimately printed, to-
gether with numerous illustrations which accompany them. <A series
of maps will also be completed, containing information obtained from
these and other sources, so that we shall have some satisfactory idea of
their geographical distribution, extent, &c., throughout the country.

The investigation of the aboriginal relies is in charge of Prof. Charles
Rau, the superintendent of the archeological department of the National
Museum. As preliminary to a systematic work in this direction Prof.
Rau has lately completed the rearrangement of the archeological col-
lections of the Museum, carefully eliminating the duplicates, but retain-
ing whatever may serve to illustrate the geographical distribution of
forms and material, or the variation in pattern. Under his direction,
also, numerous drawings have been made on wood and partially engraved.

A detailed statement of the donations to the National Museum relat-
ing to this branch of science will be found in the list of Contributors to
the Museum, and also in the general account given subsequently, of
the several additions to the Museum. It may, however, be well to call
special attention to two northern collections in this department; one
received from Mr. E. W. Nelson, a signal-station observer at Saint
Michaels, in Alaska; the other from Mr. L. Kumlien, the naturalist of
the Howgate expedition to Arctic America. These illustrate very fully
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. Za

the nature and character of art among the Esquimaux on both sides of
the continent, and with what has been heretofore obtained from the
same region, as also the coast of Arctic America, through the agency
of Mr. R. R. McFarlane, render this series the most complete of its kind
in existence.

Special acknowledgment is aue to the American Express Company, °
through Jas. C. Fargo, esq., general superintendent, for giving instruc-
tions to all the agents of the company to co-operate with the Institution
in the collection of archeological material for the Museum.

METEOROLOGY.

Among the first objects of consideration by Professor Henry, after
the commencement of active operations on the part of the Smithsonian
Institution, was that of meteorology, and for more than twenty-five
years ithas received alarge proportion of hisown attention and considera-
tion, as well as the aid of the Institution as far as its means would
permit. Prior to the period named more or less attention had been paid
to the subject, and efforts had been made to secure an extensive and
continuous series of observations. These, for the most part, however,
were limited to single places, and more rarely extended to counties or
States; and it is to Professor Henry that we owe the establishment of
a uniform system over an entire continent. Little by little the work was
extended until, at the time of its fullest activity, it had its agents in
nearly every county of most of the States of the Union; indeed, through-
out the whole of British North America, and even in the remotest post
of the Hudson’s Bay Company, in Mexico and Central America, the
services of observers were utilized. Some of these were provided with
full sets of meteorological apparatus, so that observations could be made
with the utmost precision; others had only a thermometer and barom-
eter, while still others had nothing but a thermometer.

Several different series of blanks were distributed by the Institution
corresponding to the ditierent classes. The blanks were returned
monthly and duly filed. In the earlier part of the work some instru-
ments were furnished, such as barometers and thermometers. Subse-
quently, however, it was found that the expense was too great, and only
occasionally were thermometers and rain-gauges supplied. There was,
however, no lack of persons who were ready to take part in this system,
and not only to give their time, but also to purchase their own instru-
ments.

The interest of the observers was maintained by a constant corre-
spondence with the Institution. Copies of the Smithsonian Reports
and other publications were duly transmitted to them, and any inquiries
or communications from them on scientific subjects were promptly re-
sponded to.

In this way a body of collaborators was secured to the Institution,
whose services cannot be overestimated, since they not only furnished
26 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

information relating to meteorology, but they were always ready to sup-
ply information and assistance in other directions. To that body of men
the National Museum owes a very large part of the extensive and com-
plete series of illustrations of North American natural history that gives
to it so great a prominence, this being the result of successive applica-
‘tions for aid from particular classes. Thus, whenever the attention of
the Institution was directed to the fact that some particular branch of
natural history required its fostering care, circulars were prepared and
issued to the meteorological correspondents, invoking co-operation, and
asking them to collect objects of the kind that might be found in their
neighborhood, so that, not only all North American species might be
gathered, but accurate determinations made of their geographical dis-
tribution. Very extensive responses usually followed these appeals,
and in many cases sufficient material was secured to place the subject
on a permanent and satisfactory basis. The works of the Institution on
many orders of insects and on fresh-water and land shells, reptiles,
birds, mammals, &c., were all based more or less entirely on collections
and information obtained by the Smithsonian observers.

As a result, therefore, of over twenty-five years’ observations by such
men, the mass of meteorological information obtained became very great,
and even though a certain per cent. of the observations could not lay
claim to that minute accuracy which is generally required, yet it was
found that, for many purposes, such as the general indications of varia-
tions in temperature, barometrical pressure, rain-fall, &e., in the colla-
tion of all observations the errors disappeared, and an average was se-
cured which did not differ essentially from what would have been derived
from more accurate observations.

The results of these observations have been published by the Institu-
tion in several forms. During the time when the werk was carried on
partly by the assistance of the Department of Agriculture, the reports
of that establishment contained the general results. In 1855, two quarto
volumes were published at the expense of the government. Subsequently,
however, a system of special digests was undertaken under the super-
vision of Professor Cofiin, for the winds; and of the temperature, rain-
fall, &e., under Mr. Charles A. Schott, of the United States Coast Sur-
vey, a full account of which will be found in the former reports of the
Institution.

A second edition of the work on the Winds of the Globe, commenced
by Protessor Coffin, and unfinished at his death, a few years ago, was
completed under the auspices of his son, and published by the Insti-
tution. This is one of the most important tréatises on meteorological
science that has ever appeared from any press.

Shortly after being honored with the appointment as Secretary, I in-

vited a committee, consisting of Mr. Charles A. Schott, Prof. Cleveland

Abbé, and Mr. William Ferrel, to consider the subject of the unfinished
meteorological work of the Institution, and to suggest a plan by which
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 20

it could be carried on and completed, with due reference to the state of
its finances. This committee met at the Institution and carefully con-
sidered the whole subject, with the manuscripts before them, and con-
cluded that a new edition of the rain-fall tables should be completed as
soon as possible, this being a subject of great interest, both theoretically
and in its practical applications. An allowance was therefore made for
the completion of this work, and it will be ready for the press during the
present year. The publication of this new edition of the rain-fall tables
will be commenced and completed as soon as practicable. The baro-
metrical reductions, the digest of the periodical phenomena of animal
and vegetable life, &c., will be prosecuted as rapidly as the funds of the
Institution will warrant.

It is, of course, unnecessary to refer to the fact that active operations
in regard to meteorological observations, in accordance with the policy
of Professor Henry have been transferred to the Weather Bureau of the
Signal Department of the United States Army, under the care of General
A. J. Myer, and that hereafter the meteorological expenditures will be
confined to completing the presentation of the results obtained during the
twenty-five years of the active work of the Institution in that direction.

RESEARCHES.

The appropriation made to Dr. H. C. Wood, jr. in 1876 and 1877 for
experiments to determine the nature and cause of the increased tempera-
ture of the body during fever has been expended and a report of the
investigations is being prepared for publication by the Institution. A
brief abstract of this memoir wil be found in the appendix to this
report.

The first point to be determined was whether fever was as complex
as it appears, or whether there be not some dominant symptom charac-
teristic of the process. By artificially heating living animals, generally
and locally, it was found that elevation of the bodily temperature is
sufficient to produce all the nervous and circulatory symptoms of fever
and that the cooling of the heated part is capable of removing the
symptoms, so that fever may be defined to be a morbid process which
produces elevation of the bodily temperature.

The next point was to determine whether the increase of the bodily
temperature in fever was due to an increase of the amount of heat pro-
duced, or to the failure of the body to throw off its heat. For this pur-
pose the laws governing the production and loss of animal heat in health
were studied by means of calorimetric and cardiometric observations on
animals under various conditions, and it was determined that there is in
the cortical region a nerve-center which controls the production of animal
heat.

The subject of fever itself was then investigated. The experiments
were mostly made upon dogs, each experiment continuing for from three
to six days. Thermometrical readings were made every twenty minutes
28 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

by night and by day, and the normal and febrile states were studied
both when food was administered and when withheld. The result of
this was to show that there are two sources of animal heat, one from the
stored-up materials of the body, and the other from the food, the first
being the one manifested in fever.

The results of the whole investigation are summed up in eleven con-
clusions which are given in the abstract referred to.

The publication of recent investigations of the motion of the moon*
has rendered a re-diseussion of the ancient solar eclipses desirable.
This work has been commenced under the auspices of this Institution
by Mr. D. P. Todd, M. A., Assistant Nautical Almanac Office. Hansen’s
tables of both the sun and moon are employed, the latter being corrected
from the results of Professor Newcomb’s researches. So far as the work
has now progressed, the computations relate to seven eclipses—those
of Thales, at Larissa, of Ennius, of Agathocles, at Stiklastad, and the
two eclipses of the thirteenth century which have been discussed by
Celoria, of Milan. The adopted value of the secular acceleration hay-
ing been deduced from entirely independent data, it is hoped that this
investigation will throw new light on the interpretation of the ancient
eclipses, and point toward the true value of the secular acceleration
which ought to be adopted in the construction of new tables of the moon.
The progress of this investigation will be much facilitated by the new
tables of eclipses, t now in press; and itis proposed to extend the original
scope of the research to include a large number of supposed ancient
ecliptic dates.

LABORATORY.

The original act of Congress calls for a laboratory as one of the ele-
mentary features of the Institution, and an establishment of this kind
has always been maintained, with a greater or less degree of efficiency.

In consequence of the limited appropriations by Congress for the
maintenance of the National Museum, it has for several years been im-
possible to secure the services of a mineralogist. Arrangements have
been made, however, for such an officer; the laboratory has been put in
thorough order; additional fittings have been introduced, necessary for
its efficiency, and a complete stock of chemicals and other materials
procured. It is now in proper condition for the prosecution of investi-
gations requiring chemical and mechanical appliances.

The principal work of the laboratory at present is.examining min-
erals sent to the Institution for that purpose from various parts of the
country, very few days passing without the reception of one or more pat-
cels, many of them from members of Congress, requiring consideration.
The Institution does not undertake to make quantitative analyses, ex-

* Researches on the Motion of the Moon. By Simon Newcomb, Professor U. 8. Navy.
Washington Observations for 1875, Appendix II.

tTables of Eclipses, from B. C. 700 to A. D. 2300. By Simon Newcomb, Superin-
tendent Nautical Almanac. Washington, 1879.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 29

cepting in behalf of the government, but is always ready to indicate
the general composition of specimens sent for the purpose.

The laboratory will also be used in the identification of large quanti-
ties of crude mineral substances in charge of the Institution, to be clas-
sified preliminary to the selection of duplicates and their distribution
to colleges and academies of the United States.

TELEGRAPHIC ANNOUNCEMENT OF ASTRONOMICAL DISCOVERIES.

As in previous years, the Institution has served as the medium for tel-
egraphic communication between astronomers of the Old and New
World, in regard to such astronomical discoveries as require prompt
announcement, for the purpose of having all their phenomena investi-
gated by concurrent action on both sides of the ocean. An accompany-
ing list represents the announcements referred to and the dates at which
they were respectively made. This feature of the work of the Institu-
tion is one of great importance, and is a very satisfactory demonstration
of the extent to which its labors are prosecuted for the world in general,
and not merely for a restricted portion of the United States.

The following is a list of the minor planets discovered in 1878:

. |
No. Name. Date. Discoverer. Discover- | Observatory.
er’s No. | :
NEON Garnmmd -sseesee-- | anuany) | 20) | Perrohines ses >= Sth. | Toulouse.
Sie Bucharis..--o-e----- Bebruany, 2 j.Cobtenot! === -- Ist. | Paris.
TIS) |p LONGUE See oe Seas oo Rebruany. jas ealisae ses ssee- 12th. | Pola.
Hea Shriayee eels cas oo eORUa i y= a Ones Open vecmetar 13th. | Do.
HSAs DELON eadeeeies sce) He@bLuary eee) ice adONasas esr 14th. | Do.
Son ebUMIKe).sss5se0 ---| March’ | lo |PPReterstszs<ca- 28th. | Clinton.
itch}. | CHIE ee see Saaeuee April (5) |) Derm dele@ubny oes. de ears:
Sven leap eRraee == sess =.) Aspril 1A Coomera pease cee: 2d. | Marseilles.
seni Menippem.ce-e-----| June 1st GPetersses2 see 29th. | Clinton.
ILS) [len Obie EAR e ace eeeeene September ONS. a 4d O) sasaiseee= 30th. Do.
SOR USMC Ceara see Sephemiben 22" as Oy cease ee 3ist. | Do.
Oi elo) coy eee el oepbember GO! |i2- 00) jas aa ssc. 32d. Do.

The comets of 1878 have been—

Comet I, discovered July 7, by Lewis Swift, of Rochester, N. Y.
This comet was observed in America by Dr. C. H. F. Peters only, the
majority of American observers being in the West on eclipse expeditions.
It is probably identical with a comet discovered by P. Ferrari at Rome
in July. On July 20, Tempel’s periodic comet was found by Winnecke,
quite away from its ephemeris place.

Encke’s comet was found on August 3 by Mr. Tebbutt, of Windsor,
Neder WV.

CORRESPONDENCE.

Mention has been made by my lamented predecessor on several ocea-
sions of the general character of the correspondence of the Institution,
30 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

and of its increasing extent. As might naturally be expected, this is
now greater than ever before.

During the past year the number of letters received and sent out ex-
ceeded that for any previous corresponding period in the history of the
establishment, the latter covering about 8,000 pages of press copy books.
This increase was largely due—

(1) To renewed activity in the department of exchanges ;

(2) To the execution of a comprehensive plan for extending the arche-
ological cabinet of the Institution ; and

(3) To the acknowledgment of letters of condolence on the death of
the late Secretary. ,

As explanatory of the first of these sources of increase in the corres-
pondence it may be stated that some months since a systematic effort
was made looking to the early completion of as many as possible of the
series of publications of foreign societies in the Smithsonian library,
and, reciprocally, to supplying deficiencies in the numereus series of
Smithsonian publications held abroad... To this end a communication
was addressed to each of the nearly 3,000 foreign establishments in cor-
respondence with this Institution, mentioning the volumes or parts of
their respective transactions not at the time in possession of the Insti-
tution, and requesting that these be supplied; one of the conditions of
a favorable response being a promise that the Smithsonian Institution
would, in turn, fill whatever gaps it could in its own series. The re-
sponses, as was expected, were very prompt and most gratifying. Re-
sulting therefrom, the Smithsonian library—now constituting the science
library of the government—has been enriched by the addition of hun-
dreds of valuable works of a character not usually obtained even by
purehase, while the Institution itself has been brought into closer and
more active relations than ever with its foreign correspondents of both
hemispheres.

Regarding the second source of increase in the correspondence, it
may be remarked that more recently a wide-spread distribution has been
made of a circular relative to archeology. Indeed, it is hardly too
much to say that this circular has been seattered broadeast over the
land. Not only was it distributed to organized establishments of a lit-
erary, educational, and scientific character, to newspapers, postmas-
ters, and, by generous permission of express companies, through their
agents to individuals who might be known to them as specially inter-
ested in the subject, but a copy was systematically mailed with each
written communication sent out by the Institution, no matter what the
subject. This circular has proved more prolific of correspondence than
was anticipated by its most sanguine friends. Inquiry soon followed
inquiry for more detailed information as to desiderata in the way of
specimens and information; requests were continuous to know if this or
that article would be welcome; offers to lend objects for copying were
numerous from individuals possessing unique and choice specimens, val-
i
oy

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. om

uable to them only as heirlooms or curiosities, but who, while easily
convinced of the little value of isolated collections in comparison with
the importance to science of one grand, complete series, could not be
persuaded to part with their archzeological treasures; now and then
private cabinets of more than ordinary character and extent have been
brought to light; and, finally, modern ‘“ manufactories” of relics have
been detected, and in this way forgeries, to some extent, driven from
the market. Thus an extra amount of correspondence has been en-
tailed that has proved no inconsiderable addition to the previous ardu-
ous labors of the officers of the Institution.

As the result, the Institution has received hundreds of specimens from
all parts of North America as gifts, while by making copies in plaster or
metal it has added to its cabinet many forms that would otherwise be
unknown and inaccessible to the student as well as tothe public at large.
Many of these objects have proved of great archeological interest, and
while not a few of them are almost indispensable for comparative study,
all are more or less, valuable in the elucidation of questions relating to the
geographical distribution of aboriginal remains in the United States, and
for filling gaps in State series. Moreover, by soliciting illustrations and
descriptions of the rarer or more curious forms in private cabinets, the
Institution has been saved much expense for transportation, its archzo-
logical experts rarely finding recourse to the original specimen necessary
in determining what is or is not a desideratum.

As in previous years, the Institution was the recipient in 1878 of a
large number of communications, having as a principal object the over-
turning of theories established by Newton and others, which, founded
on experiment and observation, have long since been accepted as true
by the scientific world. These, as is usual with papers of this class,
while purporting to furnish the only rational explanation of the pheno-
mena to be accounted for, generally displayed a degree cf assumption
entirely out of keeping with the spirit of true science; and while it
would not be a work of much moment to prove to the unprejudiced,
who may be acquainted with the subjects of such essays, that the pro-
positions enunciated are wholly at variance with the fundamental and
generally accepted principles of science, it is always exceedingly difficult
to convince the authors of these “new doctrines” that they are not in
accord with the scientific world. It would sometimes appear either that
they are incapable of receiving the truth, or that, convinced of the fal-
lacey of their reasoning, they prefer to cling to a false notion of original-
ity rather than confess their error. Such communications, never brief,
have, from time to time, been simply reiterations of previous expres-
sions. ‘Correspondence with this class” of writers, as has been most
truly observed by the late Secretary, is, indeed, “not only very onerous
but difficult to manage, inasmuch as the rejection of their propositions
is generally attributed to prejudice.”

Another class of communications of a more intelligent character was
32 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

also received during the past year, relating to subjects in physics and
chemistry. In accordance with the custom of the establishment, these
were submitted to gentlemen eminent in the several sciences to which
they pertained, who for many years have cheerfully acted as collabora-
tors of the Institution.

Although the Smithsonian system of meteorology was several years
ago transferred to the United States Signal Office, communications con-
tinue to be received on practical questions connected with this subject.
These with few exceptions have been referred to General Myer, and their
authors so informed.

But increase in the correspondence of the Institution is by no means
wholly attributable to the sources above mentioned. As the character
of the establishment has become more widely known from year to year,
the number of applications for information in the line of natural history
has annually increased, particularly in botany, zoology, and mineralogy.
In the last branch, supposed discoveries of mineral wealth are frequently
made known to the Institution, and the specimens forwarded for exam-
ination—which is always gratuitous. The determination of their char-
acter, however, seldom requires more than a qualitative analysis, and
in the great majority of instances the specimens are found to be of no
commercial value.

EXCHANGES.

There is, perhaps, no one feature of the Smithsonian Institution by
which its mission for the diffusion of knowledge, if not its increase, is
more thoroughly accomplished than by its extended system of interna-
tionalexchanges. This began in the earliest days of the Institution, from
the necessity of making some suitable arrangement by whieh its publi-
‘ations might be promptly transmitted to the learned societies of Amer-
ica and the world, and corresponding works received in return. This
required the organization of a thorough system, including special ar-
rangements for transportation agencies in the various parts of the United
States and of foreign countries; and as the machinery was sufficient to
earry a larger amount of material than that belonging to the Institution
itself, it was considered in strict accordance with the policy of the In-
stitution to offer its services to other establishments.

Year by year the number of participators in the exchange was in-
creased, and at the present date it is world-wide in its extent. With
very few exceptions the institutions of learning, not only of the United
States but of all America, carry on the greater portion of their scientifie
exchanges with the rest of the world through the Smithsonian Institu-
tion. Among the outside countries more especially to be mentioned
are Canada, Mexico, Chile, Venezuela, &c.

The institutions are for the most part scientific societies publishing
transactions, colleges and universities, State historical and agricultural
societies, and technological institutions. All the departments of gov-
ernment in Washington, with few exceptions, also depend upon the same
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. ae

system for their foreign relationships. The system also includes the ex-
change of publications of special students in science.

For a long time the Smithsonian Institution carried on this work by
the establishment of agencies through which its own transmissions were
distributed to their destination, and from which all the returns were col-
lected and forwarded to Washington. Of late years, however, in certain
countries, these labors have been materially lightened by a portion of
the exchange being undertaken by some learned society or by the gov-
ernment. These being constituted Smithsonian agents in their respect-
ive countries, receive whatever may be sent to them for distribution,
collect the returns and transmit them, thus giving to the Institution the
benefit of an intelligent superintendence of the work. The first of these
organizations was that established some years ago by the University of
Christiania, Norway; and by Holland in the patronage of the Scientific
Bureau at Harlem, under the efficient supervision of Dr. E. H. Von
Baumhauer. During the past year a similar organization has been
effected for Belgium, and it is hoped that their number will continue to
increase. Even now, without any formal arrangement to that effect, the
Academies of Science of Stockholm, of Copenhagen, of Madrid, and of,
Milan discharge the services of agerts of the Institution for their respect-
ive countries.

A still more recent movement has in contemplation the establishment
of departments of exchange in all countries under the direction of their
respective governments; and this is intended primarily to facilitate a
mutual interchange of government documents, but is broad enough in
its scope to include the publications of societies and of men of science.
At present this arrangement has only been carried out formally for Bel-
gium by the “Commission Belge d’Echanges internationaux,” and for
France by the “ Commission Francaise des Echanges internationaux.”

In the Appendix will be found the usual series of tables, showing,
first, the number of parcels sent out by the Institution in behalf of es-
tablishments in North America; and, secondly, the packages received
for the same parties. The total number of shipments of boxes, contain-
ing such transmissions, has not been quite so great in 1878 as in the
year preceding. This was due to the interruption of the business caused
by the death of Professor Henry, and in the desire, by the reorganiza-
tion of departments, to give greater efficiency to that of the exchanges.
On this account a large number of bundles have accumulated, which,.
however, will be distributed in the earlier months of the year; after
which there will be no interruption to the usual routine of transmission.

Up to the present time the entire expense of this system of interna-
tional exchanges has been borne by the Smithsonian Institution, be-
yond requiring that all outgoing parcels be delivered to the Institution
free of expense. The enormous increase, however, in the number and
bulk of the packages delivered to the Institution has made it necessary
to charge a small amount on this class of transmissions, and under the

S. Mis. 59 3

34 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

authority of the board, a circular has been prepared and issued, making
one of the conditions of receipt the payment of five cents per pound on
the parcels. This is actually below the cost, as it includes the expense
of wrapping, of boxing, of forwarding, and a share of the salary of em-
ployés and agents, and other incidentals. It is about the same rate as
is charged by the express companies for freight in bulk from Washing-
ton to Chicago.

To facilitate the business connected with the system of the Smith-
sonian exchanges the following rules have been adopted:

1. Transmissions through the Smithsonian Institution for foreign
countries to be confined exclusively to books, pamphlets, charts, and
other printed matter, sent as DONATIONS or EXCHANGES, and not to in-
clude those procured by purchase. The Institution and its agents will
not receive for any address apparatus and instruments, philosophical,
medical, &c. (including microscopes), whether purchased or presented;
nor specimens of natural history, except where special permission from
the Institution has been obtained.

2. The Departments or Bureaus of the United States Government to
pay the Smithsonian Institution five cents per pound on their packages,
which includes all expense of boxing, shipping, and transportation.

3. A list of the addresses and a statement of contents of each send-
ing to be mailed to the Smithsonian Institution at or before the time of
transmission.

4, Packages to be legibly addressed and to be indorsed with the name
of the sender and their contents.

5. Packages to be enveloped in stout paper, and securely pasted or
tied with strong twine—never sealed with wax.

6. No package to a single address to exceed one-half of one cubic foot
in bulk.

7. To have no inclosures of letters.

8. To be delivered to the Smithsonian Institution or its agents free of
expense.

9. To contain a blank acknowledgment, to be signed and returned by
the party addressed.

10. Should returns be desired, the fact is to be explicitly stated on or
in the package.

Unless these conditions are complied with, the parcels cannot be for-
warded by the Institution.

Statistics of exchanges sent during the last ten years.

1869. 1870. 1871. | 1872. 1873. | 1874. | 1875. | 1876. 1877. 1878.
<7 aa | ~|
Number of boxes.. 112 121 108 179 196 131 208 | 323 897 309
Bulk in cubie feet 1, 033 1, 189 772 954 1, 476 | 933)|) Sl 5038 2.261 2, 779 | 2,160
69, 220

Weight: ..-.-....- 23, 376 | 31,383 | 28, 950 | 26, 850 | 44,236 | 27,990 | 45,300 | 80, 750 | 99, 250 |
| | | | | |

ce NT a reel 2) Si 2 |e
The following table exhibits the number of foreign establishments
with which the Institution is at present in correspondence, or, in other
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 35

words, to which it sends publications and from which it receives others
in return:

Foreign institutions in correspondence with the Smithsonian Institution.

J JIG SR SACHS eos COMpCam mem poe Cie eelatidres scree torn eeepc aoa 4
Argentine Republic -=--5- 522.222-. ES EIN Ol aegseerta es ear ek eee 30
Australia and Tasmania-..........- Se Elli allivemetrereer cer wee anc area ee 187
astrO-MUNGALY ssc eee ase US De acy OH ype canara renee tee eee 6
ELST <2 ates este Seine dec scies= ae Ae Pacem eee s cue cca eee ‘. 5
IB OVIV LG calcite siteine seaiacinin ceocte cess did SEiberiaie so Serer sset S. os sca does 1
Siva ee eeoae Gas Nene e ac CenBeae DOs Ma nriiinstee seseesae se = san ee Soe oe 3
IBLIbIShMAIMerICatssceee cee aera eee Uo) MOXICOm mee eee ne cee Sana 16
British Gulanmareest oe seats sess 3S) | NGw Zeatamdsses 257k i ery 15
Cape Colony and St. Helena. --..-- dl MINOR Ars s=ite sets cise t oee eel ceeeles 25
CentraleAmenic¢aesen2ss--2-t2 53. SEP OLut /scies Ae eis Be eles eh pstey ss 4
Chilifets eu tesoees ac Secsveleceisse Sop hilippinesislandsieseee ees steeeee 3
CLUDE nee SBS een SESE Be aeaee LSP orto gal: saswe- cucee sees eae ees 32
Colombia: 2S tress Se sss oro ee es Op IRUSSIay oa eect arene ee ese 162
Denmark nn sece see sae mec mnemecees Hie) || Sehxokyaein MislbRnGi. ooo eos donaee Sone 2
WMimnGeheGutan ares. sees ss cee cece =e A bal itsy OE NEN ESE es ore ye Ye ee ae ae Al ay 4 24
WMEWAC OW ssisisesiooeine sclewisectecae eer bale Swed ent: seo ack cee anes 22
HOW Mb <sassie > sa) ccs ese he sets c ets Sileswiltzerland) ec encae tence sctese ere 73
GAT COMM alee salad oi nael acento ae 32 7a POU C Nie arene aimneee ieee eieiay elmira 12
Genmamyges essen eee atesncctces, O07 i Veneziela cts: - cee cs-tce5teeetee 2
Greambpribaim and Ireland(;.-2---4- 309) | WestIndies 2-.-2. 2.2. -sscsc-ss-5- 8
GMCOCOn seas see) aescinee scione Sea as 8 | International societies -......--... a
Holand 2.2. So ss=ccsce ts oecece 66

Motaleeecesieswehictiosases ccs Pe ooo

Special reference has been made in previous reports to the arrange-
ment by which Congress places fifty copies of all the publications of
the United States Government at the disposal of the Library Committee
of Congress. These copies are to be exchanged, under its direction,
through the Smithsonian Institution, for correspondingly complete series
of the publications of such other governments as agree to the proposi-
tion. At present, the number of sets amounts to thirty-two, and includes
the following governments. Of these, several came for the first time into
the arrangement during the year 1878, and seventy-three boxes of the
publications referred to, each box measuring seven cubic feet, have been
distributed :

International exchange of government publications in 1878.

Boxes Boxes.
IOeniiie REPUNING <..22.+sce0 «casas 2, | Pra Ge eee eeer rare ee ou hee Se cines Soe Ne
Rou V ABN S ets Spgs ee ane sabe Ld | GQeeman ys a Peet eA os ae
Brea pelea eects cee ree ISG ays Vip Greetee tee yeeSi ob dot CER 2
BAIA ne moist ote cete <n savece elbaida oti 2) || gia pita ees eee mens a rere espera a 2
PEO NOS CAVICR 4 ain aiocf Ps oh a Pe eect on 2s Wty liga LOme ae ei hae kA oa 2
EIR EGIEy (CORED) SER ee EP eae IRI LUS ETc t ets 9 Lt SE 7 i 2
Wanada(Loronto) ..<.05s<s00 000 = 2 | GMIGKIC OM Nee RE ea ete ee
bess) f85 22252 28a ei. doc dse se 2 | New South Weles::225ce22<. 22.28.22 2
SE SAM Gee 8 foi. Sans dsisiala 2k dan sa o's 2 | News Healanid sesity sci jg eee 2
36 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

BOXES BOXEs
INGER Yc ee or aoe veisews sccite. ace BUCS WROCRtemce cee ee eee eee 2
OUD OAL saat poe sasisccnc els ccscos sc) 2.) Switzerland <2 eee eee oteeeee 2
IGUISS Aine ese mies ssceem Gaecc tle see 2) Tasmania .o: <2 eee eee eee eaeeeee 2
Queensland eile cs scselsses oss Jaseae 2) 2Durkey ees -oe eee ee tee ees 2
SAXONY msisiaecis seis escisie ne ceiwcie eee 2_\ Venezuela is: 2.2). 226 see emeeeeeeeeee 2
SIECWENIG) Bae Ae a oldseaou seesosceE eases 2.\ NACbOLG so-3 J2-22 J sess 2
SOMUMPATIS bala solace eerste = ao oklee oe 2 —-
SHORT oosnse sosoco oben pede boob poGeoS 2 Total 322.2. /s.eceo te sese sie eee 37
LIBRARY.

In accordance with the arrangement entered into shortly after the
‘fire of 1865, between the Smithsonian Institution and the Congress of
the United States, all the publications received by the Institution, in
exchange or by donation, are transferred to the Library of Congress.
The following enumeration represents the sum total of such increment:

Statement of the books, maps, and charts received by the Smithsonian Insti-
tution during the year 1878, and transferred to the Library of Congress.

Volumes:
Octawo,-or Tess 7.’ 5 Ri Ea sie cee aa eee tee 860
Quarto, or “larger <a een eee eee eer 403
1, 263
Parts of volumes:
Pectavo wor less <2: Ascot os ee ON ee ee eee 2, 356
Quarto,or larger: GPF SoA the aes Sees 2, 620
—— 4,976
Pamphlets :
Octavio, OF JESS), 0 oy Sef go lets se ye ee 1, 953
Quarto, Or larger i022 Beto. fs aie eee eee eee 463
2, 416
Wig pS. amd “CHATES. a's soe neces vs ee een eal ert ne eae 74
ROG aa oo aS cca. 2 (are ny eta ae as oa a na) na tee eee 8, 729

Of course, as heretofore, the more important works, like the publica-
tions of the leading scientific and industrial societies and academies
throughout the world, by their aggregations have continued to render
the Smithsonian library one of the most valuable of the kind extant. Itis
believed that no collection elsewhere contains so large a number of vol-
umes of scientific transactions and journals, or in so complete a series.

For the purpose, however, of perfecting the catalogue, it is proposed,
in the early part of 1879, to print a list of what the Institution possesses
of this character, inviting contributions of deficiencies and promising
similar courtesy, so far as the publications of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion are concerned.

The following is a list of some of the principal works received by the
Smithsonian Institution in 1878:
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. oe

From the Ministry of Public Works, Commerce, and Industry, Lisbon:
O Archivo Rural, vols. i-xv, Lisboa, 1858-1874, 4to. Memoria sobre
a Populacéo e a Agricultura de Portugal, Lisboa, 1868, 8vo. Chimica
Agricola, por J. I. F. Lapa, Lisboa, 1875, 8vo. Geographia e Estadisticz
Geral de Portugal e Colonias, por G. A. Perry, Lisboa, 1875, 8vo. Re-
latorio do Conselho Especial de Veterinaria, Lisboa, 1873, 4to. Manual
de Viticultura pratica, por Visconde de Villa Major, Coimbra, 1875, 5vo.
A Agricultura no Districto de Vizen, por J. B. Reis, Lisboa, 1871, 4to.
Fomento da Povoacao Rural em Hespana.: por D. F. Caballero, Lisboa,
1872, 8Svo. A Lombardia a Suisse e 0 Monte Rosa, por E. de Laveleye,
Lisboa, 1871, Svo. Recenseamento Geral dos Gados no Continente do
Reino de Portugal en 1870, Lisboa, 1873, 4to and Atlas. A Vinha eo
Vinho em 1872, por A. B. Reis, Lisboa, 1873, 8vo.

From the Society of Medical Sciences of Lisbon: Journal da Socie-
dade das Sciencias Medicas de Lisboa, 1836-1877, Lisboa, 8vo (54 vols).

From the Ministerio dos Negocias da Marinha e Ultramar, Dire¢cao
Geral da Marinha, Lisboa: Bullarium Patronatus Portugallizw, curante
Vicecomite de Paiva Manso, vols. i-iii, and App., vol.i, Lisboa, 1868-1873,
4to (3 copies). Examen des Viagens do Doutor Livingstone, por José
de Lacerda, Lisboa, 1867, 8vo (3 copies). Relatorios dos Governadores
das Provincias Ultramarinhas, vols. i, ii, Lisboa, 1875, 4to (3 copies).
Tratado de Hygiene Naval, por J. B. Fonssagrives, Lisboa, 1862, 8vo
(3 copies). Deseripgao e Roteiro da Costa Occidental de Africa, por A.
Magno de Castilho, vols. i, ii, Lisboa, 1866, 8vo (3 copies). Africa Oc-
cidental, vol. i, Lisboa, 1864, 8vo (3 copies). Regulamento para o Ser-
vico de Sande Naval, Lisboa, 1871, 8vo (3 copies). Viagem da Corveta
Dom Joao La Capital do Japao no Anno de 1869, Lisboa, 1863, 8vo (3
copies). Historia Eeclesiastica Ultramarina pelo Visconde de Paiva
Manso, vol. i, Africa Septentrional, Lisboa, 1872, 8vo (3 copies). Ensaios
sobre 4 Estatistica das Possessdes Portuguezas no Ultramar, vols. i-v,
Lisboa, 1844-1862, 8vo (3 copies). Regulament para o Servico de-
Fazenda a Bordo dos Navias do Estado, Lisboa, 1875, 8vo (3 copies).
Relatorio Acerea do Servico de Sande Publica, Lisboa, 1871, 8vo (3
copies). As Possessdes Portuguezas na Oceania, por A. de Castro,
Lisboa, 1867, (2 copies). Codigo Commercial de Signals para uso Inter-
nacional, Lisboa, 1868, 8vo (2 copies), &e., &e.

From the Australian Museum, Sydney: The Mammals of Australia, il-
lustrated by Miss Harriett Scott and Mrs. Helena Forde. ‘With a short
account of all the species hitherto described. By Gerard Krefft. Syd-
ney, 1871. Folio.

From the Hellenic Philological Society of Constantinople: Periodical
Journal (Greek), vols. iv—viii, Constantinople, 1871-1874, small 4to.
Homeric Theology, by George Konstantinidos (Greek), Constantinople,
1876, Svo, Les Grees de ?Empire Ottoman, par A. Synvet, Constanti-
nople, 1878, 8vo.

From the Government of France: Direction Générale des Douanes.
38 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. -

Tableau général du Commerce de la France, avec les Colonies et les
Puissances étrangéres, 1869-1875, Paris, 1871-1876, 4to (7 vols.). Tableau
général des Mouvements du Cabotage, 1869-1875, Paris, 1871-1876, 4to
(7 vols.).

From the Medical Society of the State of New York, Albany: Trans-
actions, 1807-1831, 1867-1870, 1873-1877. Albany. 8vo (9 vols.)

From the State Library of Pennsylvania, Harrisburg: Reports on
Geology, Mineralogy, Oil-Wells, &c., &c. Harrisburg, 1876-1878. 8vo
(21 vols.).

From the Library of the German Parliament, Berlin: Stenographische
Berichte iiber die Verhandlungen des deutschen Reichstages. iil. sess.,
1875-76, vols. i-iii; iv. sess., 1876, vols. i-iil; i. sess., 1877, vols. i-ili;
Berlin, 1876-1877, 4to. Reichs-Gesetzblatt, 1875-1876, Berlin, 4to.

From the University of Chile, Santiago: Anales de la Universidad de
Chile, 1875-1876 (4 vols.), Santiago, 8vo. Memoria del Interior, 1876, vols.
i-ii, Santiago, Svo. Memoria de Relaciones Esteriores, 1876, Santiago,
8vo. Memoria de Justicia, Culto, &e., 1876, Santiago, 8vo. Memoria de
Hacienda, 1876, Santiago, 8vo. Memoria de Guerra y Marina, 1876, San-
tiago, 8vo. Sesiones del Congreso National de Chile, 1875 (4 vols.), San-
tiago, 4to. Anuario Estadistico de Chile, vol. xvii, Santiago, 1876, 4to.
1877, 8vo. Quinto Censo Jeneral de la Poblacion de Chile, 1875, Valpa-
raiso, 1876, 4to. Coleccion de Tratados celebrados por la Republica de
Chile con los Estados estranjeros, tomo ii, Santiago, 1875, 4to. La Chili
tel qwil est, par E. Seve, tomei, Valparaiso, 1876, 8vo. Historia de Chile,
1831-1871, por Don R. 8. Valdes, tomo i, Santiago, 1876, 8vo. La Cro-
nica de 1810, por M. L. Amunategui, tomo ii, Santiago, 1876,8vo. Ensaye
sobre los depositos metaliferos de Chile, por Don I. Domeyko, Santiago,
1876, 8vo.

From the Royal Academy of Sciences, Lisbon: Memorias da Acade-
mia, Nova Serie, tomo iv, v, parte i, Lisboa, 1872-1877, 4to. Decada 13
da Historia da India, i, ii, Lisboa, 1876, 4to. Portugallis Monumenta,
2 parts, Lisboa, 1873, folio. Subsidios para a Historia da India Portu-
gueza, tomo v, Lisboa, 1868, 4to. Corpo Diplomatico Portugueza, tomo
v, Lisboa, 1874, 4to. Quadro Elementar dus Relades politicas e diplo-
maticas de Portugal, vols. xii and xiii, Lisboa, 1874, 1876, 8vo. Flora
Cochinchinensis, vols. i, ii, Lisboa, 1790, 4to. Historia dos Estabeleci-
mentos scientificos e areisticos de Portugal, toms iii, vi, Lisbon, 1873-
1876, 5vo. Jornal de Sciences Mathematicas, toms iv, v, Lisboa, 1873,
1876, 8vo. Tratado Elementar de Optica, Lisboa, 1874, 8vo. Historia
de Congo, Lisboa, 1877, 8vo. Carro de Meteorologia, Lisboa, 1869, 8vo.
Chimica Agricola, Lisboa, 1875, 8vo.

From the British Government: Facsimiles of National Manuscripts of
Scotland, selected under the direction of the Right Hon. Sir William
Gibson-Craig, Bart., lord clerk register of Scotland, and photozinco-
graphed by command of Her Majesty Queen Victoria by Colonel Sir
Henry James, part iii, Edinburgh, 1872, folio.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 39

From the Royal Library, Stockholm: Government Documents, 1877,
1878, Stockholm, 17 vols. and 8 parts, 4to.

From the Government of South Australia, Adelaide: Acts and Ordi-
nances of the Province of South Australia, 1837-1835, Adelaide, 4to
(6 vols.). Proceedings of the Parliament of South Australia, 1857—8, 1,
ii; 1858, i, ii; 1859, i, ii; 1860, i-iii; 1861, i-iii; 1862, i-ii1; 1863, i; 1864,
i-iii; 1865, i, ii; 18656, i, ii; 1866-7, i-li; 1867, i-iii; 1568-9, 1-111;
186970, i-iii; 187071, i-iii; 1871, i, ii; 1872, i-iii; 1873, 1-11; 1874,
i-iii; 1875, i-iii; and special session, Adelaide, folio (53 vols.).  Statis-
tical Sketch of South Australia, by Josiah Boothby, London, 1876, 8vo.

From the Norwegian Government, Christiania: Norges Officielle Sta-
tistik, 13 volumes and 43 parts, Christiania, 1870-1876. Forklaringer
til K. Norges Statsregnskab, 1875, Christiania, 1876, 4to.

From the second geological survey of Pennsylvania: Reports 1875-
1878 (20 volumes).

From the Universities of Wiirzburg, Marburg, Berlin, Louvain, Bonn,
Halle, Gottingen, Jena, Erlangen, Tae Zuxich, Greiswald, Heidel-
berg, Dorpat, and HST Ne: eae granite for 1877.

From Dr. A. Ernst, Caracas: Statistical documents, 24 volumes,
Caracas, 1875-1877, 4to.

From the Library of Parliament, Ottawa, Ontario: 18 volumes gov-
ernment documents.

From the State Library of Ohio: 14 volumes State documents.

An addition of special interest will be found in the paleontological
library of the late Prof. F. B. Meek, whose death at the Institution,
after many years’ sojourn within its walls, was recorded in the report for
1877 (p. 10). Mr. Meek died without any known heirs, and his books
being appraised in due legal manner, the Institution purchased them.
This was the more desirable as, in regard to many of the works there was
some uncertainty whether they had been presented to Professor Meek
in his individual capacity or as the officer in charge of the paleontolog-
ical department of the Institution. This question is, of course, now set-
tled. The books of this library (especially the volumes enriched by
copious manuscript notes and interpolations) have been repeatedly con-
sulted by paleontologists and conchologists.

NATIONAL MUSEUM.

The relations existing between the Smithsonian Institution and the
National Museum have been so frequently referred to by my predecessor
that it is only necessary to mention briefly that the Museum constitutes
no organic part of the Institution, and that, whenever Congress so
directs, it may be transferred to any designated supervision without
_ affecting the general plans and operations connected with the “increase
and diffusion of knowledge among men.” For the most part, the articles
consist of the collections made by the United States surveying and
exploring expeditions, and the expense of their care is entirely covered
AO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

by government appropriations, which have been sufficient to meet the
actual cost of maintenance and a restricted supervision, although with
a larger fund the Museum could be placed on a more satisfactory basis,
and one much more serviceable to science.

Attention has been called, in several previous reports of my lamented
predecessor, to the importance of suitable provision for the accommo-
dation of the vast amount of material now stored in the Armory build-
ing and in the basement of the Smithsonian edifice, and thus withdrawn
from public examination. This surplus consists of the following essen-
tial elements:

First, the collections made by the United States exploring expeditions.

Second, the contributions sent by private individuals who reside in
every section of the country.

Third, the exhibits of the Smithsonian Institution, the Indian Bu-
reau, and the United States Fish Commission, at the Centennial.

Fourth, the donations to the United States by domestic and foreign
visitors and commissions on that occasion.

The number of private contributions to the National Museum con-
tinues to increase in value and magnitude year by year, and embraces
specimens of mineralogy and geology, objects of American antiquity,
and other desirable articles. The government surveys, too, of Messrs.
Hayden, Wheeler, and Powell have furnished a very large number of
specimens of great value as illustrating the reports published by these
parties. It is, however, under the two last-mentioned heads (the Cen-
tennial exhibits and donations) that by far the greater amount of this
unexhibited material is comprised.

By means of an appropriation by Congress, as fully set forth in the
Reports for 1875 (pages 8 and 46) and for 1876 (pages 8-11, 42, and
75-77), the Smithsonian Institution was enabled to exhibit a very full
collection illustrating the animal and mineral resources of the United
States; the Fish Commission to present every variety of boat, net, hook
and line, harpoon, and other fishing implements, as well as models and
illustrations of all the fishes useful for food or other purposes; the In-
dian Bureau to show a valuable representative ethnological series of
ancient implements, of dressed figures, and of objects illustrating the
life and customs of the North American aborigines.

At the close of the Exhibition, the foreign commissioners, induced by
a desire to do honor to the United States, presented, ae scarcely an
exception, the whole of their exhibits (corresponding with those made
by the Smithsonian Institution) to the United States Government, em-
bracing the contents of many thousands of square feet in the different
Centennial buildings. Of forty-one foreign commissions, thirty-four gave
to the United States either the whole of their displays or a full series,
probably representing 75 per cent. of all such matter as was shown under
the patronage of the respective governments.

Many private exhibitors from abroad made similar contributions, some
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. Al

of these valued singly at over $20,000 each. A large proportion, too, of
the more desirable exhibits by State commissions, as also of home ex-
hibitors, was added to the mass, and nearly two months were spent at
the close of the Exhibition in simply removing these articles to the gov-
ernment building and there packing them for transportation to Wash-
ington, a large force being required for the purpose.

The collection sent from Washington to Philadelphia filled twenty
freight cars, and the donations received at the Centennial required forty
more for their transportation, the entire amount to be brought to Wash-
ington making sixty car-loads, a quantity far beyond the storage capac-
ity of the basement of the Smithsonian building.

In anticipation of these donations, Congress had previously authorized
the transfer to the Smithsonian Institution, for the purpose of storage, of
the Armory building, on the square between Sixth and Seventh streets,
and made an appropriation to fit it up for the reception of the collections.
To this building a portion of these collections was transferred, where
they now fill four floors, of about 5,000 square feet each, from top to
bottom, the remainder being stored in the basement of the Smithsonian
Institution. At present, with the articles received from other sources,
it is estimated that the quantity of objects not exhibited represents
nearly five times the bulk of those at present displayed in the Smithson-
ian building.

It is to be understood, too, that these objects are not simply specimens
of natural history, possessing an abstract interest to the student, but
represent the application of natural objects to the industries, and as
such are of great importance. In what is now a fairly complete series
of economical minerals, such as ores, combustibles, building stones,
clays, earths, &c., from all parts of the world, with their incidentals of
reduction and application, and specimens of similar objects of art and
industry derived from them, we have a collection of very great indus-
trial importance, for it furnishes to the American manufacturer and de-
signer information of the utmost value. The illustrations of means and
appliances for the pursuit, capture, and application of food-fishes, from
all parts of the world, are also of exceeding value, while the articles of
Indian manufacture from Alaska, Washington Territory, and the Pry-
bilov Islands are of the utmost interest.

Several donations from foreign countries are of considerable magnitude
and importance; the first being from the King of Siam as a present to
the United States Government; the second the display of the manners
and customs of the Chinese made by the Chinese Commissioner; the
third an exhibition of the industries illustrating the manners and cus-
toms of the Japanese, presented by the Japanese Government. The
intrinsi¢ value of all these objects presented to the United States is very
great, having probably cost their respective contributors, either govern-
ments or individuals, not far from three-quarters of a million to a million
of dollars.
42 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

The necessity, therefore, of some adequate means of displaying this
rich collection, now withdrawn from the inspection of the public, has
weighed very heavily upon the officers of the Smithsonian Institution,
and several efforts have been made to secure an appropriation from
Congress for the erection of a fire-proof building sufficient to contain
it, but of the most inexpensive form of construction compatible with
protection against fire, and allowing the greatest convenience of display.
A plan was prepared on the basis of suggestions from General Meigs,
and approved by the Committees on Public Buildings and Grounds of
both the Senate and House. The Senate, at the second session of the
Forty-fourth Congress, passed a bill appropriating $250,000 for the
erection of a building of the kind, without a dissenting vote. This also
passed the House; but obtained only a majority vote, under cireum-
stances requiring a two-thirds vote.

A bill making an appropriation for the erection of such an edifice
was again introduced into Congress at the current session, which it is
hoped will be more successful. Owing to the particular form of con-
struction of the proposed building, it can be completed in probably not
more than a year, and the collections removed into it.

It is now proposed to place this building in the southeastern corner
of the reservation of 52 acres, situated between Seventh and Twelfth
streets and North and South B. It will be so situated as not to obstruct
the view of the Smithsonian from the Capitol or from any other impor-
tant point. As originally contemplated, the building was to oceupy the
space between the present Smithsonian edifice and Twelfth street; but
it was finally concluded that if placed there it would obstruct the view
of the Agricultural building, and the change of location was accordingly
determined upon.

Attention was called by the report for 1877 (page 36), to the continued
increase of the number and variety of the collections received during the
year, the exceptional year of the Centennial being the only one that fur-
nished a larger quantity of material. The returns for 1878 have again
been much larger than usual, exceeding considerably those of the pre-
vious year. The total number of donors was 635 for the year, to 335 in
1877, of which 180 were contributors to the collections of the United
States Fish Commission at Gloucester. The number of donations was
455, to 489 in 1877; and of separate packages 1,197, to 815 in 1877. A
large part of the increase is due to the extensive contributions made to
the United States Fish Commission by the fishermen and merchants of
Gloucester, Mass., in which city the Commission has had a station for the
prosecution of researches and the propagation of food-fishes during the
jast half of the year. The hearty appreciation, by all classes of the com-
munity, of the operations of the Commission, caused those fishermen re-
siding at the port to save many articles brought up on the trawls from
the deep water, and to bring them to the office of the Commission at
Gloucester. The result is to be seen in several hundred donations, some
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 43

of them embracing specimens of very great interest, and adding largely
to our knowledge of the distribution of animal life in the waters off the
coast of New England. As the result of these contributions, together
with the gatherings of the Fish Commission itself, many species of fishes
and of marine invertebrates have been added to the fauna of the coun-
try, several of them being entirely new; others were previously found
only in the deep waters off the European coast or in those of Spitz-
bergen and Greenland.

Reference is, of course, quite impossible to even a small percentage of
those collections added to the National Museum during the year covered
by the present report, and they will be found under the names of the
donors, alphabetically arranged, in the appendix. Even this, however,
fails to give a complete idea of the magditude of the additions, as a
collection embracing from five to twenty or more boxes may be included
in a single line of the record. The books of the Institution, in which all
these articles are entered systematically, give a more detailed statement;
and the fact that a portion of these has required 9,973 entries, will fur-
nish some idea of the aggregate.

Among the more important general collections received are those
made by the United States Fish Commission at Gloucester, as already
referred to, embracing a complete and exhaustive series of the marine
animals of the ocean between the New England coast and that of Nova
Scotia, Newfoundland, and the outer Banks, including the Georges, the
Grand Banks, Flemish Cap, Le Have, Bank Quero, &c. This material
embraces a great many duplicate specimens, which will, in time, be
distributed to the educational and scientific establishments of the United
States.

Next to this in importance and magnitude are two collections from the
far North, one from E. W. Nelson, Signal Office observer at St. Michaels,
in Alaska, consisting very largely of ethnological articles and birds; the
other made by Mr. L. Kumlien, while a member of the Howgate expedi-
tion to Arctic America, this embracing much the same class of objects
as those sent by Mr. Nelson.

The collection of birds and ethnological articles, gathered by Mr. Ober
in the islands of the West Indies, to which further reference will be
made, has also been of greati moment. Mr. J. Zeledon, formerly an as-
sistant in the Institution, and for many years resident in Costa Rica,
visited Washington in the spring of 1878, bringing a very large colleec-
tion of birds, mammals, &e., of his country.

Large collections have also been received from Lieut. George M.
Wheeler, the proceeds of the expeditions of 1877 and of earlier years,
transmitted by him in accordance with the law of Congress requiring
their deposit in the National Museum.

In another part of the report will be given a more detailed account
of some of the explorations to which reference has been made.

Following the plan of previous reports, we shall now proceed to indi-
A4 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

eate, briefly, the character of the more important additions to the Mu-
seum in systematic sequence with some reference to the result in in-
creasing our knowledge of particular regions.

Anthropology.—Beginning with anthropology as the most interesting
and important of such additions, I may refer again to the collections
made by Mr. Nelson at Saint Michaels. These are very exhaustive and
complete, and taken in connection with those sent by Mr. Lucien M.
Turner from the same region supply a very full illustration of man-
ners and customs of the Indian and Esquimaux races found in north-
western America. A special feature of Mr. Nelson’s collection, like that
of Mr. Turner, is the immense variety of carvings in bone and wood,
representing various animal forms either in contour or in simple lines ;
the latter calling to mind the engraving upon bone, especially of antlers
of reindeer found in the caverns of France and Germany, and throw
much light upon the region and character of these remains. Many
models of boats, traps for securing animals, fishing apparatus, articles of
clothing, and many other objects constitute the mass of the great collec-
tion sent by Mr. Nelson.

Not at all inferior in interest, and only less in extent, are the collections
of Mr. Kumlien made by him during several months’ residence at Cum-
berland Gulf, in Arctic America, and on the opposite coast of Greenland.
They include great numbers of ancient stone implements found in the
Esquimaux graves, and supply a previous deficiency in the collections
of the National Museum. There are also many articles of dress and
adornment, implements of war, and the chase, &c. In the last year’s
collections of both Mr. Nelson and Mr. Kumlien are many stone imple-
ments, objects of horn, bone, or wood, illustrating in a very high degree
the functions and applications of certain articles of stone familiar to the
American archeologist, the uses of which were previously conjectural.
These embrace scrapers, knives, planes, gouges, drills, and many other
articles.

During the past year the attention of the Institution has been called
especially to the subject of the soap-stone quarries, where the aborigines
obtained their material for soap-stone bowls, dishes, &c., constituting
so common a feature in American archeology, but the source of which
has been heretofore but little noticed. Of these quite a number were-
met with during the year, and an examination more or less extensive
has been made of each under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution.

During the spring of 1875, some specimens of steatite were received
from the quarry of John B. Wiggin, in Chula, Amelia County, Virginia.
Among these were fragments of rude vessels, which, from their number
and unfinished condition, were regarded as indicating that the place in
question was once an aboriginal mine. Mr. Wiggin was requested to
carefully save and forward all specimens of the kind which he might
discover; and the receipt from him during the centennial year of an
additional collection proved beyond doubt the correctness of the con-
jecture.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 705)

Inasmuch as, at the time, no quarry of this kind had been discovered,*
and as, moreover, aboriginal methods of mining and working pot-stone
were entirely unknown, it was thought advisable to havea careful ex-
ploration of the place undertaken, which was intrusted to Mr. F. H.
Cushing, who visited the locality in June last, causing excavations
of sufficient extent to be made to reveal a large portion of the rock-
surface worked by the Indians. gain, in August and September, fur-
nished with suitable instruments, and a complete photographie outfit,
he continued these investigations, and, with the sanction and kindly aid
of Mr. Wiggin, was enabled to greatly extend the diggings, thus making
his examination very thorough and sufficient.

The surface indications of aboriginal quarrying were found to be shal-
low circular depressions, from ten to seventy feet in diameter. Mr. Cush-
ing began operations by causing a space of earth, 60 feet in length
by 40 in width at the base, to be cleared away from the center of the
largest of these depressions. Everywhere over the rock-surface, thus
exposed he found grooves and hollows made by the Indians in taking
out sugar-loaf shaped masses of the rock; and throughout the soil re-
moved he found numerous fragments of these masses mostly hollowed
as the beginning of pots, together with equally numerous rude quartz-
picks, some broken axes and mauls, and a few hammers of soapstone,
which had been used in quarrying and working the material.

From the base of the triangular excavation a cutting was made, about
17 feet in width by nearly 40 in length. This was extended to the left
18 feet, to remove the earth from around a large out-cropping bowlder,
from the base of which it was found that the Indians had cut the rock
away piece by piece, until only a slender stem remained as its sup-
port. Another extension, nearly 40 feet to the right and 30 feet wide,
laid bare one side and the center of a second quarry almost as much
worked as the first. From this last a ditch 3 feet wide was carried for-
ward more than 80 feet, all along the course of which were found Indian
cuttings wherever the rock-surface was exposed. Thus the area worked
over by the aborigines in one direction was shown to be not less than
180 feet. How far to either side of this their work extended can only
be conjectured. The number and extent of those depressions not exca-
vated, however, seemed to indicate that less than one-third of the In-
dian work was exposed by the diggings just described. Mr. Cushing
not only procured from the earth removed, a collection of several hundred
specimens, but also made and brought away photographic views and
accurate plaster models of portions of his diggings.

Attention being drawn to these explorations while in progress by no-
tices in some of the Washington newspapers, Mr. Elmer R. Reynolds, of
the city, brought to notice some similar specimens of vessels which he had
found within the District,on Soapstone Run, a branch of Rock Creek,

* Intelligence had been received of some surface workings in Chester County, Penn-
sylvania ; so slight, however, that they could hardly be regarded as quayryings.
A6 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

which were recognized at once as indications of another quarry, and Mr.
Cushing was directed to make a thorough examination of it.. Here, as
in Virginia, depressions along the hill-side in which the quarry occurred
showed that the Indians had worked the underlying ledge, although ex-
cavations subsequently made revealed the fact that they had depended
mainly upon surface material for their supply. Large numbers of un-
finished vessels, quartz-picks, hammer-stones, &c., were here found.

Another quarry has been repored by its proprietor, Mr. M. KE. Holmes,
as occurring on the right bank of the Potomac above Little Falls. This,
though rich in ancient remains, has not yet been thoroughly examined
by the Institution.

Mr. J. D. McGuire, of Ellicott City, Maryland, called our attention to
still another quarry, not unlike the one on Rock Creek, and remarkable
for the fine specimens of Indian work that it furnished. Through the
hospitality and kind assistance of this gentleman, Mr. Cushing was en-
abled during the month of December to make a personal examination
of the place, and secure for the museum nearly two hundred superior
specimens.

It may be well to add that since the discovery of the Virginia quarry,
public attention having been drawn to this kind of research by widely
circulated newspaper notices, similar sources of aboriginal supply have
been discovered in Rhode Island, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Pennsyl-
vania, Tennessee, Georgia, Alabama, and Wyoming, from several of
which the Institution has already received specimens.

An aboriginal quarry, recently discovered near Providence, R. I..on the
farm of Mr. Angell, was visited by myselfin July, accompanied by Pro-
fessor Jenks, through whose assistance I was enabled to obtain specimens
of the unfinished pots and of the mining apparatus.

Reference has already been made to the plans of an extensive work
on the American Stone Age, to be prepared under the direction of the
Institution, to serve as a manual for this department of archeology. The
publication of the circular referred to as among the publications of the
Institution for 1878 has been of great benefit in bringing in both large
and small collections, as will be seen by reference to the list of donations.
Every part of the country is represented in these returns, which are so
many indeed as to render it somewhat invidious to select any for special
notice. Justice, however, to the contributors, makes it proper that I
should mention a few of these in greater detail.

The first collection to be noted is that presented by Mr. A. B. Critten-
den, of Middletown, Conn., a large and extensive one, made during sev-
eral years of effort. This is particularly rich in the shell heap or Kj6k-
enmoedding deposits, from Cape Cod, showing a variety and complexity
not previously exhibited.

To one correspondent, Mr. J. E. Gere, of Riceville, Wisconsin, of the
Institution, is indebted for an important increase of its collection of
ancient copper implements. Mr. Gere, during a visit to the Institution,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 47

three years ago, had his attention called to the paucity of such objects
in the National Museum, and offered his assistance in obtaining and
forwarding such specimens. As the result of his promise, the Institu-
tion has received from him during the year a large number of these
articles, greatly adding to the variety of the series. Masses of native
copper, plowed up by Mr. Gere on his own farm, were sent to illustrate
the source of the material of these implements, and to show that it does
not necessarily follow that it must have been obtained in barter or oth-
erwise from the copper mines of the Lake Superior region.

From Mr. William Brady, of Minong, in the Lake Superior region,
was received a barrel of hammers, used by the ancient miners in that
vicinity, enabling us to make a very interesting comparison between
these and corresponding instruments used by the Indians in working the
soapstone quarries already referred to.

The collections received from Dr. Frank L. James, of Arkansas, are
of great beauty and variety, as also those from Professor Randle, of
Kentucky.

The result of long-continued examinations of shell mounds in Florida
by Mr. Henry J. Biddle, of Philadelphia, is also of very great value.

Dr. Benjamin H. Brodnax, of Louisville, in continuation of previous
sendings, has contributed articles of special interest ; and the collec-
tions made in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania, by Dr. T. H. Bean and
Mr. Galbraith, have also added greatly to the specimens from that
State.

Among the more important collections received from regions outside
of the United States is a number of implements, vases, &c., from Peru,
presented by Mr. W. W. Evans, who has been for many years a corre-
spondent of the Institution, and a contributor to the National Museum.

The archeology of Japan is represented by collections received from
Professor Morse, consisting of shell-heap pickings and mound diggings
on the Japanese coast. The fragments of pottery in this collection are
rude and unfinished, scarcely more advanced than those found in the
ancient graves and mounds of North America. They are supposed to
have been the production of the Ainos of the early days, who are believed
to have occupied, at one time, the entire country.

An interesting contribution to European anthropology was made by
Professor Kollmann, who presented a series of crania of the earlier, al-
though scarcely prehistoric, inhabitants of Germany.

Mammals.—While many single specimens or small collections of mam-
mals have been received from various parts of the country, those re-
ceived from Lieut. George M. Wheeler, of the Engineer Bureau, repre-
senting quite a variety of species, collected by Mr. Henshaw and other
collaborators of the survey, deserve special mention.

A series of the seals of Aretic America, both of skins and skeletons,
brought back by Mr. Kumlien, supplies a very important gap in the col-
lections of the National Museum, exhibiting the variations of condition
48 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

in several species, from the foetal to the adult state, of both sexes, with
corresponding skeletons of all these gradations.

The collection brought by Mr. Zeledon includes nearly all the known
mammals of Costa Rica, from the largest to the smallest, and in most
admirable condition of preservation, well fitted to mount for exhibition
in the National Museum.

The Zoological Society of Philadelphia has presented a specimen, in
the flesh, of the Aodad (Ovis Traglclaphus), which died in the menagerie
of that establishment.

From the Public Library and Museum at Calcutta, in India, under the
direction of Mr. Murray, was received quite a number of specimens of
Indian mammals, including skins of the smaller kinds, and a considera-
ble number of stuffed heads of tigers and other felidie, as well as several
erania of much value.

Birds.—The collections of birds received during the year have also
been extensive and important, as shown by the number of specimens
entered in the record book. Principally noteworthy is the donation by
Mr. George B. Sennett, of Erie, Pa., of a series of the collections made
by him during the preceding year in the vicinity of Brownsville, Tex.
This embraces several species new to the Museum. In view of their
admirable preparation, it is proposed to mount the greater part of them
for permanent exhibition in the Museum.

From Dr. James C. Merrill, U. 8. Army, stationed at Brownsville,
Texas, was also received a very acceptable collection of skins and eggs
of birds, from that region.

The collections of Mr. Nelson in Alaska and of Mr. Kumlien in Arctic
America, already referred to, embrace many species of much interest,
although none actually new to the Museum.

The more important addition made to the collection has beensa series
of oceanic birds, found off the coast of the United States. Mr. Raymond
L. Newcomb having been sent out by the Smithsonian Institution on
board the schooner Marion, Captain Collins in command, for the pur-
pose of ascertaining what were the birds occurring on the fishing-
banks, in such numbers as to be serviceable in furnishing bait for the
capture of codfish, he brought back a large and well-prepared collection,
embracing some quite rare species, although none previously unrepre-
sented. Some of the plumages were new, and it became possible, from
the collections and his notes, to interpret the meaning of various appella-
tions employed by the fishermen.

For the assistance rendered to Mr. Newcomb, as well as in furnishing
information to the Fish Commission, Captain Collins and his erew deserve
special mention.

Of extra-limital collections, those made by Mr. Fred. A. Ober in the
West Indies, referred to in another part of this report, are of particular
value and importance. As the result of these the National Museum is
now in possession of by far the most complete series extant of birds of

\
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 49

the West Indies, showing better than any found elsewhere the geo-
eraphical distribution peculiar to each island, and the precise distribu-
tion of those common to two or more islands.

To this end especially have contributed the labors of Dr. Henry
Bryant, in the Bahamas, and of Mr. William T. March, in Jamaica; of
Dr. John Gundlach, Mr. Charles Wright, and N. H. Bishop, in Cuba; of
Mr. Alfred Newton, in Santa Cruz; of Mr. George Latimer, and Mr.
Thomas Swift, in St. Thomas and Porto Rico; of Dr. Bryant, in Porto
Rico, and of Mr. Galody, in Antigua.

Not only were many species previously described contained in Mr.
Ober’s collection, but he furnished types of nearly twenty new species.

A series of memoirs, by Mr. George N. Lawrence, published in the
‘Proceedings of the National Museum,” includes lists of the collections
and embraces descriptions of the new species.

From foreign regions an interesting collection, for the most part of
water-birds, was sent from the Bosphorus by the Robert College of Con-
stantinople, and one from the coast of Syria by Mr. William T. Van Dyck.

Reptiles.—Reference has been made in previous reports to a very
extensive collection of casts of American fishes which were prepared
originally for exhibition at the Centennial, and continued since then by
the addition of new species, coming to the Institution in proper condition
for reproduction.

It was determined to include the North American reptiles in the series
of life reproductions of such objects asare not easily exhibited as stuffed
specimens. In order, therefore, to secure living objects from all parts
of the country, a circular was distributed, inviting contributions of ser-
pents, frogs, lizards, and salamanders, in all their variety; and, as in
previous appeals from the Institution for assistance, the response was
generous and extensive. A large number of specimens, both of rare and
common species, was received, and kept the entire force of Smithsonian
artists occupied during the year.

Resulting therefrom, the National Museum now has an extremely
interesting and attractive collection of these animals in their natural
attitudes, either as plaster or papier maché models, and very carefully
colored from sketches made while the animals were alive. In some cases
it was found possible to make the casts from the living specimens, and
in several different attitudes, from the same individual. As heretofore,
the casting and molding have been under the direction of Mr. Joseph —
Palmer, assisted by Mr. A. J. Forney and Mr. William Palmer. The
coloring of the reptiles has been performed by Mr. A. Z. Shindler ; that
of the fishes by Mr. J. H. Richard.

Besides the living reptiles referred to, quite a variety of species has
been obtained from other sources, among others from My. Ober in his
West Indian explorations. Dr. Ruth, U.S. N., the surgeon of the steamer
Enterprise, in which Captain Selfridge made his exploration of the Am-

S. Mis. 59 4

50 EPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

azon in 1848, also furnished a valuable collection from that river. From
Dr. Hering was also received a collection of the species of Surinam.

Fishes.—As might naturally be expected, from the close connection
of the operations of the United States Fish Commission with those of
the Smithsonian Institution, the additions in this department have been
especially noteworthy, and include not only various specimens of im-
portant scientific interest, but also many illustrating and attesting the
propriety of national aid in the multiplication of useful food-fishes.

It is considered especially desirable to bring together in Washington
a complete representation of the food-fishes of the United States, both
inland and marine; and also such kinds from other countries as tend to
illustrate the American species, or aS may suggest future action in the
‘way of their introduction and acclimation in the New World.

The series of species of the salmon family, contributed by Mr. Living-
ston Stone from the salmon-hatching establishment on the MeCloud
River, in the Upper Sacramento Valley; and those furnished by Mr.
Charles G. Atkins, from his works in Bucksport and Grand Lake Stream
in Maine, have constituted the most important additions of fresh-water
species; while the special labors of the United States Fish Commission
at Gloucester, Massachusetts, aided by the fishermen of that place, have
brought to light nearly 20 forms of deep-sea fishes, previously unknown.

Next to the collections from the station of the United States Fish
Commission at Gloucester, the most important additions to the marine
fishes have been received from Mr. Vinal N. Edwards, for a long time an
employé of the Commission, and stationed at Wood’s Holl, whose vigilant
attention to the subject brought to light a number of additional species,
so that now the Wood’s Holl record embraces nearly 140 different kinds.

From Mr. Silas Stearns, of Pensacola, while connected with the Pensa-
cola Ice Company; from Mr. James C. Leslie, of Charleston; from Mr.
Samuel Powel, of Newport; from Dr. Porter, U. S. A., and Mr. Moore,
of the Tortugas, have come many additions to our knowledge of the dis-
tribution of species, through their contributions to the National Museum.

The Museum is also indebted in a very marked degree, as for many
years past, to the services of Mr. E. G. Blackford, the well-known fish
dealer of Fulton Market, New York, for the transmission of many valu-
able specimens. By an arrangement with the wholesale dealers and the
fishermen, this gentleman is always notified of the appearance in the
market of specimens that are believed to have an interest, either from
their novelty or any other cause, and, in the exercise of an excellent
judgment, whatever is thought will be valued in Washington is promptly
transmitted to the National Museum. To no other single person is the
Institution indebted -tor so many favors in this direction as to Mr. Black-
ford.

From the museum of the Wesleyan University, at Middletown, have
been received a considerable number of fishes, collected in the Bermudas
by Mr. G. Brown Gocde; from Professor Felipe Poey also a number of
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY: it

Cuban fishes, which have an especial value, as being types of his proposed
memoir on the subject, which, should it appear on the scale contemplated,
will be-the most extensive work ever published on the fishes of any
country.

From the west coast of the United States the most important additions
have been of the fishes of Alaska, sent by Mr. E. W. Nelson, from Saint
Michaels, and those of Puget Sound, by Mr. James G. Swan.

In the collection of fishes gathered in Cumberland Gulf by Mr. L. Kum-
lien, while connected with the Howgate Expedition, were several of kinds
new to the fauna of northeastern North America, and others of great
value as illustrating the species obtained by the United States Fish
Commission at Gloucester, either by its own efforts or by the aid of the
fleet of fishermen belonging to that port.

The Natural History Museum of Paris has contributed a series of the
fishes of France and the Mediterranean. A series of the fresh-water
fishes of Northern Siberia has been furnished by Dr. Otto Finsch as the
result of his recent well-known explorations.

Among the more noticeable results of recent efforts to extend and
increase the useful food-fishes of the United States, that have come to
hand, are specimens of full-grown shad from the Sacramento River, con-
tributed by Mx. Thomas Bassett; a pair of shad from the Ohio, by Mr.
William Griffith, of Kentucky; a mature salmon from the Connecticut
River, obtained through Mr. E. G. Blackford; one from the Delaware,
weighing 23 pounds, presented by Mr. E. J. Anderson, Fish Commis-
sioner of New Jersey; and one of 19 pounds, taken in the Susquehanna,
by Mr. Frank Farr near the shad-hatching station of the United States
Fish Commission, five miles below the railroad bridge at Havre de Grace.
In addition to these, many specimens of young California salmon and
of landlocked salmon have also come to hand.

Invertebrates.—In the department of invertebrates the collections have
been largely confined to the marine species, especially as no particular
effort is now made to gather the insects which form the great body of
terrestrial forms. By an arrangement between the Smithsonian Institu-
tion and the Department of Agriculture, all the collections in the line of
insects and terrestrial articulates generally are transferred to the care
of that department, where, under the supervision of its entomologist,
they are likely to render excellent service.

Of land and fresh-water mollusca quite a number of specimens have
been received and properly cared for. Of marine invertebrata most
gatherings have been secured, especially through the efforts of the
United States Fish Commission, at Gloucester, the labor being per-
formed under the special direction of Prof. A. E. Verrill, of Yale Col-
lege, assisted by Messrs. Richard Rathbun and Warren J. Upham. In
this service, however, the work connected with the collection and ar-
rangement of the marine mollusca was under the direction of Mr. San-
derson Smith, of New York, a competent conchologist, the value of whose
52 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

gratuitous services to the Fish Commission and to the Smithsonian In-
stitution is not easily to be overestimated.

With the assistance of the extensive and powerful apparatus on board
the Speedwell vast numbers of specimens of all kinds were secured, ap-
propriately assorted, and packed by the gentlemen referred to, and are
now in charge of Professor Verrill at New Haven undergoing the neces-
sary examination for their arrangement and identification. A great
number of duplicates was obtained for the purpose of supplying sets to
educational and scientific institutions throughout the country.

A collection of fossiliferous rocks, brought up from time to time by
the trawls from the various banks of the New England coast, and found
jn the possession of various citizens of Gloucester, by Mr. Warren J.
Upham, while connected with the Commission, revealed, under the crit-
ical labors of Professor Verrill, Mr. Smith, and himself, the existence of
a submarine formation quite different from any now known on the land,
and embracing a number of new species, and others in peculiar combi-
nations. The idea has been suggested by Professor Verrill that at some
earlier day the whole or the greater part of the interval between North
America and Europe, extending possibly as far north as Iceland, was
occupied by a continent, which, after a certain amount of erosion and
excavation, was submerged, the plateaus or highest remaining portions
constituting a portion of the banks, which furnish such rich harvests.
The indications of this deposit are believed to be found at Gay Head on
Martha’s Vineyard, and possibly at Siasconset in Nantucket, in the
Georges, at’ Le Have and Quero Banks, the Grand Banks, Flemish
Cap, &c. Of course so important a generalization will require further
determinations, and it is hoped that the labors of the Fish Commission
dnring the coming year may tend to solve the problem.

In the collections made by the several methods, and from the several
sources referred to, are to be found all the orders and classes of marine
invertebrata, such as radiates, mollusks, worms, crustacea, We.

Apart from the collections of shells and of invertebrates referred to,
we may mention a valuable collection of shells of Florida, presented by
the Chicago Academy of Sciences, and of those of the German seas, by
Professor Mobius.

Of terrestrial fossil remains from the land no important additions have
been made. Among those received, however, there is an interesting
and valuable collection of species from California, presented by Hon. A.
A. Sargent, United States Senator from that State, and a Regent of the
Smithsonian Institution.

Reference has been made to the arrangement with the Department
of Agriculture, by which that establishment receives all the collec-
tions of land articulates; and a similar arrangement has been made in
regard to the plants, special efforts in regard to that branch of natural
history being left to the department. All the specimens offered spon-
taneously or collected by government expeditions have been turned over
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 53

to the department as soon as received. The most important of these
consist of a Series of species from Japan and Asia, presented by the
Botanie Garden of St. Petersburg. Professor Sargent. of the Botanic
Garden at Cambridge, has contributed quite a number of valuable living
aquatic plants fer the purpose of embellishing the United States carp-
ponds on the Monument lot in this city, and of furnishing desirable food
for the herbivorous fish.

Dr. William G. Farlow, of Cambridge, while associated with the Fish
Commission at Gloucester, made a large collection of marine alge, of
which, as heretofore, a part will be presented to the National Museum.

A circular issued by the Institution some years ago, relative to the
habits, &c., of the grasshopper and other insects, elicited many responses,
which were referred to Prof. S. H. Scudder. The material, however, was
never fully worked up, and it has been transferred, with the consent of
the Institution, by Professor Scudder, to the United States Entomolog-
ical Commission lately organized by Congress.

IT have thus furnished as briefly as possible a review of some of the
more important contributions to the National Museum, but as the limit
of space has prevented my going into much detail, I have been obliged
to make selections from large numbers of contributions of value fully
equal to those specially noted. All these, as stated, will be found in the
list of donations entered in the record-books of the Institution. Every
specimen received has, as far as possible, been recorded in its proper
register, with a number affixed in some irremovable form; and whenever
the size of the specimen would admit, with the name of the locality and
of the donor attached. Of these entries no less than 9,973 have been
made during the year, as shown by the table at the end of this Report.
As heretofore explained, however, one entry may embrace a large number
of specimens, especially of the same general character, without any spe-
cial individuality, gathered at the same date, in the same locality, and
received from the same person. It may fairly be assumed that the total
number of pieces actually recorded and provided with numbers amounts
to 15,000.

Considered with reference to geographical distribution—illustrating
the several faunas of the various quarters of the globe, as would nat-
urally be expected, by far the greater portion of these accessions has
been received from North America, the regions from which the most
important materials have been derived being Alaska, furnished by Mr.
Nelson, Arctic America, by Mr. Kumlien, and the eastern coast of New
England by the Fish Commission itself and its friends at Gloucester ;
of fishes and invertebrates from Puget Sound by Mr. Swan, fishes of the

Upper Sacramento by Mr. Stone, fishes of Florida by Mr. Stearns, Dr.

Porter, and Mr. Moore; and general collections by Mr. Ridgway, are
among the most noteworthy.
From South America were received ethnological specimens from Peru,
54 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

by Mr. W. W. Evans; fishes and reptiles from the Amazon, by Dr.
Ruth, U.S. N., of the United States steamer Enterprise.

From Mexico valuable specimens have been received from Professor
Dugés, consisting especially of mammals, birds, reptiles, and fishes;
illustrations of the ethnology and zoology of Guatemala have been fur-
nished by Dr. Flint and United States Minister Williamson.

Of the animals of Surinam, collections were sent by Dr. Hering; of the
vertebrata of Costa Rica, generally in a large variety, by Mr. J. Zele-
don; of the fishes of Cuba, by Professor Poey; general collections from
various islands of the West Indies, by Mr. Ober; fishes of Bermuda, by
the Wesleyan University, of Middletown, collected by Mr. Goode; fishes
and archeological remains from Japan, by Prof. E. 8S. Morse; the fishes
of France and the Mediterranean, by the Museum of Natural History,
Paris; of Northern Siberia, by Dr. Finsch, of Bremen; skins, skulls,
and heads of the mammals of India, by the Public Library of Kurra-
chee.

Mineralogy.—In the department of mineralogy and geology, as usual,
additions of many specimens, including several large collections, have
been received, as it has now become quite a common thing for people
all over the United States to send samples by mail or otherwise to the
Institution for determination.

Many valuable additions have been made by the officers of the Land
Department of the Interior, especially by Mr. John Wasson, surveyor-
general of Arizona, and Mr. Hardenberg, the surveyor-general of Cali-
fornia. By far the most noteworthy and important addition in this line,
has been that of the greater part of the Swedish exhibit of iron, steel,
and other metals, made at Philadelphia in 1876. The valuable iron
and steel exhibit by the Swedish Commission at the Centennial Ex-
position had in part been promised to the American Institute of Min-
ing Engineers, and at its solicitation any effort on the part of the Smith-
sonian Institution to secure the remainder for the government was
waived in its behalf. It appears, however, that the necessary arrange-
ments for their acquiring this collection were not completed, and during
the year 1878, Dr. Joshua Lindahl, the representative of Sweden in con-
nection with the Permanent Exhibition, offered the remainder of the col-
lection as it stood, to the National Museum. This proposition was, of
course, very gladly accepted, and the collection was duly transmitted
under the direction of Mr. Thomas Donaldson, including the greater part
of the display of the Iron and Steel Mining Company of Motala, and the
iron and steel of Sandvik, a well-known and conspicuous Swedish estab-
lishment. ;

The institution received also, on special deposit, through the aid of
Dr. Lindahl, the immense mass of native iron, weighing five tons, the
smallest of three nuggets brought from the island of Disco by the Swed-
ish Government, the one referred to having been presented to Professor
Nordenskj6ld, who had charge of the transfer, and by him sent for exhi-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 55

bition to Philadelphia. Opinions of experts are at present divided as to
whether this is actually of meteoric origin, or a representative of almost
the single instance of metallic iron in considerable masses, as a native
metal. Whatever be the actual fact, it makes no difference in the in-
terest of the specimen ; and its acquisition, even for a short time, by the
National Museum, is a subject of congratulation.

Scientific investigation of collections.—As in previous years the collec-
tions of the National Museum, in charge of the Smithsonian Institution,
have been freely open to the examination of competent investigators.
It is preferred, of course, that this work be prosecuted in Washington;
but where it is impossible to do this there is no hesitation in sending arti-
cles or collections, under suitable conditions, to any part of the world.

Most of this work of investigation is done by the resident naturalists
connected with the Smithsonian Institution, directly or indirectly—the
mammals by Professor Gill and Dr. Coues; the birds by Mr. Robert
Ridgway; the reptiles by Dr. H. C. Yarrow and Dr. Bean; the fishes by
Professor Gill, Mr. Goode, and Dr. Bean; the mollusks and marine inver-
tebrates by Mr. William H. Dall; the insects by Professor Riley; the
fossils by Prof. Charles A. White; the minerals by Dr. F. M. Endlich; the
plants by Dr. Geo. Vasey.

Outside of Washington the principal collaborators have been, for the
mammals, Mr. KE. D. Alston, London, and Mr. J. A. Allen, of the Museum
of Comparative Zoology, Cambridge, Mass.; for the birds, Mr. George N.
Lawrence, of New York, Dr. P. L. Sclater, of London, and Mr. Osbert Sal-
vin, of Cambridge, England; for reptiles and vertebrate fossils, Prof.
BE. D. Cope, of Philadelphia. These gentlemen have all rendered more
or less service in this connection by investigating the specimens, identify-
ing those that were previously known, and describing the new species.

Distribution of collections.—The extent of the distribution of specimens
during 1878 will be seen by reference to the table at the end of this re-
port. It has been quite large, and has furnished much educational
and scientific material. It is expected, however, that a very much larger
amount will be supphed during the year 1879. There is a great number
of duplicates of minerals, rocks, fossils, &c., which cannot be reached
until the liberality of Congress shall appropriate the necessary means to
erect the new building for the National Museum. Such building is
required even for the unpacking of the specimens and the separation of
the series to be reserved for permanent display. This will leave a large
quantity of surplus material, of considerable variety, which will enable
the Institution to supply to a good degree the wants and applications
of many colleges, academies, and scientific societies throughout the
country.

GALLERY OF ART.

The principle of co-operation and not of competition which has for so
many years been the basis of action of the Smithsonian Institution, finds
56 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

a portion of its expression in the arrangement with the Corcoran Art
Gallery. Its pictures, statuary, and engravings have for the most part
been removed to the Gallery, and the remainder is being prepared for
the same destination. They are not presented to the Gallery, but simply
deposited, and are subject to reclamation at any time.

For many years Professor Henry was one of the trustees of the Cor-
coran Gallery, and was thus able to look after the interest of the Insti-
tution in its collections. I have been honored by receiving a similar
appointment at the hands of the board of trustees.

The propriety of the action of the Board of Regents in directing that
a first-class portrait of Professor Henry be painted, the work being ex-
ecuted in April, 1877, by Mr. Le Clear, of New York, has been fully justi-
ified. His picture is now exhibited in the Regent’s room in the Institu-
tion, after having been displayed for a time at the Corcoran Gallery.
Several excellent crayon heads, of life size, of Professor Henry have been
executed by Mr. Ulke and copies have been ordered for Princeton College
and other institutions where Professor Henry’s was an honored name.

UNITED STATES FISH COMMISSION.

Attention has been called in the reports of my lamented predecessor
to the extent to which the time of the officers of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution has been occupied in the prosecution of labors undertaken by
direction and in behalf of the general government; his own record of
twenty-six years’ service in connection with the Light-House Board, for
a large portion of the time its chairman: his service on various special
boards, such as those for the selection of building-stones for the Capitol,
for the consideration of the question of ventilation of the Hall of the
House of Representatives, &c., and im many other cases, furnishing
ample illustration.

My own more immediate relations to the general government com-
menced in 1871, when Congress passed an act authorizing the appoint-
ment of a Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries, to investigate questions
connected with the condition of the fisheries of the sea-coast and the
lakes, and providing that the appointment should be by the President
and confirmed by the Senate, and that his services should be rendered
without compensation.

Having received the appointment from the President, I commenced
the work by an investigation, of several months’ duration, of the condi-
tion of the fisheries on the New England coast, especially as to the
supposed conditions affecting their extent and development.

In 1872 the subject of the propagation of food-fishes in the waters of
the United States was added by Congress to the other duties of the Com-
missioner, and since then his time has been largely occupied with the
prosecution of researches into the American fisheries and in the propa-
gation and distribution of various desirable species into every State in
the Union. Previous reports will be found to contain general statements
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 57

of what has been done each year; and I shall therefore give a brief ae-
count of what was done in 1878, premising that the appropriations,
beginning with $5,000 in 1871, have increased with each year, until those
for 1878 amounted to $78,200.

The work of the Fish Commissioner is now prosecuted under the two
distinet heads of inquiry, and propagation, each with a corps of assist-
ants, for the most part occupied in different regions of the country. The
propagation department has special reference to the shad, the salmon of
California, the salmon of Maine, the land-locked salmon, the white-fish,
and the carp.

The invention of apparatus by Mr. T. B. Ferguson, one of the fish
commissioners of Maryland, by which the hatching of shad could be
prosecuted on a much larger scale than before, and under more conven-
ient circumstances, marks a new era in the art of fish culture, experi-
ments made by him in 1877 having been extensively prosecuted by the
United States Fish Commission in 1878.

For the purpose in question four scows were fitted up in Baltimore,
two with suitable machinery and apparatus, and two as quarters for the
men. These were taken to Albemarle Sound and established at a point
on the fishery of Dr. Capehart, of Avoca, by whom every assistance was
rendered in the supply of ripe fish, from which 10,000,000 of young fish
were hatched out and deposited in adjacent waters or transferred to
distant points.

After the season for work in that vicinity had passed, the vessels were
taken to Havre de Grace and anchored about five miles below the rail-
road bridge, in a sheltered cove. Here a much larger number of fish
was hatched out, and the young were distributed by special messengers
throughout the Union. The work of distribution of the young shad was
under the special supervision of Mr. James W. Milner, first assistant of
the commission; Mr. T. B. Ferguson, fish commissioner of Maryland, the
inventor and constructor of the hatching apparatus, however, having
charge of the propagation of the shad here, as also during the greater
part of the sojourn at Avoca.

The result of the new experiment was perfectly satisfactory, and so far
as relates to the shad in the future, there is no limit to the amount of
work that can be done other than that of the number of ripe eggs pro-
curable.

Lhe labor of obtaining the eggs of the California salmon at the Uni-
ted States hatching-station on the McCloud River, in the Upper Sacra-
mento Valley, was also carried on on a mueh larger scale than ever
before, it being possible, as the direct result of the propagation in the
earlier part of the operations of the commission, under the charge of
Mr. Livingston Stone, to procure as many eggs as were called for; and
no less than 15,000,600 eggs were obtained, and partly developed, and
then distributed to various State commissioners and other parties, by
whom they were hatched out and planted in the waters, A large num-
58 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

ber was hatched on account of the United States Fish Commission by
Mr. Frank N. Clark, of Northville, Mich., and by Mr. Ferguson, at Bal-
timore. These were distributed to such of the Southern and Western
States as were without arrangements of their own for prosecuting the
work.

Nothing was done with the eastern salmon; but the favorable re-
sults of the work initiated five or six years ago, in restoring this fish in
large numbers to the Merrimack and the Connecticut, and in planting
them in the Delaware and the Susquehanna, will probably induce the
renewal of the station at Bucksport, Maine, during the coming year.

The operations connected with securing eggs of the land-locked sal-
mon at Grand Lake Stream were entirely successful, although not so
many were obtained as last year. These are now in process of incuba-
tion, and will shortly be distributed.

Congress appropriated a sum of money for the purpose of fitting up
the two lakes in the vicinity of the Monument in the city of Washing-
ton for the eulture of European carp, a considerable number of the
best varieties having been obtained in 1877, and deposited with the kind
permission of the Park Commissioners in the ponds of Druid Hill Park,
in Baltimore. When the Monument lot ponds were in proper condition
a portion of the fish were transferred from Baltimore to their new
quarters, where it is hoped they will find a congenial home. A distri-
bution of the young will probably be made in the course of 1879, enough,
it is hoped, to meet a part, at least, of the demand which has already
sprung up for supplying fish-ponds throughout the country.

The most important progress in practical fish culture has been made
by the United States Fish Commission during the year, in the applica-
tion of its methods to the production of the sea-fishes. Ixperiments
were instituted at Gloucester, in Massachusetts, in reference to cod, the
spawning season of which takes place in the winter. The establishment
was properly fitted up and, after varying results, the proper method of
developing them was ascertained. Many millions of the young fish were
hatched out and deposited in the waters, and about 20,000 sent on to
Washington for exhibition to members of Congress, and others interested
in the experiment. Nothing has yet been done with mackerel, but it is
believed that the arrangements prepared for the cod will be equally
efficient for that fish, as also, probably, for the halibut, while many other
species, such as the tautog, sea-bass, and seup, can be treated in the same
way.

The importance of this new departure of the United States Fish Com-
mission cannot be overestimated, as it gives us the means of improving,
at small expense, the sea fisheries of our coast, and also furnishes the
opportunity of establishing them at points where they do not at present
exist. Thus, by carrying the young cod from Massachusetts and plant-
ing them on the coast of New Jersey or Maryland, of Virginia or North
Carolina, there is every assurance that, in accordance with the univer-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 59

sal rule, these fish, when ready to spawn, will return to their starting
place and become the means of establishing profitable fisheries to the
inhabitants of the region. It is well known that in the Southern States
the fisheries, contrary to the fact in the Northern States, are of little
moment in the winter season, the most prominent species coming up in
the spring and returning as the waters become chilly. The establishment
of cod fisheries, and possibly of those of halibut, as winter fisheries along
the southern coast, will therefore be of great importance.

. The second branch of the Fish Commission’s work, namely, that of the
investigation of the sea fisheries, was carried on at Gloucester for three
months, with the co-operation as heretofore of the Secretary of the Navy
in furnishing a suitable vessel, and the general work was done with more
efficiency and completeness. The same vessel, the United States steamer
Speedwell, used in 1877, was detailed by the Secretary for the service,
and was in command of Capt. L. A. Beardslee, who had previously sus-
tained similar relations to the Commission when in charge of the steamer
Blue Light.

The longer period of service of the vessel and the more favorable
station enabled the Commission to perform a very large amount of work,
the results greatly exceeding those of any previous year. Important
determinations were made of the character of the sea-bottom, of the tem-
perature and chemical constituents of the sea-water at different depths,
the currents, &e., while the exhaustive collections of marine animals and
plants showed clearly the character of the food of the fishes, and at the
same time furnished a vast amount of natural history material of the
greatest scientific interest. As heretofore, special efforts were made to
obtain a large number of duplicates, so that by their distribution in
named sets the colleges and other educational establishments of the
country might participate in the results of the labors of the Commission.

As heretofore, the labors of the Commission at Gloucester, connected
with the invertebrate department, were in charge of Prof. A. E. Verrill,
of Yale College, New Haven, assisted by Mr. Sanderson Smith in the
department of the mollusea, and by Mr. Richard Rathbun and Mr.
Warren J. Upham. The collections made, as in previous years, were
placed in the hands of Professor Verrill, who is now engaged in their
classification and arrangement in sets. Dr. William G. Farlow, of Cam-
bridge, as usual, spent considerable time with the Commission, and
devoted himself especially to the investigation of the marine algae.

The investigation into and classification of the various kinds of fish
brought in were in charge of Mr. G. Brown Goode, a collaborator of
the National Museum, assisted by Dr. T. H. Bean, of the same estab-
lishment, and by Mr. R. E. Earl.

Capt. H. C. Chester had general charge of tle laboratory and the di-
rection of the actual dredging and trawling on the steamer.

The special superintendence of the hatching of the codfish was con-
60 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

dueted by Mr. J. W. Milner, with the assistance of Mr. R. E. Earll.
The propagation department was in charge of Mr. Frank N. Clark, of
Michigan. The machinery was superintended by Capt. H. C. Chester,
and it is to his ingenuity that we owe the construction of the apparatus
by which the actual work of hatching the codfish was rendered practi-
cable. The difficulty of using the apparatus employed for hatching
shad arose from the fact that while the eggs of the shad are heavier
than the fresh water, those of the cod are lighter than the salt water,
and new conditions had to be devised'to keep. the eggs down instead of
lifting them up. This problem, as already stated, was satisfactorily
solved, after many experiments, by Captain Chester, who is therefore
entitled to much credit for the success of the work.

HALIFAX COMMISSION.

In 1871 a convention was held by the United States and Great Britain,
at Washington, for the purpose of settling certain questions at issue be-
tween the two governments, notably that of the depredations upon
American commerce by Confederate cruisers, fitted out or supplied in
British ports; and also certain disputed points in reference to the fish-
eries of British North America.

The treaty agreed upon was not ratified by the several contracting
parties, consisting of the United States and the five British maritime
provinces, until 1873, when commissioners were duly appointed by the
respective governments, Mr. Alexander T. Galt being named by Great
Britain; Governor Clifford, of New Bedford, by the United States, and
Mr. Maurice. Delfosse, the Belgian minister to the United States, as the
third. For various reasons, and partly owing to the death of Governor
Clifford, no definite action was taken until 1876, when Mr. E. H. Kellogg,
of Pittsfield, Mass., was appointed to succeed Governor Clifford; and
the place of meeting was fixed at Halifax, Nova Scotia, on the 15th of
June, 1877, and after receiving the British claim the commission ad-
journed until the 28th day of July, 1877, when it reassembled and
continued in session until nearly the stipulated limit, in the month of
November.

The United States commissioner was assisted by Mr. Richard Henry
Dana and Mr. William H. Trescott. The British commissioner had, as
his counsel, one distinguished gentleman from each province, namely,
Mr. Joseph Doutre, for Canada; Mr. 8S. R. Thomson, for New Bruns-
wick; Hon. W. V. Whiteway, for Newfoundland ; Hon. Louis H. Davies,
for Prince Edward Island; and Mr. R. L. Weatherbe, for Nova Scotia.

At the request of the Secretary of State, I attended the meeting at
as early a date as my other duties would permit, arriving on the 17th of
August, and remaining until the 21st of October.

The British commission had on its side the minister of marine, Mr,
A. Smith, assisted by Mr. W. F’. Whitcher, the commissioner of fisheries.

The deliberations of the court involved a careful consideration of all
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 61

the facts and statistics of the two countries, and a vast amount of in-
formation relating to the subject was brought together in the form of
testimony of witnesses and experts and by the presentation of tables, re-
ports, and digests. The volumes of the reports of the proceedings of
the commission constitute a rich field for the naturalist as well as the
statistician.

Material service was rendered by the United States Fish Commission,
in the collection of important statistics gathered expressly for the pur-
pose, especially in the presentation of tables, showing the catch of fresh
fish along the coast of the United States within the treaty limits. This
work was more particularly under the charge of Mr. G. Brown Goode,
who executed it to the entire satisfaction of the American counsel.

. The oceasion was made use of by me to collect information and to
prepare a systematic account of what is known of the habits of the cod
and mackerel, and the various methods of capturing them, the bait to
be used, &e., which will form the subject of special reports hereafter.

The award of five and a half millions of dollars, as representing the
value to Great Britain of the privileges conceded to the United States,
has given very great dissatisfaction in this country, to the New England
fishermen especially, who denounce it as unjust in the highest degree,
and express the hope that at the earliest possible moment the treaty will
be abandoned, even if the original condition of things be restored.

The very great lack of published information on the subject of the
American fisheries, as compared with the extremely methodical and
precise summaries of the Canadian authorities, has induced me to give
especial attention to this subject for information in the future, and with
the co-operation of the State Department, which has placed a small
fund at my disposal for the purpose, I am engaged in collecting, col-
lating, and digesting the facts and statistics in reference to the Ameri-
can fisheries, an information doubtless of much value on the occasion of
another arbitration similar to that at Halifax. This work is more par-
ticularly in charge of Mr. Goode.

To ascertain the accuracy of the figures presented at the Halifax
convention as to the catch by citizens of the United States of mackerel
off the American and Canadian coast, [ employed Mr. Alexander Star-
buck, of Waltham, Mass., to make a new digest of the records, as
shown by the State inspections of Maine, New Hampshire, and Massa-
chusetts. His work has been completed and shows a material difference
from the old figures, but without affecting the strength of the American
case.

Statistics of sea fisheries.—Reference has already been made to the data
relative to this subject at Halifax, and the intention on the part of the
commission to secure reliable records of the catch, export, and consump-
tion in the United States of the more important fish. For this purpose
circulars were issued, requesting answers to certain questions relating to
the habits, mode of capture, statistics, and disposition of the cod, the
62 | REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

mackerel, the mullet, the alewife, and the smelt. Also another blank
inviting information as to the extent of the fishery marine, the nature of
the crews, the tonnage of the vessels, the apparatus used for capture, and
other incidentals. For the purpose of collecting this information, Mr.
Vinal Edwards, of Wood’s Holl, an assistant of the commission, was
detailed to visit the fishermen along Buzzard’s Bay and Vineyard Sound
and obtain the data which were needed for the various purposes refer-
red to. This was found to supplement very satisfactorily the valuable
body of statistics now being collected under the direction of the com-
missioners of inland fisheries of Massachusetts. These gentlemen have
been authorized by the legislature to require a report of the statisties in
regard to the character and catch of all the pounds, weirs, and gill-nets
in the commonwealth.

The results of these several circulars will be published in full in future
volumes of the report, and I take great pleasure in referring to the
first of the series—namely, that upon menhaden, as prepared by Mr.
Goode. This is a most exhaustive and complete history of the subject
in all its relationships, scientific, biological, and economical. It occupies
520 pages, and is illustrated by 30 plates. It forms one of the same series
with the exhaustive paper by Mr. Starbuck upon the whale fisheries,
published in the fourth volume of the reports of the Commission.

It is also proposed to direct special attention to the history of the
Southern mullet. This fish in many respects represents and may be
said to replace in the South the mackerel in the North. It oceurs in
enormous numbers, indeed such as to permit its capture in even larger
quantities than the mackerel, coming in shore to spawn in immense
numbers in the autumn months. It is not at all improbable that a
catch of half a million barrels could easily be made, and under cireum-
stances involving very much less expense and exposure than would be
needed for taking one-quarter that number of mackerel. It is caught .
abundantly all the way from North Carolina southward into the Gulf ot
Mexico, and is destined at no distant day to represent a very important
element in the resources and business of the South. At present the
methods of taking and curing the fish are very inferior to those prac-
ticed in regard to the mackerel, and the fish is consequently less esteemed ;
but it is not improbable that in time it will be found to occupy an almost
equal rank as a food-fish, and a much more important one as an article
of commerce.

Another subject to which the attention of the Commission is being
directed is a similar inquiry in regard to the lake herring, the white-
fish, and the salmon trout, all of them species eaptured and cured in
great quantities, and dividing with the mackerel and the cod the demand
of the market.

MISCELLANEOUS.

Mr. William TH. Dall, for many years an associate of the Institution,
in charge of its department of conchology and marine invertebrates gen-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 63

erally, spent several months in 1878 in a visit to Europe, especially to
the zoological museums and to the co-workers in his special department
of research in Northern Europe. Acting as an accredited agent of the
Smithsonian Institution, he was authorized to ofier its services to special-
ists in prosecuting their researches, and to invite exchanges of books
and specimens. Many valuable alliances have been formed in conse-
quence of this visit, and the Institution has had already the pleasure of
supplying considerable material in response to calls for the same.

Availing ourselves of a visit to France in 1878, by Mr. Thomas Don-
aldson, whose services to the Institution during the Centennial Exhibi-
tion had been of great value, that gentleman was requested to call on
Mons. de la Batut, who had presented the Institution with relics of James
Smithson, and procure from him all the information he could furnish rel-
ative to the founder of this Institution. Mr. de la Batut is the half-
brother of the nephew of Smithson, to whom the latter bequeathed his
property, and in case of whose death it was to be devoted to founding
the Smithsonian Institution. Mr. Donaldson visited Mr. de la Batut,
and gathered from him a few facts of interest relative to Smithson, none
of which, however, were entirely new. He also procured the following
articles :

1. An engraved portrait of Hugh Perey, Duke of Northumberland,
father of James Smithson and of Col. Henry Louis Dickinson.

2. A portrait of Henry James Dickinson, son of Col. Henry Louis
Dickinson, the nephew and heir of Smithson. (Silhoutte profile.)

3. A paper in the handwriting of James Smithson, a copy of an article
by an admiral on the cause of a shipwreck in the English channel.

4, An inventory of the personal effects of James Smithson at the period
of his death, made by the British consul at Genoa.

5. An engraved visiting card bearing the inscription: ‘ Henri de la
Batut, Hotel Britannique, rue Louis le Grand, 20.”

6. Copy in wax of the seal of the de la Batut family.

In addition to its irreparable loss in the death of its late Secretary,
the Institution has also to lament that of a number of valued corre-
spondents. Among those to be first mentioned is Mr. Donald Gunn, of
Winnipeg, Manitoba, a veteran correspondent of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, one of the earliest of its meteorological observers, and one who
for more than twenty years has been a constant contributor of informa-
tion and collections relating to the natural history of the Northwest.

Mr. Gunn was a Scotchman by birth, and entered the service of the
Hudson’s Bay Company in 1813; but in 1823 resigned and established
himself in the Selkirk settlement in the Red River country, where he
was for a long time a successful instructor of youth, and ultimately
was appointed one of the judges of the court of petty sessions, holding
that position for more than twenty years. He was also a member of the
first legislative council of Manitoba, in 1871.

As stated, the first connection of Mr. Gunn with the Smithsonian
64 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Institution was that of a meteorological observer. His long-continwed
observations of the weather are among the most reliable of those within
its archives. His contributions of objects of natural history were still
more important, embracing, as they did, nearly every branch in the
various classes of the animal and vegetable kingdoms, and numerous
collections in archeology and ethnology. Few reports of the Institu-
tion since 1850 are without some reference to his services.

In 1866 he made a special exploration, in behalf of the Institutien, o7
the region west of Lake Winnipeg, spending considerable time in the
vicinity of Shoal Lake and Lake Manitoba, in the course of which he
collected large numbers of skins and eggs of birds; among the latter,
several previously entirely unknown in museums. Within a year cor-
respondence was in progress with him in regard to the renewal of this
exploration.

The death of Mr. Gunn took place in the month of December, at the
age of Sl. It is understood that he has left behind him a minutely de-
tailed journal of his experiences, and his relations to the colony in
which he lived for over fifty years, which will doubtless be published
on account of its great historical value.

Hon. William McKinley, a valued correspondent of the Institution,
who died on the 2d of May, 1878, was born in Abbeville District, South
Carolina, in the year 1809; became a resident of Georgia in early life;
was educated at Franklin College, now the University of Georgia, where
he was graduated; entered the profession of law, served as a member of
the Georgia legislature ; removed to Milledgeville, Ga., where he spent
the remainder of his long and useful life in the active and extensive
practice of his profession. He sought relaxation in other pursuits at
times, none of which were more pleasing to him than the ethnological
researches connected with that region, so rich in antiquarian remains, in
which his life was spent. He made, within the last few years, repeated
contributions of aboriginal remains to the Smithsonian Institution, re-
markable for their beauty and value. Mr. McKinley also contributed a
valuable paper entitled “Mounds in Georgia” descriptive of aboriginal
earthworks on the sea-coast, and of the celebrated Pyramid of Kolee
Mokee in Early County, to the Smithsonian Report for 1872. Further
additions of antiquities by Mr. McKinley are mentioned on page 82 of
the Smithsonian Report of 1875; and at the time of his death, a still later
collection was in his possession, destined for the Smithsonian Institution.

Respectfully submitted.

SPENCER F. BAIRD,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution.
WASHINGTON, January, 1879.
APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY,

JOVERNMENT EXPLORATIONS AND SURVEYS IN 1878.

The following are brief accounts of the principal explorations of the
government in 1878, from which specimens will be derived for increasing
the collections of the National Museum. They are furnished by the sev-
eral directors of the explorations:

THE WORK OF THE UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL AND GEOGRAPHICAL
SURVEY OF THE TERRITORIES UNDER THE DIRECTION OF PROF.
F. ‘VY. HAYDEN DURING THE SEASON OF 1878.

The work of the survey was intrusted to four parties, viz: One for
carrying on the primary triangulation; two parties for geologic and
topographie work; and a party for special geologic studies and photog-
raphy. These were so organized that in case of necessity they could
be divided for special duty. The field headquarters of the survey was
at Cheyenne, Wyo., and the outfits and animals were transported via
the Union Pacific Railroad to their points of departure.

Geology.—Dr. Hayden, the geologist in charge, accompanied the pho-
tographie division, and the route pursued gave him an opportunity to
secure a very accurate general knowledge of the geological structure of
a large area. The Wind River Range proved one of remarkable interest.
It has a trend about northwest and southeast, with a length of about 100:
miles. On the west side all the sedimentary belts have been swept away,
down to the Archean, olderthan the Wahsatch, and the latter formation
rests on the Archwan rocks all along the base of the range, seldom in-
clining more than 5° to 10°. On the east side of the range the seams
of sedimentary formations usually known to occur in the northwest are
exposed from the Potsdam sandstone, which rests. upon the Archean
rocks, to the Cretaceous inclusive.

Along the northwestern portion of the range the Wahsatch Group only
is seem for some distance, but as we proceed down the Wind River
Valley the formations appear one after the other, until at the lower end
the entire series is exposed. The Wind River Range may be regarded
as originally a vast anticlinal, of which one side has been entirely
denuded of the sedimentary, except the Middle Tertiary. On the same
side of the range the morainal deposits and glaciated rocks are shown
on a scale such as we have not known in any other portion of the West.
Three genuine glaciers were discovered on the east base of Wind River
and Frémont Peaks, the first known to exist east of the Pacific coast.

S. Mis. 59-———5 65
66 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

The morainal deposits are also found on a grand scale in the Snake
River Valley, on the east side of the Teton Range. The numerous lakes
have been the beds of glaciers, and the shores of the lakes are walled
with morainal ridges. North of the Teton Mountains the prevailing
rocks are of modern volcanic origin, and in the Yellowstone Park the
hot springs and geysers are the later manifestations of the intense vol-
canie activity that once existed. All these interesting features were
studied with care, and the results will be elaborated for the twelfth an-
nual report of the survey.

Mr. W. H. Holmes acted as geologist to the second division. The
first month of the season he was with the fourth division, which pro-
ceeded from Pointof Rocks Station northward, along the west side of the
Wind River Mountains, and up the Snake River Valley to the Yellow-
stone Park, where he joined the second division. In the mean time he
was engaged in making sketches, panoramic views, and geological sec-
tions of the intermediate country, all of which will prove of the highest
importance in illustrating the geological structure of this most interest-
ing and complicated region.

The latter part of the summer was spent in making detailed geological
examinations in the district that includes the National Park. The greater
portion of the park was found to be covered with somewhat uniform
flows of the ordinary volcanic rocks. Features of more than ordinary
geologic interest occur, however, along the northern border of the park
district. Here a small belt, not more than 15 by 30 miles in extent, con-
tains a fair epitome of the geology of the Rocky Mountain region. The
whole series of formations from the earliest to the most recent are almost
typically developed. The only marked irregularity in the succession of
geologic events occurred during the great mountain-building period of
the early Tertiary. After that followed a number of inferior oscillations
of the surface, during which an extensive series of recent Tertiary and
volcanic rocks were deposited. Connecting this period with the present
are the deposits of a number of great lakes, which at the present time
have their chief representative in Yellowstone Lake.

The formations of the Tertiary period present features of more than
ordinary interest. They consist of upward of 5,000 feet of strata which
arealmost totally made up of fragmentary voleanic products. The whole
period seems to have been one of unparalleled voleanie activity, the lat-
ter part especially having yielded such immense quantities of ejecta that
the strata are almost wholly breecias and conglomerates. These forma-
tions are therefore so unlike those of corresponding periods in neighboring
provinees that it is almost impossible, considering the absence of both
vertebrate and invertebrate remains, to make satisfactory correlations.
This difficulty is increased by the fact that these formations have a much
greater elevation than those of any of the neighboring basins of the
interior or eastern plains districts. They lie in a horizontal position,
upon the eroded surfaces of the strata of preceding ages, at an eleva-
tion of from 6,000 to 11,500 feet above the sea.
APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF*® THE SECRETARY. 67

A very extraordinary feature of these rocks is the occurrence of silici-
fied forests which are found in situ not only at one horizon but at a great
number of horizons throughout a great part of the whole series. I*os-
sil leaves found associated with the silicified forests near the middle of
the series indicate the prevalence of a flora very closely related to that
of the present time. They belong, according to Professor Lesquereux,
to late Miocene or early Pliocene times.

Among the many points of interest in the way of flowed volcanic
rocks was the discovery and examination of extensive deposits of obsid-
jan. In one locality upwards of 600 feet of obsidian strata ocerr, much
of which is solid glass; banded, spherulitic, and brecciated varieties are
interbedded with the more solid layers. A very extensive collection of
these and other voleanic rocks was made.

No workable beds of coal have been found within the park area, nor
have any deposits of the precious metals been discovered.

To Dr. A. C, Peale and Mr. J. E. Mushbach was assigned the special
investigation of the hot springs and geysers. Owing to the lateness of
the season when the park was reached, and the early storms in Septem-
ber, there was comparatively little time for work. About two months
were spent by them in mapping and investigating the springs in the
Shoshone Basin, Upper and Lower Fire-Hole Basins, Red Mountain
Basin, Gibbon’s Fork Basin, the Mammoth Hot Springs, and the Mud
Springs localities of the Yellowstone River.

Over 1,500 temperatures were recorded, and about 2,500 springs were
mapped and notes taken for their description. Special attention was
paid to the geysers and notes of their times of eruption and the heights
reached by them were taken.

Two of the geyser basins were almost unknown before and had never
been described. The Gibbon’s Fork Basin presented many features of
interest, among which were the numerous varieties of the siliceous de-
posits, many of them probably new to science. Water from important
springs of the principal lecalities was brought in for future analysis.
Notes were taken for mapping the different greups of springs on a large
seale, so that hereafter they may enable the tourist to identify the in-
dividual springs. Many new geysers were discovered and new points of
interest in relation to the old ones obtained.

Large collections of specimens were made and brought east.

The notes of this division of the survey being largely statistical, the
complete results of the work cannot be detailed until they are thor-
oughly worked up.

The following is a summary, by Mr. O. St. John, of the geological
work prosecuted in the field assigned to the Wind River division :

The region explored comprises a triangular area extending along the
forty-third parallel from Salt River to the Wind River Valley, a distance
of about 100 miles. The boundaries on either side converge, uniting
near the parallel 45° 45’. It thus includes about half of the Wind River
68 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Range and the continental water-shed north to Togwotee Pass, the Gros
Ventre Mountains southeast of Jackson’s Basin, and in the southwest
the considerable area south of the Grand Canon of the Snake filled by
the southern prolongation of the Snake River Mountains, or what is
here known as the Wyoming Range, in which latter quarter the work
commenced.

The approach was from the south up the valley of Green River, which
forms a considerable basin area in the southern central portion of the
district, and which is entirely filled with deposits of the age of the Ter-
tiary. These decline basinwards on the three sides hemmed by the Wy-
oming, Gros Ventre, and Wind River Mountains, attaining a thickness
of several thousand feet.

The northern end of the Wyoming Range was here found to-consist
of several quite well defined low ridges which reach the maximum of
ruggedness in the Carboniferous barrier ridge on the western border
along Salt River. To the east of this belt Hoback’s River rises in a basin
area south of the Gros Ventre Range, which, geologically, is part of the
Green River Basin, the water-divide being merely a low ridge composed
of the soft arenaceous Tertiary beds. The latter are here unconformably
uplifted on the border of the Hoback Caton ridge, the easternmost of
the Wyoming Range, and which is made up of Carboniferous and Meso-
zoic formations occupying a syncelinal, either border of which appcars
in the monoclinal crests on the east and west sides of this ridge.

A tributary of the Hoback on the west of the canon ridge flows
through a valley which penetrates southwards nearly to the southern
border of the district. In this vicinity the western crest of the Hoback

Jafion ridge shows en anticlinal structure, the Carboniferous on the west
flank being sueceeded by the Trias, Jura, and Cretaceous, and finally a
heavy series of sandstones and variegated arenaceous shales which prob-
ably pertain to the Laramie. The latter stretch across the valley, dip-
ping westwardly, and impinge on the next west-lying mountain ridge,
which is also composed of Carboniferous strata, abruptly tilted and
faulted, with downthrow on the east. Inclining off the west slope of
this ridge the same series of geological formations are met with as men-
tioned above, the later-formed showing subordinate folds and making up
the bulk of the highland to the west which has been carved into a very
broken belt by the erosion of the eastern tributaries of John Gray’s
River and the gorges descending to the Snake. Beyond this nearly the
same stratigraphical and structural features recur in the more bulky
ridge which occupies the interval extending over to Salt River, viz,
westerly dipping Mesozoic and Post-Cretaceous deposits, impinging
against the faulted Carboniferous in the ridge on the west.

In the latter region much information was gained relative to the
identity in stratigraphical and structural elements that subsist here and
in the cluster of mountains culminating in Mount Baird north of the
Grand Caton. The whole region here referred to proved to be exceed-
APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 69

ingly rough, but with redeeming valley spaces abounding in good graz-
ing, while the hills are quite well wooded with coniferous forests.

The southern flank of the Gros Ventre Mountains was traversed from
a point near where the Hoback’s Canon ridge first approaches this range,
thence east to the broad depression separating it from the northern
portion of the Wind River Range. In the west the culminating peak
rises into a bared Archean cone, the primal rocks occurring at one or
two points farther east, where they have been laid bare in the deeper
cahons which all the streams penetrating the mountains from this side
have excavated. But for the most part this mountain front is heavily
plated with Paleozoic formations, including the Potsdam quartzite,
Quebec limestones, the magnesian limestone, and the still heavier series
of Carboniferous limestones and sandstones, which latter forms the mass
of the eastern portion of the range over to the divide at the head of
water flowing into Green River. The Paleozoic rocks have been up-
lifted into great folds, with abrupt inclination on the southerly flanks,
contrasting with long declivities in the opposite direction, on which side
the range loses much of its rugged, imposing character. Here and there
patches of Mesozoic appear low in the south-side mountain flank, sue-
ceeded by the unconformable Tertiary beds descending into the Hoback
and Green River Basins. In some of the larger cation mouths interest-
ing exhibitions of morainal and other glacial phenomena were first met
with.

The work in the Wind River Mountains was commenced towards the
northern end on the west side, and thence carried southwards, cireum-
stances compelling a rapid march round via South Pass to Camp Brown,
from which point the work was prosecuted northwards along the east
ern flank of the range.

In the vicinity of Green River Cafion, on the west side of the Wind
River Range for a few miles, the outer barrier of the mountains preserves
a remnant of the Paleozoic formations. These deposits are very similar
to the corresponding formations in the Gros Ventre Mountains, and
identical with the much more extensive occurrence of strata of that era
on the east side of the range. They have been lifted high up on the
mountain with minor undulations, and, as seen from the open basin to
the southwest, they have the appearance of curving round the extremity
of the range. But the latter appearance was found to be deceptive, the
Archean soon reappearing in the outer slope to the north of Green
River Cafion, and thence continuing until all the more ancient rock
series is hidden by the Cenozoic and Post-Tertiary accumulations at the
northern end of the range.

The brief visit paid to the summit of this portion of the Wind River
Mountains afforded what is to the student of American geology a field
of greatest interest in the existence here of living glaciers. The snow-
fields were found to be much more extensive than was surmised from
the distant views of the summit, and the ice-filled gorges, especially on
70 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

the east side at the sources of Torrey’s Creek, presented most interesting
examples of many of the associated phenomena connected with the gla-
cier. But compared with their former extent these are but the merest
vestiges of the ice masses which flowed down and polished the canon-
walls of all the drainage courses which penetrate the range, and in the
amount of glaciation and the piled-up débris strewn along the sides of
the debouching valleys something like an adequate conception of their
former extent and comparatively recent dissipation may be formed.

A few miles south of the cafion of Green River the older sedimenta-
ries have been entirely removed trom the mountain border, the Tertiary
coming in contact with the bared Archean rocks. Such are the
geologic features to the southern border of the district, and probably,
indeed, throughout the west flank to the extreme southern terminus at
South Pass.

The eastern flank of this range was found to possess a much more ex-
tensive area occupied by the Paleozoic formations, which, for the most
part, are simply upraised, forming so many more or less well-marked in-
clined benches. The most recent of these is composed of the Carbon-
iferous, preceded by the magnesian limestone, Quebec limestone, and
primordial quartzites, which lithologically, and in the topographic fea-
tures molded out of them, bear close resemblance to the west flank of
the Téton Mountains. At no point were the Trias and later Mesozoic
formations found rising to any considerable elevation on the mountain
border; on the contrary their presence marks the boundary between
the orographic and basin areas. The latter formations present in a gen-
eral way typical lithologic features characterizing their occurrence in
the region to the west, with however many and in some respects some-
what strongly contrasted local stratigraphic peculiarities. The “red
beds” of the Trias exhibit enormous local accumulations of massive and
laminated gypsum, and the Cretaceous here contains seams of coal
which will become of economic value.

In the Wind River Basin the unconformable Tertiary occupies the
interval reaching over to the Owl Creek Mountains to the northeast.
The border of this basin along the foot of the Wind River Mountains
presents some extraordinary spring deposits of very modern date m
places incorporated with the gravel deposits occurring in terraces at
the foot of the mountains. Many, perhaps the majority, of the spring
sources have become extinet; but a few remain, evidently but feeble as
compared with their former volume, but which have built up quite ex-
tensive deposits of caleareous tufa. Some of the older deposits present
much the appearance of porous limestones forming extensive benches in.
the mountain’s foot. The presence of these deposits in some of the
canons on this side of the mountains is associated with the most pictur-
esque scenery. All the streams that rise high up in the mountains
were formerly the beds ‘of extensive glaciers which built up the great
morainal ridges, like those which border the debouchures of the Little
APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 71

Wind River, Bull Lake, Dinwiddie, and Torrey’s Forks, only less ex-
tensive accumulations of glacial materials than those found along the
west border of the range.

Jn the water-shed extending northward from the northern end of the
Wind River Range extensive arenaceous deposits of modern-looking
Tertiary age but slightly disturbed, are met with, and which evidently
form uninterrupted connection with the Wind River Tertiaries on the
one hand and the deposits which occupy so large area east of Jackson’s
Basin on the other. In the latter quarter, in the Mount Leidy high-
lands, and along the upper courses of the main tributaries of the Gros
Ventre, in lower strata of the same series, extensive developments of
lignite were met with, the special investigation of which was undertaken
by Mr. Perry. In still more ancient horizons other lignitic seams were
found which, together with those just mentioned, render this one of the
most important coal-producing areas as yet discovered in this region.

In the latter region the lignitic and older mesozoic formations within
a narrow belt at the northern foot of the Gros Ventre Mountains have
beer thrown into a series of sharp parallel folds. To the northeast the
Tertiaries dip, with gradually slackening inclination, until they pass be-
neath the voleanic mantle in the vicinity of Togwotee Pass; on the op-
posite side the older Mesozoics as uniformly rise up on the flank of the
Gros Ventre Mountains, whose northern crest reveals the regular
courses of the Carboniferous limestone which in places preserves a cop-
ing of the Triassic ‘“ red beds.”

During the last two months the expedition encountered much in-
clement weather, embarrassing the prosecution of the field-work; and
on its arrival in the region of Mount Leidy and Buffalo Fork, about the
middle of October, it was overtaken by the early snows of winter, which
virtually closed the field-work for the season.

Paleontology—sSo large an amount of paleontological material had
accumulated during the previous years that its critical study became
necessary for the purpose of aiding in the elucidation of certain problems
in structural geology which had arisen in the prosecution of the field-
work. Dr. C. A. White, paleontologist to the survey, therefore devoted
the whole season of 1878 to this work at the office, instead of taking the
field as he did the previous season. The work which thus engaged his
attention embraces the preparation of a detailed report of his fieldwork
for 1877, including the discussion of important questions connected with
it, the preparation of a large number of new fossil invertebrates for
publication and illustration, and the illustration of all the types of
species in the collections of the survey which the late Mr. F. B. Meek
had described, but not illustrated.

Besides the collections made by the various parties of the survey,
others have from time to time been received from several persons not
officially connected with it, from different parts of the western portion of
the national domain. The investigation of these collections brings out
(2 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

some interesting facts concerning the geographical distribution of types,
especially those of marine Cretaceous invertebrates. Among the more
interesting results of Dr. White’s investigations is the recognition of a
Triassic fauna in the rocks of Southeastern Idaho. This is of especial
interest as being the first discovery of distinctively Triassic invertebrate
types in the West, east of those now well known to exist in the Pacific
coast region; and also on account of the close relationship of these
types with those of the Middle Trias of Europe, while those of the
Pacific coast represent the Upper Trias.

Primary triangulation.—The primary triangulation of 1878 was ex-
tended northward from that of 1877 which was begun at Rawlins, Wyo.,
where it connected with the system of triangulation of the survey of the
fortieth parallel.

The triangulation party, in charge of Mr. A. D. Wilson, left the Union
Pacific Railroad at Point of Rocks, Wyo., on July 28. They traveled
northward to the western base of Wind River Range, where their work
began. In this range two stations were made, on Wind River and Fre-
mont’s Peaks.

Traveling westward from the base of this range, they crossed the head
of Green River Basin, and, threading the canon of Hoback’s River, they
reached the Snake at the head of its canon.

They followed this stream up to the eastern base of the Grand Téton,
where, finding it impracticable to ascend this mountain from the east,
they crossed to Pierre’s Hole by way of the Téton Pass. From this, the
west side, the peak was found to be more accessible, and Mr. Wilson
succeeded in reaching, with his instruments, a secondary summit 100 to
200 feet lower than the main crest, and distant from it about 400 feet.
He reported the true summit to be practically inaccessible.

From Pierre’s Hole the party next went northwest to Sawtelle’s Peak,
near Henry’s Lake, in Eastern Idaho. On the night following the as-
cent of this mountain, all the animals belonging to the party were stolen
by Bannock Indians, leaving the party afoot, at least 100 miles from
the nearest settlement.

After carefully caching their instruments, the party made their way on
foot across arid plateaus to the Geyser Basins, where they met the par-
ties of Messrs. Gannett and Jackson. With their aid, and the kind as-
sistance of Mr. James Eccles, an English gentleman who, with a party
of his own, was visiting the country, Mr. Wilson was again fitted out,
his instruments having in the mean time been recovered, and his work
went on with but little delay.

His next station was Mount Sheridan, the highest peak of the Red
Mountains, in the southern part of the Yellowstone National Park.
Thence he visited Hiectric Peak, near the northern boundary of the
park, and the highest summit within its limits. The well-known Mount
- Washburn was his next station, and from that mountain he went south-
ward, passing around Yellowstone Lake and up the Upper Yellowstone,

¥
\
APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. YE:

intending to make a station on a high peak of the Yellowstone Range,
near the head of the latter stream. The snow, however, which had
been accumulating for a month in that high mountain region, had be-
come at that time (about the end of September) so deep that it was im-
possible to do any more work. Indeed, it had accumulated so in the
passes about the heads of the Upper Yellowstone, Snake, and Wind
Rivers, that the party found difficulty in getting their animals over
them. Finally, however, the party reached the head of Wind River,
and thence traveled to Rawlins, Wyo., on the Union Pacific Railroad,
where they were disbanded.

Topography.—To the party in charge of Mr. Henry Gannett was in-
trusted the work of making a detailed survey of the Yellowstone Park,
with extended study of the phenomena of the hot springs and geysers.
Mr. W. H. Holmes was detailed as geologist of this division, while to
Dr. A. C. Peale was intrus¢ed the study of the hot springs and geysers,
Mr. Gannett undertaking the secondary triangulation and topography
of the park, and his assistant, Mr. J. E. Mushbach, the detailed survey
of the geyser basins and other groups of springs.

The party left Granger Station, Wyo., on July 28; drove up Green
River to the head of the basin; thence down the rugged defile of Ho-
back’s River to the Snake, and up the Snake to its forks at the south
boundary of the Yellowstone Park.

Turning westward at this point, they spent a few days in surveying
Fall River and its affluents, then returned to the Shoshone Geyser Ba-
sin at the west end of Shoshone Lake. Here the party was joined by
Mr. Holmes, who up to that time had accompanied Dr. Hayden in the
Wind River and Téton Mountains.

Leaving the body of the party in permanent camp at the Shoshone
Geyser Basin, Messrs. Holmes and Gannett visited the Red Mountains
and the country south of Yellowstone Lake. On their return from this
trip, which occupied a week, the party, re-enforced by that of Mr. Jack-
son, moved across the divide to the Upper Geyser Basin, near the head
of the Madison (Fire Hole) River. Here Dr. Peale and Mr. Mushbach
were left to carry on their work, while the party continued on down the
Fire Hole River to the Lower Geyser Basin. Thence they crossed to the
Yellowstone River via Howard’s road, and continued down that river
to the Mammoth Hot Springs on Gardiner’s River, where the supplies
for the season were stored.

Refitted with provisions, the party returned up the Yellowstone as
far as the mouth of its east fork, which they ascended nearly to its head
in the rugged Yellowstone Range; then crossed a high, rolling divide
to Pelican Creek, a tributary to Yellowstone Lake. Following this
stream down they reached Yellowstone Lake at its northeastern corner,
skirted its eastern shore to its head, and traveled several miles up the
Upper Yellowstone River; thence they returned to the foot of the lake
and followed the river down to the Mammoth Hot Springs, arriving
there about October first.
74 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Starting a second time from the springs, the party traveled south-
ward to the headwaters of Gardiner’s River and Gibbon’s Fork of the
Fire Hole, following the road recently cut by Colonel Norris, superin-
tendent of the Yellowstone National Park, from the Mammoth Springs
to the Geyser Basins. Having completed their work in this direction,
they spent a few days in studying the south end of the Gallatin Range,
which separates the waters of the Yellowstone from those of the Gal-
latin, and then returned to the Mammoth Spreigs; whence, having been
joined by Messrs. Peale and Mushbach, they went to Bozeman, Mont.,
where the party disbanded.

The above is a sketch of the route of travel of the party. From it
the geologist and topographer branched off widely, thus covering the
country between the routes of travel.

The area embraced in this survey is about 3,500 square miles, of which
material for a map ona scale of one mile to an inch was secured. In
prosecution of the work of secondary triangulation and topography 47
stations were made, from which 2,100 horizontal and 500 vertical angles
were measured. Altogether 370 points were located, an average of 1 in
94 square miles; 230 observations for height were made with the mer-
curial barometer, and 100 with the aneroid.

Material for maps in detail of all localities of special interest was col-
lected. Among these may be mentioned the well-known Geyser Basins,
on the Fire Hole, the Shoshone Geyser Basin, the fine group of springs
at Heart Lake, and those on Gibbon’s Fork discovered by Colonel Nor-
ris, the Mammoth Springs on Gardiner’s River, the Mud Geysers on the
Yellowstone, and others. The heights of all important waterfalls were
determined by measurement with the tape-line, and thus the vexed ques-
tion of the height of the Yellowstone Lower Falls was definitely settled.

The area occupied by the Yellowstone Park has a great elevation,
ranging in the flat country from 6,500 feet to 9,000, while its mountain
peaks reach heights of 11,000 feet. Its mean elevation is about 5,000
feet. Within this elevated region head three large rivers, the Madison
and Yellowstone, which flow off northward to join the Missouri, and the
Snake, or Lewis Fork of the Columbia, which at first has a southerly
course. The greater part of the Park is a rolling plateau, broken here
and there by small groups of mountains, as the Red Mountains and the
Washburn Group. East of the Yellowstone River, separating its drain-
age from that of the Big Horn, is a high, rugged, voleanic range, whose
peaks reach 11,000 to 12,000 feet. This range was, in 1871, named
‘Yellowstone Range” by Dr. Hayden.

Excepting a narrow belt in the northern part, this park is everywhere
heavily timbered. Indeed, with the exception of Washington Territory
and the western portion of Oregon, it is the most densely timbered area
in the West. There is practically no arable land within its limits owing
to its great altitude, and, except along its northern border, little open
country suitable for pasturage.
i.

APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 75

The heavy growth of timber indicates and fosters a comparatively
moist climate. The park is a region of lakes and swampy tracts, of
springs, and abundant perennial streams. The summer season is short.
While frosts may be expected any night in the year, the winter holds
until June and commences again in September. July and August
usually afford fine but cool weather, with cold nights; but September
brings frost and snow.

The third division, under Mr. F. A. Clark, surveyed the Wind River
Mountains, a portion of the Wyoming Range, the Gros Ventre Range,
with a large area in the Snake River Valley. Mr. Clark made 31 gradi-
enter stations and 15 compass stations. The area les between latitude
43° and 44° and longitude 109° 15’ and 111°. This includes the upper
portion of the Wind River Mountains, with portions of the Wyoming
Range, the Gros Ventre Range, and portions of the Shoshone Mount-
ains and the Owl Creek Range; also the sources of Green River, Hoback
Basin, and upper waters of Wind River. Mr. St. John acted as geolo-
gist and Mr. N. W. Perry as mineralogist to this party. Their reports
will prove of general interest. Mines of gold, silver, iron, and vast beds
of gypsum, as well as many other minerals, were found.

Photography.—In the prosecution of the field-work of the survey dur-
ing the past season a photographic division was again put in operation,
after an interval of two years, under the leadership of Mr. W. H. Jack-
son, who has been connected with the survey as its photographer during
the past nine years.

Leaving Point of Rocks, on the Union Pacific Railroad, on July 24,
the first points of interest were reached on the western flank of the
Wind River Mountains. Two side trips, undertaken in connection with
Mr. Wilson, in charge of the primary triangulatioa, were made to the
crest of the range, and some grand views of that remarkable region
were obtained. Irom the summit of Frémont’s Peak views were made
of an immense glacier now occupying its eastern slope. Fine views
were also obtained of the great glaciated plateau lying between the
plains and the crest of the range.

Proceeding next to the vicinity of the Grand Tétons, lying to the east
of the headwaters of the Snake River, several magnificent views of the
remarkable range in which they occur were made from the neighborhood
of Jackson’s Lake.

Tteaching Shoshone Lake the 18th of August, the entire month follow-
ing was devoted exclusively to photographing the remarkable phenomena
connected with the hot springs and geysers of the various basins within
the Park. Especial attention was paid to the almost unknown but ex-
ceedingly interesting features of the new Shoshone and Red Mountain
Basins. The “Tire Hole” and “Mammoth Hot Spring” Basins were
again gone over, and the experience derived from the work done here in
former years shows its benefits in the remarkably effective views obtained
this season. At this latter basin many detailed as well as general views
76 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

were made with especial reference to the future production of an exact
model in plaster of the whole group.

On the homeward route, which was by the way of the Upper Yellow-
stone, across the headwaters of the Snake to the Wind River and thence
via Camp Brown to the railroad, a number of very effective views were
made, particularly about the Grand Falls and the canon of the Yellow-
stone. At the Yellowstone Lake some very fine views were made, but
that region was not completed, in consequence of a prolonged snow-storm.

At the Togwotee Pass some characteristic views were obtained of the
remarkable breccia mountains, whose castellated forms adorn that por-
tion of the continental divide, and also some of the curious “ bad lands”
farther down on Wind River. The season’s work closed at Camp Brown,
where portraits and groups were made of the Bannock prisoners in con-
finement at that post.

_ A brief summing up of the season’s operations of three months, much
of which time was characterized by extremely inclement weather, shows
an increase to the already very extensive collection of the survey, of 45
negatives 11 by 14 inches in size, and 110 of smaller ones, 5 by 8.

PUBLICATIONS.— During the year 1878 the publications of the United

tates Geological Survey have been numerous and important, yielding
in no respect to those of any previous year, and fully sustaining the
reputation this organization has acquired for the prompt and full exhibit
ofits operations. Elevenseparate publications have appeared and others
have been brought to a forward state of preparation.

Perhaps the most important of these as a contribution to pure science
is the seventh volume of the quarto reports. This is Prof. Leo Lesque-
reux’s beautiful monograph, ‘The Tertiary Flora,” forming a compan-
ion volume to the same author’s “ Cretaceous Flora,” which latter con-
stitutes the sixth volume of the series. It consists of nearly 400 pages,
and is illustrated with 65 plates.

A further contribution to the fossil flora of the West has been made
in the publication of 26 plates, entitled “ Illustrations of the Cretaceous
and Tertiary Plants of the Western Territories of the United States”
This volume consists only of the plates and explanatory text, the full
report upon the subject being deferred.

The regular annual report of progress for the year 1876, being the
tenth of this series, appeared during the past year. This makes a vol-
ume of about 550 pages, illustrated with 79 plates and various wood-
cuts. There has also been issued in pamphlet form the preliminary re-
port of operations for 1878, in advance of the regular report for that
year.

The Miscellaneous Publications’ Series has been continued during the
year by the issue of Nos. 10 and 11. Miscellaneous Publication No. 10
consists of a Bibliography of North American Invertebrate Paleontology,
prepared by Dr, C. A. White and Prof. H. Alleyne Nicholson. Miscel-
laneous Publication No. 11 is entitled “The Birds of the Colorado Val-
APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. ri

ley,” and consists of Part First of an extensive work upon North Ameri-
can Ornithology, by Dr. Elliott Coues, U. 8S. A. Both these treatises
have become indispensable to the students of the special branches of
which they respectively treat.

The Bulletins of the survey have appeared during the year with the
usual regularity, the four numbers issued in 1878 forming volume LY. This
publication is now established as a regular annual serial, and the pres-
ent volume, like its predecessors, contains articles on a wide range of
scientific topics embraced within the general scope of the operations of
the survey.

The United States Entomological Commission, conducted under the
auspices of this survey, has during the year issued its first annual re-
port, as an octavo volume of nearly 800 pages, with plates and weod-
cuts. It is devoted to the subject of the Rocky Mountain Locust, and
contains a full exhibit of the results secured by the commission ap-
pointed to investigate that important problem.

UNITED STATES GEOGRAPHICAL SURVEYS WEST OF THE ONE HUN-
DREDTH MERIDIAN, IN CHARGE OF FIRST LIEUT. GEORGE M.
WHEELER, CORPS OF ENGINEERS, UNITED STATES AR3TY.

The work during 1878 was performed by nine main parties and three
astronomical parties, which operated in the States of California, Cclo-
rado, Nevada, Oregon, and Texas, and Arizona, New Mexico, and Wash-
ington Territories. Forty-six observers took the field, leaving a small
force at the Washington office engaged in the preparation of maps and
reports. The astronomical parties, in charge of Professor T. F. Safford,
at the Ogden Observatory, Mr. J. H. Clarke in the California sections,
and Mr. Miles Rock in the Colorado section, made observations at
Walla-Walla, Washington Territory ; the Dalles, Oregon; Fresno, Cali-
fornia; Fort Bliss, Texas; and Fort Bayard, New Mexico, connecting
with Ogden as the initial meridian.

In California, topographical parties oceupied points in the Cascade
Mountains and ranges to the eastward within the Great Interior Basin
extending towards the Blue Ridge, reconnoitring a large area. Opera-
tions were carried southward from Lake Tahoe along the Sierra Nevada,
one party occupying the White Mountain Range and connecting with
the triangulation which joins the astronomical station at Austin, Nevada.
A contour survey of the Washoe mining region was completed, and
numerous details gathered relating to the operations of the vertical and
meridional sections of the lodes.

Work for completing the topography of the seetion between Sierra
Nevada and Cascade Ranges was also carried on. From the southern
end of the Sierra Nevada a party transferred from the Utah section
connected with the work of 1875 from Los Angeles east and north, and
operated along the Coast Range to latitude 30° 30/ N. .«

In Colorado, one party, following the Rio Grande northward, filled in
78 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

details of new routes of communication and of incomplete meanders,
and was further employed upon detailed work. A detachment mean-
dered north and westward from the Rio Grande at Los Lanos, opposite
Fort McRae, through the basin of the Little Colorado to Camp Apache,
Arizona, and thence eastward again to the Rio Grande, making mean-
ders of considerable precision along three natural routes of communica-
tion from the drainage basins of the Gila Salt River and Colorado Chi-
quito to the Rio Grande.

Another party extended the triangulation southward to connect with
astronomical station at Fort Bliss, Texas; also connecting with the
astronomical monument of the Mexican Boundary Survey at El Paso,
Texas, and the monument on that part of the boundary-line on the west-
ern bank of the Rio Grande.

The following list shows the number of the principal observations
made:

Sexiiatn leimaileeienOnky Se oceuSeens soa cos cod bee abd os doodeb codo secloda Gasees 90
Basessmeasured coco. Sat aes cece emcees ce en aoe ee aise mete rete es 5
Tiina, by oaih op ises nee yo0kel es A Re hs Seine sooseasoscoder ee 64
Main trian culation stations! Occupied se = ss =o eacsas ceeleceser eames else emelee 62
Secondary triangulation stations occupied 22-22-42 5 se sec sec on eee en == 2L
Milespmeasured:on Meanders: oc css sa gessase ese cee cree eb el ceases soe 10, 298
@isterm barometer stations! ocettpied! \- SBee ies Tet See eet actneee ae cee oe 1,141
Aneroid barometer stations /Oceupicdh 22-4 a2 eaayieso ee ae oe eel tee cbae eee 7, 057
MeomehlewvarlablOns ODSCLy Cie =. emia a= =e ee eames ee arena nee eit eee 165
Wi lrrantrayes eeliody os) ake ROE aoe PARAS ASO Se see oe see cepau dec gps baaSbemeneosc 12
Mineralcand) phermalis primes 10 beds ce ono eee mctepe ae ete tate ele ee eaters 20

The estimated area occupied by the survey during the season, includ-
ing main triangulation and preliminary reconnaissance work, was 35,000
square miles. The area from which detailed topographical data were
gathered sufficient for a map, on a scale of one inch to four miles, was
approximately 27,500 miles.

Besides the topographical work, one party in the Colorado section was
devoted entirely to geological examination, under the charge of Pro-
fessor J. J. Stevenson, assisted by Mr. J. C. Russell. Its area of opera-
tions was along the Spanish ranges between the Rio Grande and Cana-
dian Rivers, in the northern part of New Mexico, where its labors were
greatly facilitated by the use of the completed topographical maps. The
section of the lignitic group was worked out, and twenty-six beds of lig-
nitic coal were recognized as present at most localities within the area
where the horizon was reached. Much labor was bestowed upon a study
of the axes, the structure of which was found to be exceedingly compli-
cated, requiring further detailed examination. Quite large collections
were made of igneous rocks and fossils, about three hundred specimens
of the former being obtained from seventy localities, forming a complete
series illustrating the lithology of the injected dikes, volcanic overflows,
and extinct craters of the region.

The fossils, numbering over thirteen hundred specimens, are from
APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 719

rocks of the Carboniferous age, from Cretaceous strata, Nos. 2, 3, and
4, and from overlying beds of the Lignitic group.

From the Carboniferous formation, about seven hundred specimens
were obtained; from the Cretaceo%s, five hundred, illustrating its in-
vertebrate fauna; and from the coal-bearing Lignitic group, resting on
the black shales of Cretaceous stratum No. 4, about two hundred speci-
mens of fossil leaves.

Zoological collections were mainly made by the party operating from
Northern California northward, and illustrate the zoology of the area
extending from Camp Bidwell, California, to the Columbia River, Ore-
gon. To this party Mr. H. W. Henshaw was attached as naturalist.
The collection made comprises upwards of three hundred specimens of
birds, specimens of fishes from most of the lakes and streams encoun-
tered, with Lepidoptera, Orthoptera, and numerous reptiles and Batra-
ehians.

The field season ended early in December. The work of this survey
has now covered, since its commencement in 1859, connected areas
reaching from the Columbia River on the north to the Mexican border,
and from the 100th meridian, near Fort Dodge, to the Pacific Coast, near
Los Angeles, an area now exceeding 350,000 square miles.

The publications during the year are as follows: Vol. II, quarto series,
Astronomy and Barometric Hypsometry ; ‘A Catalogue of 2,018 Stars,
for Latitude Work West of the Mississippi,” and ten of the regular atlas-
sheets. Vol. VI, quarto series, was in stereotype at the close of 1878;
a “List of Distances, Positions, Altitudes,” &e., was well advanced in
printing ; and Vols. I and VII, of the quarto series, awaited the appear-
ance of Vol. VI. Seventeen atlas-sheets, also from work prior to 1878,
are in various stages of progress.

GEOGRAPHICAL AND GEOLOGICAL SURVEY OF THE ROCKY MOUNT-
AIN REGION, BY PROF. J. W. POWELL.

The labors of this survey have been continued during 1878. From
the return of the field-parties in the autumn of 1877 till July, 1878, the
entire corps remained in Washington, preparing the results of the field-
work for publication. In July, 1878, a division was sent to the field,
but a force was also retained at Washington to continue the ethno-
graphic work, and to complete and edit certain unfinished reports.

The office-work thus acquired an exceptional importance as compared
with the field-work, which, for the season of 1878, was placed in charge
of Mr. C. K. Gilbert, his principal assistants being Messrs. J. H. Ren-
shaw, O. D. Wheeler, and 8. H. Bodfish.

Taking the field at Gunnison, Utah, in the early part of August, the
work was carried on by four independent parties till the middle of De-
cember, when the adyance of winter made it necessary to disband them.

The Kanab base-line, four and one-third miles long, has been care-
80 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

fully remeasured, with a probable error of 1.5 inches, as well as the
southern portion of the chain of triangles connecting it with the Gun-
nison base-line. The main change of triangulation, consisting of eight
quadrilaterals, one triangle, and one pentagon, is now ready for diseus-
sion. At each end of the chain a base-line has been measured, and an
astronomical determination has been made of latitude, longitude, and
azimuth. The most southerly points visited were Mount San Francisco
and Mount Floyd, voleanic peaks on the Colorado plateau south of
Grand Caton. Southern Utah is not well adapted for triangulation.
Its principal eminences are table-lands or plateaus covered with timber,
there being very few sharp peaks readily distinguishable from all diree-
tions.

The work of Mr. Renshaw’s party, with plane-table and orograph, em-
braces all of the region lying south of the Grand Cain in sections 105
and 106, covering about 7,500 square miles. This field comprised a
portion of what is known as the Colorado Plateau, a high table-land
lying immediately south of the Colorado River, which there runs west-
wardly at the bottom of a deep chasm. On the southern edge of the
plateau there are innumerable extinct volcanoes, the. ground being
covered by a forest of pine, the most valuable tract of timber in Arizona.
The northern edge is lower, and is bare of timber. Near the Colorado
Canon it is broken by gorges, and is difficult of access, but in other
directions there is little impediment to travel. Water is scarce, and is
found only in pockets and small springs, there being none available for
irrigation. The only wealth of the country lies in timber and grass.
West of the plateau, Mr. Renshaw’s map includes a portion of Hualapai
Valley and the adjacent mountains. This region is almost an absolute
desert, water being so scarce that in some places it is sold by the gallon.
Agriculture is out of the question, and there is no timber. Grazing is
practicable to a limited extent. The only important industry, present or
prospective, is mining, and only the richest of the numerous gold and
silver deposits can now be worked with profit, owing to the remoteness
of all sources of supplies.

Mr. Wheeler worked with plane-table and orograph in the western
half of the region comprised by atlas-sheet No. 106, and estimates his
total area at 5,000 square miles. Through the centre of his district there
runs from north to south a natural barrier called the Echo Cliff. The
escarpment faces westward, and the plateau at the west of it is 1,600
feet lower than that to the eastward. The eastern plateau is a broad
desert of sand, scantily watered, and useful only for grazing purposes.
The western plateau is equally barren and worthless, but presents more
variety of surface. A portion consists of naked “bad lands,” soft strata
carved by the elements into hills of picturesque beauty, and tinted with
a variety of brilliant colors which warrant the title of Painted Desert,
bestowed by Lieutenant Ives. Another portion is extremely rocky, and
divided by a net-work of impassable caiions. Through this region runs
APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF*THE SECRETARY. 81

the Little Colorado River, a stream of considerable magnitude, but, on
account of the character of its banks, of no service to agriculture. Hcho
Cliff is interrupted at one point by a cross-line of drainage, and there
are a few springs available for farming. No other spot invites settle-
ment. Maps, on a scale of four miles to one inch, show the geography
of the entire region embraced in the survey of Major Powell; a map
is also under construction intended to represent the distribution of the
various tribes of Indians when first discovered by Europeans.
S. Mis. 59 6

82

APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY,

Table showing the number of entries in the record-books of the United States
National Museum at the close of the years 1877 and 1878, respectively.

Class.

ee

TREO EMAS ANG! Eom OMIA SS 6 eo oscoao bocoasddeodd abbas -48e
Fishes

ISIGSS co Se56 Joos sodeos oon obSbon s52060 sedcou soobes Shou soasoces
Crustaceans
Annelids
IVIOMMSIKS\ ahs She cesie cnc see ceeae AS = eae Sooo eos Seaolesas
Radiates

See ee ny

wee ee we wee tee ewe eee ewe = ce ee ee eee wee ee wee eee mee te eee

Total <0 isd Sous Sane ae sew sees sib lees ecto seceee mien

ee ee ee en

1877 1878
12, 838 13, 069
17, 523 76, 666
9, 500 10, 015
20, 864 22, 000
15, 877 16, 165
17, 500 17,791
2, 324 2, 324
100 100
30, 721 31, 268
3, 229 3, 230
7, 906 8, 020
20, 135 20, 135
30, S83 34, 600
245, 400 255, 373
bie eeretici| 9,978

Approximate table of the distribution of duplicate specimens to the end of

1878.
Total to the end of | Distribution during | Total to the end of
1877. 1878. 187.
Class. |
| | |
Species.| Specimens. | Species.) Specimens. Species. Specimens.
|
| | | -
Skeletons and skulls. 536 1, 818 4 60 540 1,878
Mammals.--..--,---| 2, 159 4,810 8 12 | 2,167 4, 822
Bind set sass ctecsiciee collec Os: 41, 866 123 148 | 27,717 | 42,014
Reptilesaaclseeece 2, 135 3, 488 221 | 352 | 2,356 3 840
ishesie set csecceee 6, 140 9, 645 5 6 | 6,145 9, 651
Nests and eggs of |
[DITO Sy = errata a=. cece W689 18, 746 267 604 | 7,906 19, 350
inseCtSi- 25 a= Seceoe 4,209 9, 500 99 241) 4,308 9,741
Crustaceans --....-.. 1,089 2 664 0 0} 1,087 2, 664
SU HST 8 Sp ag EG) 7 196, 443 377 904 | 90,548 | 197, 347
adrabeste oes. etek 593 793" 0 0 593 793
Other marine inver-
GOWEATES) Annes cen.) 1,602 5, 225 0 0] 1,892 | 5, 225
Plants and packages |
ofjseedsihsc 5s s/5: 29, 437 50, 969 506 1,015 | 29, 943 | 51, 934
IR OSsil gies emerree eta 4,361 10, 468 | 30 50 | 4,391 | 10, 518
Minerals and rocks.-| 9,104 16, 868 1 | T\}) 9) 1055 | 16, 839
Ethnological speci-
MENS hoses eset 2, 234 2,681 | 1,389 2,587 | 3, 623 | 5, 268
Diatomaceous earths
(packages) ..----. 428 1, 182 446 446 74 1, 628
Totals eee eon Lo 377, 166 | 3,476 6, 426 |193, 195 383, 592
e |

APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 83

ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS, OF THE NATIONAL MU-
SEUM IN 1878.

Akron (Ohio) City Museum. Eighteen species of fresh-water Unios ;
from Ohio.

Albro, Samuel (through Hon. Samuel Powel). Fish (Pseudopriacanthus
altus); from Newport, Rh. I.

Aldrich, Charles. Collections of living snakes, turtles, and frogs; and
specimens of Indian relics; from Iowa.

Alexander, James H. Box of ethnological and mineralogical specimens;
from New York. ‘

Allen, Charles A. Collection of birds’ eggs and nests, and six living
turtles; from California.

Allen, Charles S. Collection of birds’ skins and eggs; from Long Island,
NY.

Allen, George K. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commis-
sion.)

Anderson, Capt. Chris. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish
Commission.)

Anderson, E. J. Salmon (Salmo salar); from the Delaware River.

Anderson, William. Six stone implements; from Ilinois.

Andrews, Frank D. Hight rade arrow-heads; from New Jersey.

Andrews, F. 8S. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)

Artes, Charles F. Photographs and drawings of Indian relies, and rel-
ics from mounds in Illinois.

Armistead, E. P. Ball of hair taken from stomach of cow.

Atkins, Charles G. Three boxes of fishes; from Bucksport and Grand
Lake Stream, Maine.

Atkinson, John. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commis-
sion.)

Babcock, A. L. Six birds’ skins; from Massachusetts.

Babson, Fitz J. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commis-
sion.)

Babson, Fitz J., jr. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

Babson, Wiliam H. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

Baird, Prof. S. F. Five gudgeons (Hybognathus regius), from Babeock
Lake; three terrapins, from the Susquehanna River.

Baker, Captain. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commis-
sion.)

Banta, W. V. and J. Garrison. Bones of human skeleton; taken from
Indian mound at Salem, Lowa.

Barber, E. A. Articles of Indian ornament, from Arizona and Utah;
marine animals and Indian stone relics, from New Jersey, Pennsyl-
vania, and Maryland.
84 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Barker, Dr. S. W.  Mud-eel (Siren lacertina); from Charleston, 8. C.

Barth, Henry. Mineral; from Maryland.

Bartlett, A. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)

Bassett, L. Stone axe; from lowa.

Bates, James. (See Washington, D.C., United States Fish Commission.)

Bausett, William A. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

Bean, Dr. 7. H. Collection of stone implements, from Eastern Penn-
sylvania; collection of frogs, snakes, lizards, and fishes, from Prince
George’s County, Maryland; four specimens of fish, from Norfolk, Va.

Beardsley, Grant. Stag-beetle (Cerphus elephas); from North Carolina.

Beauchamp, Rev. W. M. Five stone implements; from New York.

Beekwith, Harney. (See King’s Mountain Mine.)

Belding, L. Seven boxes of birds’ skins and twelve Indian relics; from
California.

Bell, William. Specimen of iron pyrites; from Virginia.

Bellamy, Frank H. Box of fragmentary erennite stems, from Alabama;
Indian relies, from Alabama and North Carolina.

Bendire, Capt. Charles, U. S. A. Nest and eggs of Passerella townsendii
var. schistacea, and Clark’s crow, also box of birds’ skins; from Oregon.

Benner, D. B. Squeezed copy of rock inscription and Indian relies;
from Virginia.

Berlin, A. F. Collections of stone implements; from Reading, Pa.

Bernays, Lewis A. Photographs of mummies found in forks of trees,
Queensland, Australia.

Berry, Henry. Steel dagger used by Wisconsin Indians.

Biddle, Henry J. Box of relics exhumed from mound in Florida.

Bigelow, O. Stone implement; from New York.

Blackburn, Capt.,Wiliam. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish
Commission.)

Biackford, BH. G. Many specimens of fish (salmon, cod, trout, shad, &c.),
brought to Fulton Market, New York, from various parts of the United
States.

Blackly, C. P. Mounted specimen of American eared grebe (Podiceps
auritus var. californicus) ; from Kansas.

Blake, Capt. J. G., U.S. R. M. Specimen of Remora; from Rhode Island.

Bland, Thomas. Specimens of shells (Bulimus, Pagurus, and Lignus) ;
from Tobago and Gonaive Islands.

Blatchford, Capt. B. F. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish
Commission.)

Boardman, George A. Specimens of spotted ury-mouth (Cryptacanthodes
maculatus) and stickleback (Gasterosteus biaculeatus); from Calais,
Maine.

Boehmer, George H. Collection of “ fossil-casts,” from Maryland ; speci-
men of itacolumite, from North Carolina.

Bomar, Thomas H. Snakes (Ophibolus getulus, Crotalus miliaris) and
arrow-heads; from South Carolina.
APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 85

Boston, Mrs. C. B. Box of shells; from Ilinois.

Brace, Lewis J. K. Box of birds from the Bahama Islands. (Received
in 1877.)

Brackett, Col. A. G., U. S. A. Head of eel-pout, from Little Big Horn
tiver, Montana; specimen of field-mouse (Arvicola), from Montana.

Brady, Samuel. Copper spear and barrel of stone mining-hammers;
from Michigan.

Braner, William. Collection of copper and flint arrow-heads; from Wis-
cousin.

Brazier, Benjamin S. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

Breed, H. H. Nest of “‘carpenter-bee.”

Braion, Fred. Specimens of arrow-heads, &c.; from West Virginia and
Indiana.

Brewer, Dr. T. M. Egg of Clarke’s crow.

Brewster, William. Five skins of Sitta pusilla.

Briggs, Captain. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission. )

Brisbane. (See Queensland.)

Britt, Thomas A. Collection of Florida shells.

Brock, R. A. Cocoons of Cecropia silk-work ; from Virginia.

Brodnax, Benjamin H., M. D. <A fine collection of stone axes, spear
and arrow heads, hematite plummets, &e.; from Louisiana.

Brown, Dr. J. J. Specimen of coral (Diploaria cerebriformis) ; from
Nassau, N. P.

Brown, Stephen S. Sample of “ Nicaragua” wheat; from Waco, Texas.

Brown, William. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

Bryan, Oliver N. Box of rude stone implements ; from Maryland.

Burbank, Martin. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

Burger, Peter. Carolina rail (Porzana carolinensis); from Virginia.

Burke, Henry E. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commis-
sion.)

Burnes, B. J. Specimen of samarskite ; from Alabama.

Burns, Thomas. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commis-
sion.)

Bullock, Theron. Copper nodule; from Wisconsin.

Butler, Isaac. (See Washington, D.C., United States Fish Commission.)

Cadle, C. Indian pipe of micaceous sandstone; from the east shore of
Mobile Bay, Alabama.

Calderwood, Capt. M. W. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish
Commission.)

Cambridge, Mass., Botanic Garden of Harvard University, C. S. Sargent,
Director. Seeds and plants of aquatic plants (Vymphea tuberosa,
Rumer hydrolapatum, &e.).
86 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Cambridge, Mass., Museum of Comparative Zoology. Box of birds’ skins,
box of alcoholic specimens of general natural history, and specime
of menhaden (Brevoortia aurea).

Campbell, J. B. Specimens of reptiles, turtles, and batrachians; from
Towa.

Campbell, Kent. Nest and eggs of wood pewee (Contopus virens) ; from
Ohio.

Capehart, Dr. W.R. Specimens of shad and herring; from Avoca,N. C.

Capron, John. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commis-
sion.)

Capron, General Horace. Two dressed figures representing the noble
class of Japan. (Purchased.)

Chappell & Storer (through B. G. Blackford). Warge number of Trachu-
rops crumenophthalnus.

Carlsen, Arnold. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

Carritt, William. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

Carroll, Capt. Daniel. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish
Commission. )

Case, Thomas 8S. Specimen of Lota maculosa; from Missouri.

Cavener, Nicholas. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

Chester, H. C. Jar of fishes, from the Potomac River; model of cod-
fish hatching apparatus.

Chicago Academy of Science. Collection of shells; from Florida.

Childs, Edward R. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

Churchill, R. O. Malformed robin (Turdus migratorius); from New
Work,

Clark, Benjamin. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

Clark, Frank N. Water-snake ; from Spesutia Island, Maryland.

Clark, Samuel C. “ Mule-killer” (Thelyphonus gigantens), from Florida ;
arrow-heads and fragmentary pottery, from Georgia,

Clarke, Prof. F. L. Box of ethnological and natural-history specimens;
from Hawaii.

Jlarke, J. H. Box of fossils (fishes, &c.); from Connecticut.

Clarke, Dr. W. M. Mica arrow-head and shell; from mound in Ten-
nessee.

linton, Capt. George T. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish
Commission.) .

Coast Wrecking Company, New York (through W. R. T. Jones). Speci-
men of marble bored by sponge (Cliona); taken from the wreck of
the steamer Grecian off Long Island.
APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 87

Colby, Charles. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commis-
mission.)

Cole, J. R. Iron pyrites; from Texas.

Collins, Capt. Joseph W. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish
Comunission.)

Collins, William. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commis-
sion.)

Compton, J. W. WLarvee of Helophilas anax; from North Carolina.

Conley, John. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commis-
sion.)

Conrad, LZ. Specimen of mineral; from Ohio.

Cook, Caleb. Two bottles of fish-oil.

Cook, D. S. Stone sinker and axe; from Pennsylvania.

Cooper, William A. Skin of Ptychorhamphus aleuticus ; from Santa
Cruz, Cal.

Cope, Prof. E. D. Two living lizards (Crotaphytus collaris) ; from Texas.

Coster, John. Small stone axe; from Wisconsin.

Crawford, General S. W. Box of geological specimens and birds; from
Iceland.

Cressy, Charles O. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission. )

Crittenden, A. R. Three boxes of Indian relics; from the New England
States.

Crooke, John J., New York, N. Y. Twenty-five pounds of pure tin.

Cunningham & Thompson. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish
Commission.)

Ourle, Dr. T. J. Hair-worm (Gordius); from Kentucky.

Curtis, Captain. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commis-
sion.)

Cushing, Frank H. Collections of rude potstone vessels, from Virginia
and District of Columbia; living reptiles, from Virginia.

Cuvier Club, Cincinnati, Ohio. Collection of bird-skins, from Indiana,
Ohio, and Florida.

Dall, W. H. Four specimens illustrative of the economic application of
shells; two marine shells from Japan; two land shells from Germany.

Dalrymple, Dr. Specimens of Indian pottery; from Maryland.

Danforth, John. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commis-
sion.)

Davis, Mrs. Abby L. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

Davis, Capt. Alfred B., U. S. R. M. Specimen of coral; from the Dry
Tortugas, Florida.

Davis, Henry. Samples of soil and wood; from McGregor, Indiana.

Davis, Joshua. Indian chunky-stone; from District of Columbia.

Davis, I. Specimen of iron ore; from Missouri.

Davis, M. C. Specimen of iron ore; from Harper’s Ferry.
88 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Davis, Mrs. Mary BE. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

Dau, Thomas, Keeper of Sequin Light, Maine. Three fish-hooks.

De Hart, J. N. Box of Indian bones and relics; from mound in Tli-
nois.

Dempsey, Capt. William. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish
Commission.)

Dennis, George k. Box of sea-weed and Trichiurus lepturus ; from Mary-
land.

Denton, Shelley W. Eggs of burrowing owl; from Fort Collins, Colo-
rado.

Devan, James. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commis-
sion.)

Devoe, Capt. Luke. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

Dexter, Newton. Eggs of Pheton flavicauda ; from Bermuda.

Dixon, Bugene F. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

Dixon, Capt. Geo. W. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

Doran, Thomas S. Specimens of turtles and fish; from Montgomery,
Ala.

Douglas, W. T. Insect; from Catlett’s, Va.

Douglass, John. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commis-
sion.)

Douglass, Robert, 2d. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

Driggs, John W. Collection of birds’ skins; from Florida.

Driscoll, Daniel. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commis-
sion.)

Duffield, U. S. G. Malformed eggs of common hen.

Duges, Dr. Don Alfredo. Box of natural history specimens ; from Guana-
juato, Mexico.

Dulaney, John. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commis-
sion.)

Duncan, Capt. J. F. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

Harle, T. L. Small box of minerals; from North Carolina.

Edwards, Vinal N. Eleven boxes of fishes collected in Vineyard Sound,
Massachusetts.

Eggert, H. Your living turtles; from Missouri.

Ellis, Albert N. Specimens of snakes; from Florida.

Ellis, J. B. Collection of North American fungi.

Hspersen, Henry, Surveyor-General of Dakota. Two packages of minerals ;
from Dakota.

Iitzel, C. Stone axe; from Wisconsin.
oe

APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 89

Hvans, Samuel B. Four stone implements, from Iowa; casts of stone
axe and pipe from Kansas.

Evans, W. W. A large collection of pottery, silver and copper idols,
bronze implement, and egg of emu; from Peru. Also, 27 sheets of
photographs of Peruvian antiquities.

Ferguson, Mr. (through O. C. Treadway). Specimens of minerals; from
Big Sioux River, Iowa.

Finsch, Dr. Otto. Twelve species of Siberian fishes.

Firth, Wiliam A. Three samples of diatomaceous earths; from Treland.

Flanagan, A. H, Collection of stone implements and pottery, and human
and animal bones; from a mound in Virginia.

Flint, Dr. Earl. Two boxes of fossils and alcoholic specimens; two
boxes ethnological specimens ; from Nicaragua.

Floyd, Joseph D. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

Fox, F. N. (through Rev. J. J. McCook). Rough stone axe-head, frag-
ment of celt, and fragment of pottery ; from Niantic, Conn.

Foster, Mrs. Abner. Box of stone implements; from Illinois.

France, Museum of Natural History. Collection of fishes from the Medi-
terranean Sea and rivers of France.

Frazer, Charles. Pottery figure; from Botica, Puerto Plata.

French, S. Levin. Four boxes of “American sardines.”

Friend, Sidney. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commis-
sion.)

Gaffney, William M. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

Gaines, A. S., and K. M. Cunningham. Terra-cotta mask; from vicinity
of Mobile, Ala. |

Galbraith, F.G. Four boxes of stone implements, collection of aleoholie
fishes, insects, &c., and a small living alligator; from Eastern Penn-
sylvania..

Garret, W. M. Pottery fragments, spear-head, and quartz erystal; from
Alabama.

Gates, D. C. (through Rev. J. J. McCook). Stone chisel; from Niantic,

Conn.
Gatschet, A. S. Samples of the food of the Klamath Indians of Oregon.

Gere, J. FE. Collection of copper knives, spear and arrow heads, masses
of native copper and flint arrow-heads, stone axes, &e.; from Wiscon-
sin.

Germany, Berlin Museum, Dr. EL. von Martin. Nine species of shells.

Gerrard, Edward, Jr. Sixteen mounted specimens of English quail,
woodcock, and snipe. (Purehased.)

Gessner, William. Collection of Indian arrow-heads, &c.; from Ala-
bama.

Getchell, Capt. John Q. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish
Commission.)
90 APPENDIX ‘TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Gibbs, George J. Collection of ethnologica; from Grand Turk, West
Indies.

Gibbs, J. D. Three malformed feet of pig.

Gilbert, Rev. C. A. Collection of shells, insects, fossils, &e. ; from Florida.

Ginnevan, Thomas, and Philip Merchant. (See Washington, D.C., United
States Commission.) |

Githens, W. H. Box of shells and casts of Indian relics; from Illinois.

Godding, Dr. W. W. Specimen in flesh of bear (Ursus americanus).

Goff, George P. “Sea-dollar”; from Galveston, Tex.

Goode, Ff. C. Collection of living snakes; from Florida.

Goode, G. Brown. Tank of alcoholic fishes and three boxes living snakes -
and turtles, from Florida; box of fishes, corals, &e., from Charleston,
S. C.; three cans alcoholic fishes, from Bermuda. Also, fresh speci-
mens of shad, from the St. John’s River, Florida.

Goodrich, Wilbur I. Specimens of fungi; from Massachusetts.

Goodwin, Thomas. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

Gore, H. Specimen of ore; from Pennsylvania.

Gorton, Slade & Co. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

Goslin, Capt. Joseph. (See Washington, D. C., United States ish Com-
mission.)

Goss, N.S. Skin of Parus atricapillus ; from Wisconsin.

Gourville, Capt. John. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish
Comission.)

Green, F. C. Box of stone implements and collection of minerals; from
Wisconsin.

Green, Dr. Samuel A. Cast of Indian vot found at Canterbury, N. H.

Greenleaf, Capt. William H. (See Washington, D. C., United States
Fish Commission.)

Grifith, William. Two roe-shad; from the Ohio River.

Griiber, Ferdinand. Two living turtles (Ohelopus marmoratus); from
California.

Gunnan, Miss Bessie C. Seale of tarpum (Megalops thrissoides); from
near Norfolk, Va.

Hallock, Charles. Specimen of Coregonus quadrilateralis ; from Michigan.

Hamlen, Capt. Peter. (See Washington, D. ©., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

Hardenburgh, A. R., United States Surveyor-General, California. Collee-
tion of the ores of various mines in California.

Harker, O. H. Collection of minerals; from Colorado.

Harris, R. S. Specimen of itacolumite ; from North Carolina.

Hartsfield, John M, Skink snake, from North Carolina; and eggs of
white-eyed flycatcher, from Delaware.

Harvey, Edward. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)
~~

-

APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. ot

Harvey, Rev. M. Alcoholic specimens of capelin; from Newfoundland.

Haskell, Samuel. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commis-
sion.)

Haskin, S. D. Flint arrow-head ; from Tennessee.

Hawkins, Capt. James. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish
Commission.)

Hawkins, Capt. Z. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

Havneus, ———, Stockholm, Sweden. Series of manufactured fire-bricks.

Hayward, F. W. Box of rice plants, tank of alcoholic fishes, reptiles,
&e., living specimens of mud-puppy (Siren lacertina), and living snap-
ping-turtles ; from South Carolina.

Haywood, W. P. Two red ants; from New Jersey.

Helper, H. R. (through George Hillier). Saw of sawfish (Pristis anti-
quorum).

Hemphill, Henry. Collection of land and fresh-water shells, from Utah;
collection of shells and fossils, from California.

Hempstead, Elias. Box of ethnological specimens; from Santa Rosa
Island, Ficrida.

Henderson, Judge J. G. Box of ethnological specimens; from Illinois.

Henderson, Mr. (through Dr. H, B. Noble). Slate carving; from the
Northwest coast of America.

Hendricks, Lindsley. Mineral; from Texas.

Henshaw, H. W. Living turtle (Cistudo clausa clausa) and nest and
eges of Seiurus aurocapillus and Turdus mustelinus ; from Washington,
12-Cz

Hering, Dr. C. J. Collection of alcoholic mammals, reptiles, insects,
&¢c.; from Surinam. “

Herring, Richard. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

Hessel, Rudolph. Two specimens of snake (Tropidonotus sipedon) ; from
Baltimore, Md.; and one of Hyla arborea, from Germany.

Hewitt, Isaac L. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commis-
sion.)

Highie, A. B., @ Co. Specimen of Tetrodon levigatus; from off Cape
Henlopen.

Higgins & Gifford. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

Hiilier, Fred. (See Washington, D.C., United States Fish Commission.)
Hirst, F. Specimens of amblystoma and larve and fishes (Potamocottus),
from Utah; and fishes (Potamocottus, Catostomus), from Wyoming.

Hitchcock, Prof. E. Casts of Indian vessels.

Hitchcock, George N. Specimens of living turtles; from California.

Hitt, Dr. D. F. Box of fossil plants; from Illinois.

Hodgdon, Capt. T. F. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)
92 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Hodgkins, Edward W. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish
Commission.)

Holbrook, W. C. Flint arrow-head, stalagmite, fossil shell and bone of
human foot; from Ilinois.

Hollenbush, H. W. Box of minerals; from Pennsylvania.

Homans, Capt. Charles A. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish
Commission.)

Horan, Henry. Turtle (Chelopus guttatus); from Washington D. C.

Horod, C. H. Two fossil teeth of horse.

Hough, Dr. F. B. Cast of tusk of fossil elephant, found near Copen-
hagen, N. Y.

Hoy, Geo. W. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)

Hoy, R. Rk. Snake (Coluber) and turtles (Chrysemys); from Michigan.

Hubregtse, A. Three arrow-heads.

Hudson, J. M. Pharyngeal teeth of sheeps-head.

Hughes, W. N. Specimen of fossil coral; from Tennessee.

Hunt, Henry C. Four articles of native dress; from Peru and Bolivia.

Hunt, Capt. H. W. Samples of cordage and duck manufactured by the
Russian Government.

Hurlbert, Capt. k. H. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish
Commission.)

Huss, Oscar E. Specimens of woods, teas, and ethnologica; from Uru-
guay, Paraguay, Chile, and Argentine Republic.

Hutchinson, Dr. Edwin. Four small terra-cotta masks; from near San
Juan de Teotihuacan, Mexico.

Illinois State Laboratory. Living turtle.

India, Kurrachee Municipal Library and Museum, James A. Murray,
Curator. Collection of skins, heads and skulls of East Indian mam-
mals.

Ingersoll, T. Dwight. Specimens of shells; from Lake Erie.

Trion, Dr. I. L. Spear-head and skull of alligator; from Texas.

Irwin, Alexander H. Sample of polished fossiliferous stone.

_ Jackson, Dr. E. EB. Specimens of turtles, salamanders, and fishes; from
South Carolina.

James, Dr. Frank L. Collection of pottery and stone implements; from
Arkansas.

Jameson, John S. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commis-
sion.)

Jefferson, Lieut. J. P., U. S. A. Specimen of Aulostoma colorata; from
the Dry Tortugas, Florida.

Jellow, John H. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commis-
sion.)

Jenison, O. A. Collection of stone axes, knives, fleshers, &c.; from
Michigan.

Jenks, J. W. P. Lot of stone hammers found in old steatite quarry near
Providence, R. I.

\
a

APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 93

Jenner, David. Copper spear-head ; from Wisconsin.

Jewett, Thomas. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commis-

sion.)

Johnson, Capt. George A. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish
Commission.)

Johnson, Capt. Peter. (See Washington, D.C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

Jchnson, Mr. (through J. E. Gere). Copper nodule; from Wisconsin.

Kaucher, William. Samples of fire-clay ; from Wisconsin.

Kearney, William. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

Keep, Josiah. Package of diatomaceous earth, from Massachusetts ;
alcoholic specimens of Cerithidea sacrata, from Lake Merritt, Cali-
fornia.

Keithley, Mrs. B. (through Rev. F. B. Scheetz). Large stone celt; from
Missouri.

Keller, John. Stone axe; from Missouri.

Kervey, H. F. Specimens of skins, nests, and eggs of birds, mammals,
minerals, and Indian relics; from Maryland and Pennsylvania.

Kilpatrick, Capt. Briggs. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish
Commission.)

King, James. Three malformed eggs of domestic hen.

King, Larkin. Mineral; from Texas.

King, W. A. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)

King’s Mountain Mine, North Carolina, Harney Beckwith, President. Ma-
chinery used in extracting gold at, and a series of the ores of, the
King’s Mountain Mine.

Kippen, John. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commis-
sion.)

Klotz, H. H. Wiving iguana; from Navassa, W. I.

Knowles, Mr. Dried sound of hake.

Kocher, J. F. Three foetal flying squirrels (Pteromys volucella); from
Pennsylvania.

Kollmann, Dr. Collection of crania of the natives of Hungary, Austria,
and Bavaria.

Kumlien, Ludwig. Skin, nest, and eggs of Zonotrichia coronata; from
Shasta, California. Also 24 boxes of general natural history and eth-
nological collections; from Cumberland Island and Greenland.

Lake, C. W. Block of black-ash; from Michigan.

Lakeman, J. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)

Lamson, J. S., & Brother. Arrow-head and earth; from ancient grave
in Chiriqui, Central America.

Langdon, Frank W. Collection of birds’ skins and ethnological speci-
mens; from Ohio.

Larkin, John. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commis-
sion.)
94 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Lauermann, Peter. Collection of flint arrow-heads, copper knife, two
darts, and nodule; from Wisconsin.

Lawrence, J. J. Insect; from Beresford, Florida.

Lawson, James. Specimen of asbestos; from Alabama.

I? Acee, M. S. Specimen of cale-spar; from Texas.

Le Blane, Simon. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commis-
sion.)

Leonard, William. Specimen of ore; from Pennsylvania.

Leslie, C. C. Many fresh specimens of fish from Charleston, S. C., mar-
kets.

Lettermann, George W. Shell of periwinkle.

Lewis, James. Two boxes of living snails (Vivipara contectoides); from
Mohawk, N. Y.

Lewis, W. H. Cast of canoe-shaped object, from Seneca Lake, New
York; and box of minerals, from Westchester County, New York.

Lieber, H. Quartz pebble with adherent mica.

Lloyd, J. D. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)

Locke, W. M. ‘Two boxes of stone implements; from Ohio and Western
New York.

Lovett, Dr. A. A. Specimen of petrified coral; from Indiana.

Low, Maj. D. W., Postmaster, Gloucester, Mass. Collection of fossilifer-
our rocks; from George’s Banks.

Lowe, Francis A. Specimens of copper and silver ores and amethyst;
from the north shore of Lake Superior.

Lundberg, John A. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

LTytte, A. E. Thirty-two specimens of cisco (Argyrosomus) ; from Geneva
Lake, Wisconsin.

McBride, Sara J. Twelve samples of artificial trout-flies.

McClelland, Dr. M. A. Collection of stone implements; from Illinois.

McCollum, George. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

McCook, Rev. J. J. Two human ecrania and box of Indian relies; from
Niantic, Conn.

McCormick, HE. G. Stone image (head); from Missouri.

McCown, General J. P. Box of ethnological and natural history speci-
mens; from Arkansas.

McDonald, Duncan. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.) i

MeDonald, James and John D. (See Washington, D. C., United States
Fisk Commission.)

McDonald, Capt. Jerome. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish
Commission.)

McDonald, Marshall. Specimen of Dufrénite ; from Virginia.

McDonald, Capt. Matthew. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish
Commission.)

/
APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 95

McDonald, Miies. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commis-
sion.)

McDonald, Capt. William. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish
Commission.)

McEachern, Daniel. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
MISSi0N.)

McHlderry, Dr. Henry, U. S.A. Package of marine diatoms; from Fort
Monroe, Va.

McEntire, Daniel. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

McGinnis, Captain. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

McGuire, J. C. Wot of fragmentary steatite vessels; from Grimes Place,
Md.

MeGuire, J. D.- Three polished-stone arrow-heads; from Howard County,
Maryland.

McInnis, L. L. Chrysalis of moth; from Texas.

Mekinley, William. Stone tube; from Georgia.

Mekinnon, Capt. D. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

McKinnon, Capt. John. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish
Commission.)

McNeill, J. A. (through J. 8. Lamson & Co.). Nest and eggs of tinamoo;
from Chiriqui, U. S. of Colombia.

McPhee, Capt. N. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commis-
sion.)

McQuinn, Michael. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

McQuinn, Edward. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

Madden, Henry F. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

Maggs, P. F. Moth; from Indiana.

Mansfield, James, & Sons. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish
Commission.)

Martin, Capt. George H. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish
Commission. )

Martin, S.J. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)

Marshall, Henry. Living snake (Heterodon) ; from Maryland.

Mason, Prof. O. T. Nest of meadow-lark (Sturnella magna).

Mason, Peter. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commis-
sion.)

Mason, Hon. Roswell H., U. 8S. Surveyor-General, Montana. A large col-
lection of minerals from various mines in Montana.

Masterson, Thomas. Glass and shell beads and fragments of Indian pipes;
from Western Pennsylvania.
96 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Mather, Pred. 'Twocrustaceans.

Matteson, F. S. Bat (Vespertilio pruinosus) ; from Oregon.

Matthews, Dr. Edward, U. S. N. Jar of fishes, reptiles, and inverte-
brates ; from Santo Domingo.

Mauler, Hugene. Samples of diatomaceous earths ; from Italy, Jutland,
and Bohemia.

Maw, Richard (through Anderson Merchant & Co., New York). Collee-
tion of tiles, pottery, and majolica, exhibited at the Permanent Exhibi-
tion, Philadelphia, Pa.

Meek, James. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commis-
sion.)

Meigs, General M. C., U. S. A. Indian pipe of catlinite.

Menezer, Joseph. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commis-
sion.)

Mercer, RK. W. Collection of stone axes, arrow-heads, &c.; from
Ohio.

Merchant, George J. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission. )

Merchant, Philip. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commis-
sion.)

Merrill, Dr. J. C., U. S. A. Box of mammal and bird skins; from
Texas.

Mexico, National Museum of, G. Mendoza, Director. A valuable collection
of ancient Mexican pottery and stone relics.

Middleton, Carman & Co., New York. 'Two shad (Alosa sapidissima).

Middletown, Conn., Museum of Wesleyan College. A collection of fishes
from Bermuda and one of reptiles from the New England States.

Miller, J. D. Rattlesnake (Crotalus) ; from New York.

Miller, Thomas I, Specimen of iron ore; from West Virginia.

Milner, J. W. Shells ( Viripara georgiana), from Lake Monroe, Florida ;
salmon (Salmo salar), from Chesapeake Bay, Maryland; box of living
salamanders (Plethodon glutinosus), from Albemarle Sound, North Car-
olina.

Mitchell, B. Specimens of ethnologica ; from Mlinois.

Mitchell, G. M. Specimen of “ Quillback” (Carpiodes sp.); from Tli-
nois.

Mitchell, Mr. (through Hon. George Williamson, United States Minister to
Central America). Foetal shovel-nosed shark from Acajutla, Sal-
vador.

Mobius, Prof. Karl. Collection of mollusea ; from Germany.

Mohr, C. Box of ethnological specimens ; from Alabama.

Moody, H. A. Specimen of kaolin ; from Mississippi.

Moore, Mr. H. C. (See Washington, D. © , United States Fish Commis-
sion.)

Moore. (See, Porter, Dr: J. ¥.. U./S) As)

Morris, A. P., Jr. Skull of possum (Didelphys virginianus.)
APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. a

Morris, Edward S., & Co. Package of seeds of Liberian coffee plant.

Morrisey, Capt. Daniel C. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish
Commission.)

Morrisey, James D. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

Morrison, Capt. Rk. N. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish
Commission. )

Morse, Prof. E. S. Collection of ethnologica, fishes and two rodents ;
from Japan.

Morsfelder, George. Copper spear-head ; from Wisconsin.

Mortimer, Capt. J. H. Collection of dried marine animals; from the
equatorial Pacific.

Motaia Iron and Steel Manufacturing Company, Sweden. Collection of
manufactured steel and iron, being their exhibit at the International
Exhibition, 1876, at Philadelphia, Pa.

Munroe, Prof. Charles, E., U. S. N. Box of eocene tertiary fossils ; from
South River, Md.

Murphy, J. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)

Murphy, Michael J. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

Murphy, Capt. Nicholas. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish
Commission.)

Murray, David. Living turtle; from Ellaville, Fla.

Mynster, Wiliam A. Two salmon; from Lowa.

Nelson, E. W., Signal Service, U. S. A. Nineteen boxes of general nat-
ural history and ethnological specimens; from Saint Michaels, Alaska.

Nevins, Rev. k. D. Upper jaw of Hypsifario Kennerlyi; from Oregon.

New Jersey, College of Princeton, N. J. Plaster casts of stone imple-
ments.

New Zealand, Auckland Museum, T. F. Cheeseman, Curator. Twenty-one
erania of the Maori.

Newberry, Dr. J. S. Specimens of silicified wood; from California and
Antigua, W. I.

Newlon, W. S. Specimens of Productus punctatus; from Kansas.

Newman, William P. Bone of turtle; from mound in Alabama.

Nesbit, John. Specimen of phosphatic rock; from Georgia.

Noble, Dr. H. B. Carved duck-shaped stone; from Northwest coast.

Nolan, Joseph. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

Norris, J. E. Specimen of ore from the Gila mine, Nevada.

Norris, P. W., Superintendent of Yellowstone National Park Collection
of minerals, pottery, and stone implements.

Norton, Dr. (through Rev. F. B. Scheetz). Specimens of aboriginal stone
implements ; from Missouri.

Norway, W. H. Specimens of invertebrate fossils; from California.

S. Mis. 59 7

98 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

_ Nott, W. R. (through Rev. F. B. Scheetz). Perforated tablet; from Mis-
souri.

Nye, Willard, jr. Specimens of Gasterosteus biaculeatus ; from New Bed-
ford, Mass.

Ober, F. A. Seven boxes of general natural history and ethnological
specimens; from various islands of the West Indies.

Olmsted, E. B. Box of stone implements; from Hlinois.

Olsen, Captain. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commis-
sion.)

Orme, William & Sons. Large living spider.

Osborne, L. C. Two oval hornstone disks; from Tllinois.

Osgood, F. Storey. Two specimens of mineral; from Massachusetts.

Otis, Dr. George A. Two living iguanas; from Navassa, West Indies.

Palmer, Joseph. Mounted head of Virginia deer and specimen of snake
(Ophibolus doliatus) ; from Virginia.

Palmer, William. Wiving snake (Tropidonotus sipedon); from Virginia.

Parsons, John. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commis-
sion.)

Parsons, William. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

Peacock, J. 8. Jaw of shark (Hulemia Milberti.)

Pearce, F. A. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commis-
sion.)

Pease, A. P. L. Stone mortar; from Ohio.

Pease, W. B. Insect; from New Mexico.

Peel, J. R. Specimen of mineral; from Texas.

Pendleton, A. G., Deputy Surveyor, Arizona. Specimens of gold, silver,
and copper ores; from Arizona.

Pensacola Ice Company, Florida. Many fresh specimens of fish taken in
the vicinity of Pensacola, Fla.

Pergande, Theodore. Stone axe; from Missouri.

Peterson, Martin, and Dennis Theleueng. (See Washington, D. C., United
States Fish Commission.)

Peterson, M. R. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commis-
sion.)

Pettibone, William. Taylor-shad (Dorysoma cepedianum) ; from the Poto-
mae River.

Pettingill & Cunningham. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish
Commission.)

Pfeil, John. Two fossils and two copper spear-heads; from Wisconsin.

Philadelphia, Zoological Society of, A. E. Brown, Superintendent. Speci-
men in flesh of Barbary Wild Sheep (Ovis tragelaphus.)

Phillips, D. A. Box of remains from Indian tumuli in Pennsylvania.

Phillips, J. P. Speeimens of smelt; from Hancock County, Maine.

Pengry, John T. Tarpum (Megalops thrissoides); from Long Branch,
N. J.
APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OFTHE SECRETARY. 99

Poey, Prof. Felipe. Collection of turtles and fishes stuffed and dried;
from Cuba.

Polsen, Alfred. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commis-
sion.)

Porter, H. H. Specimens of artificially raised lake-, brook-, and salmon-
trout.

Porter, Dr. J. ¥.. U. 8S. A., and Mr. Moore, Keeper of Loggerhead Light,
Florida. Collection of fishes; from the Dry Tortugas, Florida.

Potter, Thomas. Specimens of clay from 60 fathoms deep in Long Island
Sound.

Powel, Hon. Samuel. Collection of marine fishes; from Newport, R. I.

Preston, D. A. Box of lead and zine ores; from Joplin, Mo.

Princeton, N. J., College of New Jersey. Casts of stone implements.

Pringle, 0. M. Specimens of mineral; from Oregon.

Purman, D. Gray. Specimens of lead and zine ores.

Putnam, Thomas J. Two “fool-fish” (Pleuronectes glaber); from Salem,
Mass.

Queensland Acclimatization Society, Australia, Lewis A. Bernays, Vice-
President. Sponge gemmules from river in Western Australia.

Quinlion, J. W. Teeth of fossil elephant, horse, and shark; from Bull
River, South Carolina.

Radcliffe, Wiliam H. (See Washington, D.C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

Randle, Prof. E. H. Box of stone relics and minerals; from Kentucky.

Rau, Charles. Cast of ceremonial spear-head, from Saint Clair County,
Illinois ; and bat ( Vespertilio), from Washington, D. C.

teed, M. C. Specimen of shell conglomerate; from Ohio. |

Reed, Thomas. Living iguana; from Navassa, West Indies.

Reid, A.J. Specimens of fish (Notemigonus chrysoleucus); from the Fox
River, Wisconsin.

Reynolds, A. M. Specimens of minerals.

Reynolds, Elmer Rk. Two boxes of fossils, fragmentary pottery, and
arrow-heads; from Virginia.

Reynolds, J. H. Collection of stone relics and pottery ; from West Vir-
ginia.

Rhodes, B. V. Large bug; from Indiana.

Rich, Capt. A. F., Boston, Mass. (See Washington, D.C., United States
Fish Commission.)

Richmond, A. G. Cast of Indian stone ornament.

Ridgway, Robert. Four boxes of general natural-history specimens ;
principally from Illinois.

Riley, William. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

Roach, David. (See Washington, D.C., United States Fish Commission.)

Robbins, Elisha. String of cells of periwinkle.
100 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Roberts, N. H. Four living turtles (Cistudo); from Fairfax County,
Illinois.

Roessler, A. R. Specimens of jasper; from North Carolina.

Rogers, Samples of various kinds of fish-glue.

Romig, Rev. B. Two boxes of shells, fossils, and woods; from Antigua,
West Indies.

Ronex, W.J. Tail of milk-snake (Coluber eximius).

Roop, C. Five small arrow-heads; from Oregon.

Ross, A. C. Three boxes of Indian stone relics; from Ohio.

Rosser, B. R. (through Rev. F. B. Scheetz). Part of flint ceremonial im-
plement; from Missouri.

Rowe, George T. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

Rowe, Capt. John. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

Rowe, Timothy S. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

Rust, Miss Carrie A. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

Rust, H. N. Cast of Franklin on Ring cent of the United States, 1787.

Rust, John R. Double-headed lamb.

Russia. Herbarium of Botanic Gardens, St. Petersburg, C. J. Maximowiez,
Director. Over two hundred species of Japanese plants.

Ruth, Dr. M. L., U. S. N. Collection of alcoholic reptiles and fishes;
from the Madeira River, Brazil.

Sale, C.J. Beetle; from Virginia.

Sammis, Col. J. S. Specimen of living snake (Abastor erythrogrammus) ;
from Florida.

Sandvik Iron and Steel Works, Sweden. Collection of manufactured iron
and steel, being their exhibit at the International Exhibition, 1876, at
Philadelphia.

Sanford, H. G. Fossiliferous boulder; from George’s Banks.

Sargent, Senator A. A. Box of fossils; from California.

Saunders, Howard. Yive skins of gulls and terns; from Europe.

Savage, Joseph. Box of invertebrate fossils ; from Kansas.

Sayler, Marcus. Collection of Indian stone implements; from Ohio and
Illinois.

Sayward, E. P., jr. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

Schanno, Joseph. Sample of fir-sugar; from Washington Territory.

Schneck, Dr. J... A large collection of living turtles and terrapins, and
a box of water-plants; from [linois.

Scott, George W. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

Scupham, J. R. Small reptile; from Kern County, California.

Sells, P. R. Box of stone implements and pottery; from Georgia.

664 ee rr

APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 101

Sennett, George B. A collection of bird-skins ; from Fort Brown, Texas.

Serviss, i. F. Box of ethnological specimens; from Kansas.

Shelby, D. Parasphenoid bone of alligator-gar.

Shemelin, Joseph P. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

Shemelin, James C. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-

' mission.)

Shindler, A. Z., and George H. Boehmer. Large stone axe; from Vir-
ginia.

Sibley, H. F. Specimens of stone implements; from Hlinois.

Silva-Terra, Anton. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

Simons, Capt. A. (See Washington, D.C., United States Fish Commis-
sion.)

Singleton, John. Copper chisel; from Illinois.

Small, George. Specimens of alewives; from Bucksport, Me.

Small, 2. £. Specimen of “spinous shark” (Hchinorhinus spinosus) ;
from Provincetown, Mass.

Smith & Cakes. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commis-
sion.)

Smith, Douglas B. Specimens of shells and beads; from Evanston, M1.

Smith, Jacob. Skin of Wilson’s phalarope (Phalaropus wilsonii); from
Manitoba.

Smith, James A. Series of manufactured clay tobacco-pipes.

Smith, Prof. H. L. Four alewives (Pomolobus vernalis); from Geneva,
er Ys

Smith, John L. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commis-
sion.)

Smith and Oakes. Specimen of yellow cod (Gadus morrhua); from
Gloucester, Mass.

Snyder, T. W. Five invertebrate fossils; from Illinois.

Sorensen, John P. Specimen of ore; from Utah.

Southwick, J. M. K. Two samples of codfish-hooks.

Soutter, August. Case of mounted birds and photographs.

Spalding, R. M. (through Rev. F. B. Scheetz). Two stone axes; from
Missouri.

Sperry, Mrs. James L. Eight skins of California birds.

Spurr, Captain. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commis-
sion.)

Stabler, J. P. Specimens of living snakes; from Maryland.

Stanske, Charles. Copper nodule and stone axe; from Wisconsin.

Staples, Hdwin B. Two boxes Indian relics, one box turtles (Pseudemys

- mobiliensis), and shell mouth-peg; from Florida.

Stearns, Silas. Ten boxes of specimens of fish and shell, including type

of new fish, Cawlolatilus microps Goode & Bean; from Florida.
102 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Sieele, W. N. Living snake (Ophibolus doliatus doliatus); from Mary-
land.

Stevens, James A. Collection of shells; from Summit County, Ohio.

Stewart, W. H. Five shad (Alosa sapidissima); specimen of Elops sau-
rus; from the Potomac River.

Stone, Livingston. Large collection of alcoholic fishes, from the McCloud
River, California; also, one box fossils, from California.

Story, LI. D. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)

Stout, W. OC. Branchial apparatus of Lepidosteus.

Studley, Edwin. Grooved stone axe; from Wisconsin.

Sumner, M. T., jr. Sections of oak showing old surveyor’s marks.

Sutherland, John. Specimen of land-locked salmon (Salmo salar, var.
sebago) ; from the Merrimac River.

Swan, James G. Collection of fishes, in alcohol; and specimens of bone
implements used by the Haidah Indians; from Washington Territory.

Sweden. Academy of Sciences, Stockholm. Ten species of shells; from
Nova Zembla.

Sweeney, Frank. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commis-
sion.)

Sweet, Capt. William E. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish
Commission.)

Symmes, Rev. Francis M. Box of ethnological specimens; from Orange
County, Indiana.

Tarr, Capt. James. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

Tarr, James G. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commis-
sion.)

Tatham & Co., New York. Bag of “ dust” shot.

Taylor, Rev. Horace J. Collection of shells, beetles, and ethnological
specimens; from the Gilbert and Marshall Islands.

Thompson, Capt. William. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish
Commission.)

Thompson, W. H. Mass of quartz crystals; from Tye River, Virginia.

Thomson, J. H. Crab taken from hold of the bark Osprey, New Bed-
ford, Mass.

Thorpe, Rev. Thomas M. Wing and bill of woodpecker and four hickory-
nuts; from Arkansas.

Tobey, Gerard C. Squilla; from Buzzard’s Bay, Rhode Island.

Toellner, A. Fragments of human skull and pottery ; from mound in
Illinois.

Towers, David. Living slug; from Washington, D. C.

Towner, Wayne. Gypsum; from Pennsylvania.

Tresilian, Thomas. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

Triece, W. G. Specimens of snake and turtle ; from Pennsylvania.

4
APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY: 103

Turner, C. W. S. Four arrow-heads ; from Virginia.

Turner, L. M. Turtle (Malacoclemmys peudo-geographicus); from South-
ern Hlinois.

Turner, Mrs. M. E. Three boxes of living turtles; from Southern Illi-
nois.

Turkey. Robert College, Constantinople. Collection of bird-skins.

Van Dyck, W. T. Three boxes of general natural-history collections ;
from Syria.

Van Hook, J. C. Snake (Coluber obsoletus obsoletus); from Virginia.

Vance, James A. Mineral; from Arkansas.

Velie, Dr. J. W. Collection birds’ eggs and shells, from Florida; cast
of stone axe, two living turtles and living snake, from Ilinois.

Voss, A. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)

Wade, Joseph M. Pectoral of flying-fish, taken in the South Pacific Ocean.

Walker, Dr. Rk. LZ. Four living hell- ‘remtlere (Menopoma alleg ghamensts)
from Western Pennsylvania.

Wallace, James B. Insect; from Texas.

Miahlace: John. Two ae a parrakeets.

Wallis, Dr. G. B. Specimens of fossils and copper ore.

Walton, W. B. Oyster with double shell.

Washington, D. C.:
Department of State, U.S. A. (See under name of Hon. G. A. Will-

tamson, United States minister to Guatemala.)

Treasury Department, U. S. A.:

United States Revenue-Marine. (See under name of Capt. Alfred B,
Davis.)

United States Coast Survey. (See under name of W. H. Dall.)

War Department, U. S. A.:

United States Army. (See under names of General M. C. Meigs, Col.
A. G. Brackett, Lieut. George M. Wheeler, and Lieut. J. P. Jef-
Jerson.)

Surgeon-General’s Office, United States Army Medical Museum (Dr.
G. A. Otis, in charge.) A collection of bird and mammal skins,
fossils, ethnologica, &c., collected in Texas by Dr. R. H. White,
U. 8. A. (See also under the names of Drs. J. Y. Porter, W.
Whitney, T. FE. Wilcox, and H. C. Yarrow, medical officers United
States Army.)

Surveys west of the one hundredth meridian, Lieut G. M. Wheeler in
charge. Collection of mortars and pestles, pottery, arrows, quiv-
ers, &c., also a large collection of plants; from Arizona and
California.

Bureau of Ordnance, General 8. V. Benét. Specimens of copper-ore
from Rock Island, Il.

Signal Service, United States Army. (See under name Private EL. W.
Nelson.)
104 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Washington, D. C_—Continued.

Navy Department, U. 8. A.:

Bureau of Navigation, Commodore Whiting in charge; 63 bottles
of soundings made by the United States steamer Tuscarora.

Surgeon-Generals Office. (See under names of Drs. M. L. Ruth and
Robert Whiting, medical officers United States Navy.)

Agricultural Department, U. S. A., Hon. W. G. Le Duc, Commissioner :

Two pairs of antlers of Virginia deer; sucker-fish (Catostomus) from
Alabama.

Interior Department, U.S. A.:

General Land Office. (See under the names of Surveyors-General
Roswell, H. Mason and John Wasson; also under name of P. W.
Norris, superintendent Yellowstone National Park.)

United States Commission of Fish and Fisheries. (Prof. Spencer F.
Baird, Commissioner.) About 100 boxes zoological collections
from Gloucester, Mass., and vicinity, made by Prof. A. EH. Verrill,
G. Brown Goode, and Tarleton H. Bean. (See also under names
of Charles G. Atkins, Tarleton H. Bean, H. C. Chester, F. N. Clark,
Vinal N. Edwards, G. Brown Goode, James W. Milner, and Living-
ston Stone.) Specimens have also been obtained by the commis-
sion from the following parties :

Anderson, Capt. Charles, and crew of schooner Alice G. Wonson. A collection
of fishes, corals, shells, sponges, &c.; from George’s Bank.

’ Atkinson, John. Skull of codfish (Gadus morrhua); malformed claw of lob-
ster (Homarus americanus).

Allen, George K., schooner Marion. Specimen of gold-banded rush-coral
( Keratoisis ornata).

Allen, George K., schooner M. H. Perkins. Collection of corals, sponges, sea-
feathers, and fishes; 40 miles southwest of Sable Island.

Anderson, Capt. Chris, schooner Solomon Poole. A large and interesting col-
lection of living hydroids, bryozoans, sponges, &c.; from 15 miles off
Pollock Rip Light-Ship.

Andrews, F. 8. Specimen of spider-crab brought in by schooner Clara B.
Sweet from Middle Bank.

Babson, Fitz J. Specimen of ‘‘old wife” (Harelda glacialis) shot in Squam
River, and axis of coral.

Babson, Fitz J., jr. Lobster (Homarus americanus), with deformed claw.

Babson, William H., schooner Marion. Axis of coral (Primnoa reseda), from
Banquereau.

Baker, Captain, schooner Peter D. Smith. Specimen of young dog-fish
(Squalus americanus), lamp-fish (Cyclopterus lumpus), &e.

Bansett, William A., New Bedford, Mass. Pilot-fish (Nauerates ductor.)

Bartlett, A., New Bedford, Mass. Rabbit-tish (Tetrodon levigatus); from
Buzzard’s Bay.

Bates, James. Rough swell-fish (Chilichthys turgidus).

Blackburn, Capt. William, schooner Charles Carroll. Part of skull of whale
covered with bryozoans and sponges; from western part of George’s
Bank.

Blatchford, Capt. B. F. Specimen of bush-coral (Primnoa reseda); from
Banquereau.
APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 105

Washington, D. C.—Continued.
U. S. Commission of Fish and Fisheries—Continued.
- Brazier, Benjamin 8. String of eggs of Sycotyphus canaliculatus, from Mon-
omy Beach; and pebbles from Steelwagen’s Bank, covered with bryozoa.

Briggs, Captain, schooner City of Gloucester. Samples of fish-oil made on the
Grand Bank.

Brown, William, schooner Marion. Three specimens of black dog-fish new to
the coast.

Burbank, Martin. Young lobster (Homarus americanus); from Monhegan
Island.

Burke, Henry E., schooner Hattie S. Clark. Bryozoans and sea-corn; from
the Grand Bank.

Burns, Thomas. Specimens of gull (Larus delawarensis) and star-fish (Hip-
pasteria), from off Gloucester; specimens of chimera and lancet-mouth
(Alepidosaurus ferox); from George’s Bank.

Butler, Isaac, schooner Esther Ward. Specimens of star-fish, sponges, &c. ;
from Brown’s Bank.

Calderwood, Capt. M. W., schooner Jennie M. Calderwood. Perforated rocks
with sponges and shells attached; from Western Bank, 68 fathoms.

Capron, John, schooner Solomon Poole. A large and beautiful collection of
branching bryozoan corals; from the Grand Banks.

Carlsen, Arnold, schooner Alice G. Wonson. Specimen of rush-coral (Acan-
ella); from between Brown’s and George’s Bank.

Carritt, William, schooner Mary E. Shell new to America; from Flemish
Cap.

Carroll, Capt. Daniel. Skua gull (Stercorarius skua); from George’s Bank.

Cavener, Nicholas, schooner Marathon. Chalina sponge and dog-fish skins;
from George’s Bank.

Childs, Edward R., schooner Mary F. Chisholm. Young green turtle (Chelonia
mydas); from SE. Le Have.

Clark, Benjamin, schooner Water Sprite. Vase-shaped sponge (Phakellia);
from Brown’s Bank.

Clinton, Capt. George T., schooner Henry Wilson. Barnacles, bryozoans, sea-
corn, &c.; from Grand Bank.

Colby, Capt. Charles. Pipe-fish (Syngnathus sp.) and star-fish (Hippasteria
phrygina); taken eight miles off Gloucester.

Collins, Capt. Joseph W., schooner Marion. A large and very valuable col-
lection of fishes, sponges, shells, and other marine animals, many of
which are new both to the American fauna and to science.

Collins, William. Jaws of shark caught off Monhegan Island.

Conley, John. Specimens of finger-sponge (Chalina) and mackerel-shark
(Zamna cornubica); from off Gloucester.

Cressy, Charles C. Specimens of oceanic dolphin (Coryphena punctulata) ;
‘from the Grand Bank.

Cunningham § Thompson. Very large sponge; from Le Have Bank.

Curtis, Capt. Andrew, ship Ida Lily of Richmond. Pens of squid (Sepia), from
Cadiz Bay; larval lobster (?); fossiliferous rock; from George’s Bank.

Danforth, John. A large sea-worm.

Davis, Mrs. Abby LE. Fossiliferous rock; from George’s Bank.

Davis, Mrs. Mary EF.  Fossiliferous bowlder; from Banquerean.

Demsey, Capt. William, schooner Everett Steele. Parasites of codfish (ga
psora); from George’s Bank.

Devan, James, schooner Flying Scud. Base of coral; from Eastern George’s.

Devoe, Capt. Luke, schooner Epes Tarr. Branching bryozoans and sea-corn,
from Grand Bank.
106

APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Washington, D. C.—Continued.
U. S. Commission of Fish and Fisheries—Continued.

Dixon, Eugene F., schooner William T. Smith. Hydroids and ! ryozoa; from
15 miles off Virgin Rock.

Dixon, Capt. George W., schooner William T. Smith. Bryozoans and sea-corn ;
from George’s Bank.

Douglass, Capt. George, schooner Constitution. Specimens of lump-fish, dollar-
fish, rock-eel, moon-fish, &c., and a crustacean (Idotea robusta) ; from Casco
Bay.

Douglass, John, specimen of ribbon-snake (Lutenia saurita).

Douglass, Robert,2d. Specimen of phantom-eel (Leptocephalus); from off
Gloucester.

Driscoll, Daniel, schooner Solar Wave. Bush coral; from Banquereau.

Dulaney, John. Rare holothurian; from off Gloucester.

Duncan, Capt. J. F., schooner Mary Low. A very large sponge; from Sable
Island Bank.

Floyd, Joseph D. Fossiliferous boulder and rock perforated by Saxicava
arctica; from George’s Bank.

Friend, Sidney. Same as above.

Gaffney, William M. Rock covered with barnacles and bryozoans and fossil-
iferous boulder; from George’s Bank.

-Getchell, Capt. John @., schooner Olis P. Lord. Specimens of fish, sponges,

corals, &c., two living hagdons, shells ; from George’s and Brown’s Banks,
and Cape Cod.

Ginnevan, Thomas, and Philip Merchant. Two very large spider-crabs (Lithodes
maid).

Goodwin, Capt. Thomas, schooner Llisha Crowell. Coral (Acanthagorgia),
from Western Bank; eyes of fishes, coral, and sponge, from Sable Island
Bank; lancet-mouth (Alepidosaurus ferox), from Le Have Bank.

Goodwin, Thomas, schooner Bellerophon. Limestone rock containing fossil
shells (Cyprina); from Grand Bank.

Gorton, Slade, § Co. Specimens of ‘‘red” salted swordfish and codfish.

Goslin, Capt. Joseph, schooner Shooting Star. Chalinasponge ; 25 miles south-
east of Sankaty Head.

Gourville, Capt. John, schooner Rebecca Bartlett. Specimens of fish (Anarrhichas
lupus, Triglops, Sebastes), shells, star-fish (Crossaster papposus), sponges
(Chalina, Isodictya), crabs, bryozoa, &c., &c.; from George’s Bank.

Greenleaf, Capt. William H., schooner Chester R. Lawrence. Specimens of fish
(Haloporphyrus viola, Synaphobranchus pinnatus, Petromyzon, &c.), great
northern sea-feather (Pennatula borealis), corals (Flabellum, Acanthomastus;
Acanthagorgia); from George’s Bank.

Hamlen, Capt. Peter, schooner Andrew Leighton. Wolf-fish (Alepidosaurus
ferox) and pug-nosed eel; from George’s Banks.

Harvey, Edward, schooner Rebecca Bartlett. Small crustacean (Idotea robusta) ;
from George’s Bank.

Haskell, Samuel. Fossiliferous boulder brought by schooner Conductor,
Captain Curtis; also, bryozoans and fossiliferous boulder from Grand
Bank, brought in by schooner Etta E. Turner, Captain Olsen.

Hawkins, Capt. James, schooner Gwendolen. Basket star-fish, black rudder-
fish (Palinurichthys), slime-eel (Myxine), crabs, shells, &c.; from Saint
Peter’s and Le Have Banks.

Hawkins, Capt. Z., schooner Gwendolen. Fishes (Zoarces, Petromyzon, Syna-
phobranchus, &c.), embryo sharks, star-fishes, crabs; from George’s Bank.

Herring, Richard, schooner William H. Raymond. Large gray gannet (?) and
fossiliferous rocks; froin NE. George’s Bank.
APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 107

Washington, D. C.—Continued.
U.S. Commission of Fish and Fisheries—Continued.

Hewitt, Isaac S., schooner J. J. Clark. Large bunch of barnacles (Balanus
porcatus); from Middle Bank.

Higgins § Gifford. Model of a Gloucester fish-wharf and houses.

Hillier, Fred., schooner Alice M. Williams. ‘Two rare species of eel-like fishes
and bush-coral (Acanella normani) with basket-fish attached.

Hodgdon, Capt. T. F., schooner Bessie W. Somes, Collection of corals (Acanella
normani), sponges, sea-feathers (Pennatula borealis, P. aculeata, Balticina,
Finmarchicha), shells, &c.; from Sable Island Bank.

Hodgkins, Edward W. Crabs (Leithodes maia and Cancer irroratus); from
Gloucester.

Homans, Capt. Charles A. Specimens of Sipo wood used by the Carib In-
dians, of South America, for intoxicating and catching fish. Specimens
of codfish from the West Indian market.

Hoy, George W., schooner Mary F. Chisholm. File-fish (Balistes capriscus) and
axis of sea-pen; from Le Have Bank.

Hurlbert, Capt, R. H. Eggs of periwinkle, from Cape Henlopen; Gunther’s
midge (Hypsiptera argentea), from off Cape May; shells of scallop and her-
ring-spawn from George’s Bank.

Jameson, John S., schoone Henry Wilson. Bryozoans, scallops, and sea-corn ;
from Grand Bank.

Jellow, John, schooner Laura Nelson. Fragments of gold-banded rush-coral
(Keratoisis ornata); from Le Have Bank.

Jellow, John H., schooner George P. Whitman. Specimens of coral (Acanella
normani, Primnoa reseda), snails (Zunatia), and scallops (Pecten); from Le
Have and George’s Banks.

Jewetl, Capt. Thomas, schooner City of Gloucester. Specimens of sponge, fan-
shaped and gold-banded corals, sea-pens (Pennatula), &c.; from Le Have
Bank.

Johnson, Capt. George A., schooner Augusta Johnson. A large and interesting
lot of rare fishes, including the grenadier (Macrurus Fabricii), chimera
(Chimera plumbea), black dog-fish (Centroscyllium and Centroscymnus),
wolf-fish (Anarrhichas lupus), (Synaphobranchus), shells, sponges &c. ; from
Sable Island and George’s Banks.

Johnson, Capt. Peter. Collection of shells, star-fishes, sea-cucumbers, &c. ;
from George’s Bank.

Kearney, William, schooner Marathon. Chalina sponge; from George’s Bank.

Kilpatrick, Capt. Briggs, schooner City of Gloucester. A rare sucker-tish
(Remoropsis brachyptera) taken from the gills of a swordfish.

King, W. A., schooner Otis D. Dana. Bush-coral (Primnoa reseda); from
George’s Bank.

Kippin, John, schooner Solomon Poole. Chalina sponge, and stones bored by
Saxicava arctica; from Grand Bank.

Lakeman, J. Spider-crab (Leithodes maia).

Larkin, John, schooner George W. Stetson. Young hagdon, living.

Le Blane, Simon, schooner Rebecca Bartlett. Star-fish (Crossaster papposus) ;
from George’s Bank.

Lloyd, J. D. Stones bored by Saxicava arctica, fossils, &c.; from George’s
Bank.

Lundberg, John A. Sponge (Chalina aculeata); from George’s Bank.

aVeCallum, George, schooner Fitz J. Babson. Specimen of the King-of-the-
herring (Chimera plumbea); from Le Haye Bank.

McDonald, Duncan, schooner. Polar Wave. Specimens of coral and ‘‘turbot”
(Platysomatichthys hippoglossoides); from Eastern Banquereau.
108

APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. —

Washington, D. C.—Continued.
U. S. Commission of Fish and Fisheries—Continued.

McDonald, James and John D., schooner Addison Center. Old-fashioned iron
kettle; hauled up on trawl near Halifax, N.S.

MeDonald, Capt. Jerome, schooner G. P. Whitman. Rare barnacles and King-
of-the-herring (Chimera plumbea); from Le Have Bank; two specimens
of lancet-mouth (Alepidosaurus ferox) ; from George’s Bank.

McDonald, Capt. Matthew, schooner Lizzie K. Clark. Specimens of rare fish
(Chimera plumbea, Synaphobranchus pinnatus), corals (Keratoisis, Acantha-
gorgia, Acanella), shells, sponges, sea-feathers, &c.; from Western and
Sable Island Banks.

McDonald, Miles. Sea-mouse (Aphrodite aculeata); from Middle Bank.

McDonald, Capt. William, schooner N. H. Phillips. Five specimens of coral
(Acanella normani) ; from SE. Le Have Bank, and one (Paragorgia) from
Seal Island Bank.

MeLachern, Daniel, schooner Guy Cunningham. Bases of fan-shaped coral
taken on Grand Bank; and specimens of eels (Myxine and Petromyzon);
sponges and sea-anemones; from George’s Bank.

McEntire, Daniel. Gypsum; from mouth of Saint Lawrence River.

McGinnis, Captain, schooner M. H. Perkins. Black dog-fish (Centroscymnus
celolepis); from Sable Island Bank.

McKinnon, Capt. Daniel., schooner Mary F. Chisholm. Specimens of fish
(Myxine, Sebastes Petromyzon), crabs, corals, &c.; from Sable Island and
Le Have Banks.

McKinnon, Capt. John, schooner R. B. Hayes. Spider-crab (Leithodes maia) ;
from 25 miles off Gloucester, SE.

McPhee, Capt. N., and crew, of schooner Carl Schurz. Specimens of corals
(Aleyonium, Flabellum, Acanella), sea-feathers, star-fish, parasites of hali-
but (ga psora), &c.; from near Sable Island Bank.

McQuinn, Edw. Specimens of Remoropsis brachypiera ; broughtin by schooner
W. H. Perkins from Grand Bank.

McQuinn, Michael, schooner N. H. Phillips. Rare shells (Aporrhais), and eggs
of shark; from George’s Bank.

Madden, Henry F. Axis of tree-coral (Primnoa reseda) ; from off Sable Isl-
and.

Mansfield, James, § Sons. Fossiliferous boulder; from George’s Bank.

Marble, Frank. Uarge finger-sponge (Chalina), King-fish (Menticirrus nebu-
losus), and fish-spawn ; from Norman’s Woe.

Martin, Capt. George H., schooner Northern Eagle. Specimens of fish, crus-
tacea, barnacles, hydroids, &c., from between Boone Island and Matin-
icus Rock, swordfish (Xiphias gladius); taken off Portland, Me. (pur-
chased); 5 swords of swordfish from South Channel; pipe-fish (Syngnathus
Jfuscus); from Provincetown, Mass.

Martin, Capt. 8. J. Living specimen of hagdon (Puffinus anglorum) ; from
George’s Bank.

Mason, Peter. Shells and hydroids taken by crew of schooner Hattie S.
Clark on Grand Bank.

Meek, James, schooner Alice G. Wonson. Specimen of tree-coral (Paragorgia
arbuscula); from between Brown’s and George’s Banks.

Menezer, Joseph. Herring-gull; from Gloucester, Mass.

Merchant, George, jr., schooner Hattie B. West. A small goose-fish (Lophius
piscatorius) taken off Cape Elizaveth.

Merchant, Philip, schooner Marion. Specimens of coral (Mopsia, Keratoisis, and
Acanella); from 30 miles off Sable Island.

APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF .THE SECRETARY. 109

Washington, D. C._—Continued.
U. S. Commission of Fish and Fisheries—Continued.

Moore, H. €., schooner Chester R. Lawrence. Tusk of walrus; found on the east
coast of Newfoundland.

Morrissey, Capt. Daniel C., schooner Alice M. Williams.. Two specimens of
bush-coral (Acanella normani) ; from the Western Bank.

Morrissey, Capt. James D., schooner Alice M. Williams. Specimens of fish
(Chimera plumbea, Centroscymnus cololepis, Petromyzon) and coral; from
George’s Bank.

Morrison, Capt. R. N., schooner Laura Nelson. Lamper-eel (Petromyzon) and
fragments of tree-coral (Paragorgia arborea); from Le Have Bank.

Murphy, J., schooner Gertie Foster. A beautiful sponge; from George’s Bank.

Murphy, Michael J., schooner Magic. Specimen of tree-coral (Paragorgia ar-
borea); from Grand Bank, and bush-coral (Acanella normani); from Ban-
quereau.

Murphy, Capt. Nicholas, schooner Franklin S. Schenck. Pebbles covered with
bryozoans; from Whaleman’s Shoal off Nantucket.

Nolan, Joseph, schooner Bessie W. Somes. Specimen of bush-coral (Primnoa
reseda); from Banquereau.

Olsen, Capt. Chris., and crew; schooner William Thompson. Specimens of sea-
mouse (Aphrodite) star-fish, hydroids, bryozoans, &c.; from Grand and Le
Have Banks.

Parsons, John. Young pipe-fish (Syngnathus fuscus).

Parsons, William. Specimen of snipe-eel (Nemichthys scolopaceus); taken by
schooner Howard Steele, on George’s Bank in 1875.

Pearce, F. A. Specimens of fish, star-fish, shells, &c.; from Western Bank.

Peterson, Martin, and Dennis Theleueng, schooner William Thompson. Speci-
mens of rare fish (Alepidosaurus ferox, Macrurus Fabricii, Centroscymnus
celolepis) and coral; 39 miles off Sable Island.

Peterson, M. L., schooner Guy Cunningham. Specimen of gold-banded rush-
coral (Ieratoisis ornata) with barnacles attached, &c.

Pettingell § Cunningham. Fossiliferous boulders bored by Saxicava; from
George’s Bank.

Polsen, Alfred, schooner Mary E. WHat-sponge from Flemish Cap.

Radcliffe, William H., yacht Uncle Sam. Sea-lemon (Boltenia); from off Glou-
cester, Mass.

Rich, Capt. A. F., Boston, Mass. Specimen of sucker-fish (Remoropsis brachyp-
tera); from South Channel.

Riley, William, schooner Grace C. Hadley. Living falmar-petrel; from
George’s Bank.

Roach, David, schooner Lizzie K. Clark. Tobacco-pipe made from axis of tree-
coral, ;

Schooner Alice G. Wonson. Lancet-mouth (Alepidosaurus ferox), corals (Pa-
ragorgia arborea, Flabellum articum, Prinmoa reseda), star-fishes, shells, &e. ;
from between George’s and Le Have Banks.

Schooner Carl Schurz. WKing-of-the-herring (Chimera plumbea) and bush-
coral (Acanella normani); taken 30 miles south of Sabie Island; also
sword of swordfish.

Schooner Charger. Specimen of spider-crab (Leithodes maia); from Marble-
head Bank. ;

Schooner G. P. Whitman. Rock covered with bryozoans; from Banque-
reau.

Schooner Grace C. Hadley. Stone covered with barnacles and bryozoa;
from George’s Bank.

Schooner Howard Holbrook. Scallop-shells; from Grand Bank.
110 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Washington, D. C.—Continued.
U. S. Commission of Fish and Fisheries—Continued.

Schooner Josie M. Calderwood. Perforated rocks with sponges and shells ad-
hering ; from George’s Bank.

Schooner Lizzie K. Clark. Shells of Buccinum cyaneum ; from 30 miles south
of Sable Island.

Schooner Northern Star. ‘Three living hagdons (Pufinus anglorum) ; from
Grand Bank.

Schooner Otis P. Lord. Collection of star-fishes (Crossaster papposus), barna-
cles, sea anemones, &c.

Schooner Phenix. Skin of spear-fish (Tetrapturus albidus); taken in the
South Channel.

Schooner Rebecca Bartlett. Tail of swordfish (YXiphias gladius. )

Schooner Wachusett. Collection of scallops, hydroids and barnacles; from
Grand Bank.

Rowe, George T. Specimen of Zoarces; from off Gloucester.

Rowe, Capt. John. Specimen of bush-coral (Primnoa reseda); from Banque-
reau.

Rowe, Timothy S. Specimen of “ gulf-weed ;” from the Gulf Stream.

Rust, Miss Carrie A. Barnacles (Lepas fascicularis); from Harpswell, Me.

Sayward, E. P., jr. Fossiliferous rocks ; from George’s Bank.

Scott, George W., schooner Lizzie. Collection of rare fishes (Centroscyllum Fab-
ricii, Centroscymnus celolepis, Chimera plumbea), shells, sponges, corals,
&c.; from Banquereau.

Scott, George W., schooner Hdwin C. Dolliver. Specimens of fish (Halopor-
phyrus, Anarrhichas, Phycis, Synaphobranchus, Chimera), devil fish (Octopus
Bairdii), corals (Alcyonium, Keratoisis), sea-feathers (Pennatula, Balticina),
shells, &c.; from lat. 43° 23’, lone. 60° 16’.

Scott, George W., schooner City of Gloucester. Sample of black-dog-fish oil.

Shemelia, Joseph P., schooner William H. Raymond. <A large collection of liv-
ing water-birds, five species; from NE. George’s Bank.

Shemelia, James C., schooner William H. Raymond. Chalina sponge, barnacles,
hydroids, and bryozoans; from George’s Bank.

Silva-Terra, Anton, schooner Rebecca Bartlett. Specimens of dog-fish skin.

Simons, Capt. A., schooner Defiance. Living specimen of sea-robin (Priono-
tus); from the Brewsters.

Smith, John L. Specimens of sea-corn taken by schooner Conductor on
Grand Bank; also tree-coral from George’s Bank.

Snuth § Oakes. Fossiliferous boulder bored by Saxicava; from George’s
Bank.

Spurr, Captain, schooner John I’. Wonson. Muscles, hydroids, bryozoans, &c.;
from George’s Bank.

Story, L. D., Magnolia. Small fish (Argyreiosus vomer); from Magnolia.

Sweeney, Frank. Parasites from gills of codfish taken off Gloucester.

Sweet, Capt. William £F., schooner Grace C. Hadley. Sea-cucumber (Thyoni-
dium Dubenii), star-fish, and parasites of cod (4iga psora); from George’s
Bank.

Tarr, Capt. James. French hooks taken from the stomach of codfish on
shoal ground off Salvages in 1856 and Jeffries Ledge, 1876.

Tarr, James G. Samples of fish-oil.

Thompson, Capt. William, schooner Magic. Collection of corals, sponges, sea-
feathers, shells, &c.; from Sable Island Bank and Banquereau.

Tresilian, Thomas. 'Tree-coral (Primnoa reseda); from George’s Bank.

Voss, A. ‘‘Devil’s claw,” or box-hook used in boxing halibut.
APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. Tia

Washington, D. C.—Continued.
U. S. Commission of Fish and Fisheries—Continued.
Webb, Capt. Henry, Rockport. Specimens of pollock, whiting, and Greenland
sculpin; from Milk Island, Rockport. Also, lobster-pot bait-hook.
Wells, Capt. William N., schooner E. B. Phillips. Shells from Grand Bank.
Welsh, Capt. James, schooner Martha and Susan. Specimen of chalina sponge;
from George’s Bank.
Welsh, Morris. Specimen of chalina sponge; from George’s Bank.
Whiting, Henry, schooner Webster Sanborn. A large collection of shells (Pee-
ten islandica, Rhynchonella, sp.); from Grand Bank.
Whitman, George P., Rockport. Mounted specimens of Richardson’s jeger-
gull (Stercorarius parasiticus).
Williams, Capt. B. A., schooner Centennial. Scallop shell and pebbles with
barnacles, bryozoans, and sea-corn adhering.
Wilson, John I., schooner Otis D. Dana. Specimens of pomarine jeeger (Ster-
corarius pomatorhinus) ; from George’s Bank.
Wonson, Lverett P. _A collection of shells, barnacles, corals, &e.; from New-
foundland and George’s Bank.
Wasson, John, United States Surveyor-General, Arizona. Collection of
ores and minerals from various mines in Arizona.
Watkins, Joseph C. Small collection of fragmentary bones, pottery,
arrow-heads, and fine stone pipe; from mound in Missouri.
Webb, Capt. Henry. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
Mission.)
Wells, Capt. William N. (See Washington, D. C., United States Tish
Commission.)
Welsh, Capt. James. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)
Welsh, Morris. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commis-
sion.)
Welsher, H. W. Four specimens of whitefish (Coregonus albus); from
Madison Lake, Wisconsin.
Werner, Johann, children of. Arrow-head and copper nodule; from Wis-
consin.
Wheeler, OC. Le R. Specimens of stone implements; from New York.
Wheeler, Lieut. George M., U. S.A. (See Washington, D. C., War Depart-
ment.)
Whitall, Tatum & Co., Philadelphia. Samples of glass jars.
White, Artemas. Copper celt, slate arrow-heads, and minerals; from
New York.
Whiting, Henry. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commis-
sion.)
Whiting, Dr. Robert, U. S. N. Copper idol; from the valley of the
Rimae, Peru.
Whitman, George P. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)
Whitmore, Hon. A. H. Young sturgeon; from Verona, Me.
Whitmore, Joshua. Lamprey; from Bucksport, Me.
Whitney, L. Flint knives, arrow-heads, and stone ax; from Illinois.
” ’

APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Whitney, Dr. W., U. S. A. Stone axe; from New Mexico.

Whittaker, E. E. Three samples of ore; from Oregon.

Wiggins, Fred. B. Living snake (Heterodon); from Virginia.

Wiggins, John B. Three boxes of aboriginal soapstone vessels; from
Virginia.

Wilcox, Dr. T. H., U. S. A. Bottle of alcoholic reptiles; from Indian
Territory. .

Wilder, General J. F. Stone figure-head, pipes, and other valuabie
relics.

Willard, C. C. Fresh specimen of Rocky Mountain sheep; from Wyo-
ming. |

Willetts, Joseph C. Twospecimens of lake-trout; from Skaneateles Lake,
New York.

Williams, Benjamin. Box of stone implements; from Michigan.

Williams, Capt. B. A. (See Washington, D.C., United States Fish
Commission.)

Williamson, Hon. G. A., United States Minister, Guatemala. Box of eth-
nological and geological specimens ; from Guatemala.

Wilson, John I. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

Wilson, W.M. Collection of living reptiles; from Prince George’s County,
Maryland.

Wiltheis, C. T. Box of stone relics; from Ohio.

Wittman, EZ. Box of Cincinnati Group fossils.

Wonson, Everett P. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Com-
mission.)

Vood, A. 8. Civet cat (Bassaris astuta); from Oregon.

Wood, Dr. Preston. Specimens of stone implements; from Llinois.

Wood, Dr. William. Specimen of Lota maculosa; from Connecticut.

Woodward, A. J. Shell of turtle; from Otter Creek, Florida.

Woolley, C. W. Specimens of the tobacco-worm moth; from Illinois.

Wooster, A. F. Specimens of arrow-heads and eggs of robin and chicken-
Sparrow.

Wooster, L. 0. Package of Upper Cretaceous fossils; from the Cach«
la Poudre River, Colorado.

Yarrow, Dr. H. C. Mummy of Arapahoe child and surroundings; fron.
Sidney, Nebr.

Zeledon, José C. Six boxes of general natural history and ethnological
collections; from Costa Rica.

Unknown. Corals; scales of tarpum, Indian stone tube, amethystins
erystal; specimens of mule-killer (Thelyphonus); specimen of coal:
snake; stone relics from West Virginia; insect; box of fossils from
Lawrence, Kans.; fossil plant; living black-snakes (Bascaniwm con
strictor); living helgramite ; from Virginia.
APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.*
, S76.

Certificate of Award
To the Smithsonian Institution, for Hon. Thomas Donaldson, Collector.

Collection of Ores.

No. 1.—Group 1.

UNITED STATES CENTENNIAL COMMISSION,
(In accordance with the Act of Congress)
Philadelphia, September 27, 1876.

A. T. Goshorn,

Director General.

John L. Campbell, Jos. R. Hawley,
Secretary. President.

STATISTICS OF EXCHANGES.

BOXES SENT ABROAD IN 1878.

———

113

Smithson-|G ov ern-
Country. ian ex-| ment ex-
changes. | changes.

No. of No. of

AMERICA. boxes. boxes.
AM ceMuNe ContedenatlOneeeasece serene temas eeeeeedataicene tee sacesicerle seen ee nas 4
BTR a Ogee RB eee R OC See GO CROC ADU TEACH Hac SEO D OCONEE REECE HerernnoEees 2 2
British: Guiana a= 422 fescc oe. Sede ha ete eeee ee awa ceececccenccs i La | pers
WAT ATG Setsacietcsew-oscs tamince se csss stesee ee eres nec cucseeeceacedabosce |ovesscecee 4
Pie ee rats eee ea atne ae sce noe ee eos ete HEL Se coos eases Socene i 2
ISNT. Cosee, doscad sag re aGao bon che sae HESS oROOORCAOG CER b EB OHSERUBEE = Becese KEaSSTGaese 2
IMGxI CO seas haere nese cece sue Leen I RUS L  cscsccscence eit ses 2 2
BE GY ats cia sian aw ee eee atorarnaaele bee cles eeu ee eeb eda ccccececceccececcnccs De sasssehs.cs
VIED OZ Ola sec cewek niemmwretniec eee teen oe wats cE ued sce ba coclmemcieuis 1 2
ASIA
SAP AMryatetse se el-Piaeitaaans ae ci ceitaee eee eee et eenie wcidelcwancicwiscasieeiccics 2 2
REE) od do estes aci5G 3 sO OG OSCE OQCC CHS COdE HAO HoR OE BE AES SEO ReBES Serene De apace act
AUSTRALIA.
BNE We SOG Ul WidlOS cro circu ce wee ee no eos cece etc ccctccer neces ace eames 1 2
NG Wee B AN Gl easels ea acc eee eee ee eee te wa on ccctesccmacececus 2 2
OUIGEHSIANC s sou ce ee deco eee -ncoobosasshaosds ScSeodancosSsaasse il 2
POMUNPATIS tPA Aas cote s aac ae etnee enn aae eee al cooce Senlecsene sone il 2
PAS TO ATA classic scloc Sake & cine e eee ee res See ee culo cas coon coe ee 1 2
IG UOLI Ae neon ise calccis cela pares AOS ESOC OC OU C SCO SOUOCCE RET Gene O ASC Ses 2 2
EUROPE.

LIGETI Che be sp Sto CHOCO REC RCASCSbnR See BocHee BE CBe SEER Ee SABE Sets 6 2
Leia Td Fe 5, Seep i OE ee Se a IO, a Gel eeeaeacaee
40 2

60 17

54 4

Beiter iain se sinha = a Stee ee ie erclarc cia/a sith a eel aaieke com eet ten | enters 2

6 2

nn a es a

4 2

3 2

7 2

3 2

6 2

12 2

Total.

i ont
POUNOTUIASCMONMANWIO OH He C2 C2 CO He CO Leland WH RL WR eH ee

i"

* Omitted from the Report for 1876, page 83.
S. Mis. 59——8
114 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.
RECAPITULATION.
Smithson-|G ov ern-
Country. ian ex-| ment ex-| Total.
changes.| changes.
No. of No. of
boxes. boxes.
JMB RR Gase Sse Ono obc Od SHR U ROSE ODE EOOUC CORaS ba adonemacicce sassEgelene 8 18 26
JENS Oa» Breas ACCOR HCHO HEC SHIRE SBA SEAS so REISS 6 ao asiciooebaroer coo coee 3 2 5
AMMEN boc; scenhoooS bed seneEenOEOUe aoboe = 42 stodecetadsucnecsodoesde 8 12 20
IDI oso nccsnoc os dosonosans soSde ses sodasscsotesesdgosacnsese Sentoose 217 41 258
Wy lee ass Na cE U4 2 fog Ona POS 236 | 73 309

NorTre.—No. of boxes, 309; bulk, in cubic feet, 2,160;

veight, in pounds, 69,220, containing fourteen

thousand six hundred and forty -eight miscellaneous packages, of which 60 contained specimens of nat-

ural history.

PACKAGES RECEIVED BY THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FROM EUROPE,
&C., FOR DISTRIBUTION IN AMERICA.

ALABAMA.
Tuscaloosa: _
Alabama University

ARIZONA.

Prescott:
Territorial Library
ARKANSAS.

Little Rock:
SUID IG Fem Sess moos brocesRocUSSes

CALIFORNIA.
Berkeley :
University of California
Sacramento:
Agricultural and HorticulturalSociety
California Institution -.--..-----
California Institution for the Deaf.
Andeb nmibamdeb lin dose aeeees ae ee
Geological Survey of California......
State Agricultural Society
San Francisco:
California Academy of Sciences
California Historical Society..-.....-..
Mayor of the city of San Francisco .
Mechanics’ Institute...-...-.--------
Stockton :
Society of Natural History
State Insane Asylum

COLORADO.

Colorado Springs:
El Paso County Library Association.
Denver:
State Library
CONNECTICUT.
Hartford:
American Philological Association -.
Connecticut Society of Natural His-
UIA? sssoacsaa dupanbacacs Losnolo esse
Connecticut State Agricultural So-
ciety
Retr a for the Insane
Society of Natural Sciences.-.........
State Board of Agriculture
State Library
Young Men’s Institute
Watkinson Library of Reference ....
Middletown :
Hospital for the Insane
ew Haven:
American Journal of Science and
BASIS ane Be eee eetetvems ate alse mice
American Oriental Society
Connecticut Academy of Arts and
Sciences

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Georgetown:
Georgetown College

Hillsdale:
Pioneer School....--....... Aooeeddeae

1877. | 1878. 1877. | 1878.
District or CoLtumB1a—Continued.
4 Washington:
ches Se || Agriculture, Department of....-.---.| 107! 113
American Medical Association......- 9 22
Board of Public Schools a
I |[oso5ds Botanie Garden -.-.. 2... Ne eee
LOGPISTA SBE Eh" SoconoossqpocoosSeeEesee 6 61
Census Burcanl a ES tase ee scse. 6 4
Columbia Institution for the Deaf and
aesocs 10 Dumbie ssa. esses wae cee shes csiccckis ss 1 2
Columbian University .....-..--..--- 3 6
Corcoran Gallery of Art ..--....-----|...--- 1
leases Wducation, Bureau of .-..-------.-.-. 10 6
Engineer Biren ecco ce keene 9 10
2 |------|| Hish'Commission.-— 3. 2--.c.-c-- eee -e 2 5
if Hesbiece || Geological Survey of the Territories 83 96
Government Hospital for the Insane. 1 eseae
I eosgoc Hydrographic: Omceiss-ss--essceeee: 3 14
PES ES? 1 || Indian ‘ “Commissioners, Office of the. . 3 |saeess
il 1 || Interior Department ------.-.-..-.--- 9 10
and iOmice; sean oe se ceineiss cette 9 7
60 61 || Library of Congress ..............--. 32 33
iE eee || Light-House Board ....-..---.--.--- 2)\) saeeee
2 1 || Medical Society of the District of
ile eres Columbia (2322 sees oe seeccise siecle 1 1
National Academy of Sciences. ...-.- 43 70
1 Nautical Almanac Office. -2.--2.----- 4 14
1 Navall Observabtoty~ sc --cn <6 icesiaae- 50 54
Navigation, Bureau of .--....--....-- 3 iL
Navy Department.-....-----..--....-- 2 4
OrdnancelOnice fas. cease - === a eaae = 2 3
1 |.----- Patent OMmce sess voeessne tears ose 99} 120
Paymaster-General, U. S. A.-.-....-:|-.---- 1
1 |.----- Philosophical Society .......----..-.. 3 | S2baae
President of the United States. -...-.- TS asses
Sionall Offices see -2 ees enc eon eases. 26 28
teaeee 1 Statistics, Boreawofecscscsceeeeeeel Bs 16
Surgeon- General's Office ....-....--- 88 108
1 |.----- Swedish and Norwegian Legation - - - . Pa lee se
Treasury Department io deeoeesceee ul 2
5 io davies e partic hase sen eee eee 6 15
st wma 1 GEORGIA,
1 8 thens:
1 e224) University of Athens: =. .- oceans ib scone «
3 2 Augusta :
edbss 1 || Horticultural Society ........-..---.- 1 eooeae
Savannah:
1s | pees Historical Society of Georgia ..-..... 2 5
ILLINOIS.
39 35 Aurora:
19 1g | Literary and Historical Society ..---- Ts | Peeters
Bloomington:
92| 119 || Llinois Museum of Natural History. By | aesrist
1 Carbondale : i ’
"39 | 34 Southern Illinois Normal University.|..-.-. 6
Chicago:
Chicago Academy of Science .-....-- 55 78
Chicago Boardiotirad oieeeceeree ce I | cascas
uf 4 Chicago Historical Society. ..-....... | Seca
Chicago Public Library .............. 14 9
TE emoeon Dearborn Observatory ........... soe 5 5

ie 3

it ©

APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF

Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution, §c.—Continued.

1877.

1878. |

Tuuinoris—Continued.

Mayor of the city of Chicago

National Live Stock J ournal

Publie School Library

University of Chicago
Elgin:

Northern Hospital for the Insane ....
Evanston:

Northwestern University
Galesburg:

Lombard University
Jacksonville:

State Hospital for the Insane
Moro:

American Pomological Society. ------
Normal:

Tlinois Natural History Society and

Museum

Ottawa:

Academy of Natural Sciences
Rantoul:

Rantoul Literary Society
Springfield :

State peaard of Agriculture

INDIANA.

Bloomington :
Indiana University
Greencastle:
Indiana Asbury University

Indianapolis :
Geological Survey of Indiana
Historical Society
Indiana Horticultural Society. ....-
Institution for the Education of the
Blind

Buzlington :
Iowa Historical and Genealogical
Institute
Davenport:
Davenport Academy of Sciences
Decorah:
Norwegian Lutheran College
Des Moines:
Department of Public Instruction -
State Library
Grinnell:
Grinnell University
Iowa City
Director tee ‘Weather Service
Towa State University
Laboratory of Physical Science
Mount Pleasant:
Asylum tor the Insane

KANSAS.

Baldwin City:
Baker University
Ossawatomie:
Kansas Insane Asylum
Topeka:
Kansas Natural History Society

KENTUCKY.

Frankfort :
State Library
Hopkinsville :
Western Lunatic Asylum
Lexington:
Eastern Lunatic Asylum
Kentucky University
Louisville:
Mayor of the city of Louisville
Public Library .-..
University of Louisville
Russellville :
Logan Female College

LOUISIANA,

Baton Rouge:
State University

\

THE SECRETARY. RES
1877. | 1878.
Lovuistana—Continued.

Clinton : Us | bocce

|| Louisiana Insane Asylum..........-..

New Orleans: coee-- 2
Athenée Louisianais ......-.......... Mujlgnaoee
TnsanerAsyvlaMl i fo-26e es oes ee esas oe il 2
Mayor of the city of New Orleans -..-

New Orleans Academy of Natural 20) 32

Sciences! ae sisseseer ss caesaane cee 8 8
Lene d UNO, wee e ee Aap bose GoeeCena looreee 2
University of TLouisianal):s22. 02s...

MAINE.
Augusta:

Commissioner of Fisheries of the

Statecof Maines -csrae aise 2 1
Maine Hospital for the Insane -.-.---- Lasso
Natural History and Geological So-

(Oh) iy aes Wee U ene SHEE PREP Bee Rene) Korine 2
State Board of Agriculture .....--.-- Qi eee

Brunswick:
iBowdom)Collecesecs a. -asa==e eee ae 11 4
Historical Society of Maine.........- U 2

Calais:

Calais High School and Academy -.-. alae

Lewiston:

Androscoggin Natural History Se-
ClO bY 2 ons eee Saas Je Seen 1G) eee

Norway:

High School and Academy -.--.--..---- S| ataeree

Portland:

Maine Agricultural Society -.---...- pares =
Portland Society of Natural History.| 28 40

Waterville:

Colby sWmiviersityses oie tr eee = 4 3
MARYLAND.

Annapolis:

Stdohnis(Collegesec eee s=/-'eee) eee 3
United States Naval Academy ..----- 7 4

Baltimore:

Baltimore City College. .......-...--- Teese
Johns Hopkins University. ....--.--- 6 8
Maryland Academy of Science. -.---- 1} 3
Maryland Asylum for the Insane .---. 1 eer
Maryland Historical Society .--...--. 12 3
Meimy land alins bib Wbes--iielale ei ete ottoi-i i laterite 1
Mayor of the city of Baltimore ...-.-. 2 1
Peabody Institute)-2- 2-44-25 ceeece 2 7 10
St. Paul’s Lyceum and Library As-

SOC bOI Ss Rae bee cpa see esas eee
University of Maryland ............. i | Baaece

MASSACHUSETTS.

Amherst:

Amherst College. %--- <3 .<-.-<----.--- 7 6

Andover:

Theological Seminary..........-----.|..-.-- 1

Boston:

American Academy of Arts and

Sciences’)-2S225 55: eee ere & ree 137} 182
American Gynecological Society.--...|...--- 4
American Social Science Association. Oy cetect
American Statistical Association .-..| 14 | 11
American Unitarian Association. .--. LS) Sco
Board of State Charities -..........-.- B steae
‘BostonvArt Claipene ses see ee eae il 1
Boston Atheneum . 3 3
Boston, Hospitals saaseesesecneneese a 1 1
Boston Medical and Surgical Journal 12 | 11
Boston Microscopical Soe Lebyieceen cine Lalrosae2
Boston Society of Natural History...) 168 | 166
Bowditcbelbrany eee e see eee 1 4
Department of Public Instruction ...)....-. it
Institute of Mechnolory e+ ceeesene 5]. cle ke 3
Massachusetts Asylum for the Blind.|....-- 1
Massachusetts Board of Education ..| J 1
Massachusetts Historical Society - 10 2
Mayor of the city of Boston ......... 2 | 1
Medical and Surgical Jonrnal......-. Saleeeaee
New England Historic Genealogical |

Socie ty Meetcln snk ch eaiuieic sissies Semloc oie 6) 4
North American Review. -.....-----. Ieee
Public libraryeesca.accdes-ssmocsee see 31 | 30
116

APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution, §-c.—Continued.

MAssACHUSETTS—Continued.

Science Observer

State Board of Agriculture ---.

State Board of Charities

State Board of Health

State Library
Cambridge:

Cambridge Philosophical Society...-.
Entomologic al Club
Harvard College
Harvard College Herbarium
Harvard C ollege Observatory
Museum of Comp arative Zoology ...-
Nuttall Ornithological Club
Peabody Museum ‘of American Arch-

ology

Jamaica Plains:
Bussey Institute
Leicester:
Leicester Public Library
Newton Centre:
Theological Institution
Pennikese Island :
Anderson School of Natural History.
Salem :
American Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science
American Naturalist..-.-.....-------
Essex Institute
Peabody Academy of Sciences
North Church and Society
Taunton :

State Lunatic Asylum
Wellesley:
Wellesley College

Williamstown:
Williams College

Worcester:
American Antiquarian Society. -..----

eee eee eee wee ewes

MICHIGAN.
Ann Arbor:
Herbarium of the University of
WINK OEE Ns Noe Sdoonsadcomsaogsecess+
QObDSCrVaAtOLY 22222 gsp-s seem ae onsces
University of Michigan..-............
Coldwater:
Michigan Library Association .--....
Detroit:
Michigan State Agricultural Society .
Kalamazoo:
PASylomifor INSaNe. = -csss cee n ese =
Lansing:
Michigan State Board of Health...-.-
MINNESOTA.
Duluth:
Scandinavian City Library..--..-.-.-
Minneapolis:

Minnesota Academy of Natural
Sciences
University of Minnesota
Saint Peter:
Hospital for the Insane .----
Saint Paul:
Minnesota Historical Society

MISSISSIPPI.
Oxford: :
University of Mississippi

MISSOURI.

Columbia:

University of Missouri
Fulton :

State Lunatic Asylum ..-......- Aone
Glasgow:

Morrison Observatory .......---.----
Saint Lonis:

Geological Survey of Missouri

1877.

|| New Jersey Historical Society

Missouri—Continued.

Mayor of the city of Saint Louis
Publie Library
Saint Louis Academy of Science
Saint Louis Univer sity
State Board of Aericulture
Washington University

weet ween eee

NEBRASKA.
Lincoln:
University of Nebraska

NEW HAMPSHIRE,

Concord :
Department of Agriculture
New Hampshire Historical Society --
State Agricultural Society
State Lunatic Asylum

Hanover :
Dartmouth College

NEW JERSEY.

Hoboken:
Stevens Institute of Technology
Newark:

New Brunswick;
Geological Survey of New Jersey....
Natural History Society

Princeton:
College of New Jerse:
Observatory of College of New Jersey

Trenton:

State Lunatic Asylum

NEW YORK.
Albany:
Adirondack Survey Office.....- pees
Albany Institutest<: 422sececeemceees
Dudley Observatory
New York State Agricultural Society.
New York State Library-.-.----.
New York Medical Society
New York State Museum of Natural
History
New York State University
Blackwell’s Island:
New York City Lunatic Asylum
Brooklyn:
Long Island Historical Society
Mayor of the city of Brooklyn
Buftalo :
Buftalo Historical Society
Buffalo Medical Association
Buffalo Society of Natural Sciences. -
Observatory
Clinton :
Hamilton College .--.........-. BAAS
Litchfield Observator y
Cornwall:
Cornwall Library
Geneva:
Hobart College
Hamilton:
Madison University
Ithaca:
Cornell College
New York:
American Chemical Society
American Chemist

tee ee ee eee wwe eee ee

‘American Ethnological ee
American Geographical Society. -----
American Institute
American Institute of Architects. -..
American Library Journal .
American Microscopical Society
American Museum of Natural History
American Numismatic and Archxo-
logical Society

1877. | 1878.
Pa
rT

100 | 117
oa
Tihiazg
apace
rd ete
oa
4 3
Fy ee Pee
Tyee
7 6
7 9
Be eke a
5 6
1) ee

2 | es

ate 1
A ieeeee
4 3
15 15
16| 26
15: ow 28
50| 60
2 1
4 7
5 6
Lane
1 2
titaae
1 1
i [eos

55| 73
1. | see
| See
a al

SENSE 1

cae 2
1 leader

Seo ‘L.

63| 60

1. geal

13 7
1) ceed
1 1

12) ole
APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution, §-e.—Continued.

d bd by

Nrw York—Continued.

American Public Health Association.
American Society of Civil Engineers.
Anthropological Institute of New

York
Astor Library. ---.-....--..----------

_ Bloomingdale Asylum for the Insane.

it

oo

Board of Health ‘of the city of New
York
Columbia College
Commissioners of Central Park
Engineering and Mining Journal ----
Insurance Department
Manufacturer and Builder -
Mayor of the city of New York
Medical Journal
Mredical Recorder s.-o-i-<--- ste eaeise
Mercantile Library Association
Metropolitan Board of Health
Metropolitan Museum of Art
New York Academy of Medicine -.-.
New York Academy of Sciences
New York Historical Society
New York Meteorological Gir vatory
Observatory
Bambara cscs acess coce cae ckeeiee
School of Mines.
Scientific American
Scottish American J. ee
Swedenborg Society
Swedish-Norwegian Consulate
United States Sanitary Commission .
University of the City of New York.
Van Nostrand’s Kelectic Engineer-
Tn MO AZIN Oo -\aiaacisiaisi> slo mtisieatemiat
Poughkeepsie:
Vassar College
Rochester:
Theological Seminary
Schenectady :
Union College
Utica:
State Lunatic Asylum
West Point:
MDSOLVALOLY: sc .nisisarscesieuesanece seiat.
United States Military Academy

OHIO

wee ee ne ee eee eee ee

Ashtabula:
Anthropological Society .-.---..-----
State Ar cheological Society
Athens:
Oro WMiVersitiyessescisecscecce seeee a
Cincinnati:
American Medical College ...--...---
Cincinnati Observatory
Cincinnati Quarterly Journal of
GION CONS ne see ec emcee coece sane s
Historical and Philosophical Serer
Longview Asylum for the Insane .-
Mayor of the city of Cincinnati
‘Mercantile Library ..-..--..---------
Natural History Society..-......-..-.
PRD PAD LaT yl. a <i s- cne aoe steerer
University of Cincinnati.............
Young Men’s Mercantile Library .
Cleveland :
Academy of Natural Sciences
Columbus :
Geological Survey of Ohio ...--....-.
Ohio State Board of Agriculture -
Ohio State Library
Delaware :
Museum of Wesleyan University - -
Ohio Wesleyan University
Gambier :
Kenyon Colle: ge
North Bend:
Ohio Horticultural Society......-...-
Urbana:
‘Urbana WMIVERSI by socom cai yess Seiemiats

1878.

weweee

|| Central High School
|| Commissioners of Fairmount Park...

Onro—Continued.
Yellow Springs:

Am tioch\ Colles Greterarec.ciaciente seca =

PENNSYLVANIA.
Allegheny :
Allegheny Observatory
Society of Natural Sciences
Carlisle :
Belles-Lettres Society
Dickinson College
Chester:
Crozer Theological Seminary
Easton :
American Institute of Mining En-
PINCOLS. sete eee e eee eset
Lafayette College
Germantown:
Germantown Library Association. .-.
Harrisburg:
Medical Society of the State of Penn-
Sylvanian testsocccsesesseecee eee.
Statewbibranyiesceceeseee ees eaceeaete
Philadelphia :
Academy of Natural Sciences
American Entomological Society. . ---
American Journal of Conchology ---.
American Pharmaceutical Association
American Philosophical Society - -----
Board of Health

DentaliCosmosmenceeeeee coe eee eee
Director of phe yet copppaca eect

Ge eee Saal See of Pennsylvania -
Girard Colleg Geet Cee eee ena
Historical Society of Pennsylvania...
Tnstitution for the Deaf and Dumb -
Jetferson Medical College
Library Company
Mayor of the city of Philade Iphia..
Medical Times
Mexican Commission ....-..--..----.
Observatory of Girard College ....-.-.
Officetot GrayspAtlasmes se eeeeeceeaas
Pennsylvania Hospital ...............
Pennsylvania Hospital for the Insane.
Philadelphia Society for the Promo-
tion of Agriculture
Social Science Association ......
Stacey Stone Dressing Machine Com-
PANY eS Sas RSs eee eee eee
University of Pennsylvania. ........-
Wagner Free Institute of Science. ---.
Zoological Society
Pittsburg:
National Iron and Steel Publishing
Company: 3222 osn see eecee eens ee cces
South Bethlehem:
Lehigh University

RHODE ISLAND.

Providence:
Brown University -.--.----.--..-.---
City Reristrar's Offices... -. <-.<2- <5.

Rhode Island Historical Society...---
Rhode Island Society for the Encour-
agement of Domestic Industry

SOUTH CAROLINA.

Charleston:
Charleston Library Society. -.-.-.....-.
Charleston Medical Journal and Re-
VIO W226 ere ee Lae ode
Charleston Museum of Natural His-
tory

oo
are

bo bo bo
118

APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution, §:c.—Coutinued.

1877.

1878.
SouTH CAROLINA—Continued.
Charleston Observatory. -- peter 1 ese
Elliott Society of Natural History. eh we 20
South Carolina Historical Society.--. Dil ecestas,
South Carolina Medical Association. 3 |izcSece
Columbia:
University of South Carolina......--- 3 1
Lexington:
Theological Seminary of the Evan-
gelical Lutheran Club....-.-..----s)|--=--- 1
TENNESSEE.
Knoxville:
East Tennessee University.........-. 2) |isacacs
Philomathean Society...--.---.------ He eeerera
Lebanon:
Cumberland University.........-...- HC Sota
Nashville:
Hospital for the Insane..........-.-.- Beales =
Tennessee Historical Society - - z Wiseesce
[OMIVECSIby emacs eee ee eeeeeeor Hn eases
TEXAS.
Austin:
State Pinlbrarye secneaeaeseeeec es soocic eee
Wniversiby Ot Mexass-j. sseca-- esse = o|seeene 1
Chapel Hill:
Soule University. -2-.ss5-ceescnseee- 4 2
VERMONT.
Barnet:
Vermont Historical and Antiquarian
SION D ite AEA SB ooo oabHobesbencunes Milsons s
Brattleboreugh:
Vermont Asylum for Insane...-..... i eSeee5
Burlington:
University of Vermont.-.-.--.--.---. 6 2
Castleton:
Orleans County Society of Natural
SCICNCES MEME so ee ce aaaninay te eels 26 33
Montpelier:
State Cabinet of Natural History-~--.. L lccwereit
Diate dibraryiescs-eenaceese ene ee ees 5 3
VIRGINIA.
Charlottesville:
University of Virginia.....--..-..--- 14 3
Hampden Sidney:
Hampden Sidney College. .-....------- i eee
Norfolk
Agricultural Society..--...-...-.<..- Wee scee
Richmond:
Historical Society of Virginia........ 1 eee
Medical Society of Virginia ........-- 3 1
habe wNbLaLys sce ce sce eee esses 6 1
WISCONSIN.
Appleton:
Lawrence University ......--.------<: AV eS ci< 3
Galesville:
Galesville University ..-........----- Te ee apoe
Inmansville:
Wisconsin Scandinavian Society ...-. Ai Eemoce
Janesville:
Wisconsin Institute for the Educa-
tion of the Bling sasea- oe.) oe cee lessee 1
Madison:
State Historical Society of Wisconsin.| 10 9
State Library eee ae eee ees 2 2
Superintendent of Public Instruction. oO | epeeretere
University of Wisconsin ........-..-- hs, 2
Washburn Observatory.------.-.-2.|/s2-22. il
Wisconsin Academy of Arts and Sci-
CHGES ie jae tele ee Serre eta oe 31 32
Wisconsin State Agricultural Society.| 19 19
: Milwaukee:
Milwaukee University.........-.---- Bilenaine
x

1877.
Wisconsin—Continued.
Natural History Society.....-.--..--- 3
| Skandinaviske Presseforning .....-.. iL
| Neenah:
| Scandinavian Library.-.---.....-.--. 3
| Oshkosh:

Northern Hospital for the Insane .--. 1 |

BRITISH AMERICA.

Fredericton, New Brunswick:
University of New Brunswick. ------
Halifax, Nova Scotia:
Nova Scotian Institute of Natural

SCIENCES pce dee oe cee Sees 9
Hamilton, Ontario:
Scientific Association ........0..-.5.2)sc0.--
Kingston, Ontario:
Botanical Society of Canada ...-...-.. 1
Observatory. =. <22 222: 2h a5 sb athe lesen
Queens Colleges saaener ee eee eeeanee 2
Milltown, St. Stephen’s, New
Brunswick:
‘Publicsbibranyneseeece ee ace see se 5
Montreal, Quebec:
Entomological Society .-----....----- 2 |
Geological Survey of Canada ......-.. 10
Mayor of the city of Montreal --..---|....--
McGill Colleseces a aeeee ee eens 4
Mechanics’ Institute:....--..--...--- alt
Montreal Observatory .-------.------|------
Natural History Society .-...--.----. 19
Société a’ Agriculture du Bas-Canada. at
Ottawa, Ontario:
Library of Parliament tecsi2a.oea00 3
Literary and Scientific Society -.-.--.|.---.-
Quebec, Quebec:
Geographical Society -.-.------------|---2--
Laval University:o2522<=255.2se%2se0 4
Le Naturaliste Canadien .-..--....-. 2
Literary and Historical Society -.---- 13
Opservatoryi.sss ce sees ee eee iL
Superintendent de l'Instruction Pu-
DEQUG  S.t2 neat coe ee eenee aera 2
St. John, New Brunswick:
Natural History SEUNG ooendoagdesor||ss5os5
Toronto, Ontario:
Board of Agriculture Senseo tase Beobeos 2
Canadian Institute. ......-....-..-.-. 19
Literary and Historical Society ------ 1
Meteorological Office..-------.------- 2
Museum of Education .......-...---- 3
Obsenyalonyjen- ase aceee eerencaeects 4
School of Practical Science, of Agri-
Cultuneiand! Arts” <= 2° 225 eons toe 3
University of Toronto ............-.- 6
INDIVIDUALS.
Abbe; Prof. Ossse sere seats scsoas 4
Adams. "Prot. Tai s2c sete ieee ee enol eee eee
At cagsiz: (Prof Aussies eee 11
Aaikens 2M, Tl. pat lsescne see atte ein eee
Alexander, Profs Silks ace sees eects 1
Allon, Ji} Als 153 3s-cecaaceeuse neste 2
Allen: TED. Ssd basnee oe Ohm eee omelet era ce
Aly ord, Generaliisee eee see te 1
Ames, ‘Mire: Mi, Biss, fe Peer es Me) 2
Anderson, IR, UBS ee eS Se Ela io one il
VAM AT eNS! (Whe Vise atest nee a aameracas elon aera
PAMIOGL BE era: settee ete e eeeteter | oe aera
Ami bony ye. Geers eeerteme tee sceaeeter il
‘Appleton, IN cccncecemceten we eee eloeemes
“Arch? Col she seser coerce. i
Armstrong, DOCTOR eae reece wees all terete
Ashe, Commander’ Ef zilcvsec2cci..:..| ode
Ashley, NS is PRES es rece cee a
HA stor: Wie eda cies beeeietids ite tine Sen|eeees
eAtikin Sony © = ee eee cree sata emar eee
JAtkingon; Hiss s5ecccbe oo gee seen wee | ih |
Atwood & Culver, Messrs ..........- il

1878.
APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution, §:c.—Continued.

119

1877.
InpivipuALs—Continued.

PANTS GINS IVET Seebva ML) 215075 5/5/50 ocemnoe 1
‘Austin, (Opa) Ee Se eee ea pits <
Baird rota sa Meess scones ceseereees 53
1 chy) ed Be ee eee a2 22 1
Baker, "Prof. W. S oe cee eeeee i
Ballard, ie Doe te ee Sn eee
Bancroft, Hon. Ge eRe rere es BE hal A 4
RAMGROLU ss use ee, Seine acerca oe 1
Bannister, iS [ea Eee a Saieies see tee il
(Barlior cA oss} so temeer eae se sek
Barker, Prof. G. F
Barlois, Hon. F. C
Barnard, Prof. F. A. P
Barnard, dig dN Eee aap seeseseeeensead ascdes
Barnes, ELGTiee Wit et ee ean. 4
Barnes, Surgeon-General.........---- fee ae
IBArnehien Gable Nie te, cee tec e se cee! na
Bartlett eeror Wi. He C..ks.-c sees 1
TBPRCRIG Redo Ll Digan ea ae See A SS rd ne 1
BASCOM LO Uke os oa cis Sen cole Ueicioe 1
PBaxtone Url ce VWs, co ase ciseeaciebies Sasa il
GaN WT seks a2 3 abe Seimeisosideee cciseser
IBeDDe Maser co teceeceeee tose oee 5
Bellu sees ancl init crisis cece cceevioete 1
etareuatc lier [on C pap aeigemne oe mSaeaercere acl|Cenoee
Berckanan Srl: dl a= sass mac ene ee ene 1
PBOTLON Gf ——" oe nein ce cac ce cease =e aeee!=
IS GSSetS, Mr Occ eee ete re anes 10
Bessey, Prot, ©: Wie. ose oes cess 1
BOURNE Nat Cridic Saccresctsio sine saisee 2
IBS ON iG Ay 1s DBS Se oo cece tac anonads SS5tqs
Billings, Es eee ee oan eee alpoees
Binney, RVVee SP cece Cees 5
Blake, Prof. W.P - 4
Bland, Sees fe ne oe aetecat sioner anineecee
Blazius, Professor =555¢
BlOd Ot ps oss ee ne weoens tae ee eae 1
Boardman’ GacAe === Senne secre ae cere 1
Boehmer. Gerba. see oss. ee one ee ee al
Olander WOCLOM a ee asec ace ee eenoosae
IBOrsme OnSU Gin oe oe 2 Pace eecesn eae a
Bowie Oreste sn ar sao daseeae ae er 3
Bony line la 8 bed Ws oN ae pea eseecorae 4) bocce
BO WHOS S Gut esec cnc eae anttcmecc gene a5cee
Bra LOOK ss Gy weraseccste see boseeee 2
Bradley, i naar ea ata tole tats (0 ae
itsen leh. DCO aco cee os asobsanmeecee al
Bradley, 0b J 8 ea eeaatee aetEpeseraraed tocaoe
IBSEN Se ee eee Boon CEE EEE Se aune nel aceees
Bigndel TONERS ONE ees ee ne ent il
Brovoorteh GC cceistcn. ae ticket 2
Bre mer We Mie cone ees eee ee ee 5
Broadhead, Gaon Hae Pe eee 1
Brocklesby, LESS PS Cs oe On a an Ree
Brooks, Maj. T. B by
LEG R LSS SES ee ee PO 5 Bee i
Brown). GS-2. = uso:
Brunet, L’Abbé O 1
Brush, Prof. J. G 5
(Buchanan: MoOctOrsc.csccs) Lea see eeleoeees
iBnetanean” Drsvny eee son co cote ase ee 2
Salary gee ae so ku oa eee 1
IDG d See cc ee eA eee ae eRe Bee eames
Burnham, S30) eee Sees see 8 2
LENT @Isu BR Seen ee ee ey 4
Butler, Cee es a ee eee 2
GanDyeaWig Wl ste seensacemenceceaeeee 1
Capron, General H 2
Carpenter, Prof. S P 1
(Cinitene 18 Ge or Sao seneesatnoassoce 1
(CHVSYSS 1 Gye Neg GE Ae to an BIR P96 ae SES
( CANS ST CTA ReMi Seep Les | ae
Chamberlain, Gd Oe Nee Hite eS
Ginn Glereril 9. Os cn. ses ne eee bee
handler Prof. ©.cH 20 cee ee otes 5
Chandler, Prof Webs eee 1
CE: dns S12) gD a am ee Soe 1
hase wero. b) Woe eae ee ae 1
Chanyeau) Hon.J). P) Ol... j.ceee sees 3

Claghorn, J. L
|| Clarke, Prof. F. W

INDIVIDUALS—Continued.

Chernyn Cleese eee ase e a eee

Clark, SERRE MWA Wet cs gah lhe ve. |
Claypole, EK. W
@levelan dha ease ea ee Saas Nee:
Clinton, W.G

(Coffin: Syme eer anae-cceessecsaciecaae.
Colin) Brofessorecesnae teeta sass
Comstocks Generaletes ca sccce cee ee
Congdon, T. W
@onielim AVE eens eerste aoe =

Cook, ies God
Cope, E.D
Woes; Drv Bs ssessias ces secoate tess
Cox, E. T

Craftes, Prof. J. M

Dabney,
Bale, Prof. T. N

Dana, E. S lavevauaiaae see ®

Dana, jr., Rev. R. H
Davidson; rot. Gis--ssccecesseseesce=
Davis, Rear-Admiral C. H
Davis, H. E

HeDavaSOm Who dHs antics aoccce qeeeceeescie

Dawson, Dr. J. W
Deane, Dr. C
Dejardin, 12
Dike, C
DODSOM dames! a. sseaeeaaesee se seer
Dobson, John
ibs, Calitin diy Mu cece asccecnssasseses
Downes, J
Draper, ‘Dr. D
Draper, Dr. H-
Draper, Prof. JW.
Draper, L. C
Dneatel, Madam
Eads, J. B
Eastman, Prof. J. R
Hatton. Hons dia-s2.-soscseeo eee
Maton ew iiam G2 sssceseeesesas es
IDG hyo el Soke oo cocascesunesc
Edwards, W
Egleston, Prof. T

Elder, Dr. W

Eliot, Prof. C. W
Eliot, S
Bilinwoods Drow sie asset es:
Thiot, (Doctor sssssscacscecaseacceesise
Ellis, J. B
Ellis, F. B
Ellis, Rev. G. E
HIMErsoms -eroiib see eee hteceels-saeteece
Emmons, Judze

Fal Seer “Dr. G
Ericson, Capt. J
Bixee Hie oe ese inte do temas
Farlow, Dr. W. G
Farquarson, R. J
Farskey, Colonel
a OP Atseese DAS aan OSe Oso o nae Boar Da aeeee
Ferrell, Prof. W
Fields, D. D
Firth, A

1877. | 1878.

[a aae a
Toes
sate 3
EP he orate

Hil ss-25

bia erp.

1 af
Dear

1 1

Lig estate

Wop an

Ds Weeeaiets

1 lemweee

FI cee

1 1
Toe ee
Seenee 1
7 12

8 11

12 7

fi ese

2

1

1

fosSc6 1
nae 2
31 28

Gy ee ks 4

2 |e

32 40
seeeee a
3 3

1 1

1 1
toe if
3 3
Socoss af
ik

1

a1

i

5

bE all SH ell SD ol
120

APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE

SECRETARY.

Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution, §ce.—Continued.

nn ee SSeS SS
1877.

InDIvipuaLts—Continued.

IPOH Gadiecree neeineee ee msiccccaae

Foreman, Dr. E -
Fowler, W.C
Fremont, General J
Fuller, H. W

Ginbs: Ww. SOROS CHOOSE ee eSeGne > aoe
Gilbert, Geese ck acccceusseucecescee
GuileProim dW 520. sc easusceesmeneecccces
Gilman, Prof. D. G
Gilpin, Governor W ...--ss20s---0c0--
Good allVAR G2 oecmesceoreerese ets eee
Goode, Ge. B

Gashorn, AT
Grant, Maj. C.C.
Gray, Prof. A
Greene, Rey. E. L

(Giga Disa lo s45n5 5 seSuEd Seo Ossee lose sue

Grote, A. R
Gurman, DP Presi cccecmecisivseacc eee
Guttenber 2g, G
Guyot, Prof. A
Habel, Doctor
Hagen, Dr. EA
Haldeman, 8.S
Hall, Prof. A
Hall. Prof. J

Harding, C. Tihs
Harding, E
Harding, G. W -.
Hare, Prof. H. Bike Hoe e een eee

Heper & Bother Ebene ieee eatriaisie sists
Harrington, Prof. M. W
Hartrantt, Hon. J. F
Hawley, Goneralld we eee cence ee aes
Hayden Dr NeaViccornesbecesameeneene
Hayes, Dr Jd
Heinzer, Cesta Re ceton becnteoecneee
Henry, Prof. J
Heizer, I eal Dyess epee ge ae ee ee ee see
Everhort iGreen cee cnceeen cust cerceees
Higgins, E.S
Hilear HW sx woe beentetesiecenSeccme
Hilsard, Prof. J. E :
GIN GaaWie oe eon 3
Hinrichs, ProtnGu Geers eae uceee cere
Hilton, W..-

Hitchcock, Prof, iourne
Hitchcock, Prof. R. D
Hitz, J
Holden, Prof. E.S
Holden, W
Holley, A
IFLOIMES AW Let Come cee cence
Holmes, D.S
Holmes, N
oe Dr. G. et

wee wee twee eee eae:

eee ee ee ee

Howells, W. D --
Hoyt, Ja Wi... steeeeeeseensts
Humphreys, General A, A
Hun, T

1878.

mo

HEHE

Ret eno ee

INDIVIDUALS—Continued.

Hyatt, Prof. A
Isaacs, 8. E. U

Jarvis, Dr. E
Jewett, Col. E.--
Johnson, J. A .--
Johnson, O. C
JOHNSON; |S: Wit een cota eeee hee oer
Jones, C. C
Jones, IME s4ocesceee Stee ee em eee
JOly, HG sae 52 cece oe ee tee eeeeere

Fopliin hae tease Pe ecm ON
JOY, roti CNet iesseeeseae ees eoneee
Joyce, Dr. R

Kennedy, J.C.@
Kerr, W.C

Kinelee W. 18
Kingston serot Gotten eases eee eeeee
Kir es Dr. J.P

Konings, Rev. A
Kolkin, AVI: een dena bee tay cece

TsampherevAc rE oe eek eee nye
Mandrephi&  SONnSe= sees essence eee cee
ane: / Gre. Sheen eee ee eka ee ee
Langley, Prof.J.P. are

Lanman, C. R

Lapham, Dr. §
Lawrence, G. N
Lawrence, Hon. W. B
Lea, Dr. Ti
LeClair, TRS a eco ees
LeConte, Dr. J
LeConte, Prof. wiosepheeasccsee- sees:
Lee, Admiral 8S. P

Leidy, Prof. J
Lemmon, J. G
Leonard, Prof. T. M
Lesley, Prof. J. P
Lesquereux, Prof. L
ieyman 2 ket Sees eos ee:
Lindermann, H. R

Me nestrette, FW...
Loomis, Prof. E
Lovering, Prof. J
Wyipiaee hs Daeg Sd Uh a bh heeerl es
lymanvProf) OlS.Ac5 22a, see seeeeeee
Lyman, (Msc occ stce
MeCago WH: Batt iccentietsesenecccice
Macoun, Prof. J
Magelsen, Rev. C
Mal GGA. W -Leccecent eee ee cee eee ees
Manigault, G. E
Marey, Dr. O
Marsh, Prof. F. A
Marsh, Prof. O. C
Mason, Prof. O. T
Master, A

Matthews. G. shi <teeeeeseeeteeeecesice
Mayes, Prof. A. M.
Mechan, J. H. M

1877. |

1878.
APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution, §:¢.—Continued.

InpivipuALs—Continued.

WHOWGR, Uo Wise ec coccecccoucesesceece
MiicholatwNere co: e-nars cece aeeen
LCI Giey (Si 90 a ee Pa ee ees ae
Milner, Mr
Minot, Professor
Mitchel, J. E
Mitchell, H
Mitchell, Dr. S. Weir
Morgan, Dr. L
MTorman s-Ay Wass ce cence eer
iiGovaens} Deas OE rs SE Seach epecseonscdoce
Morris, Dr. J. G
NPOTSe MO Te Misi S saieciesiniecvamictten socio ete

Motley, J. L
Mnmroes Be HH. oicioniaSccmicicre
Iihiiee) tee Jed Nemes aeseaS
Myer, Brig. Gen. A. J
PNG UImOP Gl bier reese rineein= oa ieewee
Newberry, Dr. J.S
Newcomb, Prof. S
NGMmLOnIN Erol, He tA ease enc enae
Newton, General! Ji.....-..5------.2- 5-2
IN CHOISORS Wi wlacsseacmecesce eae coe
NeChosProts Re aanssesc scicimew eee
Nipher, Prof. F. E
Nivens, J. F'.--
Nolan, E. J
Northrop; Hon. Boies seseee ee
INOLtOR. WE TOfWia Ace accmcmsiectsioscdoete
NOLLOnSErOly One as eceeosceceesaee
INOUTSOMP TOD) Je Hos sreisiocce tein eerene
COUGISS Cy ee aes Boe ae eee Sa a
Oliver, Prof. J. E
Ciastead, Rev. L
psa

Wate tdce axe a
Paaren, Dr. 1: | gee at lcs Re
Packard, Dr PAC SE pescumoaweceeeek
Packard, TET PAGS Ses cee ctcsores ©
Paine, [jaca Neeinees he Aer a aaa
Palpey, J Green ceseres cece eceietbece
arcane) ree eae eet ee
Parkman, ENE ant a eatin Sais matisiciee sees
Parsons Prof. LE = steeseocc scl seca n
Patterson, Capt. C. P
Peale, Dr. A. C
Peale, TR:

Peckham Prof. S. F
Peirce, Prof. B
Perkins, Chl ee rk arabe ta alle
PELE LawAe Wiese ee cae cem tea.
Peters, Dr. C. H. F
Pettersen, Dr. F. V
TEST TETT 0 8 0 Aner el eet a ah en Be
Philbrick, J. D
ickard agen. -aseeee
Pickering, Dr. C
Pickering, Prof. E. C
HAOULENOIMN Ey Wie Oreo oe sae eeee
Pinkham, Prof. G. L
Pitkin, Doctor
Poesche, av

ea aatke ‘Dr. C Weenie Satoasacion eeeee
Powell, Maj. J. W
Powers, H. A
Prime, Dr. F
Ee ak

we eee eee eee

1878.

121

| Simon, Prof. W

INDIVIDUALS—Continued.

Pn tnaims Wem Waaes ese aaa
Putnam ochorssasaseee ee ae
Quinby Drier saaessa ae soe
Quincy, Hon. J

sand ol phyB eeeseemses cere os aecese ae
Rassmussen, Rev. P. A

Redfield, Professor
Reed, E. W
Reis, N. T
Reverbon, Jipa- ages sscses toe tas Jesse:
Rey DOS: Muss eis seo eee
Inhees PW illiami Jigme eee alee eee
Richardson Draws sees ee
Ridgway, sce See WON Sens eae OG
Riley, C. N
Roberts, @
Robinson, RY Wis ees
Rodgers, Rear-Admiral J........-----
Rodgers, PTO Rib aen aces eee
Roessler, A.R

IRoods rote Ds Neen eeeeee ee eee
Rood, Prof. O. N
Rosengarten, J. G
Ross, A. M

Rutherford, L. M
Safford, Prof, J

Saliba ‘Prof. ai as 1 ta Be

Sanborn He Bian pecs ces ceee couse |

Sandford, Jig:hit eee eae sales
Sands, Rear-Admiral B. F
Sargent, CxS eee
Saussure, Wiadeze.<

Sayre, Prof. L. A
Schaff, | BE iacns MCSE ECC A OSHE
Schott, CS AE ee See
Schroeder, Mrs. E
Schumacher, De peee aa aitsiticinee eine
Schurz bonis ooscessecece ec eaeece
Schustery Mics cece sse cian semen
ScoutnColonels-o-e asc ae cceceermasciace
SCUCGOrs Oo bee eseceee ee meee eee
Sellers. W<occssc'ensewasteeewceanesee
S@liwAmth Hho dial Crscsanc nocnoticesonceces
Sequard, Dr. C. Brown
Seyfianths DriGic sae. csonseeeee scene
Shaler, Prot. .N: Soo eee
Sheidy, i
Shugley, J
Sibley, J.
Silliman, Prof, (Bh gaseenaaeee con cnnaee

Slater, jr., Hic Nijsdeensececsieessaeee-
Smith; Al. s2 3s. asteceeaesaeictencereces
Smithy Avex sees eecemeeee
Smith, B.S

Smith ProfaSs teaser eeeeeteseeee
Smiths ProfyStesssesecswacsacae sneees
Smiths IW bh Se ce eee ccecees snes ones
Snows) Dribe aes ceeeecenc cee peuseenee
Soldan, F. P
Squier; Ha Guessceemcocc cs cackicaccuaes
Stallow dud cern eee ee ae wc oemes
Stanley, A. “& 10 SoS Shee eran eee
Steams) hae Cees

Steel, rT ha ETS

Steere, Prof. J. B
Sterling, CO ee ee Gy Satan surat bee
Stevenson, J.Jd
Stewardson, Heme eee coe Gece caanee
Stewart, E. (Cis a fre NE AE

Stirling, Crees onccsisoaedssieatescuacces

122 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution, §c.—Continued.

1877. | 1878. 1877. | 1878.

INDIVIDUALS—Continued. InpIvipuALS—Continued.
locke dl, Wits sects ela ace eee ae 19 Wells: (Ji ara rcse ree ee nee eo 0 eee
LORETO) eo Sa ei ens old | Sa 27 Well si Wis EL eos eon beeen ay aoe ann. sh2he 1
Stover, Prof. F : MW eaasce Wiels@hy Jie -emse cma see e eee eee 2 ee =
SHeCkKOn He cacscuecnee See 1 onl Werner Rrot. Ase eee pee nen ene ne Eames 1
SackOwpibs IN. sees see meric tees it ee Weston, NG ccc deeb eekeeee Coen 1 1
Rwalllowa prot. Gane ae en os ean eee i Wheatley, ProfiG.p Mus: eeeaie aly wae 1
DONE Obs Gisic tes ee ete eens we 0 ene 1 || Wheeler, ‘Tieut Gi Niece ee: 6 11
ato wRNO sce eee ee epee te eacie cate 1 1 Whetherby, Brot. vAciG4=eaceese nee eee
ARavlor,sETOl.. Weds sassce ase aen cu eee 1 1 || White, Dr. ORY WIPER eee Fie ra ete tye if
ehhromass Profs Ome. sete ope onan eee 2 White, Drs O22 5ccnkenacera naan pS
PRHOMASH OM ge anemone esse eo eet 1 Whiting, Commodore We Beene enesee sees 1
pHhomison seo rca eee ae eee ens 14 || Whitney, Prof. J. a. Be ers eee ee 3 6
Thompson, Dr. J. H ------|| Whitney, Prof. W. D 5
PRO a BIR ee eee ee cel eee eta UG BWihiitiier yon Grsk une oe ante LoL rene Oe
Monen: WOT oe oees eee aaa eco SH Wabbes Pxaieble.<2ctecc sce theese
Trowbrid: Pe Proteins ee eeese neon | el eee Wickham, W. H
Trowbridge, PETROL Wiech een se ee beled eee Wigglesworth, UH Soere ees ne ee
Trumbull, Dre He eee Ge oe Salata Wilder, Prof. B. G
PIE VOTS Cais sain caer eee 2 Willey, do ee a onean eee aes ae
Tuckerman, Prof. E 3 DOE Walley SOUSHSsoeae ccecouce su: Sethe
vine SRGvs Ur! cen ssee me yee Bl eg il sear Williamson S- eee ssesccs nes ee Cee
Twining, Prof. A. C eS 3 || Wilson, J. 1 eM ao
PRVT Or Slice 0 ts eee ee ale ae noel a(n Winchell, IPTOR AA (once ect eone eee beck 3
Uhler, Prof. P. RB - Sere eke ll ls Sales 1 || Winchell, Prof. N. H 1
Van der Weyde, Prof. P. re Ga i Lol stesso Wines, Rev. ID Rea Sieac sates ses e le Lees 1
Wan tNamey Prot Anessa. saeee eee eee AGNES D) Ore a ee oe ae ye a eR. IME ir 1
Vasey, DUS Meme Ce Sa IML ula || Saris Lowes eae ae eee aaa eben ak 1
WVierrill Prot. Miyano oe Sao een Sone ee Disease WiG0d a Wareoee see cena tne som aae tea Came 1
Wineksmrathy© sete cece eee coe wan 1 1 || Wordrow, Rev. Professor ..--.--..... 1 i
Waite, Judge wince oak ote Pann soe eae Mae ssse Woodward, HD Dr (Jeers aes ee ee 2 a a 2

Walcott, Coe eee wee eee 1 || Woolsey, Pelvis 63s. 1 di ee ees
PValkersir MD). Uo ece vee. = enone Aa eerie Worthen, Prof. A. H ................ 8 7
Walker, PLO Awan ie 8 Seema eee 6 al PVC AP TOl. PAC Mina eape ne Sembee 1
AWislKOry ean ee soe. eee nh pS eee Wricht, Prof. A. W il
AVialttonwdiacd Sete st eaten aay Dilewect: Wright, Prot. phnnaees 3
Wierd: Erot: JACI so. ae aa oe aie |e 1 Wurtz, METS SP hee eee ea a came
Ware Nir. Mie Go. Soe ee: ane a eo Wyman, ME, 5232.5% oe Saees aoe ae ae ee 1
iWiarin& | ColliGa He ae oles ic eee diag eS WarnallsiProfss Miao 2 sata ye eet 1 1
Wiatsom Perot Oe. seeceee ee ware es Ali 2 Yarrow, 1 Db pale Sy Oana Tee cE OY 6 8
WVAUSONVELOtS.- se. eee ee tee) ee 5 eee Young, Ly aT Cay Wines tent Bate tc 2 5
DViced en MWe Bcc veces ecco Eaten 1 1 Young, CB ss es Gncatins oe aoe ee eee 15 9
WWiellineeProfy iC senso eee ered nero Zeledon, (PLOLyM seen ener een a 1
RECAPITULATION.
1877 1878

Hotaliaddresses ofsinshitutions#es-ee see eae eee eee er ae Ree ete ee ee 392 292
otaliaddressesiofiindividuals/--see> eae eee eee ene te a ene el 374 | 370

Motalks a: sssysetaesese este es ce ae tens ee eee nee eae ne eee Steele See 766 | 662
Rotal number of parcels torinstitutions)-. 2. 2s-ceecececce cee ceeeccesnee sheaweeecncees 3, 868 4, 059
Hotalsnumberot parcels to individuals -eoee ene eee eet a nae s in ce nen 1, 094 1, 233

PLO Lay sees aS: Sense tse See See eee ee net ce 1 set Sn eee ee eee Sa 4, 962 5, 292

ee ee a e

AGENTS FOR TRANSMISSION

Countries.

PAN Geran se cen nate ese sess

Argentine Republic. .-.-.--

Australia. (See New South
Wales, New Zealand,
Queensland, South Aus-
tralia, Tasmania, Vic-
toria.)

Austro-Hungary ..--.-----

Ie enh Ghee cadaombonoce

@anndartwsesen=eceacaeseas
Cape Colonies.........----

Central America. (See
Costa Rica, Guatemala.)
OIG A Ese ee ate te case]

Ciba ssesn s-oass ete eee

Egypt sieurcioe (esale weis,=\staiais,ale

Ganmanyeereeesaesseece =
Great Britainiecessssecs se:
Greecewcereises oes ss stecse

Guatemalasess ce S028 5-5

Guiana, British'......-.5--
Guiana Doth. ss.s-ssss--

Holland. (See Netherlands)
celandi- ote teneeccseaces

CAMNAICH ccces= ccc sce acle
PAN ss ee elses Se cee

IMIBXIC Ol sami weleweisicaecic case

New South Wales ........

Newewealand).--.c-6 access

.| Pacific

APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

EXCHANGES.

123

AND DISTRIBUTION OF SMITHSONIAN

Shipping agents.

Compagnie Générale Transatlantique
(L. de Bébian), New York.
Kd. EF. Davison, New York.... .------

North German Lloyd, New York and
Baltimore.

White Cross Line of Antwerp (Funch,
Edye & Co.), New York.

Joseph 8. Spinney, New York -.-....---

Charles Mackall, vice-consul, Balti-
more, Merchants’ Line of Steamers
(B. R. Borland), New York.

New York, Alexandria, Washington,
and Geor. getown steamers.

Baltimore and Ohio Railroad foreign
freight department.

H. R. Grace & Co., New York ..-...-.

Baltimore and Ohio Railroad foreign
freight department.

Mail Steamship Company,
New York.

Pacific Mail Steamship Company -.-.-.--

Havana and West Indian Express
(Carrington & Co.), New York.

Hamburg - American Steam Packet
Company (Kunhardt & Co. ), New
York.

AS Mloress New? Work 5-22 4s. sees ce.

S. L. Merchant & Co., New York .....

Abs, Wyburg, Wasa and Finland
Steam ‘Navigation Company, Hull.

Compagnie Générale Transatlantique
(L. de Bébian), New York. Boyd
& Hincken, New York.

North German Lloyd (Oelrichs & Co.,

New York; Schumacher & Co., Bal-
timore).

Cunard Line (C. G. Francklyn), New
York. Baltimore and Ohio Railroad
foreign freight department.

Consul D. W. Botassi. New York.....

Pacific Mail Steamship Company,
New York.

Atlas Steamship Company (Pim, For-
wood & Uo.), New York.

Hamburg-American Steam Packet
Company (Kunhardt & Co.), New
York.

“Anchor Steamship Line (Henderson
& Bro.), New York.

Pacific Mail Steamship Company, New
York. Japanese consuls in New
York and San Francisco.

American Colonization Society, Wash-
ington.

Juan N Navarro, consul, New York..

Netherland-American Steamship
Navigation Company (H. Cazaux),
New York.

R. W. Cameron & Co., New York ....

R. W. Cameron &Co., New York...--

Distributing agents.

Commission Frane¢aise des Echanges
Internationaux, Paris.
Museo publico, Buenos Aires.

Dr. Felix Fligel, Leipzig.

Commission Belge d’Echanges In-
ternationaux, Brussels.

University, Chuquisaca.

Instituto “Historico, Geografico y
Ethnogratico, Rio Janeiro.

Geological Survey of Canada, Mon-
treal.
William Wesley, London.

Universidad, Santiago.
William Wesley, London.

Sociedad de Naturalistas, Bogota.

University, San José.
Prof. F'. Poey, Havana.

Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes
Selskab, Copenhagen.

Observatorio del Colegio Nacional,
Quito. ;
Institut Egyptien, Alexandria.

Commission Francaise des Echanges
Internationaux, Paris.

Dr. Felix Fliigel, Leipzig.

William Wesley, London.

Sociedad Economica de Amigos del
Pais, Guatemala.

Queen's College, Georgetown.

Surinaamsche Koloniaale Biblio-
theek, Paramaribo.

Sécrétaire de ’'Etat des Relations
Extérieures, Port-an-Prince.

Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes
Selskab, Copenhagen.

William Wesley, London.
Ulzico Hoepli, Milano.

Royal Society of Arts, KGngston.
Imperial University, Tokio.

Genootschap van Kunsten en We-
tenschappen, Batavia.

William Wesley, London.
Museo Nacional, Mexico.

Bureau Scientifique (Prof. von
Baumhauer), Harlem. Fred.
Muller, Amsterdam.

Roy al Society of New South Wales,

Sydney. :
Parliamentary Library, Welling-

ton.
124

APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

AGENTS FOR TRANSMISSION, &C.—Continued.

Countries.

Et ets See eras ae

Portugal
Queensland

Shr) oessoties
PRARM ANIA Glass eerecieciee cece

Primidad 255s s-cscaesue sess
ALGhARE\y oonscocadoseccoccas
Wenezuela..-<s0<ccs-scscc0
BVACLOTIA) ibs sceccs ase occ
IWiOStUNGICS' csc cecccecosa.

-| J. Chrysoveloni & Co., Liverpool

Shipping agents.

Hamburg-American Steam Packet
Company (Kunhardt & Co.), New
York.

Joseph 8. Spinner, New York

Spanish consul, San Francisco (of-
fered).

Consul Gustav Amsink, New York - --

Hon. A. McAllister, Queensland de-
partment, London.

Wm. Ropes & Co., New York

Consul Severance, San Francisco

R. W. Cameron & Co., New York .---

Spanish consul, New York...--...-.--

Hamburg-American Steam Packet
Company (Kunhardt & Co.), New
York.

North German Lloyd (Schumacher &
Co.), Baltimore. Consul von Hey-
man, Bremen.

Crown agents for the colonies, Lon-
don.

Turkish Minister, Washington
C G. de Garmendia, New York.....--

R. W. Cameron & Co., New York

Thomas Dennison, New York (for
Antigua). H.B. Bailey, New York.
Wilson & Asmus(for Turks Islands).
Thomas Bland, New York.

See also Cuba, Jamaica, Hayti.

Distributing agents.

Kongelige Norske Frederiks Uni-
versitet, Christiania.

Biblioteca Nacional, Lima.
Royal Economical Society, Manila.

Ecola Polytechnica, Lisbon.

Government Meteorological Ob-
servatory, Brisbane.

L. Watkins & Co., St. Petersburg.

Royal Hawaiian Agricultural So-
ciety, Honolulu.

Astronomical Observatory, Ade-
laide.

Real Academia de Ciencias, Ma-
drid. '

Kongliga Svenska Vetenskaps Ak-
ademien, Stockholm.

Bundes Canzlei, Bern.

Royal Society of Tasmania, Ho-
barton.
Scientific
Spain.

Association, Port of

Soc.de Ciencias Fisicas y Natu-
rales, Caracas.
Public Library, Melbourne.

APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. P25

ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS RELATIVE TO THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

FORTY-FIFTH CONGRESS, SEssion II.
PUBLIC RESOLUTION—NO. 6.

JOINT RESOLUTION filling an existing vacancy in the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution.

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
of America ta Congress assembled, That the existing vacancy in the Board
of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, of the class other than mem-
bers of Congress, shall be filled by the appointment of NoAH PoRTER,
of Connecticut, in place of JAMES D. DANA, resigned.

Approved, January 26, 1878.

PuBLIC RESOLUTION—NO. 15.
JOINT RESOLUTION filling an existing vacancy in the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution.

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
of America in Congress assembled, That the existing vacancy in the Board
of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, of the class other than mem-
bers of Congress, shall be filled by the appointment of WILLIAM T.
SHERMAN, of the city of Washington, in place of GEORGE BANCROFT,
of said city, resigned.

Approved, March 25, 1878.

ForTY-FIFTH CONGRESS, SESSION III.
CHAPTER 21.

AN ACT authorizing the Chancellor of the Smithsonian Institution to appoint an Act-
ing Secretary in certain cases.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That in the case of the death,
resignation, sickness, or absence of the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution, the Chancellor thereof shall be, and he is hereby, author-
ized to appoint some person as Acting Secretary, who for the time being
shall be clothed with all the powers and duties which by law are de-
volved upon the Secretary, and he shall hold said position until an elec- .
tion of Secretary shall be duly made, or until the Secretary shall be
restored to his health, or, if absent, shall return and enter upon the
duties of his office.

Approved, January 24, 1879.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF
REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR THE
YEAR 1878.

The Executive Committee of the Board of Regents of the Smithson-
ian Institution respectfully submit the following report in relation to the
funds of the Institution, the appropriations by Congress for the support
of the National Museum, the receipts and expenditures for both the
Institution and the Museum for the year 1878, and the estimates for the
year 1879:

Statement of the condition of the funds at the beginning of the year 1879.

The amount originally received as the bequest of James

Smithson, of England, deposited in the Treasury of the

United States, in accordance with the act of Congress of

SOUS ETO 1 SAG 22.225. alates ON eee eee eat Senet. $515,169 00
Residuary 1s gacy of Smithson, received in 1865, deposited

in the Treasury of the Bed States, in accordance with

the act of Congress of February 8, 1867..............- 26, 210 63

Lotal PequestiolSMitMsonds ssc hasieenrse ee aetae wiecke $541,379 63
Amount deposited in the Treasury of the United States as
authorized by act of Congress, February 8, 1867, derived
from savings of income and increase in value of invest-

MINOTNDS (02872 hs Sein oie Sid! Syen ie idioms «fui = Ae Paces ee ets eee or 108, 620 37
Amount of the bequest of James Hamilton, of Carlisle, Pa.,
Hebriany 241874: 62 toes ae eee BOS g 58 ASA BAe as 1,000 00

Total permanent Smithson fund in the United States

Treasury, bearing interest at 6 per cent., payable
semi-annually. im. POld ae S28! Se eet oe Slee i al $651, 000 00

In addition to the above, there remains of the extra fund,

from savings, &c., in Virginia bonds and certificates, viz:

Consolidated bonds. 2. 3--2 .eas-e. nee ot $58, 700 00
Weferred, certificates . 2. cise ee 2-2 - 29, 375 O7
Fractional certificate ..2.22.282 sens... 50 13
Mota ee sins op hee en 88,125 20
Valued Jantiary, 1 S19) at ic cise Oat: 22 Cy ae ee 34, 000 00
Also, the cash balance in the United States Treasury
at the beginning of the year 1879 ......-.\-. 4..---- 19, 632 57
Total Smithson funds, January 8, 1879............ $704, 632 57

126
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. Bi?)

RECEIPTS IN 1878.

Interest on $650,000, for the year 1878, at 6 per cent., gold. $39, 000 00
Premium on gold interest, July 1, 1878, at 4 per cent..... 97 50
Interest on Virginia bonds:

Sale of coupons by Riggs & Co., for January 1 and July

1, 1878, for $3,522 (December 9, 1878) at 78-79.......- 2, 776 34
Interest on Hamilton fund of $1,000 for the year
AUS) = S.8 ee (im labo emis ales ikea ieee ta. ates ane $60 00
Premium on gold, July 1, 1878, at 4 per cent-. 15
60 15
Repayment by Library of Congress:
For advances made for international exchanges in 1877. 1, 781 60
Balance on hand at the beginning of 1878................ 25, 083 90
Total-receipts for the year 1878-2. 1.36566. 5 522 ewe $68, 798 89

EXPENDITURES IN 1878.

Building, furniture, and fixtures.............- $4, 712 72
eneralyexpCNseses... so2ccce 825.0506 ai asec 18, 136 42
Publications, researches, and explorations.... - 15, 732 92
International literary and scientific exchanges. 10, 250 41
CAMO DY BO mr h ars Serene arena Ser ctca ea aie Sets oa 333 85
$49, 166 32
Cashybalance, January 1, 1819 5-2 22 25. 2 os 2 ee $19, 632 57

HAMILTON BEQUEST.

Received from James Hamilton, February 24, 1874, and de-
posited with the Smithson fund in the Treasury of the

HME C Sbalesae i sceir <a. aes seu ti Sad bate Ewes ewes - $1,000 00
Interest received from February 24, 1874, to December 31,
TESS (SS Be cai ae i, te PR 306 32
Appropriated in 1876 for exploration of cave near Carlisle,
eyes SOF Ae NE PEIMET OSS toc S 2) ale ators eas $150 00
Appropriated in 1878 for exploration of steatite
COAL MV An OTA as germs he ate =o a fajn2sn 6 Sas eae 156 32
306 32

Statement of expenditures in 1878, in detail.
BUILDING.

Repairs and. improvements... .).. ...-2.ese-eee $4, 346 43
PGES AN MXGUTES «oc. -- 13. 315 Liais sie bv seen ee «Ui 366 29

fh

12

1
bo

4,

=~]
128 REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

GENERAL EXPENSES.

Meetingsiof thesBoard... <2. 0.1. bee eeu eee $399 25
Lighting the building......... SAMs A okch ROEM cy aan 260 80
ream the ullding’ ..'. 2... se. cee eeihe hee 593 37
Postage and telegraphing...........-.-.-...2:- 395 54
EAU OLY. ovo foie oc Ee ached EE ci eae 797 96
Incidentals (ice, hauling, insurance, &e.) .......- 642 03
Salaries (including allowance to family of Profes-
SOrsHenry,.@2:812.50) |...) eer ce eae «| Sesice . 14,371 96
exinavclerke hire and Jabor 2 seswe540. ee oe 200. 00
Books!and periodicals: 2c: 22 soe sso ee doe ee 475 51

$18, 136 42

PUBLICATIONS, RESEARCHES, ETC.

Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge ....... $5, 523 14
Miscellaneous Wollections: 25-0 ate eee 7,432 48
Annual Report........: Heh sed cbcoiier ite LSI Nea Taek bgt A 942 20
Bvese arches oe ctaten ave ee i see ee 1, 032 13
PRO PAALUSs sce eyeeice hs Gare reve ria de wena antral eiae 121 56
ABM ORATOTY She etioetete dts Cans See an Mee, Abe 86 21
HES pap MONA TIO DIS 3 2iz Sere yee Si A re a eo SE a 595 20

15, 732 92
Literary and scientific exchanges ....- See toe seater ee 10, 250 41
GalenyxOl ah. oe on est wees Cie Gees aU A 333 85

$49, 166 32

A larger expenditure for repairs of the building than was anticipated
was made necessary by a violent and destructive storm which visited
Washington last summer by which the finials or caps on some of the tow-
ers, and several hundred slates from the roof, were blown off, the light-
ning-rods detached, and much other damage done to the exterior of the
building. Some alterations in the interior of the east wing have been
made also.

The expenses attending “international exchanges” have steadily in-
creased, until they now absorb about one-fourth of the entire income of
the Institution. It has, therefore, in accordance with authority given
by the Board of Regents, been decided to make a charge of five cents
a pound on all packages received or sent by the government depart-
ments, @ measure rendered necessary on account of the great increase
in bulk of the public documents sent by them.

REPAYMENTS.

The Institution has made temporary advances during the year for
freight, &¢., the repayment of which, with the amount received from
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 129

sales of the publications of the Institution, have been deducted from
the expenditures for the year. These credits have been as follows:

eatin HEC AUIOUIS, SAIC -.. 15 valerate a1) sae Sralra are Sata ae wre steree te ets so $261 83
Bixchanges, repayments tor merehts.2 5-4 05-286see ese 22 oe 263 28
PO Gk EP AyINOMi ss Sweet At eth soscl weet ice a eet SS 30. 00
BS aleryecor art TepAayimemtrass i929: saa eae ee oe Ae 14 65
Postage, repayment ........ Sierehic lsc Sachse ee eee Ree cart ise 3 00
Imerdentals;repaymenhe ace se - ots Ss). US eee 2 00

Mo Gaeme SES est ee ae ht PEER Ss Ae aed eae SOL 10

ESTIMATES.

The following are the estimates of receipts by the Institution for the
year 1879, and the appropriations required for carrying on its opera-
tions during the same period:

Estimated receipts.

Interest on the permanent fund, receivable July 1, 1879,

AMC TTIATNG Ue SSO LY aro6 cinta ae SEs acid Ge ors Swe a eee $39, 000 00
interestion the Hamilton fund! for 18795. -:.. ....2. 2-2. . 60 00
Sale of Virginia coupons due January 1, 1879, and July 1,

SG Oe t Bay sthai'a lav Dujelstels false ienicis spon eae > Ha Sem te areca 2,500 00

41,560 00

ORONO WING . -s Srat ro citircyo idee staieieis ceniaim cisishe cas in oaue) 2 ae $2, 000 00
PE MOMeL Al CXPOUSES: . ccd 4. kes feajereeee 6 Ses = ies ssi es 14, 000 00
Hor publicationsand researches <-/.: 2... <.0--~ sgce cscs <2 14, 000 00
JCI Ghat e (2 Ae ee grec tehareigi 2st) eae ne 10, 000 00
Hor WOOkG and ap PATAbUGE << /io%s om eiec o's, o sislels Sowine teemealeee 1, 000 00
BOG CONUMOCNCIES 25 6645522. = eee os d stdya <biale: age oe eee 560 00

41, 560 00

The death of Professor Henry, the Secretary of the Institution, on
the 13th of May, 1878, rendered necessary a special examination of the
accounts up to that date by the Executive Committee, who found that,
of the amount on hand at the beginning of the year 1878 ($25,083.90),
there had been expended under his supervision and direction the sum
of $16,560.92, every cent of which was accounted for by vouchers and
entries in the usual books of account, with his characteristic precision
and care. The balance ($8,522.98) was transferred, on the 28th of May,
1878, by the Treasurer of-the United States, to the credit of the new
Secretary of the Institution, Prof. Spencer F. Baird, in whose name the
account of the Institution is now kept.

S. Mis. 59 9

130 REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

NATIONAL MUSEUM.

The following appropriations were made by Congress in 1878 for the

“¢ National Museum.” *

“For preservation and care of the collections of the Na-
tional Museum, including those from the International
Exhibition of 1876,” for the fiscal year ending June 30,
NS TOs NER ahs D2 aia Se See ee ae 2 ene ee emnten

“For expenses of making up into sets, for distribution to
institutions of learning and museums, the duplicate
ores, minerals, and objects of natural history belonging
to the United States,” for the fiscal year ending June
SOM DGD cack. 2 wi elsictetcyayeresetese tet ene ee eee neeenisieaes stars

$18, 000 00

5,000 00

23, 000 00

Armory Building.—‘ For expense of watching and storage
of articles belonging to the United States, including
those transferred from the International Exhibition of
1876,” for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1879........

2, 500 00

25, 500 00
The following statement gives the receipts and expenditures of the

National Museum during the year 1878:
RECEIPTS.

Balance of appropriation for “ preservation
pproy i

of collections,” January 1, 1878 .......... $11, 323 21
Balance of appropriation for “Armory,” Jan-

MEATY COG ee ee ON eee ee ee eee 1,488 25
Balance of appropriation “ National Museum”

deficiency bill, January 1, 1873-22... 2 =. 2,040 90

One half of the appropriation for ‘ preserva-
tion of collections” and ‘distribution of du-

plicates,” for year ending June 30, 1879... 11, 500 00
Gne half of the appropriation for ‘‘ Armory

building,” for year ending June 30, 1879 ... 1, 250 00

Total receipts... .- Bsa g eee y Sot Te ree eer sets oe

EXPENDITURES.

First quarter of 1878, Jan- ee Bie se ca

a eee a ae Deficiency ..-. 1,914 18

Second quarter of 1878, A So * MG “
VA Tl Je pueticiee ie. ae ane a

: Deficiency --.- 126 72

* Statutes of the United States, 1877-78, page 233. —

$27, 602 36
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 13h

Third quarter of 1878, July— Preservation.. $5,423 61

September -...-- Suet HEnS Armory ...... 643 78

Fourth quarter of 1878, Octo- ( Preservation. . 6,187 09

ber-—December...... Wy ers \ PEMNOLYE sts as 684 98
Potal expendituresiss sec ec css. 3 Satine re: Re 20M Chel bate

The balance on hand for the purposes of the Museum for the remaii-
ing six months of the fiscal year ending 30th June, 1879, is $12,560.54.
of which $11,389.30 belong to the “preservation” account, and $1,171.24
to the ‘‘ Armory.”

On the 27th of September, 1877, a commission was appointed by the
President to examine the public buildings and report what additional
means should be provided to secure them from destruction or injury by
fire. This commission consisted of Col. Thomas L. Casey, United States
Engineers, Commissioner of Public Buildings; Mr. Clark, Architect of
the Capitol, and Mr. Hill, Architect of the Treasury. This Commission
visited and inspected the Smithsonian Institution, and made the follow-
ing report in regard to it, which was submitted to Congress on the 10th
of December, 1877: *

““SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.—AI1 the combustible materials used in the construe-
tion of the museum portion of the building should be removed and the parts renewed
of fire-proof construction, and the openings connected with other parts of the building
should be supplied with fire-proof doors.”

An estimate has been submitted to Congress by the Hon. Secretary of
the Interior for an appropriation of $3,000 to provide additional security
against fire in the Smithsonian building for the government collections,
in accordance with the foregoing report.

All payments on account of the “‘ National Museum” are made by the
disbursing-officer of the Department of the Interior on the presentation
of the usual vouchers, approved by the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution.

SUMMARY.

The Executive Committee have examined 755 vouchers for payments
made from the Smithson income during the year 1878, and 578 vouchers
for payments made from appropriations by Congress for the National
Museum, making a total of 1,333 vouchers. All these vouchers bear the
approval of the Secretary of the Institution, and a certificate that the
materials and services charged were applied to the purposes of the
Institution.

The committee have also examined the account books of the National
Museum, and find the balance as before stated, viz, $12.560.54, to cor-
respond with the certificates of the disbursing-officer of the Department
of the Interior.

*Ex. Doc. No. 10, Forty-fifth Congress, Second session, House of Representatives.
132 REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

The quarterly accounts-current, bank-book, check-book, and journal
of the Institution. have been examined and found to be correct, and show
a balance to the credit of the Institution on the 8th of January, 1879, in
the hands of the Treasurer of the United States, of $19,632.57, available
for the current operations of the Institution.

Respectfully submitted.

PETER PARKER,
W. T. SHERMAN,
Executive Committee, Smithsonian Institution.
WASHINGTON, January 13, 1879.
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

WASHINGTON, D. C., May 18, 1878.
A meeting of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution was
held this day at the Institution, at 8 o’clock p.m., under the. following
eall:

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
May 13, 1878.
The Regents of the Smithsonian Institution are requested to meet at
the Smithsonian building at 8 o’clock this Monday evening, to make suit-
able arrangements for the obsequies of Prof. Joseph Henry, whose
decease occurred at 12.10 o’clock this afternoon.
By order of—
M. R. WAITE, Chancellor.

Present, the Chancellor—Chief Justice Waite, Hon. H. Hamlin, Hon.
A. A. Sargent, Hon. R. E. Withers, Hon. H. Clymer, Hon. J. A. Gar-
field, Hon. Peter Parker, General W. 'T’. Sherman.

The Chancellor made the following remarks:

My BRETHREN OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS: I have asked you
to come together this evening not to take action upon the great loss our
Institution has sustained, but to consult as to what may best be done to
pay honor to all that is mortal of the great and good man who, conceiv-
ing what Smithson willed, has devoted his life to making the bequest of
our benefactor what he wished it to be, an instrument “ for the increase
and diffusion of knowledge among men.”

The Chancellor stated that he understood that the family of Professor
Henry had expressed the wish that the Board of Regents should make
all the arrangements for the funeral.

Several of the Regents expressed their opinion that this was not the
appropriate time to eulogize the deceased, as another and full meeting
of the Board should be called for that purpose.

The following resolutions were adopted:

Resolved, That the Chancellor be directed to notify the President of
the United States and his Cabinet, the Supreme Court of the United
States, the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, the two houses of
Congress, the General of the Army, the Admiral of the Navy, the Diplo-
matic Corps, the Light-House Board, the National Academy of Sciences,
the Washington Philosophical Society, and other organizations with

133
134 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

which he was connected, of the death of Prof. Joseph Henry, and to in-
vite them to attend his funeral.

Resolved, That the funeral take place on Thursday, 16th May, at the
New York Avenue Presbyterian Church, at 4.30 o’clock p. m.

fesolved, That the Regents meet at the Institution on Thursday next
at 4 o’clock p. m. to attend the funeral in a body.

Resolved, That a committee, consisting of General Sherman, Hon.
Peter Parker, and Prof. 8. F. Baird, Assistant Secretary of the Institu-
tion, be appointed to make arrangements for the funeral ceremonies.

Resolved, That a meeting of the Board of Regents be held on Friday
next, 17th May, at 10 o’clock, a. m. for the purpose of transacting such
business as may come before it.

The Board then adjourned.

WASHINGTON, D. C., May 17, 1878.

A meeting of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution
was held this day at 10 o’clock a. m.

Present, the Chancellor—Chief Justice Waite, Hon. H. Hamlin, Hon.
A. A. Sargent, Hon. R. E. Withers, Hon. H. Clymer, Hon. J. A. Gar-
field, Rev. Dr. John Maclean, Hon. Peter Parker, Dr. Asa Gray, Gen-
eral W. T. Sherman, President Noah Porter.

General Garfield was requested to act as secretary.

At the request of the Chancellor, Rey. Dr. Maclean led in prayer
for Divine guidance of the Regents in their present deliberations.

The following resolutions were then adopted:

1. Resolved, That the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution hereby
express their profound sorrow at the death of Prof. Joseph Henry,
late Secretary of this Institution, and tender to the family of the de-
ceased their sympathy for their great and irreparable loss.

2. Resolved, That in consideration of the long-continued, faithful, and
unselfish services of Joseph Henry, our late Secretary, there be paid to
his widow the same sum to which he would have been entitled, as sal-
ary, for the remainder of this year, and that the Secretary be directed
to make payment to her for the amount thereof monthly.

3. Resolved, That Mrs. Henry be informed of this action of the Board,
and the desire of the Regents that she will continue the occupancy of
the apartments now in her use for such period, during the remainder of
this year, as may suit her convenience.

4, Resolved, That a committee be appointed who shall prepare and
submit to this Board at its next annual meeting a sketch of the life,
character, and public services of the late lamented Secretary, which
shall be entered upon the records.

5. Resolved, That the Executive Committee of the Board be requested
to make arrangements for a public commemoration in honor of the late
Secretary of the Institution, of such a character and at such a time as
they may determine.
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS. 135

The Chancellor appointed as the special committee under the fourth
resolution, President Porter, Dr. Gray, and Dr. Maclean.

On motion, it was resolved to consider the subject of election to fill
the vacancy in the office of Secretary of the Institution.

Dr. Parker urged the propriety of deferring the election of Secretary
to a later meeting, as it might appear precipitate to elect now.

Senator Hamlin thought the Board ought to proceed at once to elect
a Secretary. To delay would be to invite great contention for the
office.

Senator Withers thought the discussion should be confined to the
question of postponement.

Dr. Parker then moved that the appointment of a permanent Secre-
tary be postponed until the next annual meeting in January, and sug-
gested that the Assistant Secretary might be invested with power to
perform all the functions of Secretary during the interim.

Dr. Maclean said that when President Burr, of Princeton, died, his
successor, President Edwards, was elected the fourth day after. He
thought prompt action the wisest, and advocated the election of Pro-
fessor Baird.

Mr. Clymer read the statute, and insisted that the Board was legally
bound to elect a Secretary. No funds could be drawn nor payments
made by any other officer, and an ad interim appointment was not pro-
vided for by the law of organization.

General Garfield suggested to Dr. Parker that he withdraw his mo-
tion, and that the Board proceed to elect, so that action might be taken
of an affirmative rather than of a negative character.

President Porter expressed the opinion that the Board could elect a
Secretary pro tempore.

Dr. Parker then withdrew his motion; and the construction of the
statute by Mr. Clymer was agreed to by the majority of the Board.

Mr. Clymer moved to proceed to the election of a Secretary; which
was agreed to.

The Chancellor appointed Mr. Sargent and Mr. Clymer as tellers.

The vote was then taken by ballot, and the tellers reported that eleven
ballots were cast, all of which were for Spencer Fullerton Baird.

Messrs. Sargent and Clymer were appointed a committee to wait upon
Professor Baird and inform him of his election, and invite him to attend
the meeting of the Board.

The committee discharged this duty; and at half past eleven o’clock
a. m. introduced the Secretary-elect to the Regents.

The Chancellor then formally announced to Professor Baird his unani-
mous election as Secretary.

Professor Baird made a brief acknowledgment of the honor con-
ferred upon him, and stated that he would endeavor to discharge his
duties faithfully and in accordance with the views of his lamented pre-
decessor.
136 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

On motion, it was

Resolved, That the Chancellor prepare a suitable notice of the death
of Professor Henry, to be sent to foreign establishments in correspond-
ence with the Institution, and also notifying them of the election of Pro-
fessor Baird as Secretary.

The Chancellor stated that the resignation of Mr. Bancroft had
occasioned a vacancy in the Executive Committee, and, on motion, it
was

Resolved, That the vacancy in the Executive Committee be filled by
the election of General Sherman.

The Board then adjourned sine die.

Agreeably to the resolution of the Board, the Chancellor of the Insti-
tution, on behalf of the Regents, prepared the following circulars, which
were promptly distributed to the correspondents of the Institution in all
parts of the world:

“SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
“ Washington, D. C., May 14, 1878.

“On behalf of the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, it becomes
my mournful duty to announce the death of the Secretary and Director
of the Institution, Joseph Henry, LL. D., which occurred in this city on
Monday, May 13, at 12.10 o’clock p. m.

‘‘ Professor Henry was born in Albany, in the State of New York, De-
cember 17, 1799. He became professor of mathematics in the Albany
Academy in 1826; professor of natural philosophy in the College of
New Jersey, at Princeton, in 1832, and was elected the first Secretary
and Director of the Smithsonian Institution in 1546,

‘‘ He received the honorary degree of Doctor of Laws from Union Col-
lege in 1829, and from Harvard University in 1851.

‘* He was president of the American Association for the Advancement
of Science in 1849; was chosen president of the United States National
Academy of Sciences in 1868; president of the Philosophical Society
of Washington in 1871, and Chairman of the Light-House Board of the
United States in the same year; the last three positions he continued
to fill until his death.

‘¢ Professor Henry made contributions toscience in electricity, electro-
magnetism, meteorology, capillarity, acoustics, and in other branches of
physies; he published valuable memoirs in the transactions of various
learned societies of which he was a member, and devoted thirty-two
years of his life to making the Smithsonian Institution what its founder
intended it to be, an efficient instrument for the “increase and diffusion
of knowledge among men.”

VE a WATER,
“Chancellor of the Smithsonian Institution.
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS. 137

“SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

“ Washington, D. C., May 17, 1878.
“At a special meeting of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian
Institution, held this day, Prof. Spencer Fullerton Baird, for many
years the assistant secretary of the Institution, was duly elected as the
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, to succeed the late Prof. Joseph

Henry.
CM. Rs WALDE,
“ Chancellor of the Smithsonian Institution.”

WASHINGTON, D. C., January 15, 1879.

A meeting of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution
was held this day in the Regents’ room, at 10 o’clock a. m.

Present, the Chancellor—Chief Justice Waite; Hon. W. A. Wheeler,
Vice-President of the United States, Hon. A. A. Sargent, Hon. R. E.
Withers, Hon. J. A. Garfield, Hon. H. Clymer, Dr. J. Maclean, Dr. A.
Gray, Dr. H. Coppée, Hon. Peter Parker, President Porter, General Sher-
man, and the Secretary, Professor Baird.

An excuse was received from Hon. H. Hamlin for non-attendance, his
absence being occasioned by his appointment by the Senate on a special
committee to accompany the remains to Texas of Hon. G. Schleicher, a
deceased member of Congress.

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved.

The following communication from Mrs. Henry was laid before the
Board by the Chancellor :

Hon. M. R. WAITE,
Chief Justice of the United States,
Chancellor of the Smithsonian Institution :

My Dear Str: In my great affliction it is consoling to receive from
friends tributes of sympathy and testimonials of respect for my late
husband. I feel very deeply the kind consideration of the Board of
Regents in their official capacity. Permit me, through you, to express
to them the heartfelt thanks of my children and myself for the liberality
extended to us and the full appreciation of Mr. Henry’s character and
labors while connected with the Institution, and for the public testi-
monials of respect and honor to his memory.

With my best wishes for the continued prosperity of the Institution,
believe me yours, respectfully,

H. A. HENRY.

WASHINGTON, January 15, 1879.

On motion of General Garfield, it was—

Resolved, That the letter of Mrs. Henry be placed in the files of the
Institution, and entered in the journal of the Board.

The Secretary, Professor Baird, presented a statement of the financial
condition of the Institution for the year 1878, which for convenience ot
reference he had printed.
138 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

Dr. Parker, in behalf of the Executive Committee, presented the an-
nual report of receipts, expenditures, estimates, &c., which at his request
was read by General Sherman.

On motion of Mr. Withers, the report was adopted.

Dr. Parker, in behalf of the Executive Committee, presented a report
in relation to the duty imposed on them by the fifth resolution of the
Board of Regents, adopted at the meeting of May 17, 1878, “‘to make
arrangements for a public commemoration in honor of the late Secre-
tary of the Institution.” The committee had held numerous meetings,
the minutes of which were teael and the arrangements had finally been
made as follows:

The exercises will be held in the Hall of the House of Representatives
on Thursday evening, 16th of January, 1879.

The Vice-President of the United States, supported by the Speaker
of the House, will preside on this occasion, and the Senate and House
will take part in the exercises.

1. Opening prayer by Rev. Dr. McCosh, President of Princeten Col-

lege.

2. Address by Hon. H. Hamlin, of the United States Senate.

3. Address by Hon. R. E. Withers, of the United States Senate.

4, Address by Prof. Asa Gray, of Harvard University.

5. Address by Prof. W. B. Rogers, of Boston.

6. Address by Hon. Jas. A. Garfield, of the House of Representa-
tives.

7. Address by Hon. 8. 8. Cox, of the House of Representatives.

8. Address by General W. T. Sherman.

9. Concluding prayer by Rev. Dr. Sunderland, Chaplain of the Senate.

By authority of the Speaker of the House, reserved seats will be pro-
vided on the floor of the House for the following bodies with which Pro-
fessor Henry was associated :

1. The Regents of the Smithsonian Institution and the orators of the
evening, who will meet in the room of the Speaker of the House.

2. The National Academy of Sciences.

3. The Washington Philosophical Society.

4, The Light-House Board, who will meet in the room of the Commit-
tee of Ways and Means.

5. The Alumni Association of Princeton College.

6. The Trustees of the Corcoran Gallery of Art.

7. The Washington Monument Association, who will meet in the room
of the Committee on Appropriations.

On motion of Mr. Sargent, the action of the committee was approved.

On motion of General Garfield, it was—

Resolved, That the Board of Regents assemble on Thursday evening
next at half past seven o’clock, in the Speaker’s room at the Capitol, to
proceed in a body to attend the exercises in the Hall of the House of
Representatives in honor of the memory of Professor Henry.
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS. 139

On motion of General Garfield, it was—

Resolved, That the Chancellor be empowered to act for the Board of
Regents in making the final arrangements for the memorial exercises.

President Porter, from the special committee appointed at the last
meeting, under the fourth resolution adopted by the Board, “to prepare
a sketch of the life, character, and public services of Professor Henry,”
made a report that Dr. Gray had been selected by the committee to pre-
pare the eulogy on behalf of the Board of Regents, and that it would
form part of the exercises at the public commemoration at the CapitoL

Dr. Gray remarked that he had only recently been informed of his
appointment to perform the service required, but that he had prepared
a paper, which he would now present to the Board.* He had been limited
by the committee to thirty minutes, but had arranged with Professor
Rogers so that both should only occupy an hour. He would, however,
insert details and documents in notes which could be printed with the
eulogy.

On motion of General Garfield, Dr. Gray was requested, as the repre-
sentative of the Board of Regents, to make his address as full and com-
plete as possible.

General Garfield called attention to the fact that the increased busi-
ness of the Institution had made it necessary to take the rooms in the
east wing, formerly occupied by Professor Henry as a residence, for
offices, and that it was therefore proper that a suitable allowance be
made to Professor Baird for house-rent. After some conversation on
the subject, it was—

Resolved, That the Executive Committee consider the propriety of
making an allowance to the Secretary for house-rent and report on the
subject at the next meeting of the Board.

On motion of Dr. Gray, it was—

Resolved, That the Board adjourn to meet on Friday morning, 17 th
January, at half-past 9 o’clock, to hear the annual report of the Secre-
tary and to transact any other business which may be necessary.

The Board then adjourned.

WASHINGTON, D. C., January 16, 1879.
A meeting of the Board of Regents was held this day at 7.30 o’clock,
p- m., in the room of the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and
at 8 o’clock the Regents proceeded in a body to the Hall of the House of
Representatives, to attend the public exercises in honor of Prof. Joseph
Henry, late Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

WASHINGTON, D. C., January 17, 1879.
A meeting of the Board of Regents was held this day in the Regent’s
room at 9.30 o’clock a. m.
Present, the Chancellor—Chief-Justice Waite, Hon. A. A. Sargent,
Hon. R. E. Withers, Hon. James A. Garfield, Hon. Hiester Clymer,

* See Appendix to Journal of the Board.
140 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

Hon. Peter Parker, Rev. Dr. John Maclean, Prof. Asa Gray, Prof. Henry
Coppée, President Noah Porter, General Sherman, and the Secretary,
Professor Baird.

The minutes of the meeting of January 15 were read and approved.

The Chancellor laid before the Board several hundred letters received
in reply to the circulars issued by the Institution, announcing the death
of Professor Henry, and the election of his successor.

The subject of the publication of the eulogies on Professor Henry,
together with an account of his scientific writings, &c., was discussed,
and on motion of Dr. Maclean, it was—

Resolved, That a special committee of three be appointed, of which
the Secretary of the Institution shall be one, to prepare a memorial of
Professor Henry, to include in a separate volume of the Smithsonian
series such biographies and notices of the late Secretary of the Institu-
tion as may be considered by them worthy of preservation and publi-
cation. p

The Chancellor appointed Messrs. Gray, Parker, and Baird, as the
committee.

The Chancellor then stated that any remarks the Regents desired to
make in relation to Professor Henry were in order.

Dr. Parker addressed the Board as follows:

Mr. CHANCELLOR AND FELLOW REGENTS: We are making history,
and I wish to say a few words that shall remain upon its page, in mem-
ory of Joseph Henry, our beloved and lamented friend and Secretary,
when we, like him, shall have passed from earth.

Many have already pronounced his eulogy and set forth his rare tal-
ents and influence upon the world, and I need not, and could not, were
I to attempt it, add to your appreciation of Professor Henry, his life
and character, as a friend, scientist, and Christian, the highest type of
man.

For twenty years I have been intimately acquainted with Professor
Henry, and happily associated with him in many ways; for ten years as
a Regent of the Smithsonian Institution, and as a member of the Exec-
utive Committee all that period our intercourse has been frequent and
intimate. J have never known a more excellent man.

His memory has been much on my mind since he left us, and I often
find myself inquiring how he and others like him are occupied now.
His connection with time is severed, but his existence continues. When
I recall the names of Professors Franklin Bache, Charles G. Page, Louis
Agassiz, Joseph Henry, and others of similar intellect and virtue, I
find myself asking the question, Are to them all consciousness and
thought suspended by separation from the body? I am reluctant to
come to such conclusion. But this I know, the Infinite Fathers ways are
right.

It seems most providential that Professor Henry had the opportunity
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS. 141

and the strength to give in person his last words, a priceless legacy, to
the National Academy at its annual meeting in Washington, in April,
and through that association to the civilized and scientific world; I
refer to his sentiment ‘that moral excellence is the highest dignity of man.”

The loftiest talents and highest attainments without this are deficient
in that, which, in the judgment of wise men and of Infinite Wisdom, is
of greatest worth. Was there ever a man from whom the sentiment
could come with better grace?

The opinion has been expressed, and I do not regard it extravagant,
that the letter addressed by Professor Henry to his friend Joseph Pat-
terson, emanating from such a mind, such a man, at the close of a pro-
tracted life of singular distinction, was worth a lifetime to produce. It
has probably been read by millions, in various languages, and will be by
future generations.

Professor Henry was not only a man of science, a discoverer of nature’s
laws and forces, but a sincere believer in God their Author and in his
atoning Son. To quote his language: “ We are conscious of having evil
thoughts and tendencies that we cannot associate ourselves with a Di-
vine Being, who is the Director and Governor of all, or even call upon
him for mercy, without the intercession of one who may affiliate himself
with us.”

Let me quote from the prayer offered at his obsequies and to which
we repeat our sincere Amen; the lips that uttered it, in less than one
short month were silent in death, and the two remarkable men, Pro-
fessors Joseph Henry and Charles Hodge, closely united in life were not
long divided by death :

‘We thank Thee, O God, that Joseph Henry was born; that Thou
didst endow him with such rare gifts, intellectual, moral, and spiritual;
that Thou didst spare him to a good old age, and enable him to accom-
plish so much for the increase of human knowledge and for the good of
his fellow-men; and above all that Thou didst hold him up before this
whole nation as such a conspicuous illustration of the truth that moral
excellence is the highest dignity of man.”

On motion of Dr. Maclean, it was—

Resolved, That the thanks of the Board of Regents be presented to
the gentlemen who took part in the memorial services held in the Uni-
ted States Capitol on the 16th of January in honor of the late Professor
Henry, and that they be requested to furnish copies of their remarks on
that occasion.

Dr. Maclean stated that he intended in the above resolution to include
General Sherman, who was prevented by the lateness of the hour from
delivering the whole address he had prepared, Rev. Drs. MeCosh and
Sunderland, who offered prayers, and Mr. Clymer, who made a few
introductory remarks of an exceedingly interesting character in pre-
senting telegrams which had been sent to the meeting from London.
142 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

General Sherman, from the Executive Committee, presented a report
on the subject of an allowance for house-rent to the Secretary, with the
following preamble and resolution :

Whereas the east wing of the Smithsonian building, heretofore used
as a residence by Professor Henry, is required for the purposes of the
Institution; and whereas the present Secretary owns and occupies a
separate residence in the city of Washington, for which it is but just
aud proper that he should be allowed compensation: Therefore,

Resolved, That the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, Prof. S.
F. Baird, be allowed the sum of one hundred dollars per month for rent,
fuel, gas, &c., from the date of his election as Secretary, May 17, 1878,
to the 31st of December, 1879.

The Secretary presented his annual report, which was read, and it was

Resolved, That the annual report of the Secretary be Hay ed and
pomernited to Congress.

Dr..Parker suggested that there was a matter of some importance
which ought to receive attention at this meeting. The Senate had
passed on the 9th of January the following bill

For the erection of a fire-proof building for the National Museum.

“ Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That for a fire-proof building
for the use of a National Museum, three hundred feet square, to be
erected under the direction and supervision of the Regents of the Smith-
sonian Institution, in accordance with the plans now on file with the
Joint Committee of Public Buildings and Grounds, on the southeast
corner of the grounds of the Smithsonian Institution, the sum of two
hundred and fifty thousand dollars is hereby appropriated out of any
money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated; said building to be
placed east of the Smithsonian Institution, leaving a roadway between
it and the latter of not less than fifty feet, with its north front on a line
with the south face of the buildings of the Agricultural Department
and of the Smithsonian Institution; and all expenditures for the pur-
poses herein mentioned, not including anything for architectural plans,
shall be audited by the proper officers of the Treasury Department.”

If this should pass the House and become a law it would be necessary
for the Board of Regents to take action in regard to the new building.

On motion of Mr. Clymer, it was

Kesolved, That the Executive Committee of this Board, and the Sec-
retary, or a majority thereof, be, and they are hereby, authorized and
empowered to act for and in the name of the Board of Regents in ear-
rying into effect the provisions of any act of Congress which may. be
passed providing for the erection of a building for the National Museum.

The Board then adjourned sine die.
BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENRY,

PREPARED IN BEHALF OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS,

BY

Pror. ASA GRAY.

The Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, on the day following the
obsequies of their late Secretary, resolved to place upon record, by the
hands of their committee, a memorial of their lamented associate. The
time has arrived when this should be done, now that the Institution
enters upon another official year, and its bereavement is brought freshly
to mind.

Although time may have assuaged our sorrow, as time will do, and
although the recollection that a well-spent life was well appreciated and
not prematurely closed should temper regret, yet they have not dulled
our sense of loss, nor lessened our estimate of the signal services to
science, to this Institution, and to the general good which remarkable
gifts and a devoted spirit enabled this man to render.

If we would fit this memorial to the subject of it, we must keep in
mind Professor HENRY’s complete and transparent, but dignified sim-
plicity and modesty of character, in which a delicate sense of justice
went along with extreme dislike of exaggeration, and aversion to all that
savored of laudation.

Yet it is not for ourselves, his associates—some of few, some of many
years—that this record is made; nor need we speak for that larger circle
of his associates, the men of science in our land, who will, in their sevy-
eral organizations, recount the scientific achievements of their late leader
and Nestor. And nothing that we can say will enhance the sentiments
of respect, veneration, and trust with which he was regarded here, in
Washington, by all who knew him, whether of high or humble station.
Even those, here or elsewhere, who came only into occasional intercourse
with him, will remember that thoughtful and benignant face ;—certainly
it will be remembered by those who, in that recourse to him which it
was always easy to gain, have seen the mild seriousness of a somewhat

abstracted and grave mien change into a winning smile, sure precursor
143
144 BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENRY.

of pleasant words, cheerful attention, and, if need were, wise counsel
and cordial help. But we are all passing,.as he has passed, and the
tribute to his memory which it is our privilege to pay, is a duty to those
who are to come after us.

JOSEPH HENRY was of Scotch descent. His grandparents, paternal
and maternal, landed at New York from the same vessel on the day
before the battle of Bunker Hill. The Henrys settled in Delaware
County, the Alexanders in Saratoga County, New York. Of his father,
William Henry, little is known. He died when his oldest son, Joseph,
was eight or nine years old. His mother lived to a good age.* Hewas
born at Albany very near the close of the last century.t His boyhood
was mostly passed with his maternal grandmother in the country at
Galway. His early education was such as a country common school
would furnish to a lad of inquisitive mind but no aptness for study.
The fondness for reading came early, but in a surreptitious way.

One day, in the pursuit of a pet rabbit, he penetrated through an
opening in the foundation-wall of the village mecting-house. A glim-
mer of light enticed him through the broken floor into a room above, in
which an open bookcase contained the village library. He took down
a book—Brooks’s Fool of Quality—was soon absorbed in the perusal,
returned again and again to this, which he said was the first book le
ever opened voluntarily, and to all the works of fiction which the library
contained. Access in the regular way was soon granted to him.

The lad at this time was a clerk, or office-boy, in the store of a Mr.
Broderick. He returned to Albany at the age of fourteen or fifteen.
We may count it as a part of his education that he there served a brief
apprenticeship to a silversmith, in which he acquired the manual dex-
terity afterward so useful to him. Opportunely perhaps, the silversmith
soon failed in business, and young HENRY was thrown out of employ-
ment. His powers were now developing, but not in the line they were
soon to take. To romance reading was now joined a fondness for the
theater. Not content with seeing all the plays he could, he found his
way behind the scenes, and learned the methods of producing stage

* She is remembered as a lady of winning refinement of mien and character, of small
size, with delicate Grecian features, fair complexion, and when young she is said to
have been very beautiful.

tThe date, December 17, 1797, given in the American Cyclopedias, appears to be
wrong; was’ perhaps misprinted. There is little doubt that he was born on the 17th

oO?

of December, 1799.

;

BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENRY. 145

effects. He joined a juvenile forensic and theatrical society, called the
Rostrum, and soon distinguished himself in it by his ingenuity in stage
arrangements. He was made president, and having nothing else to do
at the time, he gave his whole attention to the Rostrum. He drama-
tized a tale, wrote a comedy, and took a part in its representation. Un-
usually comely in form and features, and of prepossessing address, our
future philosopher was in a fair way to become an actor, perhaps a dis-
tinguished one.

But now a slight illness confined him for a few days to his mother’s
house. To while away the hours he took up a small book which a
Scotchman, who then occupied a room in the house, had left upon his
mother’s table. It was ‘‘ Lectures on Experimental Philosophy, Astron-
omy, and Chemistry, intended chiefly for the use cf young persons, by
G. Gregory,” an English clergyman. It is an unpretending volume, but
a sensible one. It begins by asking three or four questions, such as
these:

‘You throw a stone, or shoot an arrow into the air; why does it not.
go forward in the line or direction that you give it? Why does it stop
at a certain distance, and then return to you? * * * Qn the con-
trary, why does flame or smoke always mount upward, though no force
is used to send them in that direction? And why should not the flame
of a candle drop toward the floor when you reverse it, or hold it down-

rard, instead of turning up and ascending into the air? * * *
Again, you look into a clear well of water and see your own face and
figure, as if painted there. Why is this? You are told that it is done
by reflection of light. But what is reflection of ight?”

Young HENRY’s mind was aroused by these apt questions, and allured
by the explanations; he now took in a sense of what knowledge was.
The door to knowledge opened to him, that door which it thence became
the passion of his life to open wider. Thenceforth truth charmed him
more than fiction. At the next meeting of his dramatic association he
resigned the office of president and took his leave in a valedictory ad-
dress, in which he assured his comrades that he should now prepare to
play his part on another stage, with nobler and more impressive scenes.
The volume itself is preserved in Professor HENRY’s library. Ona fly-
leaf is the following entry:

*« This book, although by no means a profound work, has, under Prov-
idence, exerted a remarkable influence upon my life. It accidentally
fell into my hands when I was about sixteen years old, and was the first
work I ever read with attention. It opened to me a new world of

_ thought and enjoyment; invested things before almost unnoticed with

4

S. Mis. 59-——10.

146 BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENRY.

the highest interest; fixed my mind on the study of nature, and caused
me to resolve at the time of reading it that I would immediately com-
mence to devote my life to the acquisition of knowledge.”

The pursuit of elementary knowledge under difficulties and priva-
tions now commenced. At first he attended a night-school, where he
soon learned all the master could teach. At length he entered Albany
Academy, earning the means at one time by teaching a country district
school, later by serving as tutor to the sons of Gen. Stephen Van Rens-
selaer the patroon. Then he took the direction of a road-survey across
the southern portion of the State, from West Point to Lake Erie, earn-
ing a little money and much credit. He returned to Albany Academy
as an assistant teacher, but was very soon, in 1828, appointed professor
of mathematics. He had already chosen his field, and began to make
physical investigations.

It is worth noticing that just when HENRY’s youthful resolution to
devote his life to the acquisition of knowledge was ready to bear fruit,
another resolve was made, in England, by another scientific investiga-
tor, James Smithson, in his will, executed in October, 1828, wherein he
devoted his patrimony ‘‘TO FOUND AT W ASHINGTON AN ESTABLISHMENT
FOR THE INCREASE AND DIFFUSION OF KNOWLEDGE AMONG MEN.”
Who could have thought that the poor lad, who resolved to seek for
knowledge as for hid treasure, and the rich man of noble lineage, who
resolved that his treasure should increase and diffuse knowledge, would
ever stand in this interesting relation; that the one would direct and
shape the establishment which the other willed to be founded!

The young professor’s position was an honorable but most laborious
one. Although Albany Academy was said by the distinguished presi-
dent of Union College in those days to be “a college in disguise,” it
began its work low down. Its new professor of mathematics had to
teach seven hours of every day, and for half of this time to drudge with
a large class of boys in the elements of arithmetic. But he somehow
found time to carry on systematically the electro-magnetic researches
which he had already begun. In the very year of his appointment,
1828, he described in the Transactions of the Albany Institute a new
application of the galvanie multiplier, and throughout that year and the
next he carried on those investigations which, when published at the
beginning of the ensuing year, January, 1851, in that notable first
paper in the American Journal of Science and the Arts, at once brought
HENRY’s name to the front line among the discoverers in electro-mag-
netism.

oe
BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENRY. [44

Sturgeon may be said to have first made an electro-magnet ; HENRY
undoubtedly made the electro-magnet what it is. Just after Barlow in
England had declared that there could be no electric telegraph to a long
distance, HENRY discovered that there could be, how and why it could
be; he declared publicly its practicability, and illustrated it experi-
mentally by setting up a telegraph with such length of wire as he could
conveniently command, delivering signals at a distance by the sounding
of a bell.

Previously to his investigations the means of developing magnet-
ism in soft iron were imperfectly understood (even though the law from
which they are now seen to flow had been mathematically worked out
by Ohm), and the electro-magnet which then existed was inapplicable
to the transmission of power to a distance. HENRY first rendered it ap-
plicable to the transmission of mechanical power to a distance; was the
first actually to magnetize a piece of iron at a distance, and by it to
deliver telegraphic signals. He showed what kind of battery must be
employed to project the current through a great length of wire, and
what kind of coil should surround the magnet used to receive this cur-
rent and to do the work.*

For the telegraph, and for electro-magnetic machines, what was now
wanted was not discovery, but invention, not the ascertainment of
principles, but the devising of methods. These, the proper subjects of
patent, have been supplied in various ways and, as to the telegraph,
with wonderful efficiency ;—in Europe, by the transmission of signs
through the motion of amagnetic needle; in America, by the production
of sounds or records by the electro-magnet. Morse was among the first
to undertake the enterprise, and—when directed to the right way
through Professor Gale’s acquaintance with HENRyY’s published re-
searches—he carried the latter mode into practical and most successful
execution. If HENRY had patented his discovery, which he was urged,
but declined to do, Morse could have patented only his alphabetical mode
of signaling, and perhaps the use of relay-batteries, the latter indis-
pensable for long lines upen that system.

The scientific as well as popular effect of Professor HENRY’s first
paper in Silliman’s Journal was immediate and great. With the same
battery that Sturgeon used he developed at least a hundred times more
magnetism. The instantaneous production of magnets lifting four hun-

*Scee Supplementary Note I, Leading Points in the History of the Telegraph.
148 BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENRY.

dred and twenty times their own weight, of those which with less than
a pint of dilute acid acting on two hands’ breadth of zine would lift
seven hundred and fifty pounds, and this afterward carried up to a
magnet lifting thirty-three hundred pounds, was simply astonishing.
Yet it was not these extraordinary results, nor their mechanical appli-
cations, which engaged Professor HENRY’s attention so much as the
prospect they opened of a way by which to ascend to higher discovery
of the laws of nature. In other hands, his discoveries furnished the
means by which diamagnetism, magnetic effects on polarized light, and
magneto-electricity—now playing so conspicuous a part—soon came to
be known. In his own hands, the immediate discovery of the induction
of a current in a long wire on itself* led the way to his next fertile field
of inquiry, the following up of which caused unwise tardimess in the
announcement of what he had already done. For it is within our
knowledge that the publication of the paper which initiated his fame
had been urged for months by scientific friends, and at length was has-
tened by the announcement of some partly similar results reached in a
different way by Moll, of Utrecht. In a letter not long afterward writ-
ten to one of us, Professor HENRY had occasion to declare: ‘ My whole
ambition is to establish for myself and to deserve the reputation of a man
of science.” Yet throughout his life ardor for discovery and pure love
of knowledge were unattended by corresponding eagerness for publica-
tion. At the close of that very year, 1832, however, he did announce
the drawing of a spark from a magnet, that first fact in magneto-elec-
tricity, and, as he supposed, a new one. But he had been anticipated.

In May, 1830, Professor HENRY married his cousin, Harriet L. Alex-
ander, ‘of Schenectady, who, with three daughters, survives. Two
earlier children died in infancy, and a son in early manhood.

Pleasant in most respects as his situation at Albany was, it was not
an unwelcome invitation which, in the summer of 1832, it became the
duty and the privilege of the most venerable of our number, then vice-
president of the College of New Jersey, to give to Professor HENRY
offering him the chair of Natural Philosophy at Princeton. By this eats
call that college secured him for her own during the years most prolific
for science. It was on a later occasion that Sir David Brewster wrote:
“The mantle of Franklin has fallen upon the shoulders of HENRY.”

3ut the aureole was already visible to his fellow-workers in science;

* Announced in American Journal of Science and the Arts in 1832.

aera

BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOiR OF JOSEPH HENRY. 149

and Silliman, Renwick, and Torrey urged his acceptance of the new
position, and congratulated Princeton upon the acquisition.

The professorship came to him unsought. In his last address to one
of the learned societies over which he presided, Professor HENRY men-
tions that the various offices of honor and responsibility which he then
held, nine in number, had all been pressed upon him; that he never
occupied a position for which he had of his own will and action been
made a candidate. It did not occur to him at that moment to make one
exception. When a pupil in Albany Academy he once offered himself
as a teacher of a country district school. The school trustees thought
him too young, but took him on trial at eight dollars a month. At the
beginning of the second month they raised his pay to fifteen.

At Princeton Professor Henry found congenial companions and
duties well suited to his powers. Here he taught and investigated for
fourteen fruitful and happy years; here he professed the faith that was
in him, entering into the communion of the Presbyterian Church, in
which he and his aneestors were nurtured; and here he developed what
might not have been expected—a genius for education. One could
count on his being aclear expositor, and his gifts for experimental illus-
tration and for devising apparatus had been already shown. But now,
as a college professor, the question how to educate came before him in
in a broader way. He appreciated, and he made his associates and
pupils appreciate, the excellence of natural philosophy for mental disci-
pline, for training at once both the observing and the reasoning faculties.
A science which rises from the observation of the most familiar facts,
and the questioning of these by experiment, to the consideration of
causes, the ascertaining of laws, and to the most recondite conceptions
respecting the constitution of matter and the interplay of forces, offers
discipline to all the intellectual powers, and tasks the highest of them.
Professor HENRY taught not only the elementary facts and general
principles from a fresh survey of both, but also the methods of philo-
sophical investigation, and the steps by which the widest generaliza-
tions and the seemingly intangible conceptions of the higher physics
have been securely reached. He exercised his pupils in deducing par-
‘ ticular results from admitted laws, and in then ascertaining whether
what was thus deduced actually occurred in nature; and if not, why
not. Though very few of a college class might ever afterward under-
take a physical or chemical investigation, all would or should be con-
cerned in the acquisition of truth and its relations; and by knowing
150 BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENRY.

how truth was won and knowledge advanced in one field of inquiry,
they would gain the aptitude which any real investigation may give, and
the confidence that springs from a clear view and a sure grasp of any
one subject.

He understood, as few do, the importance of analogy and hypothesis
in science. Premising that hypothesis should always be founded on
real analogies and used interrogatively, he commended it as the pre-
requisite to experiment, and the instrument by which, in the hands of
sound philosophers, most discoveries have been made. This free use of
hypothesis as the servant and avant-courier of research—as means rather
than end—is a characteristic of HENRY. His ideas on the subject are
somewhat fully and characteristically expounded by himself in his last
presidential address to the Philosophical Society of Washington—one
which he evidently felt would be the last.

How HENRY was valued, honored, revered at Princeton, the memo-
rial published by his former associates there feelingly declares. What
he did there for science in those fourteen years would be long to tell
and difficult to make clear without entering into details, here out of
place. Happily the work has been done to our hand by the Professor
himself, several years ago, in a communication which is printed in the
index volume of the Princeton Review, and reprinted in the Princeton
Memorial. This careful and conscientious, though cursory, analysis of
the principal researches of that period we propose to append to this
record.* There is also in preparation, by a competent scientific hand, a
detailed list of all Professor HENRY’S contributions to science, which we
desire likewise to append.t .

One of these, of the Princeton period, ought to be mentioned. It is
upon the origin of mechanical power and its relations to vital force. It
is a characteristic example of Professor HENRY’s, happy mode of treat-
ing a scientific topic in an untechnical way. It also illustrates his habit
of simply announcing original ideas without putting them prominently
forward in publication, as any one who was thinking of himself and of
his own fame would be sure todo. The doctrine he announced was com-
municated to the American Philosophical Society in 1844 in brief out-
lines. He developed it further in an article published in the Patent
Office Report for 1856, twelve years later; a medium of publication which
was naturally overlooked. Only at a friend’s desire was the paper re-

*See Supplementary Note II. A Letter from Professor Henry.
+See Supplementary Note III. A List of Professor Henry’s Scientific Papers
BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENRY. 151

produced, in 1860, in the American Journal of Science, where it would
be noticed. The attention of Professor HENRY was turned to the tepic
(as we happen to know) by an abstract which was given to him of
Dumas’ celebrated lecture, in 1841, on the Chemical Staties of Organized
Beings. If he had published in 1844, with some fullness, as he then
wrought them out, his conception and his attractive illustrations of the
sources, transformation, and equivalence of mechanical power, and given
them fitting publicity, HENRY’s name would have been prominent among
the pioneers and founders of the modern doctrine of the conservation of
energy.

In the year 1837 Professor HENRY first visited Europe, and came into
personal communication with the principal men of scieuce of England,
Scotland, and France. One of us had the pleasure, a few years after-
ward, of hearing Faraday speak of HENRY in terms of hearty regard
and admiration. The two men were in some respects alike, wholly alike
in genuine simplicity of character and in disinterested devotion to sei-
entific discovery. They were then rival investigators in the same line;
and the race for a time was not unequal, considering how HENRY was
weighted with onerous professional work. For Faraday, while that most

acute mind retained its powers, there was the congenial life of pure re-
search, undistracted by cares of administration or of instruction, beyond
a few popular lectures; supplied with every means of investigation ;
' stimulated by the presence or proximity of many fellow-workers ; re-
warded by discovery after discovery, and not unconscious of the world’s
__applause—such was the enviable life of the natural philosopher favor-
ably placed. But in this country, where fit laborers are few, duty rather
than inclination must determine their work. Midway in his course Pro-
fessor HENRY was called to exchange a position which allowed the giv-
ing of considerable time to original researches, for one of greater prom-
i inence, in which these had practically to be abandoned. Not, indeed,
| that this was assuredly expected, but it was contemplated as probable.
: And the event justified the apprehension, while it opened other fields
of not inferior usefulness.

In August, 1846, the act of Congress establishing the Smithsonian
Institution was passed and approved. On the 7th of September ensu-
ing the Regents held their first meeting. On the 3d of December fol-
lowing they resolved:

“That it is essential for the advancement of the proper interests of
the trust that the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution be a man
152 BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENRY.

possessing weight of character and a high grade of talent; and that it
is further desirable that he possess eminent scientific and general acquire-
ments; that he be a man capable of advancing science and promoting
letters by original research and effort, well qualified to act as a respected
channel of communication between the Institution and scientific and
literary individuals and societies in this and foreign countries; and, in
a word, a man worthy to represent before the world of science and let-
ters the Institution over which this Board presides.”

Immediately following the adoption. of this resolution, Professor Jo-
SEPH HENRY, of Princeton, was elected Secretary. On the 14th of De-
cember a letter was read from him accepting the appointment. At the
meeting a week later, he appeared and entered upon the duties of his
office. From this time the biography of Professor HENRY is the history
of the Institution. That history is set forth in the Secretary’s annual
reports, presented by the Board of Regents to Congress, and it need not
be recapitulated. A few words may give some idea of the deep impres-
sion he made upon the Institution while it was yet plastic.

Some time before his appointment he had been requested by members
of the Board of Regents to examine the will of Smithson, and to suggest
a plan of organization by which the object of the bequest might, in his
opinion, best be realized. He did so, and the plan he drew was in their
hands when he was chosen Secretary. As he himself summed it up,
the plan was based on the conviction “that the intention of the donor
was to advance science by original research and publication; that the
establishment was for the benefit of mankind generally, and that all
unnecessary expenditures on local objects would be violations of the
trust.” The plan proposed was, in the leading feature, “to assist men
of science in making original researches, to publish theta in a series of
volumes, and to give a copy of these to every first-class library on the
face of the earth.”

His “ Plan of Organization,” filled out in its details and adjusted to
the conditions prescribed by the law and by the action of the Regents,
was submitted to the Board in the following year, was adopted as its
‘‘ governing policy,” and it has been reprinted, in full or in part, in
almost every annual report. All would understand, therefore, that Pro-
fessor HENRY’S views were approved, and that they would be carried
into effect as far and as fast as they commended themselves to the judg-
ment of the Regents, and as opportunity made them practicable.

If the Institution is now known and praised throughout the world of
science and letters, if it is fulfilling the will of its founder and the reason-
BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENRY 153

able expectations of the nation which accepted and established the
trust, the credit is mainly due to the practical wisdom, the catholic
spirit, and the indomitable perseverance of its first Secretary, to whom
the establishing act gave much power of shaping ends which, as rough-

hewn by Congress, were susceptible of various diversion. For Con-
egress, in launching, did not shape the course of the Institution, except
in a general way. And in intrusting its guidance to the Regents, the
law created only one salaried and permanent officer, the Secretary, on
whom, by its terms and by the conditions of the case, it devolved great
responsibility and commensurate influence. Some of us are old enough
to remember the extreme diversity of opinion in Congress over the use
to be made of Smithson’s legacy. One party, headed by an eminent
statesman and Ex-President, endeavored to found with it an astronomical
observatory, for which surely the country need not be indebted to a
foreigner. A larger party strove to secure it fora library ; not, prob-
ably because they deemed that use most relevant to the founder’s in-
tention, but because rival schemes might fritter away the noble bequest
in popular lecturing, itinerant or stationary, of which the supply and
the quality are in this country equal to the demand; or in the dissemi-
nation of elementary knowledge by the printing-press, as if that were

Se ee ee ee ee ee ee ee eee

beyond the reach of private enterprise; or in setting up one more col-

lege, university, or other educational establishment on half an endow-
ment; or in duplicating museums and cabinets, which, when supported

by a fixed capital, necessarily soon reach the statical condition in which
all the income is absorbed in simply taking care of what has been ae-
cumulated.

Congress rejected, one after the other, the schemes for making of the
Institution an observatory, a library, a normal school, and a lecturing
establishment, with professors at Washington. It created a Board of

Regents, charged it with the care of the collections and museums be-
longing to the United States; authorized the expenditure, if the Regents

% saw fit, of a sum not exceeding twenty-five thousand dollars annually

for the formation of a library; and in all else it directed them to make
such disposal of the income “as they shall deem best suited for the pro-
motion of the purpose of the testator.”

Under this charter, and with the course of the Institution still to be

marked out, it is not surprising that the official adviser and executive
of the Board should look to the will of Smithson for the controlling in-
terpretation of the law. He knew, moreover, that in an earlier will

154 BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENRY.

Smithson had bequeathed his fortune to the Royal Society of London,
an institution expressly for the furtherance of scientific research; and
that he changed, as we may say, the trusteeship for a purely personal
reason. HENRY took his stand on the broad and simple terms of the
bequest, “for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men.”
And he never—
Narrowed his mind,
And to locality gave what was meant for mankind.

He proposed only one restriction, of obvious wisdom and necessity,
that, in view of the limited means of the Institution, it ought not to un-
dertake anything which could be done, and well done, by other exist-
ing instrumentalities. So, as occasion arose, he lightened its load and
saved its energies by giving over to other agencies some of its cherished
work—meteorology, for instance, in which a most popular bureau now
usefully expends many times more than the whole Smithsonian income.

He has in these last years signified his desire to go still further in
this direction, and to have the Institution relieved from the charge
of the National Museum, now of imperial dimensions and importance.
His reasons were summed up in few words in his last report, along with
his synopsis of the appropriate functions of the Institution, which he
prays may not be merged in or overshadowed by any establishment of
the Government, but may stand ‘ free to the unobstructed observation
of the whole world, keeping in perpetual remembrance the will of its
founder.” Its true functions he declares are:

“Virst. To enlarge the bounds of human thought by assisting men of.
science to make original investigations in all branches of knowledge; to
publish these, and to present copies to all the principal libraries of the
world. Second. To institute investigations in various branches of
science, and explorations for the collection of specimens in natural his-
tory and ethnology, to be distributed to museums and other establish-
ments. Third. To diffuse knowledge by carrying on an extended inter-
national series of exchanges by which the accounts of all the original
researches in science, the educational progress, and the general advance
of civilization in the New World are exchanged for similar works of the
Old World.”

The plan which our late Secretary originated has commended itself to
the judgment of successive Boards of Regents, and, we may be permit-
ted to add, is now approved wherever it is known and understood.

Professor HENRY took his full share of the various honorable duties
to which such men are called. He was in his turn President of tle
American Association for the Advancement of Science, in the year 1849;
BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF: JOSEPH HENRY. Pas

of the Society for the Advancement of Education, in 1855; a Trustee of
Princeton College, and of Columbian University, also of the Corcoran
Gallery of Art, in which the Smithsonian Institution deposits its art
collections; Visitor of the Government Hospital for the Insane; Presi-
dent of the Philosophical Society of Washington; President of the
National Academy of Sciences at Washington. For many years a mem-
ber of the Light-House Board, to which he gave gratuitous and invalu-
able services as Chairman of its committee on experiments, he added for
the last seven years the chairmanship of the board itself, in his adminis-
tration no sinecure. Advice and investigation were sought from hin,
from time to time, by every department of Government. All were sure
that his advice was never biased by personal interest; and his sound
judgment, supported by spotless character, was greatly deferred to.

We have said that in coming to Washington a career of investigation
was exchanged for a life of administration. It should rather be said that
his investigations thereafter took a directly practical turn, as his mind
was brought to bear upon difficult questions of immediate importance
which were referred to him by Government or came in the course of
ofiicial duty. In the light-house service alone his timely experiments
upon lard-oil lighting, and the firmness with which he pressed his con-
clusions into practice when sperm-oil became dear, has, already saved
more than a million of dollars; the adaptation of mineral oil to the lesser
lights made another great saving; and the results reached by his recent
investigations of the conditions which influence the transmission of
sound and their application to acoustical signaling are not to be valued
by the saving of money only.

It was in the prosecution of these last investigations, over a year ago,
and probably in consequence of exposure in them, at the light-house
station on Staten Island, that an intimation of the approaching end of
these labors was received. Yet afew months more of useful life were
vouchsafed to him, not free from suffering, but blessed with an unclouded
mind and borne with a serene spirit; and then, at midday on the 15th
of May last, the scene was closed.

At the sepulture of his remains (on the 16th) and afterward, it was
generally remarked at Washington that never before had the funeral of
a private citizen called forth such sense of loss, such profound demon-
strations of respect and affection.

It is not for us to assign Professor HENRy’s place among the men of
science of our time. Those who do this will probably note that his
156 BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENRY.

menean predecessors were Franklin and Rumford; that all three were
what we call self-made men; that all three, after having proved their
talents for original investigation in physics, were called in their mature
years to duties of administration and the conduct of affairs. There are
interesting parallels to be drawn from their scientific work, if one had
time to trace them.

Not often is a great man of science a good man of business. HENRY’S
friends at Princeton, who besought him not to abandon the peaceful
academic life which he was enjoying and the quiet pursuits which had
given him fame, were surprised when in another sphere he developed
equal talents for organization and administration. We have seen how
he always developed the talent to do wisely and well whatever he un-
dertook. His well-poised spirit, at once patient and masterful, asserted
itself in the trials he encountered in the early years of the Institution,
and gave assurance that he could deal with men as well as with the
forces of nature.

Again, not often is a man of science free from the overmastering in-
fluence of his special pursuit. More or less his “nature is subdued to
what it works in, like the dyer’s hand.” Now, HENRY’sS mind was un-
colored by the studies of his predilection. His catholic spirit comes out
in his definition of science: “Science is the knowledge of the laws of
phenomena, whether they relate to mind or matter.” It appears in his
choice of the investigations to be furthered and memoirs to be published
by the Institution. These nowhere show the bias of a specialist.

Then, he was a careful, painstaking man, very solicitous—perhaps
unduly anxious—about the particulars of everything for which he felt
responsible. Therefore he was sometimes slow in making up his mind
on a practical question. May we here condescend to a trivial anecdote
of his early boyhood, which he amusingly related to one of us many
years ago and pleasantly recalled at one of our latest interviews. It
goes back to the time when he was first allowed to have a pair of boots,
and to choose for himself the style of them. He was living with his
grandmother in the country, and the village Crispin could offer no
ereat choice of patterns; indeed, it was narrowed down to the alterna-
tive of round toes or square. Daily the boy visited the shop and pon-
dered the alternatives, even while the manufacture was going on, until
at length the shoemaker, who could brook no more delay, took the
dilemma by both horns and produced the most remarkable pair of
boots the wearer ever had; one boot round-toed, the other square-toed.

BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENRY. 15%

Deliberate as HENRY was in after years, taught by this early lesson,
he probably never again postponed decision till it was too late to choose.
One result of due deliberation was that he rarely had to change his
mind. When he had taken his course, he held to it. His patience and
kindness under demands upon his time were something wonderful.
Some men are thus patient from easy good-nature; HENRY was so from
principle. A noticeable part of the Sceretary’s correspondence was with
a class of men—more numerous than would be supposed—who thought
they had discovered new laws of nature or new applications of them,
and who appealed to him to make their discoveries known. The Secre-
tary never returned a curt answer to such appeals or inquiries, whether

nade personally or by letter. Many are the hours which he would con-
oe devote to such paradoxical schemes—sometimes of wonderful
ingenuity—and to the dictation of elaborate replies to them. Detecting
far down in the man’s mind the germs of the fallacy which had misled
him, he would spare no pains to present it and its consequences so
plainly to his bewildered correspondent that he could find his own way
out of it; while at the same time he awarded credit and encouragement
for whatever was true, probable, or ingenious.

Although of sensitive spirit and with a just sense of what was due to
himself, Professor HENRY kept free from controversy. Once he took up
the pen, not because his discoveries were set at naught, but beeause his
veracity was impliedly assailed. His dignified recital of undeniable
facts (in his Annual Report for 1857) was all that was necessary, and
not even a word of indignant comment was added.

He left his scientific work to form its part of the history of science
and to be judged by scientific men. The empiric he once sententiously
defined to be “one who appeals his cause to an incompetent tribunal.”
He never courted publicity ; not from fastidious dislike, still less from
disdain of well-earned popular applause, but simply because he never
thought of it.

His disinterested devotion to this Institution was shown in many
ways; among others in successive refusals to accept increase of salary
lest it should be thought that the office he held was lucrative. Twice
or thrice, moreover, while cumbered with anxieties, he promptly declined

ealls to positions of greater emolument, less care, and abundant leisure
for the pursuits he loved.

We cannot here continue these delineations, and it may be that the
character of the man has portrayed itself in general outlines as the
158 BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENRY

narrative proceeded. But one trait may not be wholly omitted from the
biography of one who has well been called *“‘the model of a Christian
gentleman,” and who is also our best example of a physical philosopher.
His life was the practical harmony of the two characters. His entire
freedom from the doubts which disturb some minds is shown in that
last letter which he dictated, in which he touches the grounds of
faith both in natural and revealed religion; also in his sententious
declaration upon some earlier occasion, that the person who thought
there could be any real conflict between science and religion must be
either very young in science or ignorant of religion.

The man for whom this memorial is placed was a veteran in both; was
one of that noble line of natural philosophers for whom we may in all
sincerity render to Almighty God hearty thanks, not only for the good
example and fruit of their lives, but also that, having finished their
course in faith, they do now rest from their labors.

SOP Pit Eve EIN GE VAV EO er NEO SE are
WHOA) 1

SEQUENCE OF DISCOVERY AND INVENTION RESULTING IN THE ELEC-
TRO-MAGNETIC TELEGRAPH.

The following appear to be the main points in the order of discovery
which led to the electro-magnetic telegraph. They are here condensed
from Professor Henry’s “Statement”, in the ‘‘ Proceedings of the Re-
gents”, published in the Smithsonian R eport for the year 1857, and from
a note appended by Mr. William B. Taylor to his “Memoir of Joseph
Henry and his Scientific Work,” read before the Philosophical Society of
W ashing ton.

1819-1820. Oersted showed that a magnetic needle is deflected by the
action of a current of galvanie electricity passing hear it. It
appears that this discovery had already been made as early as
the year 1502, by Romagnesi, and published in 1505.

1820. Arago discover ed that while a galvanic current is passing through
a copper wire it is capable of developing magnetism in soft
iron.

1820. Ampere discovered that two wires through which currents are
passing in the same direction attract, and in opposite directions
repel, each other; and thence he interred that magnetism con-
sists in the attraction of electrical currents revolving at right
angles to the line joining the two poles of the magnet, and
is produced in a bar of steel or iron by induction from a series
of electrical currents revolving in the same direction at right :
angles to the axis of the bar.

1820. Schweigger in the same year produced the galvanometer.

1825. Sturgeon made the electro-magnet by bending the bar, or rather
a piece of iron wire, into the form of a horse-shoe, covering it
BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENRY. 159

with varnish to insulate it, and surrounding it with a helix of

wire the turns of which were at a distance.

1829-1850. Henry, in accordance with the theory of Ampére, produced
the intensity or spool-wound magnet, insulating the wire in-
stead of the rod or bar, and covering ‘the whole surface of the
iron with a series of coils in close contact. He extended the
principle to the full by winding successive strata of insulated
wire over each other, thus produeing a compound helix formed
of a long wire of many coils. At the same time he developed
the relation of the intensity magnet to the intensity battery,
and their relations to the magnet of quantity. He thus made
the electromagnet capable of transmitting power to a long
distance, demonstrated the principle and perfected the magnet
applicable to the purpose, was the first actually to magnetize a
piece of iron at a distance, and to demonstrate and declare the
applicability of the electro-magnet to telegraphy at a distance.
Using the terminal short-circuit magnet of quantity and the
armature as the signaling device, he was the tirst to make by
it acoustic signals, “sounding a bell at a distance by means of
the electro- magnet.

1833. Weber discovered that the conducting-wires of an electric tele-
graph could be left without insulation except at the points of
support.

1833. Gauss ingeniously arranged the application of a dual sign in such

manner as to pros Tue, a true alphabet for telegraphy.

1836. Daniel invented and brought into use a constant galvanic battery.
1837. Steinheil discovered that the earth may form the returning half

of the cireuit, so that a single conducting wire suffices for
telegraphy.

1837. Morse adopted, through the agency of Dr. Gale, the principle of
the Henry electro- magnet, and the armature made of a record-
ing instrument.

1858. Morse devised his ‘dot and dash” alphabet, a great improvement
upon the Gauss and Steinheil alphabets.

1844. Morse suggested and brought into use the system of relay-mag-
nets, and relay-circuits, to re-einforce the current.

INCOM NIB, ED be

LETTER FROM PROFESSOR HENRY TO THE REV. 8S. B. DOD, GIVING A
SKETCH OF SCIENTIFIC RESEARCHES AT PRINCETON.

[Irom the Prineeton Memorial of Professor Henry. ]

My Drar Sir: In compliance with your request that I would give
un account of my scientific researches during my connection with the
College of New Jersey, I furnish the following brief statement of my
labors within the period mentioned:

J. Previous to my call from the Albany Academy to a professorship
in the College cf New Jersey, I had made a series of researches on elec-
tro- magnetism, in which I developed the principles of the clectro-mag-
net and the means of accumulating the magnetic power to a great ex-
tent, and had also applied this power in the invention cf the first elec-
tro-magnetic machine; that is, a mechanical contrivance by which elec-
tro-magnetism was applied as a motive power.
160 BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENRY.

I soon saw, however, that the application of this power was but an in-
direct method of ei :ployi ing the energy derived from the combustion of
coal, and, therefore, could never compete, on the score of expense, with
that agent a 18 a means of propelling machinery, but that it mig rt be
used in some cases in which expense of power was not a consideration
to be weighed against the value of certain objects to be attained.

A great amount of labor has since been devoted to this invention, es-
pecially at the expense of the Government of the United States, by the
late Dr. Page, but it still remains in nearly the same condition it was
left in by myself in 1831.

I also applied, while in Albany, the results of my experiments to the in-
vention of the first electro-magne etictelegraph, in which signals were trans-
mitted by exciting an elec tro- magnet at a distance, by w hich means bells
were struck in succession, capable of indicating letters of the alphabet.

In the midst of these investigations I was called to Princeton, through
the nomination of Dr. Jacob Green, then of Philadelphia, and Dr. John
Torrey, of New York.

I arrived in Princeton in November, 1832, and as soon as I became
fully settled in the chair which I oceupied, I recommenced my investi-

gations, constructed 2 still more powerful “electro- magnet than I had
made before—one which would sustain over 3,000 pounds and with it
illustrated to my class the manner in which a large a ee of power
might, by means of a relay-magnet, be called into operation at the dis-
tance of many miles.

I aJso made several modifications in the electro-magnetic machine be-
fore mentioned, and just previous to my leaving for England, in 1837,
again | turned my attention to the telegraph. I think the first actual
line of telegraph using the earth as a conductor, was made in the be-
ginning of 1836. A wire was extended across the front campus of the
eollege grounds, from the upper story of the library building to the
philosophical hall on the opposite side, the ends terminating in two wells.
Through this wire, signals were sent trom time to time from my house to
my laboratory. The electro-magnetic telegraph was first invented by

ne, in Albany, in 1830. Professor Morse, according to his statements,

-onceived the idea of an electro-magnetie telegraph in his voyage across

he ocean in 1832, but did not untilsever alyearsa afterward—1837—aitempt
to carry his ideas into practice; and when he did so, be found himself so
little acquainted with the subject of electricity that he could not make his
simple machine operate through the distance of afew yards. In this di-
lemma he called in the aid of Dr. Gale, who was well acquainted with
what I had done in Albany and Princeton, having visited me at the lat-
ter place. He informed Professor Morse that he had not the right kind
of a battery nor the right kind of magnets, whereupon the professor
turned the matter over to him, and, with the knowledge he had obtained
from my researches, he was enabled to make the instrument work
through a ha stanee of several miles. Tor this service Professor Morse
gave hima share of his patent, which he afterwards purchased from
him for B15, 600. At the time of making my original experiments on
clectro- magnetism in Albany, I was urged by a friend to take out a pat-
cae both for its application to machinery and to the telegraph, but this
I declined, on the ground that I did not then consider it compatible
with the dignity of science to confine the benefits which might be de-
rived from it to the exclusive use of any individual. In this, perhaps,
I was too fastidious. In briefly stating my claims to the invention of
the electro-magnetic telegraph, I may say I was the first to bring the

BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENRY. 161

electro-magnet into the condition necessary to its use in telegraphy, and
also to point out its application to the telegraph, and to illustrate this
by constructing a working telegraph, and, had I taken out a patent for
my labors at that time, Mr. Morse could have had no ground on which
to found his claim for a patent for Lis invention. ‘To Mr. Morse, -how-
ever, great credit is due for his alphabet, and for his perseverance in
bringing the telegraph into practical use.

ine My next investigation, after being settled at Princeton, was in re-
lation to electro-dynamic induction. Mr. F araday had discovered that
when a current of galvanic electricity was passed through a wire from
a battery, a current in an opposite direction was induced in a wire ar-
ranged parallel to this conductor. I discovered that an induction of a
similar kind took place in the primary conducting wire itself, so that a
current which, in its passage through a short wire conductor, would
neither produce sparks nor shocks, would, if the wire were sufficiently
long, produce both these phenomena. The effect was most strikingly
exhibited when the conductor was a flat ribbon, covered with silk, rolled
into the form of a helix. With this, brilliant, deflagrations and other
electrical effects of high intensity were produced by means of a current
from a battery of low 1 intensity, such as that of a single element.

Ill. A series of investigations was afterward made, which resulted in
producing inductive currents of different orders, having different direc-
tions, made up of waves alternately in opposite directions. It was also
discovered that a plate of metal of any kind, introduced between two
conductors, neutralized this induction, and this effect was afterward
found to result from a current in the plate itself. It was afterward
shown that a current of quantity was capable of producing a current
of intensity, and, vice versa, a current of intensity would produce one
of quantity.

IV. Another series of investigations, of a parallel character, was made

in regard to ordinary or {rictional electricity. In the course of these it
was shown that electro-dynamic inductive action of ordinary electricity
was of a peculiar character, and that effects could be produced by it at
aremarkable distance. For example, if a shock were sent through a
wire on the outside of a building, electrical effects could be exhibited in
a parallel wire within the building. As another illustration of this, it

may be mentioned that when a discharge of a battery of several Ley-
den jars was sent through the wire before mentioned, stretched across
the campus in front of N assau Hall, an inductive effect was produced
in a parallel wire, the ends of which terminated in the plates of metak
in the ground in the back campus, at a distance of several hundred feet
from the primary current, the building of Nassau Hall intervening. The
effect produced consisted in the magnetization of steel needles.

In this series of investigations, the fact was discovered that the in-
duced current, as indicated by the needles, appeared to change its di-
rection with the distance of the two wires, and other conditions of the
experiment, the cause of which for a long time bafiled inquiry, but was
finally satisfactorily explained by the discovery that the discharge of
electricity from a Leyden jar is of an oscillatory character, a principal
discharge taking place in one direction, and immediately afterward a re-
bound in the opposite, and so on forward and backward, until the equi-
librium is obtained.

V. The next series of investigations related to atmospheric induction.
The first of these consisted of experiments with two large kites, the
lower end of the string of one being attached to the upper surface of a
second kite, the ue of each consisting of a fine wire, the terminal end

S. Mis. 59

162 BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENRY.

of the whole being coiled around an insulated drum. I was assisted in
these experiments by Mr. Brown, of Philadelphia, who furnished the
kites. When they were elevated, at a time when the sky was perfectly
clear, sparks were drawn of surprising intensity and pungency, the elec-
tricity being supplied from the air, and the intensity being attributed to
the induction of the long wire on itself.

VI. The next series of experiments pertaining to the same class was
on the induction from thunder clouds. For this purpose the tin cover-
ing of the roof of the house in which I resided was used as an inductive
plate. A wire was soldered to the edge of the roof near the gueer, was
passed into my study and out again through holes in the window-sash,
and terminated in connection with a plate of metal in a deep well im-
mediately in front of the house. By breaking the continuity of that
part of the wire which was in the study, and introducing into the open-
ing a magnetizing spiral, needles placed in this could be magnetized by
a flash of lightning so distant that the thunder could scarcely be heard.
The electrical disturbance produced in this case was also found to be of
an oscillatory character, a discharge first passing through the wire from
the roof to the well, then another in the opposite direction, and so on
until equilibrium was restored. This result was arrived at in this case,
as well as in that of the Leyden jar, before mentioned, by placing the
same, or a similar needle, in succession, in spirals of greater and greater
numbers of turns; for example, in a spiral of a single turn the needle
would be magnetized plus, or in the direction due to the first and more
powerful wave. By increasing the number of coils, the action of the
second wave became dominant, so that it would more than neutralize
the magnetism produced by the first wave, and leave the needle minus.
By farther increasing the number of turns, the third wave would be so
exalted as to neutralize the effects of the preceding two, and so on. In
the case of induction by lightning, the same result was obtained by plac-
ing a number of magnetizing Spirals, of different magnetizing intensities,
in the opening of the primary conductor, the result of which was to pro-
duce the magnetization of an equal number of needles, plus and minus,
indicating alternate currents in opposite directions.

VII. In connection with this class of investigations a series of experi-
ments was made in regard to lightning-rods. It was found that when a
quantity of electricity was thrown upon a rod, the lower end of which
was connected with a plate of metal sunk in the water of a deep well,
that the electricity did not descend silently into water, but that sparks
could be drawn from every part of the rod sufficiently intense to explode
an electrical pistol, and to set fire to delicate inflammable substances.
The spark thus given off was found to be of a peculiar character, for
while it produced combustion and gave a slight shock, and fired the
electrical pistol, it scarcely at all affected a gold-leaf electroscope. In-
deed, it consisted of two sparks, one from the conductor and the other
to it, in such quick succession, that the rupture of the air by the first
served for the path of the second. The conclusion arrived at was, that
during the passage of the electricity down the rod, each point in succes-
sion received a charge analogous to the statical charge of a prime con-
ductor, and that this charge, in its passage down the rod, was immedi-
ately preceded by a negative charge; the two in their passage past the
point at which the spark was drawn, giving rise to its duplex character.
It was also shown by a series of experiments in transmitting a powerful
discharge through a portion of air, that the latter, along the path of
discharge, was endowed for a moment with an intense repulsive energy.
So great is this that in one instance, when an electrical discharge from
aaa

BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENRY. 163

the clouds passed between two chimneys through the cockloft of a house,
the whole roof was lifted from the walls. It is to this repulsive energy,
or tendency in air to expand at right angles to the path of a stroke of
lightning, that the mechanical effects which accompany the latter are
generally to be attributed.

In connection with this series of investigations an experiment was
devised for exhibiting the screening effect, within a space inclosed with a
metallic envelope, of an exterior discharge of electricity. It consisted
in coating the outside of a hollow glass globe with tinfoil and after-
ward inserting, through a small hole in the side, a delicate gold-leaf
electrometer. The latter, being observed through a small opening in
the tinfoil, was found to be unaffected by a discharge of electricity passed
over the outside coating.

VIII. Another series of investigations was on the phosphorogenic
emanation from the sun. It had long been known that, when the dia-
mond is exposed to the direct rays of the sun, and then removed to a
dark place, it emits a pale blue light, which has received the name of
phosphorescence. This effect is not peculiar to the diamond, but is
possessed by a number of substances, of which the sulphuret of lime is
the most prominent. It is also well known that phosphorescence is
produced by exposing the substance to the electric discharge. Another
fact was discovered by Becquerel, of the French Institute, that the
agent exciting phosphorescence traverses with difficulty a plate of glass
or mica, while it is transmitted apparently without impediment through
plates of black quartz impervious to light.

My experiments consisted, in the first place, in the reproduction of
these results, and afterward in the extension of the list of substances
which possess the capability of exhibiting phosphorescence, as well as
the effects of different interposed media. It was found that, among a
large number of transparent solids, some were permeable to the phos-
phorescing agent, and others impermeable, or imperfectly permeable.
Among the former were ice, quartz, common salt, alum. Among the
latter class, mica, tourmaline, camphor, &c. Among liquid permeable
substances were water, solutions of alum, ammonia; while among the
impermeable liquids were most of the acids, sulphate of zinc, sulphate
of leas, alcohol, &e.

It was found that the emanation took place from every point of the
line of the electric discharge, but with more intensity from the two ex-
tremities; and also, that the emanation producing phosphorescence, what-
ever be its nature, when reflected from a mirror, obeys the laws of the
reflection of light, but no reflection was obtained from a surface of
polished glass. Itis likewise refracted by a prism of rock salt, in ac-
cordance with the laws of the refraction of light. By transmitting the
rays from an electrical spark through a series of very thin plates of
Inica, it was shown that the emanation was capable of polarization, and,
consequently, of double refraction.

IX. The next series of investigations was on a method of determining
the velocity of projectiles. The plan proposed,-for this purpose con-
sisted in the application of the instantaneous transmission of elec-
trical action to determine the time of the passage of the ball between
two screens, placed at a short distance from each other in the path of
the projectile. For this purpose the observer is provided with a re-
volving cylinder moving by clock-work at a uniform rate, and of which
the convex surface is divided into equal parts indicating a fractional
part of a second. The passage of the ball through the screen breaks a
galvanic circuit, the time of which is indicated on the revolving cylinder

164 BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENRY.

by the terminal spark produced in a wire surrounding a-bundle of iron
wires. Since the publication of this invention various other plans
founded on the same principle have been introduced into practice.

X. Another series of experiments was in regard to the relative heat
of different parts of the sun’s disk, and especially to that of the spots
on the surface. These were made in connection with Prof. S. Alex-
ander, and consisted in throwing an image of the sun on a sereen in a
dark room by drawing out the eye-piece of a telescope. Through a hole
in the sereen the end of a sensitive thermo-pile was projected, the wires
of which were connected with a galvanometer. By slightly moving the
smaller end of the telescope different parts of the image of the sun could
be thrown on the end of the thermo-pile, and by the deviation of the
needle of the galvanometer the variation of the heat was indicated. In
this way it was proved that the spots radiated less heat than the adja-
cent parts, and that all parts of the sun’s surface did not give off an
equal amount of heat.

XI. Another series of experiments was made with what was called a
thermal telescope. This tastrument consisted of a long hollow cone of
pasteboard, lined with silver leaf and painted outside with lampblack.
The angle at the apex of this cone was such as to cause all the parallel
rays from a distant object entering the larger end of the cone to be re-
flected on to the end of a thermo-pile, the poles of which were connected
with a delicate galvanometer. When*the axis of this conical reflector
was directed toward a distant object of greater or less temperature than
the surrounding bodies, the difference was immediately indicated by the
deviation of the needle of the galvanometer. Kor example, when the
object was a horse in a distant field the radiant heat from the animal
was distinetly perceptible at a distance of at least several hundred yards.
When this instrument was turned toward the celestial vault the radiant
heat was observed to increase from the zenith downward; when directed,
however, to different clouds, it was found to indicate in some cases a
greater and in others a less degree of radiation than the surrounding
space. When the same instrument was directed to the moon a slight
increase of temperature was observed over that of the adjacent sky, but
this increase of heat was attributed to the reflection of the heat of the
sun from the surface of the moon, and not to the heat of the moon itself.
To show that this hypothesis is not inconsistent with the theory that the
moon has cooled down to the temperature of celestial space, a concave
mirror was made of ice, and a thermo-pile placed in the more distant
focus. When a flame of hydrogen, rendered luminous by a spiral plati-
num wire, was placed in the other focus, the needle of the galvanometer
attached to the pile indicated a reflection of heat, care being taken to
shade the pile by a screen with a small opening introduced between it
and the flame.

XII. Another series of experiments connected with the preceding may
be mentioned here. It is well known that the light from a flame of
hydrogen is of very feeble intensity. The same is the case with that of
the compound blowpipe, while the temperature of the latter is exceed-
ingly high, sufficiently so to melt fine platinum wire. Itis also well known
that by introdueing lime or other solid substance into this flame its radi-
ant light is very much increased. I found that the radiant heat was
increased in a similar ratio, or, in other words, that in such cases the
radiant heat was commensurate with the radiant light, and that the
flame of the compound blowpipe, though of exceedingly high tempera-
ture, is a comparatively cool substance in regard to radiant heat. To
study the relation of the temperature of a flame to the amount of heat
iis

BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENRY. 165

given off, four ounces of water were placed in a platinum crucible and
supported on a ring-stand over a flame of hydrogen; the minutes and
seconds of time were then accurately noted which were required for the
raising of the water from the temperature of 60° to the boiling point.
The same experiment was repeated with an equal quantity of water,
with the same flame, into which a piece of mica was inserted by a handle
made of a narrow slip of the same substance. With this arrangement
the light of the flame was much increased, while the time of bringing
the water to the boiling point was also commensurately increased, thus
conclusively showing that the increase of light was at the expense of the
diminution of the temperature. These experiments were instituted in
order to examine the nature of the fact mentioned by Count Rumford,
that balls of clay introduced into a fire under some conditions increase
the heat given off into an apartment. From the results just mentioned
it follows that the increase in the radiant heat, which would facilitate
the roasting of an article before the fire, would be at the expense of the
boiling of a liquid in a vessel suspended directly over the point of com-
bustion.

XIU. Another investigation had its origin in the accidental observa-
tion of the following fact: A quantity of mercury had been left undis-
turbed in a shallow saucer, with one end of a piece of lead wire, about
the diameter of a goose-quill, and six inches long, plunged into it, the
other end resting on the shelf. In this condition it was found, after a
few days, that the mercury had passed through the solid lead, as if it
were a siphon, and was lying on the shelf still in a liquid condition.
The saucer contained a series of minute erystals of an amalgam of lead
and mercury. A similar result was produced when a piece of the same
lead wire was coated with varnish, the mercury being transmitted with-
out disturbing the outer surface.

When a length of wire of five feet was supported vertically, with its
lower end immersed in a vessel of mercury, the liquid metal was found
to ascend, in the course of a few days, to a height of three feet.
These results led me to think that the same property might be possessed
by other metals in relation to each other. The first attempt to verity
this conjecture was made by placing a small globule of gold on a plate of
sheet-iron and submitting it to the heat of an assaying furnace, but the
experiment was unsuccessful, for, although the gold was heated much
beyond its melting point, it showed no signs of sinking into the pores
of the iron. The idea afterward suggested itself that a different result
would have been obtained had the two metals been made to adhere to
each other, so that no oxide could form between the two surfaces. To
verify this a piece of copper, thickly plated with silver, was heated to
near the melting point of the metals, when the silver disappeared, and,
after the surface was cleaned with diluted sulphuric acid, it presented a
uniform surface of copper. This plate was next immersed for a few
minutes in a solution of muriate of zinc, by which the surface of copper
was removed and the surface of silver again exposed. The fact had
long been observed by workmen in silver-plating that, in soldering the
parts of plated metal, if care be not taken not to heat them unduly, the
silver will disappear. This effect was supposed to be produced by evap-
oration, or the burning off, as it was called, of the plating. It is not
improbable that a slow diffusion of one metal into the other takes place
in the case of an alloy. Silver coins slightly alloyed with copper, after
having lain long in the earth, are found covered with a salt of copper.
This may be explained by supposing that the alloy of copper at the sur-
face of the, coin enters into combination with the carbonic acid of the

166 BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENRY.

soil, and, being thus removed, its place is supplied by a diffusion from
within, and so on; it is not improbable that a large portion of the alloy
may be removed in progress of time, and the purity of the coin be con-
siderably increased. It is known to the jeweler that articles of copper
plated with gold lose their brilliancy after a while, and that this can be
restored by boiling them in ammonia. This effect is probably produced
by the ammonia acting on the copper and dissolving off its surface so
as to expose the gold, which by diffusion had penetrated into the body
of the metal.

The slow diffusion of one metal into another at ordinary temperatures,
would naturally require a long time to produce a perceptible effect, since
it is probably only produced “by the minute vibrations of the particles
due to variations of temperature.

The same principle is applied to the explanation of the phenomenon
called segregation—such as the formation of nodules of flint in masses
of carbonate of lime; or, in other words, to the explanation of the man-
ner in which the molecular action, which is insensible at perceptible dis-
tances, may produce results which would appear, at first sight, to be the
effect of attraction acting at a distance.

XIV. Another series of experiments had reference to the constitution
of matter in regard to its state of liquidity and solidity, and they had
their origin in the examination of the condition of the metal of the large
gun constructed under the direction of Captain Stockton, by the explo-
sion of which several prominent members of the United States Govern-
ment were killed at Washington. It was observed in testing the bars
of iron made from this gun, that they varied much in tensile strength in
different parts, and that, in breaking these bars, the solution of the con-
tinuity took place first in the interior. This phenomenon was attributed -
to the more ready mobility of the outer molecules of the bars, the inner
ones being surrounded by matter incapable of slipping, and hence the
rupture. <A similar effect is produced in a piece of thick copper wire,
each end, when broken, exhibiting, at the point of rupture, a cup-shaped
surface, showing that the exterior of the metal sustained its ean
longer than the - interior. From these observations the conclusion wa
drawn,, that rigidity differs from liquidity more in a polarity which pret
vents slipping of the molecules, than ina difference of the attractive
force with which the molecules are held together; or that it is more in
accordance with the phenomena of cohesion to suppose that, in the case
of a liquid, instead of the attraction of the molecules being neutralized
by heat, the effect of this agent is merely to neutralize the polarity of
the molecules, so as to give them perfect freedom of motion around any
imaginable axis. In illustration of this subject, the comparative tenacity
of pure water and water in which soap had been dissolved was measured
by the usual method of ascertaining the weight required to detach from
the surface of each the same plate of wood, suspended from the beam of
a balance, under the same condition of temperature and pressure. It
was found, by this experiment, that the tenacity of pure water was
greater than that of soap and water. This novel result is in accordance
with the supposition that the mingling of the soap and the water inter-
feres with the perfect mobility of the molecules, while at the same time
it diminishes the attraction.

XV. A series of experiments was also made on the tenacity of soap in
films. For this purpose sheets of soap-water films were stretched upon
rings, and the attempt made to obtain the tenacity of these by placing
on them pellets of cotton until they were ruptured. The thickness of
these films was roughly estimated by Newton’s scale of the colors of thin
BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENRY. 167

plates, and from the results the conclusion was arrived at that the at-
tractive force of the molecules of water, for those of water, is approxi-
mately equal to that of the molecules of ice for those of ice, and that the
difference in this case, of the solidity and liquidity, is due to the want of
mobility in the latter, which prevented the slipping of the molecules on
each other. It is this extreme mobility of the molecules of water that
prevents the formation of permanent bubbles of it, and not a want of
attraction.

The roundness of drops of water is not due to the attraction of the
whole mass, but merely to the action of the surface, which in all cases
of curvature is endowed with an intense contractile power.

This class of investigation also included the study of soap bubbles,
and the establishment of the fact of the contractile power of these films.
The curvature of the surface of a bubble tends to urge each particle
toward the center, with a force inversely as the diameter. Two bubbles
being connected, the smaller will collapse by expelling its contents into
the larger. By employing frames of wire, soap bubbles were also made
to assume various forms, by which capillarity and other phenomena
were illustrated. This subject was afterward taken up by Plateau, of
Ghent. Another part of the same investigation was the study of the
spreading of oil on water, the phenomenon being referred to the fact that
the attraction of water for water is greater than that of oil for oil, while
the attraction of the molecules of oil for each other is less than the
attraction of the same molecules for water; hence the oil spreads over
the water. This is shown from the fact that when a rupture is made in
a liquid compound, consisting of a stratum of oil resting on water, the
rupture takes place in the oii, and not between the oil and water. The
very small distance at which the attraction takes place, is exhibited by
placing a single drop of oil on a surface of water of a considerable ex-
tent, when it will diffuse itself over the whole surface. If, however, a
second drop be placed upon the same surface, it will retain its globular
form.

XVI. Another contribution to science had reference to the origin of
mechanical power and the nature of vital force. Mechanical power is
defined to be that which is capable of overcoming resistance; or, in the
language of the engineer, that which is employed to do work.

If we examine attentively the condition of the crust of the earth, we
find it, as a general rule, ina state of permanent equilibrium. All the
substances which constitute the material of the crust, such as acids and
bases, with the exception of the indefinitely thin pellicle of vegetable
and animal matter which exists at its surface, have all gone into a state
of permanent combination, the whole being in the condition of a burnt
slag of a furnace, entirely inert, and capable in itself of no change. AIL
the changes which we observe on the surface of the globe may be referred
to action from without, from celestial space.

The following is a list which will be found to include all the prime
movers used at the present day, either directly or indirectly, in produc-
ing molecular changes in matter:

Water power. Immediately referable
Crass I. Tide power. to celestial disturb-
Wind power. ance.

Steam and other powers devel- ) Immediately referable to
Cass II. oped by combustion. what is called vital
Aninal power. action.
168 BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENRY.

The forces of gravity, cohesion, electricity, and chemical attraction
tend to produce a state of permanent equilibrium on our planet; hence
these principles in themselves are not primary, but secondary, agents in
producing mechanical effects. As an example, we may take the case of
water-power, which is approximately due to the return of the water to
a state of stable equilibrium on the surface of the ocean; but the pri-
mary cause of the motion is the force which produced the elevation of
the liquid in the form of vapor—namely, the radiant heat of the sun.
Also,in the phenomena of combustion, the immediate source of the
power evolved in the form of heat is the passage from an unstable state
into one of stable combination of the carbon and hydrogen of the fuel
with oxygen of the atmosphere. But this power may ultimately be re-
solved into the force which caused the separation of these elements from
their previous combination in the state of carbonic acid—namely, the
radiant light of the sun. But the mechanical power exerted by animals
is due to the passage of organized matter in the stomach from an un-
stable to a stable equilibrium, or as it were from the combustion of the
food. It therefore follows that animal power is referable to the same
source as that from the combustion of fuel—namely, developed power
of the sun’s beams. But according to this view, what is vitality? It
is that mysterious principle—not mechanical power—which determines
the form and arranges the atoms of organized matter, employing for this
purpose the power which is derived from the food.

These propositions were illustrated by different examples. Suppose a
vegetable organism impregnated with a germ—a potato, for instance—
is planted below the surface of the ground in a damp soil, under a tem-
perature sufficient for vegetation. If we examine it from time to time, we
find it sending down rootlets into the earth and stems and leaves upward
into the air. After the leaves have been fully expanded we shall find the
tuber entirely exhausted, nothing but a skinremaining. The same effect
will take place if the potato be placed in a warm cellar. It will con-
tinue to grow until all the starch and gluten are exhausted, when it will
cease to increase. If, however, we now place it in the light, it will com-

nence to grow again, and increase in size and weight. Ifwe weigh the
potato previous to the experiment and the plant after it has ceased to
grow in the dark, we shall find that the weight of the latter is a little
more than half that of the original tuber. The question then is, what
has become of the material which filled the sac of the potato? The an-
swer is, one part has run down into carbonic acid and water, and in this
running down has evolved the power to build up the other part into the
new plant. After the leaves have been formed and the plant exposed to
the light of the sun, the developed power of its rays decomposes the car-
bonic acid of the atmosphere, and thus furnishes the pabulum and the
power necessary to the further development of the organization. The
same is the case with wheat and all other grains that are germinated in
the earth. Besides the germ of the future plant, there is stored away
around the germ the starch and gluten to furnish the power necessary
to its development and also the food to build it up until it reaches
the surface of the earth and can draw the source of its future growth
from the power of the sunbeam. In the case of fungi and other plants
that grow in the dark, they derive the power and the pabulum from sur-
rounding vegetable matter in process of decay or in that of evolving
power. A similar arrangement is found in regard to animal organiza-
tion. It is well known that the egg continually diminishes in weight dur-
ing the process of incubation, and the chick when fully formed weighs
scarcely more than one-half the original weight of the egg. What is the
BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENRY. 169

interpretation of this phenomenon? Simply that one part of the con-
tents of the shell has run down into carbonic acid and water, and thus
evolved the power necessary to do the work of building up the future
animal. In like manner when the tadpole is converted into a frog the
animal for a while loses weight. .A portion of the organism of its tail
has been expended developing the power necessary to the transforma-
tion, while another portion has served for the material of the legs.

What, then, is the office of vitality? We say that it is analogous to
that of the engineer who directs the power of the steam-engine in the ex-
ecution of its work. Without this, in the case of the egg, the materials,
left to the undirected force of affinity, would end in simply producing
chemical compounds—sulphuretted hydrogen, carbonic acid, &e. There
is no special analogy between the process of crystallization and that
of vital action. In the one case definite mathematical forms are the
necessary results, while in the other the results are precisely like those
which are produced under the direction of will and intelligence, evincing
a design and a purpose, making provision at one stage of the process for
results to be attained at a later, and producing organs intended evidently
for locomotion and perception. Not only is the result the same as that
which is produced by human design, but in all cases the power with
which this principle operates is the same as that with which the intelli-
gent engineer produces his result.

This doctrine was first given in a communication to the American
Philosophical Society in December, 1844, and more fully developed in a
paper published in the Patent Office Report in 1857.

The publication in full of three of the series of investigations herein
described was made in the Transactions of the American Philosophical
Society. Others were published in Silliman’s Journal, and both these
are noticed in the Royal Society’s Catalogue of Scientific Papers; but
the remainder of them were published in the Proceedings of the Ameri-
can Philosophical Society, and are not mentioned in the work just
referred to.

In 1846, while still at Princeton, I was requested by members of the
Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, which was then just
founded, to study the will of Smithson, and to give a plan of organiza-
tion by which the object of the bequest might be realized. My conclu-
sion was that the intention of the donor was to advance Science by origi-
nal research and publication; that the establishment was for the benefit
of mankind generally, and that all unnecessary expenditures on local
objects would be violations of the trust. The plan I proposed for the
organization of the Institution was to assist men of science in making
original researches, to publish these in a series of volumes, and to give
a copy of these to every first-class library on the face of the earth.

I was afterward called to take charge of the Institution and to carry
out this plan, which has been the governing policy of the establishment
from the beginning to the present time.

Gne of the first enterprises of the Smithsonian Institution was the
estavlishment of a system of simultaneous meteorological observations
over the whole United States, especially for the study of the phenomena
of American storms.

For this purpose the assistance of Professor Guyot was obtained; who
drew up a series of instructions for the observers, which was printed
and distributed in all parts of the country. He also recommended the
form of instruments best suited to be used by the observers, and finally
calculated, with immense labor, a volume of meteorological and physical
tables for reducing and discussing observations. These tables were
170 BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENRY.

published by the Institution, and are now in use in almost every part of
the world in which the English language is spoken. The prosecution of
the system finally led to the application of the principles established to
the predictions of the weather by means of the telegraph.

JOSEPH HENRY.

WASHINGTON, D. C., December 4, 1876.

NE OOM ie Tks,
LIST OF PROFESSOR HENRY’S SCIENTIFIC PAPERS.

[Prepared by Wm. B. Taylor: Publishedin the Builetin of the Philosophical Society
of Washington, Vol. II. ]

1825. On the Production of Cold bythe Rarefaction of Air: accompanied
with Experiments. (Presented Mar. 2.) Abstract, Trans. Al-
bany Institute, vol. i. part ii. p. 36.

1827. On some Modifications of the Electro-magnetic Apparatus. (Read
Oct. 10.) Trans. Albany Inst. vol. i. pp. 22-24.

1829. Topographical Sketch of the State of New York; designed chiefly
to show the General Elevations and Depressions of its Surface.
(Read Oct. 28.) Trans. Albany Inst. vol. i. pp. 87-112.

1829. First Abstract of Meteorological Records of the State of New
York, for 1828. ‘(In conjunction with Dr. T. Romeyn Beck.)
Annual Report of Regents of University, to the Legislature of
New York.—Albany, 1529.

1829. On the Mean Temperature of Twenty-seven different Places in the
State of New York, for 1828. (In conjunction with Dr. 'T. Ro-
meyn Beck.) Brewster’s Edinburgh Jour. Science, Oct. 1828,
vol. i. pp. 249-259.

1830. Second Abstract of Meteorological Records of the State of New
York for 1829. (In conjunction with Dr. T. Romeyn Beck.)
Annual Report of Regents of University, to the Legislature of
New York.—Albany, 1830.

1831. On the Application of the Principle of the Galvanic Multiplier to
Electromagnetic Apparatus, and also to the development of
great Magnetic power in soft iron, with small Galvanic Ele-
ments. Silliman’s American Jour. Science, Jan. 1831, vol. xix.
pp. 400-408.

1831. Tabular Statement of the Latitudes, Longitudes, and Elevations,
of 42 Meteorological Stations in New York. Annual heport
Regents of University to Legislature N. Y. 1831.

1831. Third Abstract of Meteorological Records of State of New York
for 1830. (In conjunction with Dr. T. Romeyn Beck.) Annual
Report of Regents of University, to. the Legislature of New
York.—Albany, 1831.

1831. An account of a large Electro-magnet, made for the Laboratory
of Yale College. (In conjunction with Dr. Ten Eyck.) Silli-
man’s Am. Jour. Sci. April, 1831, vol. xx. pp. 201-208.

1831. On a Reciprocating Motion produced by Magnetic attraction and
repulsion. Silliman’s Am. Jour. Sci. July, 1831, vol. xx. pp.
340-343. Sturgeon’s Annals of Electricity, etc. vol. iil. pp.
430-452.
1832.

1832.

1832.

1833.

1835.

183

CL

1835.

1837.

1838.

1838.

1839,

BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENRY. VG

On a Disturbance of the Earth’s Magnetism in connection with
the appearance of an Aurora as observed at Albany on the 19th
of April, 1831. (Communicated to the Albany Institute, Jan.
26, 1832.) Report of Regents of University, to the Legislature
of New York.—Albany, 1832. Silliman’s Am. Jour. Sci. July,
1832, vol. xxil. pp. 145-155.

Fourth Abstract of Meteorological Records of the State of New
York for 1831. (In conjunction with Dr. T. Romeyn Beck.)
Annual Report of Regents of University, to the Legislature of
New York.—Albany, 1831.

On the Production of Currents and Sparks of Electricity from
Magnetism. Silliman’s Am. Jour. Sci. July, 1832, vol. xxii.
pp. 403-408.

Fifth Abstract of Meteorological Records of the State of New
York, for 1832. (In conjunction with Dr. T. Romeyn Beck.)
Annual Report of Regents of University, to the Legislature of
New York.—Albany, 1833.

Contributions to Electricity and Magnetism. No. I. Description
of a Galvanic Battery for producing Electricity of different in-
tensities. (Read Jan.14.) Transactions Am. Philosoph. Society,
vol. v. pp. 217-222. Sturgeon’s Annals of Electricity, etc. vol.
1. pp. 277-281.

Contributions to Electricity and Magnetism. No. IJ. On the in-
fluence of a Spiral Conductor in increasing the intensity of
Electricity from a Galvanic arrangement of a single Pair, ete.
(Read Feb. 6.) Trans. Amer. Phil. Soc. vol. v. pp. 223-232.
Sturgeon’s Annals of Hlectricity, etc. vol. i. pp. 282-290. Tay-
lor’s Scientific Memoirs, vol. i. pp. 540-547.

Facts in reference to the Spark, etc. from a long Conductor unit-
ing the poles of a Galvanic Battery. Journal of Franklin In-
stitute, Mar. 1835, vol. xv. pp. 169, 170. Silliman’s Am. Jour.
Sci. July, 1835, vol. xxviii. pp. 327-331.

A Notice of Electrical Researches, particularly in regard to the
“lateral discharge.” (Read before the British Association at
Liverpool, Sept. 1837.) Report Brit. Assoc. 1837. Part II. pp.
22-24. Silliman’s Am. Jour. Sci. April, 1838, vol. xxxiv. pp.
16-19.

A Letter on the production directly from ordinary Electricity of
Currents by Induction, analogous to those obtained from Gal-
vanism. (Read to Philosoph. Society, May 4.) Proceedings
Am. Phil. Soe. vol. i. p. 14.

Contributions to Electricity and Magnetism. No. TI. On Elec-
tro-dynamie Induction. (Read Noy. 2.) Trans. Am. Phil. Soe.
vol. vi. pp. 303-338. Silliman’s Am. Jour. Sci. Jan. 1840, vol.
XXXVill. pp. 209-243. Sturgeon’s Annals of Electricity, ete. vol.
Iv. pp. 281-310. LZ. #. D Phil. Mag. Mar. 1840, vol. xvi. pp.
200-210: pp. 254-265: pp. 551-562. Beequerel’s Traité expéri-
mental de V Electricité, etc. vol. v. pp. 87-107. Annales de Chimie
et de Physique, Dec. 1841, 3d series: vol. iii. pp. 394-407. Pog-
gendorft’s Annalen der Physik und Chemie. Supplemental vol.
i. (Nach Band li.) 1842, pp. 282-312.

A novel phenomenon of Capillary action: the transmission of Mer-
cury through Lead. (Read Mar.15.) Proceedings Am. Phil. Soe.
vol. i. pp. 82, 83. Silliman’s Am. Jour. Sci. Jan. 1839, vol.
XXXVili. pp. 180, 181. Biblioth. Universelle, vol. xxix. pp. 175,
176. Liebig’s Annalen der Chemie, ete. vol. xl. pp. 182, 183.
172

1839.

1839.

1840.

1840.

1840.

1843.

1845.

1843.
1844.

1844.

BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENRY,

A Letter on two distinct kinds of dynamic Induction by a Gal-
vanic current. (Read to Phil. Soc. Oct. 18.) Proceedings Am.
Phil. Soe. vol. i. pp. 184-136.

Observations of Meteors made Nov. 25, 1835, simultaneously at
Princeton and at Philadelphia, for determining their difference
of Longitude. (In conjunction with Professors A. D. Bache, 8.
Alexander, and J. P. spy.) Proceedings Am. Phil. Soc. Dee.
21, vol. i. pp. 162, 163. Silliman’s Am. Jour. Sci. Oct. 1840,
vol, Xxxix. pp. 372, 373.

Contributions to Electricity and Magnetism. No.IV. On Electro-
dynamic Induction. (Read June 19.) Trans. Am. Phil. Soe.
vol. viii. pp. 1-18. Silliman’s Am. Jour. Sci. April, 1841, vol.
xli. pp. 117-152. Sturgeon’s Annals Hlectricity, ete. vol. vii.
pp. 21-56. L. H. D. Phil. Mag. June, 1841, vol. xviii. pp. 482-
514, Annales de Chim. et Phys. Dee: 1841, 3d ser. vol. iii. pp.
407-436. Poggendorfi’s Annal. der Phys. und Chem. 1841, vol.
liv. pp. 84-97.

Contributions to Electricity and Magnetism. No. [V,—continued.
Theoretical Considerations relating to Electro-dynamic Induc-
tion. (Read Nov. 20.) Trans. Am. Phil. Soe. vol. viii. pp.
18-35.

On the production of a reciprocating motion by the repulsion in
the consecutive parts of a conductor through which a galvanic
current is passing. (Read Nov. 20.) Proceedings Am. Phil.
Soc. vol. i. p. 301.

Electricity from heated Water. (Read Dee. 18.) Proceedings
Am. Phil. Soe. vol. i. pp. 322-324.

. Description of a simple and inexpensive form of Heliostat. (Read

Sept. 17.) Proceedings Am. Phil. Soe. vol. ii. p. 97.

. Observations on the effects of a Thunderstorm which visited

Princeton on the evening of the 14th of July, 1541. (Read
Nov. 5.) Proceedings Am. Phil. Soc. vol. ii. pp. 111-116.

. Résumé des Recherehes faits sur les Courants d’Induection. Ar-

chives de UV Electricité, 1842, vol. ii. pp. 348-392.

2. Contributions to Electricity and Magnetism. No. V. On Electro-

dynamic Induction: and on the oscillatory discharge. (Read
June 17.) Proceedings Am. Phil. Soe. vol. ii. pp. 193-196.

. On Phosphorogenic Emanation. (Read May 26.) Proceedings

Am. Phil. Soc. vol. iii. pp. 38-44. Walker’s Electrical Magazine,
1845, vol. i. pp. 444-450.

. On a new Method of determining the Velocity of Projectiles.

(Read May 30.) Proceedings Am. Phil. Soe. vol. iti. pp. 165-167.
Walker’s Electrical Magazine, 1845, vol. 1. pp. 250-352.

Nouvelles Expériences sur ’? Induction développée par lElectricité
ordinaire. (Translated.) Archives de V Electricité, 1843, vol. iii.
pp. 484-488,

On the application of Melloni’s thermo-electrie apparatus to Me-
teorological purposes. (Presented orally Nov. 3.) Proceedings

Am. Phil. Soc. vol. iv. p. 22.

Theory of the discharge of the Leyden jar. (Presented Nov. 3.)
Proceedings Am. Phil. Soc. vol. iv. pp. 22, 23.

On the Cohesion of Liquids. (Read April 5.) Proceedings Am.
Phil. Soc. vol. iv. pp. 56, 57, Silliman’s Am. Jour. Sci. Oct. 1844,
vol. xlviil. pp. 215, 216.

On the Cohesion of Liquids,—continued. (Read May 17.) Pro-
ceedings Am. Phil. Soc. vol. iv. pp. 84, 85. Silliman’s Am.
BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENRY. 1G

Jour. Sci. Oct. 1844, vol. xlviii. pp. 216, 217. DL. HE. D. Phil. Mag.
June, 1845, vol. xxxvi. pp. 541-543.

1844, Syllabus of Lectures on Physics. Princeton, 8vo. 1844. Repub-
lished in part in Smithsonian Report, 1856, pp. 187-220.

1844. Classification and Sources of Mechanical Power. (Read Dee. 20.)
Proceedings Am. Phil. Soe. vol. iv. pp. 127-129.

1845. On the Coast Survey. Princeton Ieeview, April, 1845, vol. xvil.
pp. 021-344.

1845. On the Relative Radiation of Heat by the Solar Spots. (Read
June 20.) Proceedings Am. Phil. Soe. vol. iv. pp. 173-176.
Brief Abstract in Report Brit. Assoc. 1845, Part Il. p. 6.
Walker’s Hlectrical Magazine, 1846, vol. ii. pp. 321-324.
Froriep’s Neue Notizen, etc., No. 826, 1846, vol. xxxvili. col.
179-182. Poggendorff’s Annalen der Physik und Chemie, 1846,
vol. Ixvill. pp. 102-104.

1845. On the Capillarity of Metals. (Read June 20.) Proceedings Am.

. Phil. Soc. vol. iv. pp. 176-178. Froriep’s Neue Notizen, ete., No.
825, 1846, vol. xxxviil. col. 168-169. Poggendorft’s Annalen der
Physik und Chemie. 2d supplemental vol. (Nach Band 1xxii.)
1848, pp. 358-361.

1845. On the Protection of Buildings from Lightning. (Read June 20.)
Proceedings Am. Phil. Soc. vol.iv. p. 179. Silliman’s Am. Jour.
Sct. 1846, vol. i. pp. 405, 406. Walker’s Hlectrical Magazine,
1846, vol. ii. pp. 824-326. Froriep’s Neue Notizen, etc., No. $23,

1846, vol. xxxviil. col. 133, 154.

1845. An account of peculiar efiects on a house struck by Lightning.
(Read June 20.) Proceedings Am. Phil. Soc. vol. iv. p. 180.

1845. On Color Blindness. Princeton Review, July, 1845, vol. xvil. pp.
A83—489.

1845. On the discharge of Electricity through a long wire, etc. (Read
Nov. 7.) Proceedings Am. Phil. Soc. vol. iv. pp. 208, 209.

1846. Repetition of Faraday’s Experiment on the Polarization of Liquids
under the influence of a galvanic current. (Read Jan. 16.)
Proceedings. Am. Phil. Soe. vol. iv. pp. 229, 230.

1846. Extrait @une Lettre a M. de la Rive, sur les Télégraphes Elee-
triques dans les Etats-Unis de PAmérique. Biblioth. Univer-
selle. Archives, 1846, vol. ii. p. 178.

1846. Report on the action of Electricity on the Telegraph Wires: and
Telegraph-poles struck by Lightning. (Read June 19.) Pro
ceedings Am. Phil. Soc. vol. iv. pp. 260-268. Silliman’s Ane.
Jour. Sct. 1847, vol. Hi. pp. 25-32. DL. HL. D. Phil. Mag. 1847,
vol. xxx. pp. 186-194. Agricultural Report, Commr. Pats. 1859,
pp. 909-511.

1846. On the ball supported by a water jet: also experiments in regard
to the “interference” of heat. (Read Oct. 16.) Proceedings
Am. Phil. Soc. vol. iv. p. 285.

1846. On the corpuscular hypothesis of the constitution of Matter. (Read
Nov. 6.) Proceedings Am. Phil. Soc. vol. iv. pp. 287-290.

1846. On the Height of Aurore. (Read Dee. 3.) Proceedings Am. Phil.
Soe. vol. iv. p. 370.

1847, Programme of Organization of the Smithsonian Institution. (Pre-
sented to the Board of Regents, Dec. 8, 1847.) Smithsonian
Report, 1847, pp. 120-132.

1847. Article on “Magnetism” for the Eneyclopedia Americana. Zn-
cycl. Amer.-1847, vol. xiv. pp. 412-426.

BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENRY.

. On Heat.—A Thermal Telescope. Silliman’s Am. Jour. Sci. Jan.

1848, vol. v. pp. 113, 114.

. Explanations and Illustrations of the Plan of the Smithsonian

Institution. Silliman’s Am. Jour. Sci. Nov. 1848, vol. vi. pp.
305-317.

. On the Radiation of Heat. (Read Oct.19.) Proceedings Am. Phil.

Soc. vol. v. p. 108.

. Analysis of the dynamic phenomena of the Leyden jar. Proceed-

ings Amer. Association, Aug. 1850, pp. 377, 378.

. On the Limit of Perceptibility of a direct and reflected Sound.

Proceedings Amer. Association, May, 1851, pp. 42, 43.

. On the Theory of the so-called Imponderables. Proceedings Amer.

Association, Aug. 1851, pp. 84-91.

. Address before the Metropolitan Mechanics’ Institute, Washing-

ington. (Delivered March 19.) 8vo. Washington, 1853, 19 pp.

. Meteorological Tables of mean diurnal variations, etc. prepared as

an Appendix to Mr. Russell’s Lectures on Meteorology. Smith-
sonian Report for 1854, pp. 215-223.

. Thoughts on Education; an Introductory Discourse before the

Association for Advancement of Education. (Delivered Dee.
28.) Proceedings Assoc. Adv. Education, 4th Session, 1854, pp.
17-31.

. On the mode of Testing Building Materials, ete. Proceedings Am.

Assoc. Aug. 1855, pp. 102-112. Silliman’s Am. Jour. Sei. July,
13856, vol. xxii. pp. 30-38; Smithsonian Report, 1856, pp.
303-310.

). On the effect of mingling Radiating Substances with Combustible

Materials: (or incombustible bodies with fuel). Proceedings
Am, Assoc. Aug. 1855, pp. 112-116.

. Account of Experiments on the alleged spontaneous separation of

Alcohol and Water. Proceed. Am. Assoc. Aug. 1855, pp. 140-144.

. On the Induction of Electrical Currents. (Read Sept. 11.) Pro-

ceedings Am. Academy of Arts, ete. vol. iil. p. 198.

. Note on the Gyroscope. Appendix to Lecture by Prof. E. S.

Snell. Smithsonian Report, 1855, p. 190.

. Remarks on Rain-fall at varying elevations. Smithsonian Report,

1855, pp. 213, 214.

). Directions for Meteorological Observations. (In conjunction with

Prof. A. Guyot.) Smithsonian Report, 1855, pp. 215-244.

. Circular of Inquiries relative to Earthquakes. Smithsonian Report,

1855, p. 245.

. Instructions for Observations of the Aurora. Smithsonian Report,

1855, pp. 247-250.

>. On Green’s Standard Barometer for the Smithsonian Institution.

Smithsonian Report, 1855, pp. 251-258.

9). Circular of Instructions on Registering the periodical phenomena

of animal and vegetable life. Smithsonian Report, 1855, pp.
259-263.

. Meteorology in its connection with Agriculture, Part I. <Agri-

cultural Report of Commr. Pats. 1855, pp. 357-394.

. On Acoustics applied to Publie Buildings. Proceedings Am. Assoc.

Aug. 1856, pp. 119-135. Smithsonian Report, 1856, pp. 221-234.
Canadian Journal, 1857, vol. ii. pp. 130-140.

. Account of a large Sulphurie-acid Barometer in the Hall of the

Smithsonian Institution Building. Proceedings Am. Assoc.
Aug. 1856, pp. 135-188.
1856.

1863.

1864,

1865.

1865.

1865,
1866.

BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENRY. 175

Meteorology in its connection with Agriculture, Part IT. Gene-
ral Atmospheric Conditions. Agricultwral Report of Commr.
Pats. 1856, pp. 455-492.

. Communication to the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Tn-

stitution, relative to a publication by Prof. Morse. Smithsonian
Report, 1857, pp. 85-88,

. Statement in relation to the history of the Electro-magnetie Tel-

egraph. Smithsonian Report, 1857, pp. 99-106.

. Meteorology in its connection with Agriculture, Part III. Ter-

restrial Physics, and Temperature. Agricultural Report of
Commr. Pats. 1857, pp. 419-506.

. Meteorology in its connection with Agriculture, Part IV. Atmos-

pheric Vapor, and Currents. Agricultural Report of Commr.
Pats. 1858, pp. 429-493.

. On Meteorology. Canadian Naturalist and Geologist, Aug. 1859,

vol. iv. pp. 289-291.

. Application of the Telegraph to the Prediction of Changes of the

Weather. (Read Aug. 9.) Proceedings Am. Academy of Arts,
ete. vol. iv. pp. 271-275.

. Meteorology in its connection with Agriculture, Part V. Atmos-

pherie Electricity. Agricultural Report of Commr. Pats. 1859,
pp. 461-509.

59. On the Protection of Buildings from the effects of Lightning.

Agricult. Report, Com. Pat. 1859, pp. 511-524.

. On the Conservation of Force. Silliman’s Am. Jour. Sci. July,

1860, vol. xxx. pp. 32-41.

. Circular to Officers of Hudson’s Bay Company (April 20). Smath-

sonian Miscell. Collections, No. 137, vol. viii. pp. 1-6.

. Description of Smithsonian Anemometer. Smithsonian Report,

1860, pp. 414-416.

. Letter on Aeronautics to Mr. T. 8. C. Lowe. (March 11.) Smith-

sonian Report, 1860, pp. 118, 119.

. Article on “ Magnetism” for the American Encyclopedia. Edited

by Ripley and Dana. Am. Encycl. 1861, vol. xi. pp. 61-63.

. Article on ‘ Meteorology” for the American Encyclopedia.

Edited by Ripley and Dana. Am. Encycel. 1861, vol. xi. pp.
414-420,

. Report of the Light House Board on the proposed Transfer of the

Lights to the Navy Department. Exec. Docts. 37th Cong. 2d
Sess. Senate, Mis. Doc. No. 61, pp. 2-18.

Introduction to Memoir by Prof. J. Plateau. On the Figures of
Equilibrium of a Liquid Mass, ete. Smithsonian Report, 1863,
pp. 207, 208.

On Materials for Combustion in Lamps of Light-Houses. (Read
Jan. 12, before the National Academy of Sciences.) [Not pub-
lished in Proceedings. |

Report relative to the Fire at the Smithsonian Institution, occur-
ring Jan. 24th, 1865. (In conjunction with Mayor Richard
Wallach.) Presented to the Regents February, 1865. Smith-
sonian Report, 1864, pp. 117-120.

Queries relative to Tornadoes: directions to observers. Smith-
sonian Miscell. Collections, No. 190, vol. x. pp. 1-4.

Remarks on the Meteorology of the United States. Smithsonian
Report, 1865, pp. 50-59.

Report on the Warming and Ventilating of the U. S. Capitol.
(May *) Hazec. Doe. No. 100. H. of Rep. 39th Cong. 1st Sess.
pp. +-0.
176
1866

1866

1866

1873.

.

1866.

BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENRY.

Report of Building Committee on Repairs to Sm. Institution from
Fire. (In conjunction with Genl. Richard Delafield, and Mayor
Richard Wallach.) Presented to Regents April 28. Smith-
sonian Report, 1865, pp. 111-114.

On the aboriginal Migration of the American races. Appendix
to paper by F. Von Hellwald. Smithsonian Report, 1866, pp.
344, 345.

Remarks on Vitality. Smithsonian Report, 1866, pp. 386-388.

Meteorological Notes. To Correspondents. Smithsonian Report,
1866, pp. 403-412.

. Circular relating to Collections in Archeology and Ethnology.

(Jan. 15.) Smithsonian Miscell. Collections, No. 205, vol. viii.
pp. 1, 2.

. Circular relative to Exchanges. (May 16.) Smithsonian Report,

1867, p. 71.

. Suggestions relative to Objects of Scientific Investigation in Rus-

sian America. (May 27.) Smithsonian Miscell. Collections, No.
207, vol. vili. pp. 1-7.

. Notes on Atmospheric Electricity. To Correspondents. Smith-

sonian Report, 1867, pp. 320-325.

. Appendix to a Notice of Scheenbein. Smithsonian Report, 1868,

pp. 189-192.

. Memoir of Alexander Dallas Bache. (Read April 16.) Biograph-

ical Memoirs of Nat. Acad. Sci. vol. 1. pp. 181-212. Smithsonian
Report, 1870, pp. 91-116.

. Letter. On a Physical Observatory. (Dee. 29.) Smithsonian

Report, 1870, pp. 141-144.

. Observations on the Rain-fall of the United States. Proceedings

California Academy of Sciences, vol. iv, p. 185.

. Instructions for Observations of Thunder-Storms. Smithsonian

Miseell. Collections, No. 235, vol. x. p. 1.

. Circular relative to Heights. For a topographic chart of N.

America. Smithsonian Miscell. Collections, No. 236, vol. x. p. 1.

. Directions for constructing Lightning-Rods. Smithsonian Miscell.

Collections, No. 237, vol. x. pp. 1-3. Silliman’s Am. Jour. Sct.
Nov. 1871, vol. ii. pp. 344-346.

. Letter to Capt. C. F. Hall, in regard to the Scientific Operations

of the Expedition toward the North Pole. (June 9.) Smth-
sonian Report, 1871, pp. 364-366.

. Suggestions as to Meteorological Observations; during the Expe-

dition toward the North Pole. Smithsonian Report, 1871, pp.
372-379.

71. Meteorological Notesand Remarks. Smithsonian Report, 1871, pp.

452, 455, 456, 459, 461.

. Effect of the Moon on the Weather. Smithsonian Report, 1871,

pp. 460, 461.

. Anniversary Address as President of the Philosophical Society of

Washington. (Delivered Nov. 18.) Bulletin Phil. Soc. Wash-
ington, vol. i. pp. 5-14.

. Remarks on Cosmical Theories of Electricity and Magnetism: an
Appendix to a Memoir by Prof. G. B. Donati. Smithsonian

Report, 1872, pp. 807-309.

. On certain Abnormal Phenomena of Sound, in connection with

Fog-signals. (Read Dee. 11.) Bulletin Phil. Soc. Washington,
vol. i. p. 65, and Appendix ix. 8 pp.
Letter to John C. Green, Esq., of New York, on his establishment
BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENRY. 1G

of the “Henry Chair of Physics” in the College of New Jersey.
Washington Daily Chronicle, Mar. 21, 1873.

. On Telegraphic Announcements of Astronomical Discoveries.

(May.) Smithsonian Miscell. Collections, No. 263, vol. xii. pp.

. Remarks on the Light-House Service. Report of Light-House

Board, 1873, pp. 3-7.

. Report of Investigations relative to Fog-Signals, and certain ab-

normal phenomena of Sound. Report of Light-House Board,
1874. Appendix, pp. 83-117.

. Memoir of Joseph Saxton. (Read Oct.4.) Biographical Memoirs

of Nat. Acad. Sci. vol. i. pp. 287-316.

. Remarks on Recent Earthquakes in North Carolina. Smithsonian

Report, 1874, pp. 259, 260.

. Remarks on the Light-House Service. Report of Light-House

Board, 1875, pp. 5-8.

. An account of investigations relative to Illuminating Materials.

Report of Light-House Board, 1875. Appendix, pp. 86-103.

. Investigations relative to Sound. Report of Light-House Board,

1875. Appendix, pp. 104-126.

. On the Organization of Local Scientific Societies. Smithsonian

Report, 1875, pp. 217-219.

. Article on “Fog,” for Johnson’s Universal Cyclopedia. Edited

by Dr. Barnard. J. Univ. Cycl. vol. ii. pp. 187, 188.

. Article on “‘Fog-Signals,” for Johnson’s Universal Cyclopedia.

Edited by Dr. Barnard. J. Univ. Cyel. vol ii. pp. 188-190.

. Article on “Aygrometry,” for Johnson’s Universal Cyclopedia.

Edited by Dr. Barnard. J. Univ. Cyel. vol. ii. pp. 1072-1074.

. Letter to Rev. 8S. B. Dod; On researches at Princeton. (Dated

Dec. 4.) Princeton Memorial, May 19,1878, 8vo., N. Y., pp. 51-70.

. Article on “Lightning,” for Johnson’s Universal Cyclopedia.

Edited by Dr. Barnard. J. Univ. Cycl. vol. iii. pp. 32-36.

. Article on “ Lightning-Rods,” for Johnson’s Universal Cyclopedia.

Edited by Dr. Barnard. J. Univ. Cyel. vol. iii. pp. 36, 37.

. Remarks on the Light-House Service. eport of Light-House

Board, 1877, pp. 3-7.

. Report of Operations relative to Fog-Signals. Report of Light-

House Board, 1877. Appendix, pp. 61-72.

. Address before the Philosophical Society of Washington. Bul-

letin Phil. Soc. Washington, vol. i. pp. 162-174.

. On Thunder Storms. (Letter Oct. 13.) Journal Am. Electrical

Society, 1878, vol. ii. pp. 37-43.

. Letter to Joseph Patterson, Esq., of Philadelphia, on the “Joseph

Henry Fund.” (Dated Jan. 10.) Public Ledger and Transcript,
May 14, 1878. The Press, of Philadelphia, May 14, 1878.

. Report on the Ventilation of the Hall of the House of Repre-

sentatives. (Jan. 26.) 45th Cong. 2d Sess. H. R. Report, Ne.
119, pp. 1-6.

. Report on the Use of the Polariscope in Saccharimetry. (Feb. 5.)

Mis. Doe. 45th Cong. 2d Sess. H. FR.

. Opening Address before National Academy of Sciences. (Read

April 16.) Proceedings Nat. Acad. Sev. vol. i. part 2, pp. 127, 128.

. Closing Address before National Academy of Sciences. (Read

April 19.) Proceedings Nat. Acad. Sci. vol. i. part 2, pp. 129,
1350.

S. Mis. 59: 12

r Mich
i tem: (ley p
vee ere 4

oy ta sats
De race r,

~ Steal od see Sa

GENERAL APPENDIX

TO THE

SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1878.

The object of this appendix is to illustrate the operations of the Institution by
reports of lectures and extracts from correspondence, as well as to furnish information
of a character suited especially to the observers and other persons interested in the
promotion of knowledge.
CONDORCET: A BIOGRAPHY.

By M. ARaGo.

[Translated for the Smithsonian Institution by M. A. Henry.]
INTRODUCTION.

During the latter years of his life, George Cuvier consented to spare
a few moments from his immortal researches to make some notes for
the benefit of his future biographers. One of these notes commences
thus: ‘Ihave written so many eulogies, that it is not presumptious to
suppose that some one will write mine.” This remark of the illustrious
naturalist has reminded me that the last secretary of the old Academy
of Sciences, himself the author of fifty-four biographies of academicians
equally remarkable for their conception and their expression, has not
yet received in this assembly the tribute which on many accounts is
justly his due. The fact that we have owed this debt to his memory
half a century is only a more powerful reason that it should be discharged
without further delay. Our eulogies, as our memoirs, should have truth
for their foundation and their object. But truth in regard to public men
is difficult to attain, particularly when their lives have been passed in
the midst of political storms. I therefore earnestly appeal to the few
contemporaries of Condorcet whom death has spared, for correction of
any error I may have made in spite of my careful efforts.

It has perhaps been observed that I have called my article a biog-
raphy and not as usual an historical eulogy. Itis in fact a detailed biog-
raphy I have the honor to present to the Academy. Without desiring
to establish a precedent for future secretaries, I will explain how in this
instance the old form did not fulfil the end I desired.

Condoreet was no ordinary academician devoted alone to the labors
of the closet: a speculative pbilosopher, and a citizen of unbiased judg-
ment,—his life, his public and private conduct, and his works, were in-
fluential in literary, economical, and political associations. No one suf-
fered more from the instability of public favor, jealousy, and fanat-
icism,—those three terrible scourges of reputation. In sketching a
portrait, which it is my duty to render as faithful as possible, I cannot
pretend to claim belief on mere assertion. It is not enough that for
every characteristic feature I have endeavored with the greatest care
to assure my own mind that my impressions are correct ; I must enable
the public to intelligently decide between the prevailing judgment and

my own; it is necessary, therefore, to carefully examine and combat
180

——
4

the false views of those who, in my estimation, have never truly com-
prehended the majestic aspect presented to his generation by the great
Condorcet.

If I venture to hope that I have found truth where others have
fallen into error, it is because I have had access to private sources of
information. The distinguished daughter of our former secretary, and
her illustrious husband, General O’Connor, have placed their rich
archives at my disposal, with a kindness, unreserve, and liberality for
which I cannot sufficiently thank them. Many manuscripts of Condorcet
finished or incomplete, his letters to Turgot, answers from the lord lien-
tenant of Limoges, the comptroller-general of finance, fifty-two wupub-
lished letters of Voltaire, the correspondence of Lagrange with the sec-
retary of the Academy of Sciences and with d’Alembert, letters of Fred-
erick the Great, of Franklin, of Mademoiselle de ’Espinasse, of Borda, of
Monge, &c.—such are the treasures I received from the honorable family

_ of Condorcet. This is the material which has led me to clear and precise
ideas of the part taken by our confrére in the political, social, and intel-
lectual movement of the second half of the eighteenth century.

I have a fear that I have not sufficiently avoided a temptation result-
ing from the kindness of General and Mrs. O’Connor. In going over
the manuscript confided to me, my mind was involuntarily impressed
with the apprehension of the thousand accidents which might happen to
those precious pages, and the result has been an uncommon number of
quotations, and therefore an expansion of points which perhaps might
better have been only alluded to. I am aware of the inconvenience
of such elaboration, but consider as sufficient compensation that I have
perhaps rescued from oblivion facts, opinions, and literary judgments
of great value; that I have made to speak in my place many eminent
personages of the last century.

One word as to the unusual length of this article. I am well aware of
the demands it must make upon the patient attention of my hearers,
and the great desirability of retrenchment even after the numerous

omissions which had become necessary by the exigencies of a public
reading, but I consider my mission unusual, and more than ordinarily
solemn; in fact I am about to undertake the rehabilitation of a col-
league, and that in every point of view, scientific, literary, philosophical,
and political. Any feeling of self-love that might interfere with this end
would manifestly be unworthy of the assembly I address as well as of
myself.

CONDORCET: A BIOGRAPHY. 181

INFANCY AND YOUTH OF CoNDORCET—HIS STUDIES, HIS CHARACTER,
HIS MATHEMATICAL LABORS.

Jean Antoine Nicolas Caritat de Condorcet, formerly perpetual sec-
retary of the Academy of Sciences, was born on the 17th of September,
1743, in Picardy, inthe small village of Ribemont, which had already given
to the Academy the engineer Blondel, celebrated by the construction of

i
182 CONDORCET: A BIOGRAPHY.

the gate of Saint Denis. The father of Condorcet, M. Caritat, a captain
of cavalry, originally the Dauphin’s, was the younger brother of the
prelate whom we see successively from 1741 bishop of Gap, of Auxerre,
and of Lisieux. He was also related to the cardinal of Bernis and the
famous archbishop of Vienna, M. d’Yse of Saléon, who while bishop of
Rodez made himself so. prominent in the council of Embrun by his
warm support of the Jesuits.

Condorcet had hardly attained his fourth year when he lost his
father. The widow of Captain Caritat was very devotional in her
tendencies. As, in her opinion, an infallible means of protecting her
only son from the dangers of youth, she dedicated him to the Virgin
and to the wearing of white garments. Condorcet accordingly wore
for eight years the costume of a girl. This singular circumstance, as
an effectual interdiction of all gymnastic exercises, retarded greatly the
development of his physical powers. It also prevented him from enter-
ing the public schools, since a boy in petticoats could not fail to be an
object of derision.

When he had attained his eleventh year, his uncle placed him under
the care of one of the members of that celebrated Society of Jesus,
around which began already to gather the political storm.

Not to trespass upon your time, permit me here a reflection. Madame
Caritat de Condorcet, in the excess of her maternal love, subjected the
childhood of the future secretary of the Academy to practices tending in
more than one respect to superstition. The young Condorcet, as soon
as he opened his eyes, was surrounded by a family composed of the
highest dignitaries of the church and military officers, whose ideas were
without exception aristocratic ; his first guides, his first instructors, were
Jesuits. Behold the result of so unusual a concourse of circumstances.
In politics, a complete rejection of all idea of hereditary prerogative ;
in religion, scepticism carried to its utmost limits. This reflection con-
firmed by many observations of a similar character history can furnish,
should it not calm somewhat the ardor with which political and relig-
ious parties, setting aside the rights of families, dispute by turns the
monopoly of public instruction. Such a monopoly is dangerous only in
a country where thought is chained; with the liberty of the press,
reason, whatever may be done, will Bh oalls assert itself.

In the month of August, Condorcet, then thirteen years of age, car-
ried off the second prize in the institution the Jesuits had established
at Reims. In 1758 he commenced at Paris his mathematical studies, at
the College of Navarre. His success was brilliant and rapid, for at the
end of ten months he maintained a very difficult analytical thesis with
so much distinction, that Clairaut, d’Alembert, and Fontaine, who ex-
amined him, saluted him as a future member of the Academy.

Such a horoscope from persons so eminent decided the future of the
young mathematician. In spite of the resistance he foresaw on the
part of his family, he resolved to devote himself to the pursuit of science,
CONDORCET: A BIOGRAPHY. 183

and established himself at Paris for the purpose with his old master, M.
Giraud de Kéroudon.

When Condorcet left college he was already a profound thinker. I
find in a letter of 1775, addressed to Turgot, and entitled My confession
of faith, that at the age of seventeen years the young scholar had seri-
ously reflected upon the moral ideas of justice and virtue, and upon the
question whether (leaving aside other considerations) it was to man’s
interest to be just and virtuous. I give his solution of the question,
although not sure of its originality with him. I am quite convinced,
however, of the novelty of the extreme resolution to which it led him.

‘A sentient being suffers from the evil which another sentient being
experiences. In society, an unjust or criminal action cannot fail to injure
some one. The author of such an action has, then, the consciousness of
having caused suffering to one of his own kind. If the sensibility with
which nature has endowed him remains intact, he must therefore suffer
himself. In order, then, not to destroy his natural sensibility he must,
in self-interest, strengthen his ideas of virtue and justice.”

This conclusion followed naturally from the premises. It led the
young Condorcet to renounce entirely the chase, and prevented him from
killing even insects, provided that they did not harm him.

There were very few subjects in regard to which Condorcet had, even
in early youth, vague and unformed opinions, and there is a beautiful
harmony between the various periods of his laborious and agitated
career. We see him, while still a youth, place kindness towards ani-
mals among the most efficacious means for preserving natural sen-
sibility,—according to him, the principal source of all virtue. This idea
controlled him throughout life. Even just before his death, in the
admirable tract called Advice of an outlaw to his daughter, he writes these
touching exhortations:

‘‘My dear daughter, preserve in all its purity, all its force, the feeling
which leads us to share the sorrow of every sentient being. Do not
confine your sensibilities to the sufferings of the human race, but let
your humanity extend even to animals; render those happy which be-
long to you; do not disdain to consider their well-being ; be not insen-
sible to their naive and sincere gratitude; cause them no ftseless pain.
* * * The want of foresight in animals is the only excuse for that
barbarous law which impels them to uselessly destroy each other.”

I must seize the first opportunity which offers to show you Condoreet
resolutely following these principles. Such as he was in morals we find
him later in polities.

The first fruit of the meditations to which Condorcet devoted himself
with M. Geraud de Kéroudon was a work entitled Essay upon the inte-
gral calculus. The author was only twenty-two when he presented it to
the Academy. Allow me to preface with a few general reflections what
I have to say of this treatise and of other mathematical works of Con-
dorcet.
184 CONDORCET: A BIOGRAPHY.

We can hardly mention in the vast domain of science more than eight
or ten important discoveries which have not required the successive ef-
forts of several generations of savans. Unhappily, inventors, from a wis-
taken feeling of self-love, are not ready to acknowledge to the historians
of science the sources from which they have borrowed; they desire more
to astonish than to instruct. They do not see it is far better to confess
loyally their indebtedness than to incur the suspicion of bad faith.

In the sciences of observation every course of stones composing 2
complete edifice is more or less apparent. Books, academic collections,
tell when and by whom these courses have been laid. The public may
count the stages which must be surmounted by him to whom is reserved
tbe happiness of laying the cap-stone. Each has his appropriate share
of glory in the work of centuries.

Such is not the case with pure mathematics. The filiation of methods
often escapes the most practised eye; at each step we find processes,
theories without apparent connection with any which precede. Certain
geometers move majestically in the upper regions of space, while it is
not easy to say who prepared the road for their ascent. We may add
that this road is usually established upon a scaffolding taken care of
by no one when the road is completed. To collect scattered débris is a
task unpleasant, ungrateful, and without glory, and, for this triple rea-
son, is seldom undertaken.

The savans who devote themselves to pure mathematics without at-
taining the first rank must resign themselves to all these disadvantages.
I have not yet mentioned the most important; it results from the neces-
sity the historian of mathematics experiences of divesting his mind en-
tirely of the light of his own century in judging of the works of former
times. To this may be principally attributed the fact that Condorcet
has never taken his true rank among geometers, and it is also on
account of this difficulty that I have shrunk from the obligation of de-
scribing in a few lines the numerous mathematical works of our former
secretary. Happily, as I have already said, I have in my hands unpub-
lished articles of Lagrange, of d’Alembert, in which the memoirs of Con-
dorcet are noticed at the time of their publication. Condorcet was thus
judged by men of the utmost competence; an advantage by no means
always secured to mathematical workers in the appreciation they receive
from their contemporaries.

The first work of Condorcet, his Integral calculus, was examined by
an acadenical committee, in May, 1765. The report of it, presented by
d’Alembert, ends thus: ‘‘This work indicates great talent and deserves
the approbation of the Academy.”

Certain superficial critics, who scarcely looked at the work of Condor-
cet, spoke of it with ridicule and contempt, undoubtedly considering that
the reporter of the academical committee treated it with culpable indul-
gence; and they seemed to have referred the matter to Lagrange, for
this great geometer wrote to d’Alembert the 6th day of July, 1765: “The
CONDORCET: A BIOGRAPTTY, 185

Tntegral calculus of Condoreet appears to me well worthy of the praises
with which you have honored it.”

But setting these authorities aside, it is none the less established that
this work contains the first serious well considered discussions of the
conditions of integration of the ordinary differential equations of all orders,
as well relatively to the integral of an immediately inferior order, as to
the definitive integral. In it we also find the germs of several import-
ant works, since completed, on equations with finite differences.

The volume of the Academy of Sciences for 1772 contains the memoir
in which the inventive spirit of Condorcet is most brilliantly manifested.
The blind or systematic detractors of the mathematical ability of our
former secretary are again controverted by the following verdict of La-
grange upon this production:

“The memoir is filled with great and fruitful ideas sufficient to have
supplied the material for several works. The last article has especially
impressed me by its elegance and utility. Recurrent series have so
frequently been treated before, that the subjectemight have been con-
sidered exhausted. In this article, however, is a new application of
these series, more important, in my opinion, than any which had been
made before. It opens to us, so to say, a new field for the perfection
of the Integral calculus.”

Without leaving the field of pure mathematics, I might find in the
academic collections of Paris, Berlin, Bologna, St. Petersburg, works bear-
ing upon the most difficult questions of the science which would equally
attest the ability of our former secretary, but I must hasten to notice
some applications of cnalysis which did him no less honor. To do jus-
tice to the subject in any reasonable time I cannot proceed by order of
date.

When we reflect upon the difficulties of all kinds astronomers have
to overcome in order to determine with precision the orbits of the
planets; when we consider, further, that it has been possible to har-
monize the positions taken by the planets at the apogee, at the perigee,
and all the intermediate points, only because they are constantly observ-
able, we can hardly dare to conceive the hope of ever tracing in space the
course of most of the comets, those vagrant stars which show themselves
for a few days, only to be lost for centuries.

A very sinple analytical calculus dissipates this impression. It shows
that, speaking theoretically, three observations are more than sufficient
to determine a comet’s orbit, supposed to be parabolic, but the elements
‘of this orbit are found to be so entangled in the equations that it appears
difficult to free them without caleulations of inconvenient length.

The problem thus regarded was not really solved, even after Newton,
Fontaine, Euler, &c., had made it the subject of assiduous study. When
the Academy of Berlin proposed it as a prize subject, the astronomers,
instead of employing the methods of computation of these great geome-
ters, still pursued the graphic systems, in which parabolas of card-board
186 CONDORCET: A BIOGRAPHY.

of various parameters are used. The aim of the Academy was clearly
expressed—to have the processes employed, at once direct and simple.
The award of the prize was to have been made in 1774, but it was de-
ferred. In 1778 Condorcet shared it with M. Tempelhoff. ‘Your beau-
tiful essay,” wrote Lagrange to our confrére (June 8, 1778), ‘* would have
received the entire prize if the application of your theory had been made
to any particular comet. Tbis condition was in the programme.” The
condition was certainly there, but Condorcet had, as he himself acknowl-
edges, an extreme repugnance “ for calculations which tax without pleas-
ing the attention.” Of course it will be understood that numerical
calculations are meant.

Among the great mathematical discoveries the world owes to France
is a branch of calculus still very little appreciated, notwithstanding the
services it has already rendered and those it still promises. ‘This is the
calculus of probabilities.

Ido not hesitate to claim this discovery of the calculus of probabili-
ties for our country, notwithstanding the efforts which have beeu made
to deprive her of the credit. To dignify as inventors of this calculus the
authors of some numerical remarks, without precision upon the various
ways of computing a certain sum of points, in the simultaneous throw
of three dice, would be a baseless pretension, which even national
prejudice could hardly excuse.

Among the eminent services this calculus has rendered to mankind
we should mention in the first line the abolition of the lottery and sev-
eral other games of chance, which were as traps set for eupidity, cre-
dulity, and ignorance. Thanks to the evident and simple principles
upon which the new analysis is founded, it is no longer possible to dis-
guise the frauds in which these financial combinations were formerly
entrenched: discounts, annuities, tontines, insurances of all kinds, have
lost their character of mystery and obscurity.

On this ground the application of probabilities has been admitted
without much resistance. But when Condorcet, after some essays of
Nicolas Bernoulli, made incursion, by means of the new calculus, into
the domain of jurisprudence and of moral and political science, an oppo-
sition almost general warned him that he could not take possession of
this field without a severe contest. To tell the truth, the contest still
continues. In order to end it, the geometers, on the one hand, must
consent to put the principles of probabilities in clear, precise terms, as
free as possible from technical expressions; while, on the other hand
(and this is much more difficult), the public must be led to recognize,
that appreciation of certain very complex matters cannot be attained
at a glance; that it is impossible to speak pertinently of figures without
mastering first at least the principles of enumeration; finally that there
exist truths, legitimate connections, outside of those, the rudiments of
which may have been acquired in youth, or by the reading of classical
works. To comprehend that civil and criminal tribunals should be con-
stituted so that the innocent may run very little risk of condemnation ;
in order also to comprehend that the chances of an unjust condemna-
tion will be as much lessened as the judgment is rendered by the greater
majority, the simple natural light of the most ordinary sentiments of
humanity is all that is necessary. The problem becomes much more
complicated when the question is to reconcile the proper guaranty of
justice to the innocent with the need of society that the guilty shall
not escape; simple reason here gives only vague results, to these cal-
culation alone can give precision.

Let me repeat, that in judicial decisions there are certain phases, cer-
tain points of view, where resort may be had to calculation. By carrying
into this labyrinth the torch of mathematical analysis, Condorcet not
only proved his own courage, but opened an entirely new path. This,
if pursued by geometers with a firm but cautious step, should lead
to the discovery, in the social, judicial, and political organization of
modern societies, of anomalies hitherto unsuspected.

It is quite evident that in its incursions into the domain of jurispru-
dence, the calculus of probabilities has for its object solely the numeri-
cal comparison of the decisions obtained with such or such a majority;
to find the relative value of such or such number of witnesses. I may
then in terms of severe reproof direct the attention of the public to the
passages La Harpe, in his Philosophie du XVIII Siécle, has devoted to
these applications of mathematics. It will be seen there, I dare say,
with astonishment that the writer accuses our colleague of wishing to do
away with testimony, and even written proof; of pretending to replace
these advantageously by analytical formule. Instead of desiring to
refute expressions so far from academical as “this is asupremely ridicu-
lous use of science,” it is *‘an extravagant conquess of the revolutionary
philosophy,” “this shows what insanity mathematics may produce,” one
regrets to see a man of real talent fallen into such incredible errors. As
to the rest, it is a new proof that no one, not even an academician, can
safely speak of that which he has not studied.

I must confess that the mathematical writings of Condorcet lack the
elegant clearness which distinguish in so high a degree the memoirs
of Euler and of Lagrange. D’Alembert, who was himself not irre-
proachable in this respect, endeavored, but with no great success, to
induce our former secretary to take more pains. In March, 1772, he
wrote to Lagrange: “1 wish much that our friend Condorcet, who has
so much sagacity, and such genius, had a better manner of expression,
but it seems to be the nature of his mind to workin this way.” This ex-
cuse for him has more foundation than might readily be accepted.
Ruler, d’Alembert, Lagrange, with an equal talent for mathematics, had
each entirely different modes of working. Euler calculated without
apparent effort, as men breathe, as the birds fly, In a letter I have
under my eyes, dated 1769, d’Alembert thus speaks of himself to
Lagrange: “It is not in my nature to occupy myself with one thing

CONDORCET: A BIOGRAPHY. 187
188 CONDORCET: A BIOGRAPHY.

long at a time. I leave a subject and resume it again as often as
the humor takes me, without discouragement, and ordinarily this inter-
mittent perseverance is successful.” A third way in which genius
works seems to be indicated by this passage, which I copy from a man-
uscript note from the author of the Ilécanique analytique: ‘‘ My occu-
pations are reduced to studying geometry tranquilly and in silence.
As I am not pressed and work more for my own pleasure than from
duty, like the lord of a chateau who builds, tears down, and rebuilds
again. I make, unmake, and remake until I am tolerably content with
the results, which, however, rarely happens.” It is well, perhaps, that
variety and individuality exist in mathematical researches, as in every-
thing else ; that ways the most diverse may equally lead men of ability
to such disceveries as the mutual attraction of celestial bodies, the cause
of the change in the obliquity of the ecliptic, the cause of the precession
of the equinoxes, and that of the libration of the moon.

It may be asked with very natural surprise how Condorcet could
renounce so easily the success a scientific career promised him in order
to throw himself into the discussions of a subject often very problemati-
cal—social economy, and into the heated arena of polities. If this wasa
fault, many others also were equally culpable. Moreover, here is the pal-
hiation: Early convinced that the human race is indefinitely perfectible,
Condorcet (I copy) regarded its improvement “as one of the pleasantest
occupations, one of the first duties of the man who has strengthened
his reason by study and meditation.” He expressed the same thought
in other words when, in a letter to Voltaire, he speaks with regret of
returning to geometry: ‘Itseems cold to work only for vainglory, when
one desires to be working for the public good.” Ido notadmit the distine-
tion; the vainglory Condorcet speaks of was more directly conducive to
the benefit of humanity than the researches, economical and philosophical,
which our confrére undertook with so much zest in the secial com-
munity. The good done by science has roots deeper and more extended
than those from any other source. It is not subject to the fluctuations,
the sudden caprices, the retrograde movements which so often produce
perturbations in society. The torch of science dissipates a hundred old
and debasing prejudices, inveterate maladies of the moral and intel-
lectual world. If Condorcet was inclined to insinuate that scientific dis-
coveries bave no direct or immediate influence upon the body politic,
I will not revert to such well-kuown bevefactions as the marine1’s com-
pass, gunpowder, and the steam-engine to refute the suggestion ; I will
take one fact from a thousand that show what important events may
result through the agency of the simplest inventions.

In the year 1746 the Pretender had appeared in Scotland, and France
was sending him powerful succor. The French fleet and the English squad-
ron passed each other during a very dark night. The most vigilant of the
watch saw nothing. gave no signal; but, unhappily for France and its
ally, Admiral Kowles, on leaving London, was provided with a glass
CONDORCET: A BIOGRAPHY. 189

of recent and very simple construction, known under the name of the
night-glass—a glass in which the artist had sacrificed magnifying power
to illumination. With this instrument he descried, outlined on the hori-
zon, numerous vessels ; he pursued them, reached them, captured them:
the humble night-glass decided the destiny of the Stuarts.

We may explain the sadness felt by Condorcet on returning to mathe.
matics by the fact that even the most illustrious of geometers were at
that time discouraged. They believed that they had reached the final
limits of the science. We may judge this from the following passage I
copy from a letter of Lagrange to @’Alembert: ‘I believe that the mine
is already too deep, and, as we discover no new branches, sooner or later
it must be abandoned. Chemistry and physies proffer a richer reward,
with easier research. The taste, too, of the century does not lie in our
direction. Itis not impossible that the-pursuit of geometry in the acad-
emies will some time become as rare as the study of Arabic is to-day in
the universities.”

NOMINATION OF CONDORCET TO THE ACADEMY OF SCIENCES—HIS
JOURNEY TO FERNEY—HIS RELATIONS WITH VOLTAIRE.

I learn by a letter from d’Alembert to Lagrange that Condorcet might
have entered the Academy in 1768, at the age of twenty-five years. His
parents objected; to make science his official occupation was in their eyes
derogatory to his station. He was received in 1769. His family yielded
rather because tired of objecting than from conviction; fcr, six years
later, Condorcet, already perpetual secretary of the Academy, wrote to
Turgot, ‘‘Look with favor upon M. Thouvenel; he is the only one of my
relatives who forgave me for not being a cavalry captain.”

I must class among the first of Condorcet’s academic works, an unpub-
lished memoir upon the best organization of Jearned societies. This
was intended for the Spanish Government. Influenced by the desire to
calm the susceptibilities of the court of Madrid, the author has underrated
certain phases of the question, but in it we find general views the fruit
of an enlightened jadgment and some curious anecdotes, which give the
key, hitherto lost, to various provisions of our ancient academic rules.

It would show an entire want of understanding of the Spain of the
XVIIIth century to dream of establishing an academy in which the
Medina Celi, the d’Ossuna, &e., as representatives of the nobility, would
have no place. Condorcet made this concession; be created honorary
members, but stipulated for an equality of rights which would, he hoped,
‘raise the academicians in the eyes of the public, and perhaps in their
own estimation, for savans unfortunately are not always philosophers.”
‘To render,” said Condorcet, “this union of the men of rank, who love
science, and the savans devoted to her progress agreeable to both par-
ties, this saying of Louis XIV should be kept in mind: ‘ Do you know
why Racine and M. de Cavoye agree so well? Racine with Cavoye is
a man of the court; Cavoye with Racine is a man of letters.”
190 CONDORCET: A BIOGRAPHY.

Perhaps I may be excused if, in this connection, I divulge from the
manuscript of Condorcet the origin of an article of the first charter of
our society relating to the nomination of men of rank:

“When we introduced,” said our confrére, ‘*‘ honorary members in the
Academy, for fear that true savans might be troubled by the hauteur or
abuse of power of the monks, Fontenelle proposed that the class of
honorary members should be the only one to which they could be ad-
initted.”

In the hope of inducing the Spanish authorities not to be influenced in
their choice of members by the religious principles of candidates, Con-
dorcet proposed to them this question: ‘In an academy composed of the
heathen Aristotle, the Brahmin Pythagoras, the Mussulman Alhasen,
the Catholic Descartes, the Jansenist Pascal, the Ultramontane Cassini,
the Calvinist Huygens, the Anglican Bacon, the Arian Newton, the De-
ist Leibnitz, would there be any question of preference in regard to sect ?
Think you there would be consideration in such an assembly for any-
thing but pure geometry and physics ?”

Condorcet aspired at Madrid not only to secure for the director of the
academy extended authority and large prerogatives; he desired, to
use his own words, ‘‘to free the savans from the indignity, especially
distasteful to them, of being under the protection of subalterns—an evil,
in fact, of all times and all countries.”

If the memoir of Condorcet ever sees the day, i: may be considered that
he pronounced too absolutely against the admission of foreigners among
the resident members of the academies. If so, history may say in his
defense that when he wrote it, the French Government was prodi-
gal of its favors to foreigners of moderate ability, while it neglected
men of superior talent born in the country. Witness, for example, an
Italian,—Boscovich, provided with a large pension by the same ministers
who refused to d’Alembert, notwithstanding his genius, and contrary
to all rule, the reversibility of 1,200 livres of revenue, proceeding from
the succession of Clairaut. See also this same individual, who is men-
tioned very slightingly by Lagrange and d’Alembert in the letters I have
in hand, attempting to enter the Academy without waiting for a vacancy
and on the point of success, thanks to the foolish admiration entertained
for any one with a foreign termination to hisname.*

Until 1770 Condorcet seemed desirous of confining his attention ex-
clusively to mathematical and economical studies. After this period he
threw himself into the world of literature. There will be no hesitation
in discerning the cause of this revolution, when we remark that it
coincides in date with the journey made by @’Alembert and Condorcet to
Ferney, the home of Voltaire. Upon his return the young academician
of twenty-seven years wrote to Turgot, intendant of Limousin, ‘“ I found
Voltaire so full of activity and enthusiasm that one would be tempted
to believe him immortal, if a slight injustice towards Rousseau and too

*This paragraph scarcely does justice to the distinguished Italian physicist.
CONDORCET: A BIOGRAPHY. Tou

great sensibility in regard to the follies of Fréron did not prove him to be
human.” With reference to some articles in the Dictionnaire philoso-
phique(then unpublished), articles the importance and originality of which
may be a matter of doubt, Condorcet says: ‘ Voltaire works less for
reputation than for the good of his cause. Te should not be judged as
a philosopher but as an apostle.” Could there be an appreciation of
certain works of Voltaire of greater delicacy and taste ?

Voltaire became a sort of Dalai-Lama of the intellectual world. His
friends were undignified courtiers, blindly devoted to the caprices of
their master, and endeavoring to obtain, by outrageous flattery and un-
limited complaisance, one of those letters from Ferney, which then
seemed in the eyes of the world a certain token of immortality. As for
Condorcet, a few words will show his opinion of this foolish adulation.

Madame Necker received in 1776 some very flattering verses from Vol-
taire. Herhusband, successor of Turgot as comptroller-general of finances,
received a large meed of praise also in these verses. All this was un-
doubtedly a matter of little consequence, but Condorcet’s rigid sense of
propriety was disturbed; he considered it an act of weakness, and feared
that the reputation of the philosopher would suffer by it; his uneasiness
and displeasure were vented in expressions of considerable severity. ‘I
am sorry for these verses. You do not consider the weight of your name.
* * * You are like that class of people who would leave a Jupiter to
applaud a harlequin. * * * I know your piece only by hearsay, but
those who have read it tell me that apropos of Mme. Enveloppe (M.
and Mme. Necker) you speak of Cato. This reminds me of a young for-
eigner who once said to me, ‘I have seen three great men in France, Vol-
taire, d’Alembert, and the Abbé de Voisenon.’”

One more example of his independence and loyal frankness: Voltaire
was desirous of committing to the stage, at Paris, the tragedy he had
composed in his old age, Irene. Condorcet, dreading a failure, resisted
the pressing request of Voltaire to assist him in this step, with judicious
and firm criticisms, couched in respectful language, however, in which
is never lost the disciple addressing the master. Thus, for example, in
a letter at the end of 1777: ‘See, sir! See! you have accustomed us
to perfection in action and in character, as Racine has accustomed us to
perfection in style. * * * If we are severe it is your own fault.”

Condorcet was a profound geometer. He belonged to that class of
intellectual men who, even when witnessing the most beautiful tragedies
of Corneille and Racine, would mentally ask at each scene, what does
that prove? Voltaire surely ought to have cared little for the criticism
of a judge so incompetent. Listen and decide:

‘““FERNEY, January 12, 1778.
“My UNIVERSAL PHILOSOPHER: Your discretion is astonishing and
your friendship day by day more dearto me. Iam grieved and ashamed
to have differed from you in regard to the last effort of an old man of
eighty-four years. I believed, upon the faith of a few tears shed in my
192 CONDORCET: A BIOGRAPITY.

presence by those who knew how to read and to assume without feeling
passion, that if my little effort was well depicted and well acted it might
produce at Paris a happy effect. I was, unfortunately, mistaken. I
was aware of most of the faults you have tbe kindness to point out,
and I add to them many others. I was endeavoring to make a picture
out of a rough sketch, when your criticisms, dictated by friendship and
by reason, came to increase my doubts of its worth. We ean do noth-
ing well in the arts of imagination and taste without the aid of an en-
lightened friend.”

I feel that I am dwelling too long upon a point of the life of Condorcet
which would seem to be already sufficiently illustrated, but I am irre-
sistibly impelled to give a third and last incident of the frankness of
Condorcet, which, in this case, truly amounted to a beautiful and noble
action.

Voltaire and Montesquieu, did not like each other. Montesquieu even
allowed this to be too evident. Voltaire, irritated by some pamphlets
published by Montesquieu, wrote at Ferney, against the UV Lsprit des Lois,
several articles, which he sent to his friends in Paris, asking to have ~
them published. Condorcet did not yield to the demand, imperious
as it was, of the illustrious old man. “Do you not see,” he remon-
strated, “that to what you say to-day will be opposed your former
praises of Montesquieu? His admirers, displeased by tbe way in which
you take up some of his erroneous statements, will seek for similar inad-
vertencies in your own works, and they cannot possibly fail to find such,
for even Cesar describing his campaigns in his Commentaries, commits
someinaccuracies. * * * You will, hope, pardon me for not comply-
ing with your request in this matter, which you seem to have so much
at heart. My attachment compels me to tell you what is for your advan-
tage and not what will please you. If I loved you less, I would not dare
to oppose you. I know the faults of Montesquieu, but he is worthy
enough for you to overlook them.” Atter this noble and loyal lan-
guage, which was wellcaleulated to rectify wrong ideas, it cannot be said
that all the philosophers of the XVIIIth century were the vassals of
Voltaire. The short response of the illustrious old man to the remon-
strances of Condorcet is a document so valuable to the history of our lit-
erature that I cannot allow it to iemain hidden in my portfolio; here it
18:

“There is but one way to respond to what a true philosopher wrote
me on the 20th of June. I thank him very sincerely. One ought not
to blush to go to school, even if of the age of Methuselah * * * I
repeat my thanks.”

CONDORCET SUCCESSOR OF GRANDJEAN DE FoucHy, AS SECRETARY
OF THE ACADEMY OF SCIENCES—APPRECIATION OF HIS EULOGIES
OF THE ACADEMICIANS.

Fontenelle had given so much éclat to the functions of the secretary
of the Academy of Sciences that at his death no one wished to succeed
CONDORCET: A BIOGRAPHY. 193

him. After much solicitation, Mairan consented to occupy provisionally
the place in order to allow the learned body time enough to make a
choice they would not afterwards regret. It was finally concluded that
the only way to avoid all disagreeable comparison, was to give to the
nephew of Corneille a successor who would not aspire to imitate him,
and who would disarm all eriticism by his extreme modesty. It was
under these circumstances that in 1743 Grandjean de Fouchy became
the official organ of the old Academy.

Fouchy had occupied this position for more than thirty years when
Condorcet entered the learned company. The infirmities of the perpet-
ual secretary and his age made him desirous of a collaborator, and for
this purpose he cast his eyes upon his youngest confrere. This was to
create survivorship, to establish a precedent, and produced violent oppo-
sition in the Academy.

After an excitement rarely caused by the discussion of an abstract
principle, the question finally stood as follows: Thesuccessor of Fontenelle,

_ shall it be Bailly or Condorecet? The struggle could not fail to be noble

and loyal in all that concerned these two gentlemen. Condorcet, through-
out his life modest in the extreme, thought it necessary to give some
evidence of his fitness for the place, of his facility in the art of writing,
and undertook to compose some academic eulogies. The regulation of
1699 imposed upon the perpetual secretary the obligation of paying a
tribute of respect tothe memory of the academicians removed by death.
This is the origin of the numerous biographies, often eloquent, always
ingenious, left by Fontenelle, and confined all of them to the interval
comprised between the last year of the XVIith century and 1740. Fon-
tenelie in his annals of the society does not take up the past, but com-
mences only with the time of his entrance into office. The admirable
collection he has left us, therefore, leaves a gap of thirty-three years.
The academicians, deceased between 1666 and 1699, had no biographer,
avd it is in this third of a century that Condorcet found the subjects for
the exercise of his pen, and among them such savans as Huygens,
Roberval, Picard, Mariotte, Perrault, Roemer, &c. These, his first eulo-
gies, are written with a profound knowledge of the subjects treated by
the academicians, and in a simple, clear, and concise style. Condorcet
said, in sending them to Turgot, ‘If I were able to give them more
brilliancy of expression they would be more pleasing, but nature has
not endowed me with the gilt of such union of words. If I attempt any-
thing of the kind, one word, astonished at another, starts back in affright
to see itself so associated. I am humiliated before those whom in this
respect nature has treated so much better than myself.” Condorcet was
mistaken in his low estimate of work which procured for him a large
Majority in the Academy, and of which Voltaire, d’Alembert, and La-
grange always spoke with great esteem. On the 9th of April, 1773,
d’Alembert wrote to Lagrange, “‘Condorcet merited well the place of

Secretary on account of the excellent eulogies he has published of the
S. Mis. 59 15

194 CONDORCET: A BIOGRAPHY.

academicians deceased since 1666. * * * They have had with us a
complete success.” ‘+ Your work,” said Voltaire on the 1st of March, 1774,
‘is amonument to you. You always appear the master of those of
whom you speak, but a master kind and modest; a king describing his
subjects.” Such commendation gave to these first essays of Condorcet
a rank from which malevolence has in vain endeavored to reduce them.

Condorcet had hardly entered into his relation with M. de Fouchy,

when he was commissioned to write several eulogies, among others that
of the geometer Fontaine, deceased August 21,1771. Difficulties un-
foreseen immediately assailed him. When he wrote the biographies of
the earlier members of the Academy of Scierces a century had placed
all things in their proper ligbt—persons, labors, and discoveries,—and
there was nothing for the writer to do but to express, in terms more or
less happy, the irrevocable and already known decrees of posterity.
Now he found himself in contact with the requirements, almost always
blind, of families; with contemporary susceptibility sometimes of friends,
always of rivals; finally with opinions based upon prejudice or personal
animosity, than which nothing in the intellectual world is more diffi-
cult to eradicate. I suspect that Condorcet exaggerated somewhat
these difficulties, although they were undoubtedly real, for he certainly
spent an enormous amount of labor on his first eulogy of a contem-
poraneous academician. In his correspondence with Turgot we find
him aboat the middle of 1772 already very busy with Fontaine. In
the beginning of September he sent to the illustrious intendant a
first copy of his work. The same eulogy, retouched and altered, in
September, 1773, was on its way to Limoges. This, it must be ad-
mitted, was a long time to devote to an article of only twenty-five
octavo pages. However, the maxim of Boileau was not in this instance
without fruit. D’Alembert, writing to Lagrange, calls the eulogy of
Fontaine a chef-Veuvre. Voltaire says, in a letter of the 24th of De-
cember, 1773, ** You have made me pass a half hour very agreeably. *
*  * You have relieved the dryness of the subject by a moral treat-
ment noble and profound * * * which will delight all honest men.
* * * Tf you need your copy I will return it to you, asking permis-
sion to make one for myself.” Voltaire asking permission to copy for
his own use a eulogy of Fontaine! Could there be a greater compliment
than this? .

To the eulogy of Fontaine succeeded that, not less piquant, not less
ingenious, not less philosophic, of Condamine. The Academy and the
public at large received it with unanimous applause. With the exception
of the years 1775 and 1776, during which the Academy experienced no
loss, the secretary had to provide annually until 1788, three, four, and
even eight similar compositions. The style of these latter eulogies of
Condorcet is grave and noble. There is in them no trace of affectation
of manner or of effort; no desire to produce effect by expression, to
cover, by striking or eccentric language, feebleness of thought.
CONDORCET: A BIOGRAPHY. 195

Our confrére resisted with the more assurance the invasion of bad
taste, the confusion of style, and the dithyrambic tendencies attempted
by a certain school, because encouraged by Voltaire, who thus writes to
him from Ferney, on the 18th of July, 1774: “It is without doubt a
misfortune to be born in a century of bad taste, but what will you have?
The public for eighty years have been content to drink bad brandy at
their repasts.”

It is now generally considered as a matter of hearsay that Condorcet
lacked in his eulogies force, warmth, elegance, and sensibility. I differ
from this opinion without fear of finding myself alone. In fact what
have those who complain of his want of force to say to the following
portrait of the academicians, happily few in number, whose names are
connected with factious intrigue ?

% Such intrigues have always been the work of those men tormented
with the feeling of their own insignificance, who seek to obtain by noise
what they fail to merit by worth, who having no right to reputation of
their own, would destroy that merited by others, and overcome by petty
malice the men of genius who oppress them with the weight of their
renown.”

To the critics who have accused Condorcet of a want of sensibility,
I oppose the following passage from the unpublished eulogy of fathers
Jacquier and: Le Seur: * * * “Their friendship was not of that
vulgar sort produced only by conformity of tastes and interests. It
had its origin in a natural and irresistible attraction. In these deep
and delicious friendships each endures the sufferings of his friend and
enjoys all his pleasures. He has not a thought, he has not a senti-
ment, which his friend does not share; and if he is not always one with
him, it is solely on account of the preference he gives him over himself.
This friend is not only a man that one prefers to all other men, he isa
being apart, whom none resembles; it is not his qualities, his virtues
that one loves in him, for others may have these and yet not be loved
the same ; it is himself that one loves, and because it is himself. Those
who have never experienced the sentiment can alone deny that it exists.
* * * From the instant they encountered each other at Rome, every-
thing was in common between them; troubles, pleasures, labors—glory
even, the good, of all others, that two men very rarely share in good faith.
Still each of them published separately a few articles, but these were of
little importance, and in the judgment of him to whom they belonged
not worthy to appear with the name of hisfriend. They desired perfect
equality in the situations they occupied; if one obtained a distinction,
he was not content until he had procured a similar honor for his friend.
* * * Father Jacquier had tbe misfortune to survive his friend.
Father le Seur succumbed to his infirmities in 1770. Two days before
his decease he appeared to have lost all consciousness. ‘Do you know
me?’ said Father le Jecquier to him a few moments before his death.
‘Yes,’ answered the dying man; ‘I have just resolved a difficult equa-
196 CONDORCET: A BIOGRAPHY.

tion with you” Thus, in the midst of the destruction of his organs he
had not forgotton the objects of his studies, and remembered the friend
with whom he had all in common. Tather Jacquier was forcibly taken
from the arms of the dying man by the friends who, to use Jacquier’s
own expression, did not wish to lose them both. He resumed the chair
his health had obliged him to vacate; caring little to prolong the days
no longer brightened by friendship, he still wished to fill them with
useful labor and thus divert the feelings of sorrow which nothing could
cure. He knew better than to add the weight of time to that of grief.
Tor minds that suffer, leisure is the most cruel torture.”

The valuation Condorcet has given of the divers virtues of Conda-
mine could, if we are not mistaken, be placed, without disadvantage,
beside the eloquent speech Buffon addressed to the illustrious traveler.
on the day of his reception by the French Academy. It would bear as
well comparison in elegance with the eulogy of the same academician,
pronounced by the Abbé Delille, his successor.

The biographical compositions of Condorcet please because they con-
tain what should naturaliy be their essence. The history of the human
mind is in them viewed from a high standard. In the choice of details
the author has constantly in view instruction and utility rather than
entertainment. Without trespassing in the least upon truth, whose
_demands he places before every other interest or consideration, Con-
dorcet is constantly ruled by the thought that the dignity of the savant
is to a certain degree that of science; and that any applause which
might be accorded to a witty portrayal of a ridiculous incident, would
be a poor return for even a slight wrong done to the most modest
branch of human knowledge.

We expect too much of Monsieur plus que Fontenelle, as Voltaire calls
our confrére in several unpublished letters 1 have in hand, if we hope to
find in his eulogies any chapters devoted entirely to the subsequent
history of the sciences. Condorcet did not commit the error of giving
to his auditors food stronger than they could digest.

Our former secretary was especially distinguished in his eulogies by
the utmost impartiality, by philosophic thought, and by the interest he
gave to the most simple biographical circumstances, by his constant
abnegation of all personal feeling, of all party spirit, of all self-love.
Condoreet described his own works, as well as those of Franklin, when
he said of the latter: ‘‘We seek in them in vain for a line which could
be suspected of having been written for his own glory.”

The long career of Franklin certainly does not offer a better instance
of frank, true modesty than is contained in this passage from the eulogy
of Fontaine: ‘‘I thought, at one time, said this geometer, that a young
man with whom I had been brought into connection had more talent
and might attain greater eminence than myself. I was jealous of him,
but I have not feared him since.”—* The young man in question,” added
Condorcet, *‘is the author of this eulogy.”
CONDORCET: A BIOGRAPHY. 197

The class of the envious, always numerous and active, and ready to
create disturbance, received through the mouth of Fontenelle a lesson
of good sense and of wisdom, from which, unfortunately, they profited
little. The first edition of Voltaire’s Age of Louis XIV was about to
appear. This was too good an occasion to irritate two great men against
each other to be neglected. ‘How am I treated in this work?” asked
Fontenelle. He was answered: ‘ Voltaire commences by declaring that
you are the only living person for whom he would make exception of the
rule he had made for himself to speak only of the dead.” “Stop,” said
the secretary of the Academy, “I do not wish to hear more. With any-
thing Voltaire may add to that I must be content.” Notwithstanding
some criticism, Buffon, the immortal author of the Histoire Naturelle,
would surely have been equally satisfied could he have heard the follow-
ing tribute Condorcet renders to his eloquence: ‘‘The passages which
escape from the pen of Buffon show the sensibility as well as the pride
of his nature; but always controlled by a superior judgment, they make
us feel, so to say, as if we were conversing with a pure intelligence, with
only enough humanity to understand us and to be interested in our weak-
ness. * * * Posterity will place the works of this great naturalist
besi.e the dialogues of the disciple of Socrates and the teachings of the
-philosopher of Tusculum. * * * M. de Buffon, more varied, more
brilliant, more prodigal of images than the two great representatives of
Greece and Rome, joined facility to energy, grace to majesty. His phi-

lasanhyv with a eharaecter lase nranannead ic mara variad and lace mal.

brilliant, more prodigal of images than the two great representatives of
Greece and Rome, joined facility to energy, grace to majesty. His phi-

lasanhv th a eharacter Jase nranannead ic mara variad and lease mal.

brilliant, ‘more prodigal of images than the two great representatives of
Greece and Rome, joined facility to energy, grace to majesty. His phi-

lasanhyv with a eharaecter lase nranannead ic mara variad and lace mal.

brilliant, more prodigal of images than the two great representatives of
Greece and Rome, joined facility to energy, grace to majesty. His phi-

lasanhyv with a eharaecter lase nranannead ic mara variad and lace mal.

brilliant, more prodigal of images than the two great representatives of
Greece and Rome, joined facility to energy, grace to majesty. His phi-

lasanhv th a eharacter Jase nranannead ic mara variad and lease mal.

brilliant, ‘more prodigal of images than the two great representatives of
Greece and Rome, joined facility to energy, grace to majesty. His phi-

lasanhyv with a eharaecter lase nranannead ic mara variad and lace mal.

brilliant, more prodigal of images than the two great representatives of
Greece and Rome, joined facility to energy, grace to majesty. His phi-

lasanhyv with a eharaecter lase nranannead ic mara variad and lace mal.

brilliant, more prodigal of images than the two great representatives of
Greece and Rome, joined facility to energy, grace to majesty. His phi-

lasanhv th a eharacter Jase nranannead ic mara variad and lease mal.

brilliant, ‘more prodigal of images than the two great representatives of
Greece and Rome, joined facility to energy, grace to majesty. His phi-

lasanhyv with « eharacter Jace nranoanneaad ie mara wariad and lace mal.
brilliant, more prodigal of images than the two great representatives of
Greece and Rome, joined facility to energy, grace to majesty. His phi-
lasanhyv with « eharacter Jace nranoanneaad ie mara wariad and lace mal.
brilliant, more prodigal of images than the two great representatives of
Greece and Rome, joined facility to energy, grace to majesty. His phi-

lasanhv th a eharacter Jase nranannead ic mara variad and lease mal.

brilliant, more prodigal of im 1ages than the two great representatives of
