el
. a

ee : ‘a * ae ey .
Reet ih *, Se % nf A

ba ar | ee ( un ys mn, i i Ae,

a B38 * aes race a ‘, ‘ ie —
Pentti itnat yee) t

“ Be
na a

a fe " sats
Se w > < ee 3 Ste meet ‘eo

PE IN

ee aeesesaae
Raa

2.
.s

in :

set Geese
ETRE

i oe poe ae Eis os f
a
a ee ae
be teen Bee
Pelsluiepdetcetieas te

a
19s.

not

- oy ; 3
Sete :

pie

eH HwN,
Chas
7
Fores?

ats

Le ;

eee
a sess

chp a a

mJ
cab |
7
=f

5

aia WG

ares.
ioe

Oe

eo eee
i == aes

-
ee ae

ese eC
ANNUAL REPORT
PO OF REGHRNTS
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION OF
THE INSTITUTION

ror

ape iey. ey Aur, Sa:

WASH UNGDTON:
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE.
1878.
FORTY-FIFTH CONGRESS—SECOND SESSION.
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES.

APRIL 25, 1878.

The following resolution was agreed to by the Senate March 6, 1878, and concurred
in by the House of Representatives April 24, 1873:

Resolved by the Senate (the House of Representatives concurring), That ten thousand five
hundred copies of the Report of the Smithsonian Institution for the year 1877 be
printed ; one thousand copies of which shall be for the use of the Senate, three thou-
sand copies of which shall be for the use of the House of Representatives, and six
thousand five hundred copies for the use of the Smithsonian Institution : Provided,
That the aggregate number of pages shall not exceed five hundred, and that there be
no illustrations except those furnished by the Smithsonian Institution.

April 25, 1878.

Attest:

GEO. C. GORHAM,
Secretary.

By W. J. McDONALD,
Chief Clerk.

| Os Dad Nid Ad i

FROM THE

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

ACCOMPANYING

The annual report of the Board of Regents of that Institution for the year
1877.

FEBRUARY 15, 1872.—Ordered to be printed.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, February 6, 1878.
Sir: In behalf of the Board of Regents, I have the honor to submit
to the Congress of the United States the annual report of the operations,
expenditures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year
1877.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JOSEPH HENRY,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution.
Hon. W. A. WHEELER,
President of the Senate.
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SMITHSONIAN: INSTITUTION FOR
THE YEAR 1877.

CON EON IES:

1. Annual report of the Secretary, giving an account of the operations
and condition of the establishment for the year 1577, with the statistics of
collections, exchanges, &c.

2. Report of the Executive Committee, exhibiting the financial affairs
of the Institution, including a statement of the Smithson fund, the re-
ceipts and expenditures for the year 1877, and the estimates for 1578.

3. Proceedings of the Board of Regents for the session of January,
1878.

4, General appendix, consisting principally of translations from foreign
journals or works not generally accessible, but of interest to the collab-
orators and correspondents of the Institution, teachers, and others in-
terested in the promotion of knowledge.

4
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

RUTHERFORD B. HAYES, President of the United States, ex oficio Presiding Officer.
MORRISON R. WAITE, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor of the Insti-
tution (President of the Board of Regents).

JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary (Director of the Institution).
SPENCER F. BAIRD, Assistant Secretary (Superintendent of the National Museum.)
WILLIAM J. RHEES, Chief Clerk.

Pe Ne Ss: OR TRY TNS 2 LruU PYLON.

MORRISON R. WAITE, Chief Justice of the United States, President.
WILLIAM. A. WHEELER, Vice-President of the United States.
HANNIBAL HAMLIN, member of the Senate of the United States.
AARON A. SARGENT, member of the Senate of the United States.
ROBERT E. WITHERS, member of the Senate of the United States.
HIESTER CLYMER, member of the House of Representatives.
ALEXANDER H. STEPHENS, member of the House of Representatives.
JAMES A. GARFIELD, member of the House of Representatives.
JOHN MACLEAN, citizen of New Jersey.

PETER PARKER, citizen of Washington, D. C.

ASA GRAY, citizen of Massachusetts.

HENRY COPPEE, citizen of Pennsylvania.

GEORGE BANCROFT, citizen of Washington, D. C.

NOAH PORTER, citizen of Connecticut.

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

PETER PARKER. JOHN MACLEAN. GEORGE BANCROFT.

MEMBERS EX OFFICIO OF THE INSTITUTION.

RUTHERFORD B. HAYES, President of the United Sates.
WILLIAM A. WHEELER, Vice-President of the United States.
MORRISON R. WAITE, Chief Justice of the United States.
WILLIAM M. EVARTS, Secretary of State.

JOHN SHERMAN, Secretary of the Treasury.

GEORGE W. McCRARY, Secretary of War.

RICHARD W. THOMPSON, Secretary of the Navy.

DAVID M. KEY, Postmaster-General.

CARL SCHURZ, Secretary of the Interior.

CHARLES DEVENS, Attorney-General.

ELLIS SPEAR, Commissioner of Patents.
OFFICERS AND ASSISTANTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTI-
TUTION AND NATIONAL MUSEUM, JANUARY, 1878.

JOSEPH HENRY,

Secretary, Director of the Institution.
SPENCER F. BAIRD,

Assistant Secretary, Superintendent of National Museum.
WILLIAM J. RHEES,

Chief Clerk.
DANIEL LEECH,

Clerk, Correspondence.
CLARENCE B. YOUNG,

Clerk, Accounts.
HERMANN DIEBITSCH,

Clerk, Foreign Buchanges.
JANE A. TURNER,

Clerk, Library.
MAGGIE E. GRIFFIN,

Clerk, Distribution of Publications.
SOLOMON G. BROWN,

Clerk, Transportation.

G. BROWN GOODE,
Assistant, Zoology.
EF. M. ENDLICH,
Assistant, Mineralogy.
ROBT. RIDGWAY,
Assistant, Ornithology.
TARLETON H. BEAN,
Assistant, Ichthyology.
CHAS. RAU,
Assistant, Archwology.
EDWARD FOREMAN,
Assistant, Lihnology.
F. H. CUSHING,
Assistant, Ethnology

JOSEPH PALMER,
Taxidermist.

T. W. SMILLIE,
Photographer.

JOSEPH HERRON,
Janilor.
REPORT OF JOSEPH HENRY, SECRETARY, FOR THE YEAR 1877.

To the Board of Regents of the Sinithsonian Institution :

GENTLEMEN: I have the honor herewith to present to you a report
of the operatious and condition of the Institution, intrusted to your care
by the Government of the United States, for the year 1877.

INTRODUCTION.

Nothing of special importance has occurred during the past year to
vary the conditions and operations of the establishment, while from the
following report I think it will be evident that it has continued faith-
fully to discharge the duties assigned it by the will of the founder, as
well as to carry out the directions preseribed by Congress in the act of
its organization.

In the last report a full account was given of the operations of the
Institution in connection with the Centennial Exhibition, and in rela-
tion to this the Board of Regents addressed a memorial to Congress, ask-
ing for an appropriation of $250,000 for the erection of a new building,
principally to accommodate the articles presented by foreign governments
to the National Museum under the care of the Institution. <A bill in
favor of this petition was presented to the Senate by the Hon. Mr. Mor-
rill, of Vermont, which passed without opposition. It failed, however,
to pass the House of Representatives, although a majority of the mem-
bers approved of it, because it could not be brought before the House
without a two-thirds vote in favor of its consideration. The same
bil] will again be presented, and the hope is confidently entertained that
it will receive the approbation of Congress. In anticipation of this re-
sult a plan of the building has been prepared under the direction of
General Meigs.

In the two preceding reporis I have called the attention of the Board
of Regents to the propriety cf a final separation of the Institution from
the National Museum, and nothing has occurred during the past year to
change my opinion on this point. Although I do not urge this for im-
mediate action, yet I think it should be kept in view, and the proposi-
tion at a favorable time presented to Congress. Myreason for advocating
this proposition is that Smithson gave his own name to the establish-
ment which he founded, thereby indicating that he intended it as a monu-
ment to his memory, and in strict regard to this feature of his will his
bequest should be administered separately from all other funds and the
results achieved by it, accredited to his name alone. The Institution,

7
8 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

therefore, should not be merged in any establishment of the government,
but should stand isolated, free to the unobstructed observation of the
whole world, keeping in per tual remembrance the will of its founder.

The functions of the Institution and the Museum are entirely differ-
ent; those of the Institution being—first, to enlarge the bounds of
human thought by assisting men of science to make original investi-
gations in all branches of knowledge, to publish these at the expense
of the Smithson fund, and to present copies of them to all the principal
libraries of the world; second, to institute investigations in various
branches of science and explorations for the collection of specimens in
natural history and ethnology to be distributed to museums and other
establishments; third, to diffuse knowledge by carrying on an extended
international series of exchanges by which the accounts of all the orig-
inal researches in science, the educational progress, and the general
advance of civilization in the New World are exchanged for similar
works of the Old World. To carry out this plan the Institution requires
no costly building, but merely accommodations for receiving and dis-
tributing its collections. .

The Museum, on the other hand, is intended to embrace a collec.
tion of specimens of nature and art which shall exhibit the natural
resources and industries of the country, or to present at one view the
materials essential to the condition of high civilization which exists in
the different States of the American Union; to show the various pro-
cesses of manufacture which have been adopted by us, as well as those
used in foreign countries; in short, to form a great educational estab-
lishment by means of which the inhabitants of our own country, as well
as those of foreign lands who visit our shores, may be informed as to
the means which exist in the United States for the enjoyment of human
life in the present, and the improvement of these means in the future.

The support of such an establishment must, of necessity, be derived
from Congress, and no part of the income of the Smithson fund should
be devoted to this purpose, since it is evident from the will of Smithson
that he intended his benefaction for the good of mankind, and therefore
all expenditures on local objects, or even on those limited to the United
States, are not in conformity with the intentions of the donor. A very
objectionable result of the present connection of the two establishments
is the necessity for the Institution to appeal to Congress annually for an
appropriation for the support of the Museum, whereby the Institution is
presented to the world as a suppliant for aid, although, for carrying out
the legitimate objects of the bequest, no annual appropriation from the
public Treasury is necessary.

The whole of the Smithsonian building is now required for the National
Museum, and, in case of the separation, a new building should be provided
for the accommodation of the Institution; and when the financial con-
dition of the country shall be better, I trust the sense of justice of the
people of the United States will induce Congress to restore to the funds
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 0

of Smithson at least a part of the $500,000 which have been expended
on the building from the income of the Smithson bequest. I know that
the present is a very unfavorable time for presenting this proposition to
Congress, but I do not despair of its being fuvorably received hereafter.

Among the minor incidents of the year was the reception of a letter
from M. de la Batut, of Belz, France, the haif-brother of the nephew of
Smithson, to whom he bequeathed his property, and in case of whose
death it was to be devoted to founding the Smithsonian Institution.
With this letter was a miniature likeness of James Smithson and another
of Colonel Dickinson, the half-brother of Smithson, which were offered
for sale to the Institution, and were finally purchased for the sum of
$100. Accompanying these portraits was what appeared to be the
original draft of Smithson’s will, slightly differing in one particular
from that previously published in the Smithsonian report for 1853, and
also a Series of notes addressed to Smithson by some of the most dis-
tinguished scientists of his day. Among these are those from Oersted,
Arago, Biot, Lester, Tennant, Klaproth, and others, which would be
highly prized by coltectors of autographs, and which serve to show the
intimate association of Smithson with the most distinguished cultivators
of science at the beginning of the present century.

There are now in the Institution three likenesses of Smithson, one a
small full-length picture, which was purchased from his servant, John
Fittall, and represents him in the costume of a student at Oxford ;
another, a small medallion, which was among his effects ; and the third
is the one above mentioned. As a part of the legacy of Smithson there
were received a small library and several large trunks filled with cloth-
ing, some articles of apparatus, a silver-plated dinner set, two small
cabinets of minerals, and a large collection of papers, including corre-
spondence. All of these, except the library, were destroyed in the fire
of 1865, The effects were, however, of little value, except as mementos.
The manuscripts consisted principally of private letters and a series of

sentences arranged according to the letters of the alphabet, as if they

were intended tora philosophical dictionary. ‘The library, which is still
preserved, consists of 125 volumes and 838 pamphiets, and is preserved
in a separate case in the Regents’ room of the Institution.

In the report of the Institution for 1853 I gave a list of the scientific
papers of Smithson which were published in the Transactions of the
Royal Society of London and in scientific periodicals. Although at the
present day there is nothing in these papers of very special interest, since
the facts which he communicated have since been merged in the general
progress of science, yet it might be well to republish them in a separate
volume as an illustration of the character of the founder of the Institu-
tion and to mark his connection with the science of his day.

In the report for the year 1876 an account was accidentally omitted
of the decease of Fielding B. Meek, an esteemed collaborator of this
iO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Institution, who oecupied for upward of twenty years a room in the
Smithsonian building and assisted without salary in the operations of
the establishment. He was devoted to paleontology, and was one of the
principal authorities in the country in the line of fossil shells. At the
time of his death he had just completed a large volume on the paleon-
tology of the Upper Missouri, published in connection with Dr. Hay-
den’s surveys. He was obliged on account of his health to spend his
winters in Florida, but, delaying his departure too long and unduly exert-
ing himself the day before he intended to leave, he was seized with a
hemorrhage, and, after an illness of a few days, died on the 21st December,
1876. He was born in the city of Madison, Ind., December 10, 1817, and
had therefore just completed his fifty-ninth year at the time of his death.
His grandparents were Irish Presbyterians, who emigrated to this country
from the county of Armagh about the year 1768. His father died when
he was but three years old, leaving the family in moderate circumstances.
He was educated in the public schools of Madison. His attention was
early attracted to the fossil shells so abundant in the rocks in the vi-
einity of his home. Arriving at the age of manhood, he invested the
small sum received from his father’s estate in mercantile business, but
having no taste for that occupation, and neglecting it to pursue his stud-
ies, a failure was the consequence. He then devoted bimself as a means
of livelihood to portrait-painting, continuing his scientific studies, espe-
cially in the line of geology. In the year 1848 he was associated with
David Dale Owen in the geological survey of Iowa and Minnesota, and
in 1852 became an assistant to Professor Hall in the preparation of the
paleontology of the State of New York. Under the direction of Profess-
or Hall he explored the Bad Lands of Nebraska, and collected a valuable
series of fossils. In 1858 he came to Washington, where he resided con-
tinuously to the time of his death, leaving the city for a few months only
from time to time while engaged in studying the paleontology of Iilinois,
Ohio, and California, and later in Florida during the winter on account
of his health. During his residence in the Institution he gradually lost
his hearing, and could only be communicated with by means of writing.
He gradually withdrew from social intercourse, and devoted his life ex-
clusively to the prosecution of science. He was in correspondence with
the principal investigators of the world in the line of paleontology, and
although scarcely known in this city his name was familiar to the culti-
vators of geology everywhere. He was aman of singular truthfulness
and critical accuracy, and was highly esteemed by the few who had the
pleasure of his acquaintance. His death has been widely announced in
all the scientific journals of the day, but no relative has appeared to
claim his property. As secretary of the Institution with which he had
been so long connected, I considered it my duty to assume the office of
adininistrator, and as a year has now elapsed since the time of his decease
Tam about to make a report of the condition of his estate to the or-
phans’ court of the District of Columbia. The final disposition of his
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 11

property, which is partly in lands in IKansas, cannot be determined at
present, and if not claimed by heirs may possibly require the action of
Congress.

MEETING OF TOE ESTABLISHMENT.

The law of Congress organizing the Smithsonian Institution direets
that the President and his Cabinet, the Chief Justice, the Commissioner
of Patents, and such other persons as they may eect honorary members,
may hold stated and special meetings for inspecting the affairs of the
fustitution, and, in accordance with this provision, a meeting of that
body was held on the 5th of May, 1877. There were present the Presi-
dent of the United States, R. B. Hayes; the Secretary of State, W. M.
Evarts; the Secretary of the re ieniy Joan Sherman; the Secretary
of War, George W. McCrary ; the Secretary of the Interior, Carl Schurz;
the Attorney-General, Charles Devens, and the Postmaster-General, D.
Ne Key.

The Secretary of the Institution, whois also the secretary of this body,
gave a full account of the history, operations, and state of the finances
of the Institution; and, after listening to it with interested attention, the
President, on behalf of the meeting, expressed the opinion that the con-
dition and management of the Institution were entirely satisfactory, and
that they had no improvement to suggest. After inspecting the build-
ing, the museum, and the system of exchanges, and examining the a
Teens, the eecnine adjourned to meet on the 1st Tuesday in vem 1878

FINANCES

The condition of the funds is nearly the same as in 1876. The only
difference is a diminution in the marketable value of the Virginia bonds
which has fallen from $42,000 to $34,562. This decline was occasioned
by propositions made in the legislature of the State which were thought
to savor of repudiation, but those propositions have not met with fa-
vorable consideration, and it is now sean expected that the bonds
will again advance in value.

The following is a statement of the condition of the fund at the begin-
ning of the year 1878:

The amount originally received as the bequest of James

Smithson, of England, deposited in the Treasury of the

United States in accordance with the act of Congress of

PN RSA lo va aye) a ee Sa fs et Naa iia oe $515, 169 00
Tne residuary legacy of Smithson, received in 1865, depos-

ited in the Treasury of the United States in accordance

with the act of Congress of February 8, 1867........ 26, 210 63

Total bequest of Smithson.-.....-........ Sere isis 541,379 65
Amount deposited in the Treasury of the United States,
as authorized by act of Congress of February 8, 1867,
derived from savings of income and increase in value of

RWG SOTIC TA Lem rere ya Gy ere ee es Oy 108, 620 37
12 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Amount received as the bequest of James Hamilton, of
@arlisie,- Pa., February, 24, (8f402 222-26: Sees ae $1,000 00

Total permanent Smithson fund in the Treasury of
the United States, bearing interest at 6 per cent.,

payable semi-annually in gold........-..2-...22 691, 000 OO
In addition to the above, there remains of the extra fund
from savings, &c., in Virginia bonds and certificates, viz:
Consolidated bonds, $58,700; deferred certificates, $29,-
375.07; fractional certificate, $50.15; apt: $88,125.20,

Valued January. 1Si8 020s Nase See dnp toil ame MetPa 34, 562 00

Cash balance in United States Treasury at the beginning
of the: year 1s7s for ‘current (CXpeDSes \- eee eee 20, 083 90
Total Smithson funds January 6, 187S*.......-..=. $710, 645 90

The receipts during the year 1877 were $49,007.62, and the expendi-
tures $44,952.90, leaving a balance of $4,054.72 to be added to the bal-
ance on hand at the beginning of 1877.

The interest on the Virginia bonds received during the year was
$2,885.76, realized from the sale of coupons amounting to $3,522.

The interest on the Hamilton bequest of $1,000 has been received to
the 31st December, 1877. There is now a balance on hand of interest
amounting to $96.17, which will be available during the present year, in
accordance with the terms of the bequest.

BUILDING.

Attention having been specially called to the condition of the public
buildings in this city, on account of the destruction by fire of part of
the Patent Office, it was deemed advisable to give additional security
to the valuable collections deposited in the Smithsonian edifice. The
main building, which contains the National Museum, is entirely fire- proof,
but the connecting ranges and the two wings are not so. It was there.
fore highly desirable that the main building should be entirely isolated
from the ranges and wings. Yor this purpose the large windows facing
the wings were bricked up, and all the doorways leading from the
museum into the ranges either bricked up or fitted with iron instead of
wooden doors. The carpenter’s and machinist’s shops were removed to
the main basement and inclosed in brick walls. The storage rooms were
made fire proof by replacing wooden partitions and floors, by those of
brick. In the high central tower brick partitions have been constructed
ou the stairways, to prevent the passage of fire from one story to another.

PUBLICATIONS.

The publications of the Institution are of three classes, viz, the Con-
TRIBUTIONS TO KNOWLEDGE, the MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS, and

*The date at which the settlement of the accounts for 1877 was made.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. iS

the ANNUAL Rrports. The first consists of memoirs containing positive
additions to science resting on original research, and which are generally
the result of investigations to which the Institution has, in some way,
rendered assistance. The Miscellaneous Collections are composed of
works intended to facilitate the study of various branches of natural his-
tory, meteorology, &c., and are principally designed to induce individuals
to engage in these studies as specialties. The Annual Reports, besides
an account of the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Insti-
tution, contain translations from works not generally accessible to Amer-
ican students, reports of lectures, extracts from correspondence, &e.

The following are the rules which have been adopted for the distribu-
tion of the several publications of the institution:

Ist. They are presented to learned societies of the first class which in
return give complete series of their publications to the Institution.

2d. To libraries of the first class which give in exchange their cata-
logues and other publications, or an equivalent from their duplicate
volumes.

od. To eslleges of the first class which furnish catalogues of their
libraries and of their students, and all other publications relative to
their organization and history.

4th. To States and Territories, provided they give in return copies of
all documents published under their authority.

oth. To public libraries in this country, containing 15,000 volumes,
especialiy if no other copies are given in thesame place; and to smaller
libraries where a large district would be otherwise unsupplied.

6th. To institutions devoted exclusively to the promotion of particu-
lar branches of knowledge are given such Smithsonian publications as
relate to their respective objects.

7th. The Annual Reports are presented to the meteorological observ-
ers, to contributors of valuable material to the library or collections,
and to persons engaged in special scientific research.

The most important memoir accepted during the year for publication
in the Smithsonian Contributions is entitled ““Archelogical and Ethno-
logical Researches in Central and South America, with a Detailed Ac-
count of the Sculptures at Santa Lucia Cosumalwhuapa,” by Dr. Habel,
of New York. This gentleman, having an ardent desire to make an ex-
ploration of the physical geography and anthropology of Central Amer-
ica, relinquished his medical practice in 1862, and commenced a tour of
exploration in that region. In the course of seven years which he de-
voted to these explorations he made collections in natural history and
observations in neteorology, topography, geology, and archeology. On
arriving at Guatemala he made that city his headquarters, from which
four excursions were undertaken.

The first was directed to an unexplored region lying north of Guate-
mala, reported to be inhabited by the Lacandones, a tribe said never to
have been subdued by Europeans. On the route, Dr. Habel heard of
14 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

the remains of two cities near Rabinal, one of which, twelve miles from
the town, he visited. These ruins occupy the summits of three hills, and
some of the edifices are tolerably well preserved. The most conspicuous
one was 100 feet long by 30 feet broad. Its floor was elevated four steps
above the ground, and the walls left standing were about 6 feet high.
It seems to have had four entrances, one on each side. The interior
space was 18 feet broad by nearly 90 feet long. All the buildings were
constructed of thin slabs of mica-gneiss laid in courses like bricks and
united by a granular kind of mortar. The walls had been plastered out-
side and inside. On the side of the hill were found arrow-leads and
spear-points of obsidian and other minerals.

Arriving at Salinas there were found vestiges of the ancient popula-
tion in a squared-stone pyramid, heaps of broken pottery, We. A vo-
cabulary of the Egkschi language was collected. After waiting a month
for a boat to convey him to his intended destination, he was obliged to
relinquish the attempt and return to Guatemala.

The second exploration was to the borders of Mexico, and ancient ruius
were visited at Guequetenango, Palyah, and Sayeap.

Cn the third excursion the sculptures of Copan, in Honduras, de-
seribed by Stephens and others, were visited. Those of Guirigua are
of great archelogical interest. These are of various sizes and shapes,
the tallest being of columnar form abort 25 feet high, while others do
not exceed 12 feet. All of them have four sculptured sides, the front
and rear being the widest. The narrow sides of all the columnar mon-
oliths are covered with hieroglyphics resembling those found in Copan.

The fourth excursion was undertaken to visit a newly discovered series
of sculptures at Santa Lucia Cosumalhuapa, the description of which
forms the principal part of this memoir. On the way to this place very
interesting sculptures were found on the plain near the Hacienda los
Tarros, which exhibit fine workmanship and represent human figures
in high relief. They are 5 feet 9 inches high, 3 feet 7 inches broad, and
1 foot 8 inches deep, standing on a base 10 inches high.

Before describing the objects found at Santa Lucia the author gives
an account of some other expeditions. The first of these was to the Re-
public of Honduras, but no archeological objects were observed. Vocab-
ularies and valuable information, however, were collected from various
native tribes.

A visit was also made to Nicaragua, where a sculptured figure was
seen on the corner-stone of a house, and other remains were found in
and near the town. <A grotesque figure was observed sculptured on a
rock, forming the bank of a brook, which is the only instance of sculp-
ture found by the doctor on rocks in situ.

A visit to Costa Rica did not produce any results of interest. The
largest field for archaeological discoveries is considered by Dr. Habel to
be found in San Salvador, and an account is given of several sculptures
and mounds he examined there.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 15

Leaving Central America, Dr. Habel visited parts of Colombia, Eeua-
dor, and Peru, which he found rich in architectural structures erected
by the ancient inhabitants. Descriptions and measurements of some ot
these are given in the memoir.

The author, however, as we have said, devotes the principal part of
this work to a description of the monoliths at Santa Lucia Cosumal-
huapa, a small town in the Department of Esquintla, near the base of the
volcano del Fuego, at the commencement of the slope which extends from
the mountain range to the Pacilic coast. The village is of comparatively
modern origin and is in the midst of an extensive orange-grove, which
yields so abundantly that the fruit is almost given away, and the great
number of trees is accounted for by the custom prevailing of planting
a tree by each head of a family at the birth of each child. A short time
before the arrival of Dr. Habel in the country the monoliths had been
discovered by a man who, in digging a field to prepare the ground for
planting cotton, came upon a large pile of stones which, on examination,
were found to be sculptured. To make drawings of these was no easy
task, for the dirt and moss attached to them had to be removed—a very
tedious work. To secure true copies of the originals, strings were
stretched over each slab, six inches apart, thus dividing them into squares.
The sketch-book was ruled in squares of half an inch, and in each of these
a copy of a square of the slab was drawn, making the drawings all one-
twelfth the linear size of the original. The slabs form an extended heap,
rendering it probable that there are others hidden from view which
further researches would reveal. All the sculptures are in low relief,
nearly all being in cavo-relicvo; that is, surrounded by a raised border.
In seven instances the sculpture represents, according to the author, a
person adoring a deity of a different mythological conception in each
case. One of these seems to represent the sun, another the moon, while
the character of the others it is impossible to define. These deities are
represented by a human figure, of which the head, arms, and breast are
correctly portrayed. Jour of the other sculptures represent allegorical
subjects. The stones on which the low reliefs are sculptured came from
the volcano of Ocatenango, and most of them are 12 feet in length, 3 feet
in width, and 2 feet in thickness. Nine feet of the upper part of these
stones are occupied by sculptures, while the lower 3 feet appear to have
served as a base. Very minute descriptions are given of each of these
sculptures, and au attempt is made by the author to explain the signifi-
cance of all the emblems, ornaments, figures, &c., forming the design
on each slab.

The author also indulges in speculations as to the origin and symbol
ism of the sculptures, which are ingenious, novel, and many of them
apparently very reasonable, while others will undcubtedly be accepted
with much hesitation, and will perhaps be rejected as untenable by
students of archeology.

The author was invited to visit Washington, where a room was pro-
16 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

vided for him at the Institution and the drawings of these sculptures
were reproduced by an artist under his personal supervision and con-
stant instruction. The expense of the preparation of the manuscript
and illustrations as well as of the publication has been borne by the
Smithsonian Institution. The publication of the work was recommended
by several of the leading archeologists of the country, and in a report
in regard to it Prof. W. D. Whitney remarks, “‘ It seems to me a story
refreshing by its brevity and simplicity, very unlike the pompous and
boastful way in which such things are often heralded. One may not
agree with all the inferences drawn at the end, but that is a matter of
very small importance; no two persons would arrive at precisely the
same conclusions. So far as I can judge, the Institution has every rea-
son to take pleasure and pride in the issue of such a contribution to Amer-
ican archeology.” The sculptures represented are of such a remark-
able character that it has been thought advisable to iastitute some fur-
ther inquiries in regard to their present condition; and, fortunately, an
opportunity has occurred which enables the Institution to do this
without making any draft upon its income. The Government of Guate-
mala having requested the Government of the United States to nomi-
nate a competent geologist to make explorations of mines in the former
country, the Secretary of State referred the matter to the Secretary of
the Smithsonian Institution, who nominated Mr. Arnold Hague, who
had been engaged on the survey of the fortieth parallel under Clarence
King, a gentleman well qualified to discharge the duties intrusted to
him. He has been requested to visit the region in question and to report
on the state of the sculptures described in the memoir of Dr. Habel as
well as on any archeological remains of interest wnich he may meet
with in the course of his explorations in the country.

In previous reports a paper has been mentioned which is the result
of the investigations of the late Prof. Henry J. Clark relative to Lucer-
naria, a class of animals formerly regarded as polyps, but more recently
associated with the acalephe or sea-nettles and jelly-fishes. It was
presented to the Institution several years ago, but the publication
has been delayed by a series of unexpected hindrances. Much delay
was experienced at first in obtaining proper engravings of the very
minute and complicated drawings to illustrate the work, and before these
were completed the author was called from this life, in the flower of his
age and in the midst of a series of successful investigations. After his
death it was found difficult to obtain the services of a person sufficiently
acquainted with the subject to read the proof.sheets, but during the
year the printing has been commenced under the supervision of Prof.
A. E. Verrill, of Yale College. Unfortunately, another delay has been
occasioned by the ill-health of this gentleman. We hope, however, that
the work will be completed in the course of a month or two and will be
ready for distribution at an early day.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 17

During the year 1877, a paper has been published in the ‘ Contribu-
tions to Knowledge” on the “ Internal structure of the earth considered
as affecting the phenomena of precession and nutation,” by General J.
G. Barnard, United States Army. This is a supplementary article to
one by the same author published in the nineteenth volume of Contribu-
tions, and was read before the National Academy of Sciences at its ses-
sion in April, 1877.

For several years past Mr. P. P. Carpenter, author of the “ Lectures
on Mollusea,” and the ‘* Mollusks of Western North America,” published
by the Institution, has been engaged in the preparation of a monograph
of the Chitonide, or coat-of-mail shells, a remarkable group of shell-fish.
An appropriation was made in 1877 to enable him to have drawings pre-
’ pared of rare type-specimens in Europe. We regret to state, however,
that before his work was completed Mr. Carpenter died at Montreal, on
the 24th May,1877. Hewas the son of the well-known Dr. Lant Carpenter,
and a member of a family distinguished by great gifts. He was born in
Bristol, England, in 1819, and after graduating at the University of Edin-
burgh became a minister of the gospel. He early manifested a taste
for natural history, particularly of the mollusks, which he made his
special study during his life. He presented to the British Museum his
own collection of shells, consisting of 8,873 specimens, all determined,
and many of them described by himself. In 1859 he visited America,
where he was engaged in determining the collections of shells in the
Smithsonian Institution and other museums. His manuscripts were
left in an imperfect condition, and partly written in an obsolete phono-
graphic short-hand. An attempt at having this short-hand deciphered
is being made, by the help of his brother, the Rev. Russell L. Car-
penter, of Bridport, England. A large number of beautiful drawings
of the shells and soft parts of the various genera had been prepared
at the cost of the Institution, and the manuscript, or such portions of it
as may be made available, have been placed in the hands of Mr. W. H.
Dall for revision, with a view to their ultimate publication. It is
believed that this monograph will form a valuable contribution to the
knowledge of the invertebrate animals of the world.

In the report for 1875 it was stated that 184 pages had been stereo-
typed of the Botanical Index prepared by Prof. Sereno Watson. This
work is intended to facilitate the labors of botanists, especially in the
study of the plants of the western portions of the United States, by
furnishing references to all the published descriptions of species of the
flora of North America with lists of synonyms. The search for what
has been written frequently consumes more time and labor than all
the rest of a botanical investigation, and the present work has been
undertaken at the urgent solicitation of some of the principal botanists
of the country, who have also contributed to the expense of its prepara-
tion. Other duties of Professor Watson have been so engrossing that

258
18 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

he has not yet been able to complete this work. It is now proposed, as
recommended by Professor Gray, to publish the pages already stereo-
typed, as part 1, since this will cover the ground of volume 1 of Torrey
and Gray’s Flora of North America and be complete in itself as far as it
goes. A short preface will be given, and at the end an index to the
genera. It will include nearly 500 pages, and can be printed and distrib-
uted early in the year 1878.

The “Toner Lectures” have been instituted at Washington by Dr.
Joseph M. Toner, a practicing physician of this city, who has placed
in charge of a board of trustees, consisting of the Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution, the Surgeon-General of the United States
Army, the Surgeon-General of the United States Navy, and the presi-
dent of the Medical Society of the District of Columbia, a fund, the —
interest of which is to be applied annually for a memoir or essay rela-
tive to some branch of medical science, and containing some new truth
fully established by experiment or observation. As these lectures are
intended to increase and diffuse knowledge, the Institution has accepted
them for publication in its series of ‘‘ Miscellaneous Collections.” The
following is a list of the lectures already published:

1. On the structure of cancerous tumors and the mode in which adja-
cent parts are invaded. By Dr. J. J. Woodward. November, 1873.
44 pp. Svo.

2. The dual character of the brain. By Dr. C. E. Brown-Séquard.
January, 1877. 25 pp. 8vo.

3. Strain and overaction of the heart. By Dr. J. M. Da Costa. <Au-
gust, 1874. 32 pp. 8vo.

4, A study of the nature and mechanism of fever. By Dr. Horatio
C. Wood. February, 1875. 48 pp. 8vo.

5. On the surgical complications and sequels of the continued fevers.
By Dr. W. W. Keen. <April,.1877. 72 pp. Sve.

6. Subcutaneous surgery ; its principles and recent extension in prac-
tice. By Dr. William Adams. May,1877. 20pp. 8vo.

Of the above series, the second, fifth, and sixth have been published
during the past year. The second, by Dr. Brown-Séquard, was not
printed in its regular order on account of the failure of the author to
furnish the manuscript of the lecture, and it was finally published from
short-hand notes taken at the time by a reporter.

Appended to the lecture of Dr. Keen on fever is a bibliography,
including works referring more or less briefly to several diseases, viz:
1, diseases of the joints; 2, diseases of the bones; 3, diseases of the
larynx; 4, gangrene; 5, hematomata; 6, diseases of the eye; 7, phleg-
masia; 8, miscellaneous.

To defray in part the cost of printing these lectures, they are sold at
25 cents each.

The records of scientific discoveries have become so extended and
so distributed among works forming whole libraries, that to become
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 19

acquainted with what is known in any branch, would be a labor of such
magnitude as to form a serious obstacle to the advance of knowledge were
not means devised for facilitating this labor. The means adopted for
this end are classified indexes of special subjects in which may be found
everything of importance which has been published in regard to the
subject.

The Royal Society’s Catalogue of Scientific Papers is a boon to science,
and is of great importance to every original investigator, but it is
arranged solely under authors’ names, and contains only references to
papers appearing in periodicals published since 1800, excluding all books
published separately. To supplement this the Institution has pub-
lished during the year an index of books and memoirs relating to
nebulze and star clusters, by Prof. E. S. Holden, of the Washing-
ton Observatory. This index includes all papers, memoirs, and books
on nebule and clusters alphabetically arranged according to authors,
giving, for each reference, volume and page. Where the title of
a book or paper explains the subject of it, such title is, in general,
alone given. Where a paper is quite important its title is given, and if
necessary, a note more or less brief, expressive of its contents. The works
of the elder Herschel on these subjects are analyzed at considerable
length, in order partly to supply the great want of an edition of his col-
lected works. In the case of papers of minor interest, a reference to the
periodical, volume, and page is alone given (no title), and a note of its
purport. In addition to this, there is given a very condensed reference
to the papers in each periodical consulted. In this way a person con-
sulting the catalogue will find all the works of any author upon the gen-
eral subject, with brief notes of the contents of each paper; or again, any
person desiring to refer to the various papers on this subject contained
in any serial publication, as the Philosophical Transactions, for example,
will find references which will save him much time. The index is prac-
tically complete to the present date; it contains a complete list of all
published (and many unpublished) drawings of nebule and clusters, and
also an index to Sir William Herschel’s classes of nebula.

In the last two reports an account was given of a new series of publi-
cations to form part of the ‘‘ Miscellaneous Collections,” entitled ‘ Bul-
letins of the National Museum,” and intended to illustrate the collec-
tions of natural history and ethnology belonging to the United States,
of which the Smithsonian Institution is the custodian. They are pre-
pared at the request of the Institution by different individuals, and are
printed, by the authority of the Secretary of the Interior, at the Govern-
ment Printing Office.

Since the date of the last report, numbers 7, 8, and 9 of the Bulletins
have been published.

No. 7 is a contribution to the Natural History of the Hawaiian and
Fanning Islands and Lower California, by Dr. Thomas H. Streets, passed
assistant surgeon, United States Navy. The collection that furnished
20 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

the materials for this Bulletin were made by Dr. Streets while connected
with the North Pacific Surveying Expedition in 1873-75. The Fan-
ning group consists of four small coral islands, Christmas, Fanning,
Washington, or New York, and Palmyra. They are situated imme
diately north of the equator, extending from latitude 1° 57’ north to 5°
49’ north, and from longitude 157° 27’ west to 162° 11’ west. Three of
these islands have been terra incognita to the naturalist, and furnish
much new matter. This was particularly the case with Washington
Island, which is an obliterated atoll, having been lifted up by some
disturbing force, so as to close up the lagoon-outlet, and what was the
old salt-water lagoon is now a fresh-water lake. It is probable that the
salt-water of the lagoon has drained off through the light, porous soil,
and its place been supplied by rain-water. It is unfortunate that the
exigencies of the naval service did not permit of a longer stay at this
island, and especially that sufficient time was not given to investigate
the life in the fresh-water lake. During the half day which he was
allowed to remain on the island, Dr. Streets succeeded in fixing the
habitat of a lory (Coriphilus kuhli), which has long been a puzzle to
ornithologists, and he also discovered a diminutive species of the gad-
well duck inhabiting the lake. The specimens of the lory brought
home by Dr. Streets are, it is believed, the only ones in this country;
and they are exceedingly rare in the museums of Europe. The island is
densely covered with vegetation, the cocoanut-palm tree predominating.
The collection represents the complete avi-fauna of the group during
the winter months, with two or three exceptions. A point of interest
im connection with the fish collection is that it extends the area of dis-
tribution of many species that were previously confined to the East
Indian region. The conditions surrounding life on the southernmost
island of the group, Christmas, were generally found to be very different
from that on the others; and in cases where it was the same, the habits
of the species were observed to be greatly modified. The notes accom-
panying the names of the sea-birds are thought to be very interesting
in this connection. Purely land-life, as is natural to be supposed, is
very scantily represented on the islands. On Palmyra there was found
aminute shell, a Tornatellina, and a land-leech, that fastened itself upon
the eyelids of the young birds. Rats and house-flies are abundant, but
neither are indigenous. In addition to the land-birds already men-
tioned, there was also observed on Washington a bird resembling a fly-
catcher. Giant land-crabs were numerous on the same island.

After the Portsmouth, on which Dr. Streets was stationed, had com-
pleted the survey of the Fanning group, he was transferred to the
Narragansett, which was making a survey of the west coast of Mexico.
This portion of the collection does not pretend to be exhaustive even
of any one locality, the nature of the work, a running survey, precluding
the idea of a protracted stay in one place. The elucidation of some
doubtful points in the history of two species of birds and an account
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 21

of the guano deposits in the Gulf of California are the only noteworthy
items in connection with the ornithology of this region. Angel Island
in the Gulf, was found to be the dwelling-place of two extremely rare
Arizonian reptiles. In regard to fish, two more species are added to the
number of those that are common to both the Atlantic and Pacific
shores of the American continent.

The eighth number of the Bulletin is an index to the names which
have been applied, previous to the year 1877, to the subdivisions of the
class Brachiopoda excluding the Rudistes, by William H. Dall, of the
United States Coast Survey. The Brachiopods are among the most
characteristic forms by which geological strata are co-ordinated. Many
genera have been described in little-known works by European authors,
and many others inobscure American publications. Mostofthenames ap-
plied to these generaare duplications of one another. Americanand Euro-
pean authors have been retarded in their classification of the Brachiopods
by this undigested synonymy. Mr. W. H. Dall has collected the his-
tory of all the names which have been applied to members of this group
both properly and improperly, and added notes on their synonymy, rela-
tions and a geological table of the strata in which each group is
found. This index affords the means for properly naming the national
collection of these fossils, and it has received the approbation of Mr.
Thomas Davidson, F. BR. S., of England, the highest authority living
on the subject of Brachiopoda. It is shown by this list that of sixteen
families of Brachiopods, six have living representatives, one more than
appear to have been represented during the Cambrian epoch, while but
two of the Cambrian families have survived. All those living in Creta-
ceous times have endured till now. All now living had Paleozoic rep-
resentatives, while half the Paleozoic families do not appear to have
survived the changes which introduced the Mezozoic time. This work
is an octavo of 88 pages.

The ninth Bulletin is entitled “Contributions to North American
Ichthyology based primarily on the collections of the United States
National Museum. Part I. Review of Rafinesque’s Memoirs on North
American Fishes.” By Prof. D.S. Jordan. The object of the author of
this paper is to present a series of identifications of the species of fresh-
water fishes described by Rafinesque in his ‘“ Ichthyologia Ohiensis ”
and elsewhere, the result of nearly three years of field-work in the region
explored by Rafinesque. It forms an octavo pamphlet of 53 pages.

Annual report.—The annual report of the operations of the Institution
for the year 1876, was presented to Congress on the 16th day of Feb-
ruary, 1877, and on the 28th of February a resolution was adopted by
Congress ordering an edition to be printed of 10,500 copies, of which
1,000 were to be for the use of the Senate, 3,000 for the House of Rep-
resentatives, and 6,500 for the use of the Institution. This was a reduc-
tion in the number usually ordered for distribution by the Institution of
1,000 copies.
22 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

The appendix to the report for 1876 contains translations of Arago’s
Eulogy on Gay-Lussac; Fialho’s Biographical Sketch of Dom Pedro I;
Pilar on the Revolutions of the Crust of the Earth; and Blondel on
Jade; besides original articles on Kinetic Theories of Gravitation, by
William B. Taylor; the Asteroids between Mars and Jupiter, by Prof.
Daniel Kirkwood ; the Latimer Collection of Antiquities from Porto Rico,
by Prof. Otis T. Mason; Antiquities in Guatemala, by the Hon. George
Williamson; Collections of Historical Documents in Guatemala, by Dr. C.
H. Berendt; Observations on the Prehistoric Mounds of Grant County,
Wisconsin, by Moses Strong; Deposits of Flint Implements, by Dr. J.
F. Snyder; Ancient Mica Mines in North Carolina, by C. D. Smith; a
Double-walled Earthwork in Ashtabula County, Ohio, by Stephen D.
Peet; an Ancient Implement of Wood, by E. W. Ellsworth; Centennial
Mission to the Indians of Western Nevada and California; Indian Forts
and Dwellings, by Dr. W. E. Doyle; and the Sioux or Dakota Indians,
by Col. Albert G. Brackett.

ANTUROPOLOGY.

Anthropology, or what may be considered the natural history of man,
is at present the most popular branch of science. It absorbs a large
share of public attention and many original investigators are assiduously
devoted to it. Its object is to reconstruct, as it were, the past history
of man, to determine his specific peculiarities and general tendencies.
It has already established the fact that a remarkable similarity exists in
the archeological instruments found in all parts of the world with those
in use among tribes still in a savage or barbarous condition. The con-
clusion is supported by evidence which can scarcely be doubted, that by
thoroughly studying the manners and customs of savages and the instru-
ments employed by them, we obtain a knowledge of the earliest history
of nations which have attained the highest civilization.

It is remarkable in how many cases customs existing among highly
civilized peoples are found to be survivals of ancient habits. Indeed it
is asserted, and with at least apparent truth, that every unmeaning
ceremony found in rural life in Europe and America, is a survival of
an important custom connected with an essential condition of life in the
aboriginal race. Hence, to clearly apprehend the manners and customs
of modern society, it is necessary to study them in connection with the
myths, the ceremonies, and the usages of ancient people.

American anthropology early occupied the attention of the Smithson-
ian Institution. ‘To collect all the facts which could be gathered in regard
to the archeology of North America, and also of its ethnology, or, in other
words, an account of its present Indian inhabitants, was considered a
prominent object in the plan of operations of the establishment. The
first volume of its Contributions, whereby its plan of intended operations
was illustrated, consists of an elaborate and expensive work on the
“Ancient Monuments of the Mississippi Valley”; and from the time of
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 23

the publication of this volume until the present, contributions of value
have been made annually by the Institution to this branch of knowledge.

During the past year small appropriations were made as usual for
opening mounds and collecting their contents, and larger ones to Mr. F.
A. Ober, for archzological explorations in the West Indies, and Stephen
Bowers for similar operations in California. The former gentleman has
succeeded in finding remnants of the ancient Carib tribes, and has
obtained photographs of the people and specimens of their handiwork.
His exploration bids fair to produce a valuable return for the money
expended. It is not confined to ethnology, but embraces collections in
all branches of natural history.

The exploration by Mr. Bowers was a continuation of one undertaken
in connection with Major Powell, and was made in the vicinity of Santa
Barbara and on the islands adjacent to Lower California. From this
exploration forty boxes of very interesting relics of the ancient inhabit-
ants of this country have been received. A full report of these will be
prepared by Major Powell. The entire series of objects obtained become
the property of the National Museum.

As will be seen from the exhibit of the executive committee, the whole
amount of money devoted to explorations during the year is $879.50.

The collection of the archeology and ethnology of America in the Na-
tional Museum is the most extensive in the world; and, in order to con-
nect it permanently with the name of Smithson, it has been thought
advisable to prepare and publish at the expense of the Smithson fund
an exhaustive work on American anthropology, in which the various
classes of specimens shall be figured and described.

For this purpose Mr. Charles Rau, formerly of New York, well known
for his contributions to American archeology, has been employed to
take charge of the work, with the assistance of skilled artists. He is
furnished with rooms in the building, and now devotes one-half of the
time to the arrangement of the archzxological museum, and the other to
the description of the specimens and the direction of the artists engaged
in delineating them.

The Institution has also lately entered upon a project it has long had in
contemplation, namely, the compilation of a map of the distribution and
character of thearchzological remains of North America. The prelimi-
nary arrangements for this work have been intrusted to Prof. Otis T.
Mason, of Columbian University, who has prepared a circular which wil
soon be published by the Institution.

in the last report it was stated that the large collection of Indian
vocabularies in possession of the Institution had been transferred to
Prof. J. W. Powell, to be incorporated with his series in his general
work on the ethnology of the Territories of the United States in course
of preparation and publication by the Interior Department. What has
been accomplished during the past year in relation to this work will be
seen in Professor Powell’s account of his explorations, given in the ap-
pendix to the report of the Secretary.
24 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Reference was made in the last report to the “ Instructions for research
relative to the ethnology and philology of America,” prepared in 1861
by Dr. George Gibbs, and the fact was stated that a new edition of this
work had been undertaken in behalf of the Institution by Professor
Powell. During the year 1877, a volume entitled ‘‘ Introduction to the
Study of Indian Languages” has been printed, and a few copies dis-
tributed among those interested in the study of Indian languages for
such additions and emendations as may be suggested preparatory to
final publication. In its preparation Professor Powell was assisted by
Prof. W. D. Whitney, the distinguished philologist.

METEOROLOGY.

The Institution during the past year has continued its labors in the
line of the reduction of meteorological observations. It has been espe-
cially engaged in the discussion of material for a new edition of the Rain-
fall Tables for North America. It has also reduced and printed the ob-
servations made by Professor Caswell at Providence, from the termina-
tion of his series of meteorological observations published in 1860 down
to the close of 1876, the whole making a continuous series for a period of
forty-five years. Long series of this kind are of great importance in de-
termining any change of climate which may have occurred during the
period which they embrace.

We mention in regard to this series an interesting fact in connection
with the supposed change in the rain-fall in different parts of the United
States due to the clearing off of forests. If, for example, we take from
this series three ten-year periods, one at the beginning, one at the middle,
and one at the end, we observe a regular increase instead of diminution
in the amount of rain-fall in Providence, as shown by the following
figures:

From 1852 to 1841, average 38 inches.

From 1852 to 1861, average 44 inches.

From 1867 to 1876, average 49 inches.

This fact, however; may be in some way connected with the custom
which, I am told, has become common in New England since the inhab-
itants have devoted themselves largely to manufactures, of allowing a
considerable portion of the soil which was formerly under cultivation to
grow up in wood.

The next series of observations which remains to complete the results
of the whole meteorological system of the Smithsonian Institution will
be that on the pressure of the atmosphere, which is intimately con-
nected with the dominant winds in different parts of the country.

The miscellaneous work by the meteorological computers of the Insti-
tution during the year 1877, is as follows:

1. Tabulating the mean temperature and the maxima and minima of
temperature for the Smithsonian stations for the years 187172-'73.

2. Tabulating rain-fall, temperature, and maxima and minima for
Canadiap stations, 1875.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 25

3. Tabulating rain-fall for Signal-Service stations, January, 1875, to
July, 1876.

4, Making corrections and additions to rain-fall manuscript.

5. Making indices to the rain-fall and maxima and minima tables.

TELEGRAPHIC ANNOUNCEMENT OF ASTRONOMICAL DISCOVERIZS.

The arrangement which was established between the Smithsonian J:-
stitution and the Atlantic cable companies in 1873, by which free tele-
graphic transmission of astronomical discoveries was granted between
Europe and America, has been continued during the past year.

The following isa list of the small planetoidal bodies discovered in
1877:

Number. Name. Discovered— | By— AM
Mbyndiye ccreconopsne sane Sis| PRherotimiene sama sce | ‘Toulouse.
Opnoligkteecceesesscrs Jane oiler Borelivwenseseseiaae ai | Marseilles.
Baucis Baler Gans O) oeaeewerecutecs <a Do.

Sis hie oe ese OF eC Phalsiarel ees) aetna thse ae ome IND Waar DE
Sree toes eee atacieaiers ML SHid || (WiatsOlern = sissies =| AeA DOr.
Saonee nabeopecacod 62506 abe (Nt Beet) o coogocecacess 755) 0.
Idunna FART) SP Otersincsaes scee 2 seas | Clinton.
pleat eetoicts ated) ian Henry. s--es-+--- aris
a eee GR IUSIIC || TERNS Ch eee okee ceo Pola
aeaeer Sea COP ORy dees Bul a beye Watson. .---.---------| Ann Arbor.
BV QIU) fam mielietets wim ceeake Mees 29 180i Wi PaAlSAleces ss tcee score o> | Pola.

Note.—Lumen (141) was independently discovered by Watson and Borelly in August, and Athor
(161) by Palisa in October.

EXCHANGES.

The literary and scientific exchanges inaugurated by the Institution
have increased during the past year in a greater ratio than ever before.
Four hundred and six boxes, averaging 7 cubic feet each, with a total
weight of nearly 100,000 pounds, and containing over 15,000 separate
parcels, were sent abroad by the Institution. During the year, 4,870
packages, each containing several articles, have been received from
abroad for distribution in this country.

To show the high estimation in which this branch of the operations
of the Institution is held, as well as to give proper credit to the
parties who forward free of charge the packages of the Institution, we
republish, as usual, the following list:

Cunard Steamship Company. New York and Brazil Steamship Company.
Anchor Steamship Company. North German Lloyd Steamship Company.
Pacific Mail Steamship Company. Hamburg American Packet Company.
Panama Railroad Company. North Baltic Lloyd Steamship Company.
Pacific Steam Navigation Company. Inman Steamship Company.

New York and Mexico Steamship Company.

The special thanks of the Institution are again tendered to the above-
mentioned companies for their enlightened liberality.

We may also mention as an evidence of the high appreciation of the
character of the Smithsonian exchanges, that the packages bearing the
marks of the Institution are admitted free of duty into all foreign ports
26 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

The following are the principal foreign agencies of reception and dis-
tribution of the Smithsonian exchanges:

London, William Wesley, 28 Essex street, Strand.

Paris, G. Bossange, 16 Rue du 4 Septembre.

Leipsic, Dr. Felix Fliigel, 49 Sidonien Strasse.

St. Petersburg, L. Watkins & Co., 10 Admiralty Place.

Amsterdam, Frederick Miiller, Heerengracht KK. No. 130.

Milan, U. Hoepli, 591 Galeria Cristoforia.

Harlem, Professor von Baumhauer.

Christiania, Royal University of Norway.

Stockholm, Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences.

Copenhagen, Royal Danish Society.

Lisbon, Polytechnic School.

Madrid, Royal Academy of Sciences.

Havana, Dr. Felipe Poey.

Santiago, University of Chili.

Mexico, Mexican Society of Geography and Statistics.

Montreal, Geological Survey of Canada.

The packages of the Institution for the West Indies have been kindly
forwarded by Mr. Thomas Bland, of New York, and those for Turkey,
by Messrs. Chrysoveloni & Co., of 5 Fenwick street, Liverpool, England;
and those for other points in the East, by the American Board of Com-
missioners for Foreign Missions, Boston.

The following table exhibits the number of foreign establishments
with which the Institution is at present in correspondence, or, in other
words, to which it sends publications and from which it receives others
in return.

Foreign institutions in correspondence with the Smithsonian. Institution.

Alveriais. <5 s<ccatees cicsape ose Senn Bla a taan ws «an sistent ae aoe 187
Argentine Republic 2. - 2... <=... -- 225 Isle pamesgs boise sntaaaeins meeeete Shee 6
AMUBtCAlIS So oe ae Soe poe ecene Del UAV smc motaie mine ncteiat ace ee ameere 5
Bel ginii..s. vas sees se eee eee 113) | bibertais oss. seeecee crane eee 1
Bolivad, . sts 2c See et a eee Lj eMauritius. 0! cos. ce eee ee 3
DRAM se cin ceie ctabra som cise cla susiteranee LOB Mex CO) 22 <n.ce ce ace aaeeee eee 16
BTIGISHSAMELICRS= ose ve Shee ee 20h New: Zealand ...cc2csaseceeeee cess 15
BVLUSH GMa 22253 once oe ese eee. 3) | Norway ja. .642.2she cee eeeeeeics 25
@ape Colony ecto 22 5 ose | |i 16d2) 6 Ree Oe IRE A Coe Aone 4
Central Ameri¢a ..- 222.2. 2255252 2)}| Philippine Iekmdsi:2iieeers.2- sce 3
Clit) CER SSSA Ae ere es S49 Scere oe See 8! Polynesia... 22s peace Beueecee cele 2
Clavie tare es- Cates. SHR as Eanes 1) | 2Bortugal: 5 << scarp oe cemecae jessie 32
Colompaeaacsee noses aces ee ls SU GIRURSIAC ce aoe eos. stares eat ocns~ 1 lee
ID\Sovinenel te Ae Soni hte GE seri or one 29 | SPR oschseeeis coe cates cwcee cece se 24
Dutch Guiana inca, Gocsesseee 1, | Stielenazees Sse eee 2
HIGH GOL. oop esieeeenciecocischee cece. 1 | Seton ga eee cence teins 21
OV breseinncteaiciis se cieiscine scree cies S| Swabzenlandieesscees occ oss. cee 73
IMENT) Aeog B54 ABCC BEGINS Shee one 327 .| Wun key eee eet ie co ta si6 =o m a. cnce ere 12
Germany and Austria. ............. 661") Wenezhelais.c-2- .--...c. ccc senate 2
Great Britain and Ireland ......... 368°) Westidmdiesiloa2)2.be\5.s2. cua 8
(SAVAGES) sSéeeaasedod see aaeene ae one 8 | GOS eee bee oon ante gees 7
HIOM AM Ge ooo ects toe eis ose Sat ee tice 65 ——
Nicglandie co. achetek set eb ee tece 4 Motaliecc <i... tae ROE 2, 330
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 27

Statistics of exchanges sent during the last nine years.

1269. 1870. 1871. 1872. 1873. 1874, 1875. 1876. 1877.
Number of boxes ......... 112 121 108 | 179 196 131 208 323 397
Bulk in cubic feet.....---: 1,033 | 1,189 V2 | 954 | 1, 476 | 933.| 1,503 | 2,261 2, 779
RWiei@ht 202. 2o 2s ueeee ses ROB. S76 | 31, 383 | 28,950 | 26,850 | 44,236 | 27,990 | 45, 300 | 80,750 | 99, 250
| | |

To facilitate the business of the exchanges, the following rules have
been adopted :

1. Every package, without exception, must be enveloped in strong
paper, and secured so as to bear separate transportation by express or
otherwise.

2. The address of the institution or individual, for whom the package
is intended, must be written legibly on the cover, and the name of the
sender on one corner of the same.

3. No single package must exceed half of a cubic foot in bulk.

4. A detailed list of addresses of all the parcels sent, with their con-
tents, must accompany them.

5. No letter or other communication can be allowed in the parcel,
excepting such as relates exclusively to the contents of the package.

6. All packages must be deli vered in Washington free of freight and
other expenses.

7. Every parcel should contain a blank acknowledgment, to be signed
and returned, either through the agent of the Institution, or, what is
still better, through the mail, to the sender.

Should returns be desired for what is sent, the fact should be ex-
plicity stated on the list of the contents of the package, as, unless these
are specifically asked for, they will fail in many instances to be made.

Specimens of natural history will not be received for transmission
unless with a previous understanding as to their character and bulk.

8. Unless all these conditions are complied with, the parcels will not
be forwarded from the Institution; and, on the failure to comply with
the first and sec ond conditions, will be returned to the sender for cor-
rection.

A new edition of the list of foreign correspondents of the Institution
is now in press and will be distributed to libraries &c., in the course of
a few weeks.

EXCHANGE OF GOVERNMENT DOCUMENTS.—In the report for 1875 a
full account was given of the system adopted for carrying out the law
relative to the exchange of the official publications of the United States
Government for those of foreign nations. In accordance with this system,
during the past year, 71 boxes of documents were forwarded, the follow-
ing being a list of the distribution:
28 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

International exchange of government publications in 1877.

Boxes Boxes

Argentine Republic .........----..--- 3 | Canada. ee eee ctee ae eee ae ele = 2
BeleiuM esse. soe +- meee see eee 2) Portagal . 42 — 2. eee aero 2
Btagliecias op cacisen Sick sence eee eeee 2) Prussiassbi sass. 32s seco eee eee es 2
Buenos Ayres -2 +. ce-saceee es sooesa se 2 | Queensland . See eeis 2 aac ee eee 2
(Chri Ta eee eR enn ps oS ee nes 2 | Saxony sccseeceas. sess ee sameness 2
ly PG Neeeeeeeoos a bco5 Coa aon eaaaee 2) Scotland( 22 aise cae a2 oe eee eet
PLANO i <2. sosasiewe codes wach csetecs-«) 3) |) SDA eee eeec nese sose eee eee 2
Germany 2.lcctwecsceeee sete tts essen 2'| South Australias ssccccos, eee eee ene
GTeCCE  -..c sos scsccemeces neces sscece-~) 7 | (Sweden erate oeeeccsinc. cos ese 2
Hath: «2 sO. eeeee eee eee tisaais ose = o's 3 | Switzerland) 22. 2-25.22 3. <-- see) 2
Holland eeresertee coe cence eees acess 2 | Lasmantaien2 tees wccmec cc. s- ene 2
Japanese aeateeeter ees ceca cciatn sa 2.) Turkey: -soecscheeeseceus tenet eeeree 2
WIGS dO) Saad S554 SH oe a oes aoee ees 2° | Wenezuelarencceoer ces once cieconeteee 3
New South Wales: <..cScc.-scce<cce--<, 32) WiCboniaasememeceemineea saanicnais senses 2
Niewaetedlandneneces pasescee cers cee ae ae =
NGI ION) S50c Goo aase Coos SenO ROS eaeInee 2 MOU 556 Gos5 bhOaSo Os0nSa D60556 gal
OnipaniOle scarce acce och elasccsece ecee 2

The expense of boxing, packing, transporting, and payment of agents
in connection with the transmission of these government documents
has been advanced for two years by the Institution, but it is expected
that Congress will reimburse it by an appropriation at the present ses-
sion.

LIBRARY.
Statement of the books, maps, and charts received by the Smithsonian Insti-

tution in 1877, and transferred to the Library of Congress.
Volumes:

Octavo, or less..... 49 ie BAR ie core atera Ee a ae 1, 328
Quarto, or larger. ..< 2222em eee eek Aan eee 561
— 1,889
Parts of volumes:
Oetano; OP Tess 5. - 5. hi eee ae ee et eee 1, 954
Quarto, or larger....... eee OP eTSA TG = Ce erent ancume 2,373
—— 4, 527
Pamphlets: :
Octavo; or less [42 2). 232 e eee eee co eee 1, 754
Quarto; or larger:-'s2!,, 22. eee ee ee e's)
2,184
laps and charts: 0. 05 0 ¢).. 4. ee ee ee oe eee 32
dS) CO RT 8 oe ee 8, 726

An increase of 1,141 over the year 1876.

List of the more valuable books received in 1877.

From the British Museum, London: Fae-simile of an Egyptian Hiera-
tic Papyrus, of thereignof Rameses III. London,1876. Oblong Elephant
folio.—Fac-similes of Ancient Charters. Parts ii, iii. 1876-1877.
Folio.—Catalogue of Sanskrit and Pali books. By Dr. E. Haas. 1876.
4to.—Catalogue of Oriental Coins. Vol. ii. 1876. 8vo.—Catalogue of
Greek Coins. Sicily, 1876. 8vo.—Catalogue of the Fossil Reptilia of
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 29

South Africa. By R. Owen. 1876. 8vo.—Catalogue of Birds. Vol.
Hipmels tts, OVO. :

From the Royal Society of Northern Antiquaries, Copenhagen: An-
tiquités Russes d’aprés les Monuments historiques des Islandais et
des anciens Scandinaves. Vols.i,ii. Copenhagen, 1850-1852. Folio.—
Aarboyer for 1875-1876. 7 parts. $8vo.

From the Royal Prussian Mining Office, Breslau: Geologie von Ober-
schlesien, with atlas, charts, and profile. Breslau, 1870. to. (8
copies.) —Uebersicht iiber die Production der Bergwerke, Salinen und
Hiitten im Preuss. Staate im Jahre, 1876. Berlin, 1877. 4to.—Mon-
tanstatistik des deutschen Reichs und Luxemburgs, &e., 1875. Berlin,
1877. 4to.—Vierteljahrshefte zur statistik des deutschen Reichs fiir das
Jahr, 1875. Berlin. 4to.

From the General Direction of the Royal Collections of Art and
Science, Dresden: Das Griine Gewolbe zu Dresden. Hundert Tafeln in
Lichtdruck, enthaltend gegen 300 gegenstiinde aus den verschiedensten
Zweigen der Kunst-industrie, nach Prof. Graff, Director der k6nigl.
Kunst-Gewerbschule zu Dresden. Berlin. Folio.—Mittheilungen aus
dem K. Zodlogischen Museum zu Dresden. ii. Dresden, 1877. 4to.—
Archiv fiir Litteraturgeschichte, 1877. 3 parts. 8vo.

From the Royal University of Norway, Christiania: Die Pflanzen-
welt, Norwegens. Von Dr. F.C. Schubeller. Specieller theil. Chris-
tiania, 1875. 4to.—Die Skandinaviske og Arktiste Amphipoder, besk-
revne af Axel Boeck. Christiania, 1876. 4to.—Enumeratio Insectorum
Norvegicorum, Auctore H. Siebke. i-iv. Christiania, 1874-1877. 8vo.—
Die Kirche zu Hitterdal, in 10 Bliittern. Dresden, 1837. Folio.—Aars-
bereturing, 1872, 1873, 1874, 1875. Christiania. Svo.—Heilagra Manne
Ségur. Udgivne af Dr. C. R. Unger. Christiania, 1877. 8vo.—Pos-
tola Sédgur. Udgivne af C. R. Unger. Chistiania, 1874. Svo.—Norges
Mynter i Middelalderew af C. I. Schive. Christiania, 1865. Folio.—
Norske Rigsregistranter, 1628-1631. Christiania, 1874. Svo.—And 8
volumes and 14 pamphlets of university publications.

From the Imperial Archeological Commission, St. Petersburg:
Comptes-Rendu, 1872, 1873, 1874. St.Petersburg, 1875-1877. 4to. with
folio Atlas.

From the Royal Zodlogical Society, Amsterdam: Jaarboekje, 1852,
1853, 1855-1870, 1872-1875. Amsterdam. (22 vols.)—Nederlandsch
Tijdschrift von de Dierkunde. Vols. li, iii, iv. Amsterdam, 1865-1873.
Svo.

From the South Kensington Museum: Science and Art Department,
London; Descriptive Catalogue of the Maiolica, Hispano-Moresco, Per-
sian, Damascus, and Rhodian Wares, in the South Kensington Museum.
1873. 8vo.—Descriptive Catalogue of Bronzes. 1876. 8vo.—A Descrip-
tion of the Ionies, Ancient and Medizval, in the South Kensington Mu-
seum. 1872. 8vo.—Textile Fabrics in the South Kensington Museum.
1870. 8vo.—Ancient and Modern Furniture and Woodwork in the South
30 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Kensington Museum. 1874. S8vo.—Catalogue of the Special Exhibition of
Works of Art on Loan. 1862. 8vo.—The First Proofs of the Universal
Catalogue of Books on Art. Vols. i, ii, and supplement. 1870-1875.
4to.—Universal Art Inventory. Parts i, ii, iii, 1868-1872. 8vo.—Cata-
logue of Italian Sculpture, by J.C. Robinson. 1862. 8vo.—Descriptive
Catalogue of Musical Instruments in the South Kensington Museum.
1874. S8vo.—Historical Collection of Water-color Paintings in the South
Kensington Museum. 1876. 8vo.—Catalogue of Enamels on Metal.
Illustrated. 1875. 4to.—Illustrated Catalogue of Jubinal’s Collection
of Ancient Cutlery. 1874. 4to.—Illustrated Catalogue of Electrotype
Reproductions of Works of Art. 1873. 4to.—Drawings of Glass Cases
in the South Kensington Museum, with Suggestions for the Arrange-
ment of Specimens. 1877. 4to.—Special Loan Exhibition of Decora-
tive Art Needle-work made before 1800. 1874. 4to.—Catalogue of An-
cient Musical Instruments. 1872. 4to.—Catalogue of Exhibition of
National Portraits. 1866, 1867, 1868. London, 8vo.—Catalogue of
Special Exhibition of Portrait Miniatures. 1865. 8vo.—Objects of
Indian Art. 1874. 8vo.—Monuments of Early Christian Art. 1872.
Svo.—A Description of the Trojan Column, by J. Hungerford Pallen.
1874. 8vo.—And 65 volumes of catalogues, lists, &e.

From the British Government: Report on the Antiquities of Kathiawad
and Kachh, being the result of the second season’s operations of the
Archeological Survey of Western India, 1874~’75. By James Burgess.
London, 1876. 4to.

From Capt. John Ericsson, New York: Contributions to the Centen-
nial Exhibition, by John Ericsson, LL. D. New York, 1876. 4to.

From the Ministére de l’Instruction Publique et des Beaux-Arts,
Paris: Denderah: Description générale du Grande Temple de cette
ville, par Auguste Mariette Bey, i-vi. Paris, 1870-1875. Folio.—Cata-
logue dela Bibliothéque Nationale. Histoire. Tomex. Médecine. Tome
ii, Paris. 1870-1873. 4to.—Nouveile Archives du Muséum d’Histoire
Naturelle. Vol. iv, pt. 4; vols. v-x. Paris, 1868-1876. 4to.—Monu-
ments divers recueillis en Egypt et en Nubie. Livr. 1-24. Paris, 1872.
Folio.—Etudes Egyptologiques. Livr. 1-7 and 9. Paris, 1873-1877.
4to—Mélanges d’Archéologie Egyptienne et Assyrienne. Livr. 1-8.
Paris, 1872-1876. 4to.—Inventaire des Manuscrits Frangais de la Bib-
liothéque Nationale. Tomei. Theologie. Paris,1876. 8vo.—Rapports
sur le service des Archives, de la Bibliotheque Nationale et des Missions.
1876, Paris. 8vo.—Manuscrit Troano. Tomes i, ii, and supplement, 1869,
1870. 4to.—Travaux, Instruments et Machines Agricoles, par M. H. Man-
gon. Text and atlas. Paris, 1875. 4to—Statistique Monumentale de
Paris. Livr. 30-36 and text. Paris, 1867. Folio. Recueil de Diplomes
Militaires. i. Paris, 1576. 4to.—Examen des Tarifs de Douane. Paris,
1876. 4to.—Recueil des Chartes de /Abbaye de Cluny. Tome i. Paris,
1876. 4to.—Monographie de la Cathédrale de Chartres. Atlas. Livr.
5-9, Paris, 1853-1865. Imp. folio—Nouvelle Géographie Universelle,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 31

par Elisée Reclus. Tomesi, ii. Paris, 1876, 1877. 8vo.—Rapport au
Ministre de la Marine relatif 4)cestréiculture. Paris,1877. Svo.—Statis-
tique des Péches Maritimes,1875. Paris, 1876. 8vo.—La Chaleur solaire
et ses applications industrielles, par A. Mouchot. Paris, 1869. 8vo.—
Situation Administrative des Monts-de-Piété. Paris, 1876. Svo.—Ré-
paration des Dommages résultant de l’Invasion. Paris, 1876. 4to.—
Enquéte sur les Bureaux de Bienfaisance. Paris, 1874. 4to.—Vo-
yage Géologique dans les Républiques de Guatemala et de Salvador.
Paris, 1868. 4to.—Rapports sur ’Exposition Universelle 4 Vienne en
1873. Tomesi-v. Paris, 1875, 1876. 8vo.—lLes Progrés de la Photo-
graphie, par A. Davanne. Paris, 1877. 8vo.—Rapport sur la Mission
des Chotts. Paris, 1877. 8vo.—Nouvelle Navigation Astronomique.
Théorie. Pratique. Paris, 1877. 8vo.—(2 vols.)

From Dr. W. Engelmann, Leipzig: Aristoteles Werke. Vols. i-v.
Leipzig, 1853-1874. 8vo. Morphologisches Jahrbuch. Vols. i, ii; vol.
ili, pts.1-3. Leipzig, 1875-1877. ‘Svo.—Jahrbiicher fiir wissenschaftliche
Botanik. Vols.iv, vi-xi. Leipzig, 1865-1877. 8vo.—Zeitschrift fiir wis-
senschaftliche Zoologie, 1856-1875. Leipzig. 8vo. (58 parts).—Die
Heliceen, von J.C. Albers. Leipzig, 1861. 8vo.—Lehrbuch der Botanik,
von Dr. J. Sachs. Leipzig, 1874. 8vo.—Die Spongien des A@riatischen
Meeres, von Dr. O. Schmidt and Suppl. 1-3. Leipzig, 1862-1868. 4to.—
Spongien Fauna des Atlantischen Gebietes, von Dr. O. Schmidt. Leip-
zig, 1870. 4to.—Handbuch der Zoologie. Vols.i,ii. Leipzig, 1863-1868.
S8vo.— Bibliotheca Entomologica. Vols. i, ii. Leipzig, 1862, 1863. 8vo.—
Jahresbericht der im Gebiete der Zootomie erschienenen Arbeiten, von
J. V.Carus. Leipzig, 1856. S8vo.—Die Siisswasserfische der Oestreich-
ischen Monarchie, von J. Heckel und Dr. R. Kner. Leipzig, 1858.
Svo.—Untersuchungen iiber Pteropoden und Heteropoden, von Dr. C.
Gegenbauer. Leipzig, 1855. 4to.—Catalogus Plantarum Cubensium,
von A. Grisebach. Leipzig, 1866. Svo.—System der Thierischen Mor-
phologie, von Dr. J. V. Carus. Leipzig, 1853. And various pamphlets.

From the Minister of Education, Tokio, Japan: 54 charts for object-
teaching, and 38 Japanese text-books.

From C. de Kaufman, Governor General of Turkistan, a collection of
photographs of the races of mankind inhabiting the Russian possessions
in Central Asia, prepared for the exhibition of the last International
Congress of Orientalists.

From the Academie de Montpellier: Faculté de Médecine. Théses de
Montpellier. 1870-1875. Montpellier, 47 volumes. 4to.

From the Spanish Centennial Commission, Philadelphia: Coleccion
de Documentos inéditos del Archivo General de la Corona de Aragon.
Vols. i-xxxix. Barcelona, 1853-1871. Svo.—Memorias de la Academia
de Ciencias de Madrid, vol. i; vol.ii, pt.2; vol.iii-vi. Madrid,1850-1865.
4to.—Memorias de la Real Academia de Ciencias Morales y Politicas.
Vols. i,ii. Madrid, 1861-1867. 4to.—Discursos de Recepciony de Contest-
acion Leidos ante la R. Academia de Ciencias Morales y Politicas, 1860-
32 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

1875. Madrid, 1875. 8vo.—Discursos Leidos en la Real Academia de la
Historia, 1852-1875. Madrid. 8vo.—Cortes de Leon y de Castilla. Vols.
i-iii. Madrid, 1861-1866. 4to.—Historia de la Universidad de Granada.
Granada, 1870. Svo.—Farmacopea Espaiiola. Madrid, 1865. 8vo.—
Antiqiiedades prehistoricas de Andalucia. Madrid, 1868. 8vo.—Estudo
‘social y politico de los Mudejares de Castilla. Madrid, 1866. 4to.—Estu-
dios Filosofia del Derecho, por Don M. A. Martinez. Madrid, 1874.
Svo.—Catalogo Bibliografico y Biografico del Teaslo Antiguo Espaiiol.
Madrid, 1860. 4to.—Diccionario de Bibliografica Agronémica. Madrid,
1865. 4to.—Classificacion General de los Montes Publicos. Madrid,
1859. 4to.—Noticia del Museo Arqueologico Nacional. Madrid, 1876.
Svo. (6 copies.)—Estadistica de los Montes Publicos, 1861-1865. Mad-
rid, 1876. 4to.—Comision dela Flora Espanola. Madrid, 1870. 4to.—
Memoria sobre la Inundacion del Jicar en 1864. Madrid, 1866. 4to.—
And 22 volumes and 30 pamphlets on education, medicine, &c.,

From the Swiss Centennial Commission, Philadelphia: Geschichte der
Gesellschaft zur Beforderung des Guten und Gemeiniitzigen Jahre, 1-98,
1827-1874. Basel. Svo.—folio volume of Geological Charts, published
by Wurster, Randegger & Co., Winterthen.—28 volumes on Swiss rail-
roads. JT olio and 4to.

From the Turkish Centennial Commission, Philadelphia: L’Architec-
ture Ottomane, ouvrage autorisé par Iradé impérial et publié sous le
patronage de Son Excellence Edkem Pacha. Constantinople, 1873.
Folio. (2 copies.)—Les Costumes Populaires de la Turquie en 1873.
Constantinople, 1873. 4to. (2 copies.)

From the Netherlands Centennial Commission, Philadelphia: Arch-
ives du Musée Teyler. Vols. i-iii. Haarlem, 1868-1874. 4to.—La
Chirurgie Militaire par W. C. Gori. Amsterdam, 1874. 8vo.—Des Hopi-
taux, Tentes et Baraques, par W.C. Gori. Amsterdam, 1872. 8vo.—A
Sketch of the Public Works in the Netherlands. By L. C. Von Kerkwyk.
Haarlem, 1876. S8vo.—International Exhibition, Philadelphia, 1876;
Special Catalogue of the Netherlands section. Amsterdam. 8vo.—Cata-
logue of the Collective Exposition of the Netherlands Booksellers’ Asso-
ciation. Amsterdam, 1876. 8vo. Elementary and Middle Class Instruc-
tion in the Netherlands. Leyden, 1876. 8vo.

From the New South Wales Centennial Commission, Philadelphia :
Letters of Registration of Inventions. Vols. i-iv. Sydney, 1875.
Folio.—Newspapers published in New South Wales in 1875, 8 folio vol-
umes.—Annual report of the Department of Mines of New South Wales,
1875. Sydney. 4to.—Mines and Mineral Statistics of New South Wales.
Sydney, 1875. 8vo.—Catalogue of the Library of the Mechanics’ School
of Arts, Sydney. Svo.—Official Catalogue of the Natural and Industrial
Products of New South Wales. Sydney, 1876. Svo.—New South Wales.
By Charles Robinson. Sydney, 1873. S8vo.

From the South Australia Centennial Commission, Philadelphia: Plan
of the southern portion of the Province of South Australia as divided
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 30

into counties and hundreds, showing agricultural areas, post-towns, tele-
graph-stations, main roads, and railways; compiled from official docu-
ments. 1876. Elephant folio.—Flora of South Australia, 2 volumes.
Folio.—Ferns of Australia, 31 sheets.

From the Peruvian Centennial Commission, Philadelphia: El Correo
del Peru. i-v,1871-1875. Lima. Folio. (5 copies.)-El Boletin Municipal.
Vol.i. 1874. Lima. 4to.—Anales Universitarios del Peru. Vols. i-vii.
Lima, 1862-1873. 8vo.—Defensa de la Autoridad de los Gobiernos y de
los Obispos. Vols.i-vi. Lima, 1849, 8vo.—Diccionario de la Legislacion
Peruana. Vols. i, ii, and suppl. Lima, 1860-1864. 4to.—Anales de
Cuerpo de Ingenieros del Peru. i,ii. Lima, 1874. 4to—Documentos
Historicos del Peru. i-vi. Lima, 1863-1874. 8vo.—Documentos Lite-
rarios del Peru. i-vi. Lima,1865-1874. 8vo.—El Peru. Tomei. Lima.
1874. 4to.—Compilacion de las Vistas Fiscales. i, ii. Lima,1S873-1875
4to.—Relaciones de los Vireyes y Audiencias. i-iii. Lima, 1867-1872.
Svo.—And 91 volumes and 96 pamphlets, Theology, Education, Se.

From the Argentine Centennial Commission, Philadelphia: Coleccion
de Obras y Documentos sobre el Rio de la Plata, por Pedro de Angelis.
Vols. i-vi. Buenos Aires, 1836, 1837. 4to.—Anales del Museo Pua-
blico de Buenos Aires. Vols. i, ii. Buenos Aires, 1864-1874. Folio.—
Correo del Domingo. Vols. i-viii. Buenos Aires, 1864-1867. Folio.—
revista Argentina. Vols. i-xiii. Buenos Aires, 1868-1872. Svo,—La
Revista de Buenos Aires. Vols. i-xxiv. Buenos Aires, 1863-1871.
Svo.—Revista del Rio de la Plata. Vols. i-x. Buenos Aires, 1871-
1875. Svo.—Revista Medico-Quirtirgica. Tomi i-xi. Buenos <Aires,
1864-1875. 8vo.—Boletin de la Exposicion Nacional de Cordoba. Vols.
i-vil. Buenos Aires, 1869-1873. S8vo.—Revista del Archivo General
de Buenos Aires. Vols. i-iv. Buenos Aires, 1869-1872. Svo.—Bole-
tin de la Academia Nacional de Ciencias Exactas. Tomoi. Buenos
Aires, 1874. 8vo.—Anales de la Sociedad Rural Argentina. Vols. i-
ix. Buenos Aires, 1867-1875. Svo.—Galeria de Celebridades Argen-
tinas. Buenos Aires, 1857. Folio —lLas Caballos Fosiles de la Pampa
Argentina. Buenos Aires, 1875. Folio.—Ensefianza Publica en Bue-
nos Aires. 1868. Folio.—El Plato Illustrado. Vols. i, ii. Buenos
Aires. 1871, 1872. Folio.—La Plata Monatsschrift. Vols. i-iii, 1873-
1875. Felio.—Registro Estadistico de Buenos Aires. 1868-1873. Folio.—
Concordancias y Fundamentos del Codigo Civil Argentino. Vols. i-xvi.
Buenos Aires, 1873-1875. 8vo.—Registro Nacional de la Republica
Argentina. 1851-1874 (18 vols.) Svo.—Registro Oficial de Buenos
Aires, 1521-1856. 8vo. Historia de Belgrano, por Bartolomé Mitre,
i-iv. Buenos Aires. 1858, 1859. 8vo. And 97 volumes and 62 pam-
phliets, chiefly government documents.

From the Queensland Centennial Commission, Philadelphia: Queens:
land Government Gazette, 1874, 1875. Brisbane. Folio. 3 vols.—The
Queensland Statutes. Vols. i-iv (2 copies). Brisbane. 1874. 4to.—
Queensland Parliamentary Debates. Vols. xvi, xvii. Brisbane. 1874.

38
34 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

8vo.—The Queensland Almanac, 1874. Brisbane. 8vo. 2 copies.—Sta-
tistics of the Colony of Queensland, 1870, 1871, 1872, 1873. Brisbane.
4to.—Public Accounts of Queensland, 1874. Brisbane. 4to.—Queens-
land Garden Manual. Brisbane. 1875. 8vo.—Catalogue Queensland
Exhibition. Brisbane. 1875. 8vo. 6 copies.

From the Venezuelan Centennial Commission, Philadelphia: 32 quarto
volumes of government documents.

From the Portuguese Centennial Commission, Philadelphia: Revista
de Obras publicas e Minas, Publicagao Mensal da Associagao dos En-
genheiros Civis Portuguezes. Vols. i-vi. Lisbon, 1870-1875. Svo.—
Geographia e Estadistica geral de Portugal e Colonias, por Gerardo A.
Pery. Lisbon, 1875. 8vo.—Portuguese Special Catalogue Interna-
tional Exhibition, 1876. 8vo.—35 sets of works published by the direc-
tion of geodetical labors, and 80 pamphlets. Annaes de Observatorio
do Infante D. Luiz. Vols. i-xii. Lisboa, 1856-1874. Folio.—Movi-
mento Commercial de Portugal. Mappa des valores importados dos
productos Chymicas, Gommas e Rezenas, Tabacos, &e. (25 framed
maps.) Specimen de Fundicgao de Typos da Imprensa Nacional.  Lis-
boa, 1876. 4to.—Carta Constitucional da Monarchia Portugueza.  Lis-
boa, 1876. 4to.—Codigo Commercial de Signaes para uso Internacional.
Lisboa, 1868. 8vo.—A Delfina do Mal. Poema por T. Ribeiro.
Lisboa, 1868. 8vo.—Didascalia Aithiopum. (Desumpta ex editione
Londinensi Thome Pell Platt, 1834.) 8vo.—Luiz de Camdes Episodio
de Ignez de Castro. Extrahido do Canto Terceiro do Pema Epico Las
Lusiadas. Lisboa, 1873. 4to.—Recreio Apollineo. 4to.—Cancioneiro
d’Evosa par V. E. Harding. Lisboa, 1875. S8vo.

From the Mexican Centennial Commission, Philadelphia: Historia
Parliamentaria del Cuarto Congreso Constitucional, por Pantaleon Tovar.
Vols. i-lii, Mexico, 1872-1874. 4to.—Diccionario Geografico y Esta-
distico de la Republiéa Mexicana. Vols. i-iii. Mexico, 1874, 1875.
4to.—Memoria de Hacienda y Crédito Puiblico, 1868-1875. Mexico,
4to.—Tratacto de Administracion y Contabilidad de los Candales del
Gobierno General, por Julio Jimenez. Mexico, 1868. Folio.—Diccion-
ario de la Legislacion Mexicana. Parts 1-64. 1868-1871. Folio.—La
Naturaleza. Vols. i-iii, pts. 1-15. Mexico, 1870-1875. Roy. 8vo.—La
Knsehanza. Vols.i,il. Mexico, 1872-1874. Folio. And 73 volumes and
133 pamphlets, chiefly government documents.

From the New Zealand Centennial Commission, Philadelphia: Trans-
actions and Proceedings of the New Zealand Institute. Vols. i-vii.
Sydney, 1868-1875. 8vo.—Census of New Zealand, 1874. Wellington,
1875. Folio.—Statistics of New Zealand, 1874. Wellington. Folio.—
History of the Birds of New Zealand, by W.L. Buller. London, 1873.
4to.—New Zealand Exhibition, 1865. Reports and Awards. Dunedin,
1866, Svo.—The Official Hand-Book of New Zealand. London, 1875.
8vo.—Catalogue of Marine Mollusca of New Zealand. Wellington, 1873.
Svo.—Catalogue of Tertiary Mollusca of New Zealand. Wellington, —
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 35

13873. 8vo.—Meteorological Report, 1868, 1870. Wellington 8vo.—
Fishes of New Zealand. Wellington, 1872. Svo.—Catalogue of the Birds
of New Zealand. Wellington, 1871, Svo.—Catalogue of the Echinoder-
mata of New Zealand. Wellington,1873. S8vo.—Catalogue of Land Mol-
lusca of New Zealand. Wellington, 1873. 8vo.—Criticai List of the Mol-
lusca of New Zealand. Wellington, 1873. 8vo.—Phormium Tenax as
a Fibrous Plant. Wellington, 1873. 8vo.—Reports of Geological Ex-
plorations during 187071, 1871-72. Wellington, 1871, 1872. 8vo.

From the Tasmanian Centennial Commission, Philadelphia: Journal
of the House of Assembly, with appendices, vols. viii, ix, xii-xv, xxii,
Xxvil-xxix. Hobart Town, 1862-1875. Folio.—Journals of the Legisla-
tive Council (with papers). Vols. xix—xxii. Hobart Town, 1873-1875.
Folio.—Statistics of the Colony of Tasmania, 1873, 1874, 1875, 1876.
Hobart Town, 1874-1877. Folio.—Welch’s Tasmanian Guide-book.
Hobart Town, 1871. 8vo. (2 copies)—Welch’s Tasmanian Almanac,
1866, 1867. Hobart Town. 8vo. (2 copies).—Experience of Forty Years
in Tasmania, by Hugh M. Hull. London, 1859. 12mo.—A Description
of the Island of Tasmania. Launceston, 1876, 8vo.—Standing Rules
and Orders of the Legislative Council, 1875, 12mo.—Map of Tasmania
(3 copies).

From the Victorian Centennial Commission, Philadelphia: Biograph-
ical Charts of Italian Painters of the Schools of Bologna, Florence,
Sienna, Rome, and Naples. Compiled by direction of the trustees of the
Melbourne public library, 1870. Vols. i, ii. Elephant folio.— Report of
the. proceedings taken under the provisions of the Land Act of 1869
during 1873. Melbourne. 4to.—Abstracts of Specifications of Patents.
Metals. 1854-1866. Melbourne, 1872. 4to.—Patents and Patentees.
Indexes for the years 1854-1873. Vols. i-viii. Melbourne, 1868-1875.
4to.—Hospitals for the Insane, Reports, 1870-1873. Melbourne. 4to.—
Melbourne Public Library. Reports, 1870-1875. 4to.—Catalogues of
Public Library, Supreme Court, and National Museum. 4 vols. Mel-
bourne. 4to.—And 31 volumes and 16 pamphlets, miscellaneous.

LABORATORY.

During the summer the laboratory was closed, Dr. Endlich, the min-
eralogist of the Institution, having been engaged on the survey under
Dr. Hayden. Mr. Fred. W. Taylor of this city occupied the laboratory
for some time in the autumn, and made analyses of mineral waters and
specimens of ores, &c., which had been sent to the Institution for exam-
ination,

As specimens are constantly being received by the Institution from
all parts of the country, with the request that a report be made as to
their character or constituents, it may be well to call attention to the
rules adopted for their examination.

1. Qualitative examinations, that is, for determining the constituents
of the specimens, are made without charge.
36 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

2. Quantitative examinations, or the determination of the percentage
of the different components of the specimens, can only be made at the
expense of the applicant; the charge to be in proportion to the time
expended in the work, e. g., from $5 to $50, according to whether it is
partial (determination of silver, lead, or iron, Wc., only), or Jull (deter-
mination of every thing).

3. The report of quantitative examinations will be given under the
name of the expert to whom the specimen shall be submitted, and not
under that of the Smithsonian Institution.

4, All applications for the determination of specimens must be made
by letter, addressed “Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.”

5. The specimens examined, or part of them, will be retained by the
Institution.

6. All specimens to be delivered to the Institution free of expense.

NATIONAL MUSEUM.

The National Museum was established by the Government in 1842, at
which time it consisted principally of specimens collected by the Wilkes
exploring expedition. It was transferred from the Patent Office to the
care of the Smithsonian Institution in 1858, where it has been enlarged
by all the collections made by exploring and surveying parties of the
several bureaus of the War, Navy, Treasury, and Interior Departments,
and those of the Smithsonian Institution.

The following report from Professor Spencer F. Baird, assistant sec-
retary, gives an account of the additions to the museum and the various
operations connected with it during the year 1577:

REPORT OF PROF. SPENCER F. BAIRD ON THE MUSEUM,

Increase of the Museum.—Iit was hardly to be expected that the addi-
tions to the National Museum in 1877 should compare with those of
1875 and 1876, including, as they did, the results of large expenditures
for the purpose of making a suitable Ponca at the International Exhibi-
tion of 1876 of the ethnology and of the resources of the United States, as
derived from the animal and mineral kingdoms, with their accessories.
The reduction in the yield, however, proves to be much less marked
than was anticipated; and the aggregate of receipts has been far be-
yond that of any previous year, with the exception of those mentioned.
The number of donors was 342, of donations 489, and of separate pack-
ages S15,

As heretofore, the additions to the Museum consisted of five classes:
First, those supplied by the different government expeditions, in accord-
ance with the law of Congress. Second, the donations from private
individuals, made either spontaneously, or in response to special invita-
tions and requests. Third, the results of exchanges, prosecuted with
various establishments or individuals at home and abroad. A fourth
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. ai (

source of supply is from explorations made at the expense of the Smith-
sonian Institution. A fifth source of increase is from purchase, which,

however, is very insignificant, and is principally confined to apeciiciis
of animals obtained in market or occasionally a single ethnological imple-

ment, offered under specially favorable circumstances. It isin this that
the National Museum differs most from establishments of its grade
throughoutthe world, which depend very largely upon purchases to secure
desired materials. Here, on the contrary, the space and force at com-
mand are all fully required to receive and care for the collections that
are continually arriving from the sources referred to.

In view of the limited accommodations for the collections and of the
small appropriations for their maintenance, the special efforts toward
the extension of the National Museum have been restricted, for the most
part, to North America and to the most interesting subject of research
at the present day, that of American anthropology. Every possible ef-
fort has been made to invite contributions of facts and materials on this
subject, and with very gratifying success. The intention of the Smith-
sonian Institution to publish, whenever the proper means can be obtained,
an exhaustive treatise on American archeology, with suitable illustra-
tions, has invoked the co-operation of many persons who desire to see such
an end accomplished; and especially as the Institution proposes to give,
under each group, an enumeration of the principal articles received,
arranged by localities and donors.

Few portions of the country have been without representation in the
ethnological donations of the year; although certain regions have been
more prolificthan others. The largest additions from any one source have
resulted from the continued explorations of Rev. Stephen Bowers on the
main-land in the vicinity of Santa Barbara, and on the adjacent islands
of Southern California; over forty boxes of material having been
supplied by him alone. This exploration was made under the auspices
of Maj. J. W. Powell, with the co-operation of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion. An exhaustive report on the subject will be published by Major
Powell, the collections themselves becoming the property of the National -
Museum.

With the material heretofore gathered in the same region, by Mr. W.G.
W. Harford, Mr. W. H. Dall, Mr. Paul Schumacher, and Mr. Bowers him-
self, it is believed therecan never be a better representation of the
archeology of the tribes of the California coast than that now in Wash-
ington. This embraces a great variety of objects of stone, bone, shell,
and wood, representing applications of these substances far in advance
of those of any other aboriginal tribes, excepting those of the northwest
coast.

The large collections of similar character, made by Mr. Bowers, in
1875, in behalf of Lieutenant Wheeler’s survey, have also been trans-
ferred, in part, by that office, to the Museum.

From Mr. Lucien M. Turner, late meteorological observer of the signal-
38 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

office, at Saint Michaels, Alaska, there has been received a continu-
ation of his extremely important collections of objects manufactured
and used by the Esquimaux of Alaska. This collection is especially
rich in carvings on bone and walrus ivory, representing scenes and in-
cidents in the life of that people.

The Institution is indebted to Mr. F. Hirst, of Bridger Station, for many
interesting articles from the Rocky Mountain region, principally stone
implements of various kinds.

Professor Hayden has presented a full series of models of the ancient
ruins in New Mexico and Colorado, together with restorations showing
what was probably their original character. These have attracted
much attention, and the promised continuation of the series affords much
satisfaction. :

Mr. Frank H. Cushing, assisted by Mr. Henry J. Biddle, of Philadel-
phia, visited a cave near Hagerstown, Md., and obtained many relics of
the aboriginal people who formerly inhabited that vicinity. Numerous
implements of stone and bone, articles of pottery, and fragments of the
remains of aboriginal feasts, &c., were collected and are now in process
of careful investigation.

The most important yields from the shell-heaps of the United States
were obtained from the shell-mounds of Mobile, by Colonel Gaines and
Mr. K. M. Cunningham, of that city. These consist of numerous articles
of pottery, some of them quite peculiar in form, and of a material and
ornamentation constituting almost a distinct class in aboriginal ceramics.
With these were also various articles of bone, stone, &c., the whole making
one of the most important contributions of the kind yet secured by the
National Museum.

From numerous localities in the interior have been received single
specimens or collections, partly from mounds, partly from graves, and
partly from the superficial soil. These will be referred to in more detail
in the list of donations. Among the more noteworthy are those presented
by Colonel McAdoo and Mr. McKinley, from Georgia; Mr. Perrine,
from Illinois; Mr. Brodnax and Dr. James, from Arkansas; Mr. Illigg
and Mr. Berlin, from Pennsylvania, and others.

A great many possessors of rare and curious objects, indisposed to part
with them permanently, have freely lent them to the Institution, for the
purpose of having copies made, and several persons have been occupied
during a great part of the year in making plaster casts and in painting
them from the originals before their return.

A collection of implements received from Mr. Berlin, of Reading, is
of peculiar interest as representing, in all probability, the same palo.
lithic epoch as that which Dr. Abbott has so ably discussed in his paper
on the Antiquities of New Jersey, published in the Report of the Smith-
sonian Institution for 1875.

A most valuable addition to the ethnological collection consisted of a
series of casts of the heads and faces of sixty-four Indians, held as pris-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 39

oners of war at Saint Augustine, in Florida, under the charge of the
War Department. These were prepared during the summer by Mr.
Clark Mills, the well-known sculptor, of Washington, who visited Saint
Augustine for the purpose. It is generally difficult to induce an Indian
to submit to the discomfort and apparent danger of the treatment re-
quired in taking face casts, but these prisoners were easily persuaded
by Captain Pratt, United States Infantry, who has them in special
charge, to allow the operation, and Mr. Mills was extremely successful
in the work. In addition to the heads, a number of separate casts of arms,
legs, and busts were taken, thus furnishing a rare opportunity for study-
ing the anatomy of the Indian. The tribes represented are the Kiowas,
Comanches, Arapahoes, &c. This collection furnishes not only the
means of studying the lineaments of the North American Indian, but
also answers the purpose of models for lay figures on which to place the
many suits of Indian clothing in possession of the Museum.

Extremely important additions have been received from several of
the West India islands during the year, some of them unique and pre-
viously more or less unknown. Reference has been made in previous
reports to the extremely rich collection of stone implements bequeathed
to the National Museum by Mr. George Latimer, and of which an illus-
trated account by Professor Mason is published in the Smithsonian Re-
port for 1876. Among articles of West Indian archeology received in
1877 are several wooden stools of peculiar shapes, highly ornamented
and carved, presented by Dr. William M. Gabb and Mr. Frith; some
wooden idols of large size and complex shape, also from Dr. Gabb; a
stone celt, with the handle and cutting portion in one piece, from Mr.
George J. Gibbs; a stone celt inserted in its original handle, by Mr.
Murphy, and a number of specimens of somewhat similar character,
belonging to the public library of Nassau, and lent for the purpose of
being figured and copied. Some collections of a similar character made
by Mr. Frederick A. Ober in Dominica, Antigua, and elsewhere, have
not yet come to hand.

Other extra-limital collections received have been a series of very in-
teresting articles of obsidian and stone from the National Museum of
Mexico, and some ancient Japanese stone implements from the Tokio
Museum in Japan.

Of mammals quite a number of specimens have been received, the
most striking of them being a pair each of the blue and white foxes of
Saint Paul’s Island, Alaska, from the Alaska Commercial Company;
the skin of a cinnamon bear, from Mr. F. O. Matteson; skins of antarctic
seals, from Captain Fuller; and a skeleton of a porpoise of the genus
Tursiops, new to the Museum, from Mr. Alfred N. Lawrence ; two skel-
etons of the grampus, from Mr. Small, of Provincetown ; alcoholic speci-
mens of Platypus and Hehidna from Tasmania, &e.

The collections of birds and their eggs received during the year have
been quite abundant, the most noteworthy among them being a speci-
AO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

men of the everglade kite of Florida, from Mr. George A. Boardman.
Dr. James C. Merrill, assistant surgeon, United States Army, has con-
tributed a large collection of birds and eggs from the Lower Rio Grande,
several of them new to science, and others not previously known within’
the limits of the United States. Mr. Lucien M. Turner and Mr. Nelson,
of the United States Signal Service, stationed at Saint Michaels, in
Alaska, have also sent in large numbers of the birds of Alaska, includ-
ing many very rare skins.

A series of the birds of Southern Illinois has been received from Mr.
Robert Ridgway. Colonel Brackett and Mr. Hirst have furnished some
valuable specimens of birds and eggs from Wyoming. From Lieuten-
ant Wheeler and Dr. Hayden have also been received large numbers of
specimens collected in the course of their respective surveys.

The National Museum of Mexico has supplied a large number of species
from that country, several of them not before in the collection.

Perhaps the most important contribution of birdsis that received from
Frederick A. Ober, as the result of the exploration he is now making
in the West Indies under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution.
These were principally obtained from the island of Dominica, and con-
stitute by far the largest series ever gathered in that island, several rep-
resenting new species and others previously lacking in the Museum.
Mr. Ober is stiJl in the field, and additional contributions from the other
West India islands are expected.

The collections of reptiles have consisted in large part of the speci-
mens obtained under the direction of Lieutenant Wheeler and Professor
Hayden, and transmitted by those officers. The other additions have
consisted principally of turtles and snakes, forwarded at the express re-
quest of the Institution, to serve as models in the series of plaster casts
now in preparation for the Museum. The more important contributors
in this line are Mr. 8. N. Ferguson, of the large alligator snapper of the
Lower Mississippi; Mr. Kohn, of the turtles in the vicinity of New
Orleans; Dr. Merrill, of those from the Rio Grande; Mr. Richard, of
those from Pennsylvania, &e.

A very large living diamond rattlesnake was obtained through the
assistance of Mr. Way, of Sanford, Fla.; and Mr. Frank W. Heyward,
of South Carolina, supplied a number of living specimens of Siren.

Of fishes the collections have been very large, embracing, of course,
those gathered by the United States Fish Commission during its labors
in different portions of the country. The summer’s work of the Commis-
sion was prosecuted on the coasts of Massachusetts and of Nova Scotia,
and in the intermediate seas, extending over the months of July, August,
and September. Quite a number of fishes not previously described in
the fauna of the country were obtained. Many species in large quan-
tities were gathered to serve the purposes of distribution to museums of
the United States.

The collections of marine invertebrates, gathered under the same aus-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. Al

pices, are also very large. Other collections made by the commission
consisted of series of the fresh-water fishes of the Columbia and Clack-
amas rivers of Oregon, and the McCloud River of California, gathered
by Mr. Livingston Stone; of landlocked salmon and other. fishes of
Grand Lake Stream, Maine, by Mr. Charles G. Atkins; and a great
variety of sea-fishes from Wood’s Hole, Massachusetts, by Mr. Vinal N.
Edwards, and of the Saint John’s River, Florida, by Messrs. Baird and
Milner.

A large number of the stomachs of mackerel, collected by Capt. H.C.
Chester, furnished the means of solving an important problem in regard
to the food of that fish. Collections were also made at various points
by Mr. Milner and his assistants of the Commission. Mr. Samuel Powel,
of Newport, who has been engaged for several years in collecting the
fishes of his vicinity, has added many specimens to those already pre-
sented by him to the museum, and furnished much information in
regard to the geographical distribution of species.

Captain Hulbert, who was engaged as pilot on the Speedwell during
her summer’s cruise, obtained and transmitted a new species of chi-
mera, Which is now named C. plumbea by Professor Gill. This was
taken on a halibut line, at a depth of several hundred fathoms, off the
coast of Nova Scotia.

Mr. E. G. Blackford, the well-known fish-dealer of Fulton Market,
New York, has continued his valuable contributions, that have now ex-
tended over a number of years, securing and supplying to the museum
all the rarer and more remarkable fishes received by the New York
dealers. A large number of specimens have been sent by him, as enu-
merated in the list of donations, and furnishing a continued illustration
of that public spirit, liberality, and disinterestedness for which we are
happy to make a public acknowledgment.

Many specimevs of various food-fishes, as salmon, trout, whitefish,
and the like, have been sent by different contributors for the purpose of
meeting an expressed want or of securing identification.

A very interesting series of contributions during the year has con-
sisted of specimens showing the success of the various efforts made un-
der the direction of the United States Fish Commission for the propa-
gation of food-fishes and their introduction into new waters. Among
these may be mentioned a full-grown, true shad caught in the Ohio
River at Louisville, being one of six hundred taken during the summer
under similar circumstances. These were probably derived from the
stock introduced four years previously as young fish into the Allegheny
River in Western New York. This was presented by the fish commis-
sioners of Kentucky through Mr. Pack Thomas.

A shad, also the result of the transfer of young fish to California sev-
eral years ago from the East, was furnished by Mr. Bassett, through Mr.
B. B. Redding. The latter gentleman also supplied several specimens
of the food-fishes of the Sandwich Islands, of which living specimens
42 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

had been transmitted to the commissioners of California for introduction
into that State.

A salmon, of about twelve pounds weight, caught in the Delaware
River, at Easton, in October, was supplied by Mr. Howard J. Reeder,
fish commissioner of Pennsylvania. This was supposed to have been
derived from a stock introduced into the river in 1873.

Many other equally interesting cases will be found referred to in the
list of donations, and more especially in the report of the United States
Fish Commissioner for 1877.

A finely-stuffed skin of the adult Ontario salmon was presented by Mr.
Samuel Wilmot, of the Canadian fishery department, at New Castle,
Ontario. This was a female, and especially interesting as having fur-
nished a quota of eggs during three successive seasons.

In consequence of an extended exploration of the rivers of Georgia,
the Carolinas, &¢c., prosecuted by Prof. D. 8. Jordan, during the last
summer, in part under the auspices of the United States Fish Commis-
sion, large numbers of species of fish, several of them previously un-
described, were collected, and a series transmitted by Mr. Jordan.

Collections of the fishes of the Great Basin, and of the coast of Cali-
fornia, were received from Lieutenant Wheeler, as the result of his
gatherings in past years.

Of extralimital species, the most impertant collection of fishes was
one received from Mr. G. Brown Goode, assistant curator of the National.
Museum, gathered by him during the past winter in Bermuda. Some
species from the vicinity of the Kerguelen Islands were presented by
Captain Fuller. .

Of marine invertebrates, the principal collections were those made by
the United States Fish Commissioner. Some of great interest were
obtained from Col. E. Jewett, of Santa Barbara, Mr. James G. Swan, in
Washington Territory, and others.

The collections of plants were not very extensive; the most important,
however, were furnished by Lieutenant Wheeler. A valuable contribu-
tion consisted of a series of specimens of Japanese woods, representing
fifty species, and presented by the Tokio Museum of Japan. These,
taken in connection with fifty other species received by the Smithsonian
Institution from the Japanese commission at the Centennial Exhibition,
complete the series of woods of Japan.

Fossil remains of more or less rarity and interest are represented by
a collection of the Black Hills fossils, gathered by Prof. Henry Newton,
whose untimely death science has reason to deplore. To this is to be
added a series from Illinois, collected by Mr. George Spangler.

Numerous collections of minerals have been added to the museum ;
but, for the most part, necessarily stored with the other accumulations
for the want of a proper opportunity of exhibition. The most important
of these consists of a collection illustrating the iron and steel manufac-
tures of Sweden. This constituted the exhibit of that government at
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. © 43,

the exhibition at Vienna, in 1873. It was presented by the commis-
sioner, Mr. Dannfeldt, to the Philadelphia Centennial Commission, but
was not exhibited, having been stored in Philadelphia until the past
summer, when it was presented by the Centennial Board of Finance to
the United States.

This exhibit was quite equal in value to that displayed by Sweden at
Philadelphia, and which became the property of the Institute of Mining
Engineers. The collection, amounting to about fifteen tons in weight,
was carefully packed under the supervision of Mr. Thomas Donaldson,
and forwarded to the Institution.

Messrs. Dunn & Brothers, of Philadelphia, presented three boxes of
China clay from an establishment in England, of which they are the
agents.

Surveyors-General Wasson and Hardenburg have continued their con-
tributions of specimens illustrating the character of the ores in newly-
discovered mining regions in Arizona, &c. Mr. C. W. Derry presented
a collection of silver ores from the J. D. Dana Mine in Colorado. Mr.
Reynolds, the United States minister to Bolivia, has transmitted a series
of copper ores of that country, and a large number of single specimens
have been received, sent in for the purpose of identification.

It will be seen, from the preceding enumeration and from the list of
donations, that the collections are of varying magnitude, some being
exhaustive and covering all branches of natural history, others limited
to a single department and sometimes to a single specimen. All these,
however, find their place, a single object sometimes being more valuable
than a large collection in supplying an important gap.

The most important sources of supply, as will be understood from what
has already been said, have been the several government expeditions,
particularly those of Lieutenant Wheeler and of Major Powell; the
articles of general and natural history and ethnology obtained from these
two officers being of very great magnitude and value.

The thanks of the Institution are due for 1877, as in previous years,
to the Alaska Commercial Company, for disinterested and important
services in acting as its agent in receiving and forwarding specimens
and supplies transmitted between the Smithsonian Institution and its
correspondents on or near the Pacific coast of North America and Asia;
in giving free transportation on its vessels to their correspondents and
their equipment and collections, as well as subsistence and quarters at
its stations; in supplying objects of natural history, valuable in a scien-
tific point of view as well as commercially; and in every possible way
giving to the Smithsonian Institution the benefit of its organization and
opportunities in the most liberal manner, and, in all cases, without any
charge beyond that required for the reimbursement of moneys actually
paid.

The United States Signal Service, under General Myer, has taken
part, with its usual liberality, in the efforts of the Institution to in-
44 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

crease the knowledge of the natural history of North America, by allow-
ing it to nominate observers at several of its Northwestern posts, who
possessed the necessary interest and skill to make collections and obser-
vations. Noteworthy among these are Mr. Lucien M. Turner, for several
years stationed at Saint Michaels, in Alaska, and his suecessor at that
post, Mr. E. W. Nelson.

Single collections have been received from time to time from other
observers in theservice. Reference has been made to Dr. J. C. Merrill,
of the United States Army, who made collections on the Lower Rio
Grande, in the vicinity of Brownsville. This gentleman has enabled us
in great measure to complete the work begun years ago by Dr. Berlan-
dier, and continued by Lieut. D. N. Couch, Gen. Stewart Van Vliet,
Mr. J. H. Clark, Mr. Arthur Schott, and other members of the Mexican
Boundary Survey. Although but a short time resident at Fort Brown,
Dr. Merrill has already made a great many important additions to the
known fauna of that region. In this he has been aided by Mr. George
b. Sennett, of Erie, Pa., who has also rendered valuable service to
science.

To Mr. F. Hirst, of Bridger Station, Wyo., we owe many important
contributions of birds, eggs, ethnological specimens, &c. Col. A. G.
Brackett, U. S. A., also stationed in Wyoming, has likewise been a
valued contributor.

Mr. Livingston Stone has added greatly to our knowledge of the fishes
and ethnology of Oregon and California, by his collections in connection
with the operations of the United States Fish Commission.

Lieutenant Wittich has also contributed toward the same end in
Oregon. Mr. James G. Swan, for many years a collaborator of the In-
stitution, and who, in 1875 and 1876, transmitted such extensive collec-
tions of ethnologica for the Centennial Exhibition of the Indian Bureau,
has also made large contributions of various objects, during the year,
from Puget Sound.

The sea-coast has been well explored by the United States Fish Com-
mission on the coasts of Massachusetts and Nova Scotia, while the fishes
of Narragansett Bay and vicinity have been investigated by Mr. Sam-
uel Powel, of Newport.

The collections of birds and ethnologica from the National Museum of
Mexico have been already adverted to, and relations have been estab-
lished between the national museums of the two countries, which we
hope will tend to their mutual benefit.

The residence of Mr. G. Brown Goode in Bermuda during the winter
of 1876, has been productive of very desirable results; full series of the
fishes, invertebrates, corals, &c., having been gathered.

The attention of the Smithsonian Institution has for many years been
directed toward a thorough investigation of the natural history and
ethnology of the West India Islands, and extensive explorations and
collections have been effected through its agency in past years, in
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 45

the Bahamas, Jamaica, Cuba, Hayti, St. Domingo, Porto Rico, St.
Thomas, Santa Cruz, and Antigua; thus covering very largely the west-
ern portions of the group, or the Greater and Lesser Antilles.

For the purpose of obtaining at least a general idea of the other
islands more eastward, and of having them represented in the National
Museum, the Smithsonian Institution, in the fall of 1876, made an engage-
ment with Mr. Frederick A. Ober to proceed to that region, and, if pos-
sible, visit every island, large and small, occupying several years in the
labor. The islands of Dominica, St. Vincent, Barbuda, Antigua, &c.,
have been explored by Mr. Ober up to the present date.

The subjects to which his attention was especially called were the
archeology and ethnology of the islands, and their vertebrate animals.
He has succeeded in finding remnants of the ancient Carib tribes,
especially in Dominica, and has obtained numerous photographs of the
people and specimens illustrative of their handiwork. His collections
of birds have also been very extensive, embracing several undescribed
species, and others of great rarity, or not previously represented in the
National Museum.

Reference has been made, in previous reports, to the large collections
made at the Kerguelen Islands by Dr. J. H. Kidder, while connected
with the Transit of Venus Expedition. Some important deficiencies of
specimens, however, not procurable during Dr. Kidder’s visit, have been
obtained, at his request, by Captain Fuller, of the merchant service,
and presented to the Institution.

Scientific investigation of the collections.—As in previous years, the
collections of the National Museum have been freely intrusted to com-
petent naturalists for investigation and description; and much has
been accomplished toward their proper classification and identification.
Specimens of certain groups of mammals have been intrusted to Dr.
Elliot Coues, of the United States Army, and Mr. J. A. Allen, of Cam-
bridge, who are preparing a series of monographs for publication, under
the direction of Dr. Hayden. A magnificent quarto by these two gen-
tlemen, forming volume xi of the Reports of the Government Surveys
of the Territories, and occupying 1100 pages, is devoted exclusively to
the Rodentia, the materials derived almost entirely from the National
Museum.

Other important monographs on the fur-bearing animals and on the
insectivora have been likewise prepared by them.

The birds of America outside of the United States, and those of the
West Indies, have been p laced in the hands of Mr. George N. Lawrence
who has published a number of papers upon them, describing several
new species, principally from the collections of Mr. Ober and of Mr. Brace,
of Nassau. Mr. Ridgway, the assistant in charge of the department of
ornithology in the museum, has made investigations into the scientific
relations of the raptores, the herons, &c., and published several mono
graphs.
46 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

The reptiles have been placed in the hands of Prof. I. D. Cope for
investigation.

The fishes have been elaborated by Prof. Theodore Gill, Mr. G. Brown
Goode, Dr. T. H. Bean, and Professor Jordan. The latter gentleman
has prepared some important monographs relating to the fresh-water
fishes of the United States from the specimens of the National Museum,
describing many new species.

Mr. William H. Dall bas had charge of the Mollusea, and has described
some new species. Others have been submitted to Mr. Thomas Bland.

The marine invertebrates collected by the United States Fish Commis-
sion are in the hands of Prof. A. E. Verrill, of Yale College, the special
collaborator of the Commission. In their examination he has been
assisted by Prof. Sidney I. Smith, of the same institution. Extensive
monographs are in preparation by them, to be published by the Com-
mission.

The sponges have been sent to Professor Hyatt, of Boston, our chief
authority on that subject.

The fossil invertebrates have been investigated by Prof. C. A. White,
the paleontologist of Dr. Hayden’s survey.

In accordance with an arrangement of several years’ standing, the
collections of all vegetable substances, and of insects, have been trans-
ferred, as received, to the Department of Agriculture, and these have
been properly elaborated by the officers in charge of the several depart-
ments of its museum.

The ethnological specimens have been studied ecarefally by Dr. Rau
and Mr. Cushing, in charge of the department of the ethnological col-
lection, Prof. O. T. Mason, and others. Professor Mason has published
a paper, with numerous illustrations, upon the collections from Porto
Rico, in the Smithsonian Report for 1876.

Work done in the museum.—The force in the museum occupied in the
arrangement of the collections was necessarily diminished on account
of the reduction of the Congressional appropriation, but all those re-
tained have been diligently occupied in cataloguing the collections, in
preparing and arranging them for exhibition, and in identifying and
describing them.

As will be seen by a table in the appendix, the saga number of entries
of specimens during the year amounted to 11,398. Although this is
not quite equal to the number recorded in 1876, it is considerably in
excess of the receipts of any previous year.

The labor of receiving the specimens, ascertaining their exact origin,
distributing them among the various departments, giving to them the
treatment necessary for their permanent preservation, and finally their
identification and entry, and deposit in a suitable place, is very great;
no single day passing without seme fresh addition of material requir-
ing all these precautions. It is, however, believed that the National
Museum will compare favorably with any establishment of its kind
in the accomplishment of this necessary work with its actual force.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. AT

Distribution of duplicate specimens.—A very large portion of the labor
during the year has been directed toward the selection and labeling,
recording and packing, of duplicate specimens for distribution, in accord-
ance with the act of Congress providing for the same.

In addition to a large number of single specimens or small series,
supplied as the result of special application, a number of collections
have been prepared embracing many extremely rare and desirable ob-
jects. Among the most important of these may be mentioned twenty-
five sets of fishes, each containing seventy-five to one hundred and
fifty species. These have been carefully identified and labeled, under
the supervision of Professor Gill and Dr. Bean, and have constituted
extremely acceptable additions to the museums to which they have
been sent.

Other series of magnitude consist of birds’ eggs, shells, bird-skins, &c.

A large number of series of diatomaceous earths have also been sup-
plied, embracing forty or fifty different localities, many of them unknown
to the investigator. The demand for them is very great, and taxes the
ability of the person in charge to meet it.

Necessity of increased accommodations for the museum.—The necessity
for more space has already been adverted to in the report for 1876,
where full details will be found on the subject. It may be only neces-
sary here to say that the exigency is greater than ever, in view of the
largely-increased collections of the year and the deterioration caused
to the animal and metallic specimens in consequence of their being
boxed up and out of the reach of proper care. Very serious losses have
already been experienced in the collections of wools, animal fibers, &ce.,
and from the rusting of the specimens of iron and steel, and it is earnestly
hoped that the next report may chronicle the initiation of measures by
Congress for relief in this direction. :

At present it is reasonable to estimate that the articles worthy of
exhibition, but withdrawn from view, are several times greater in extent
than those at present displayed, and that a correspondingly enlarged
building is required for their display.

The collections thus withdrawn from exhibition consistnotonly of those
most interesting to the naturalist, but also of such as are of the highest
industrial value to the country, and will add greatly to the means of tech-
nical instruction, embracing as they do illustrations of different kinds of
building-stone, ores of all kinds, earths, china and porcelain clays with
the products derived from them, illustrations of the animal products of
the country in the way of furs, oils, gelatines, glues, fibers, hair, bristles,
chemical products, &c., and a great variety of articles to which refer-
ence is made in the report for 1876.

FISH CULTURE.

The labors of the United States Fish Commission, under Professor
Baird’s direction, have been prosecuted through the year with very sat-
isfactory results.
48 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

As in previous years, the operations have been carried on under two
distinct divisions: first, the inquiry into the condition of the American
fisheries; and secondly, the multiplication of useful food-fishes in the
rivers and lakes of the United States.

The first division embraces a critical examination into the physical
and biological character of the waters, such as the determination of
their temperature in different seasons, their currents, their chemical
composition, the character of the bottom, and the precise nature of the
animal and vegetable life occurring therein, with their mutual relations;
as also the influences which may tend to affect the abundance and the
distribution of the fish in different seasons, whether by natural causes,
artificial impediments or obstructions, or by excessive fishing. Work
in this direction has been conducted since 1871, and has resulted in
supplying a minute and satisfactory knowledge of the character of the
coast and off-shore portions of the United States, from the Bay of Fundy
to Long Island Sound, and other portions of the sea-coast and of the
lakes have been investigated in a less elaborate manner.

The operations in regard to the propagation of food-fishes relate espe-
cially to the introduction of California salmon, Atlantic salmon, land-
locked salmon, and whitefish into new waters, or their multiplication in
those that have been depleted. Special attention, also, in later years,
has been directed to the European carp, a well known and favorite
domesticated fish, and promising to be an important addition to the
food resources of the United States.

The usual operations of the Fish Commission, in its maritime work
during 1577, were somewhat modified by the attendance of Professor
Baird on the International Fishery Convention on the part of Great
Britain and the United States, at Halifax, by the request of the Secre-
tary of State.

Under the law of Congress, which directs all needed aid to be fur-
nished, as far as practicable, to the United States Fish Commission in
its varied operations, by the executive departments of the government,
the Secretary of the Navy has for several years supplied a steamer,
completely equipped for use, and in the season of 1877 a much larger
vessel than usual was detailed at the request of the Secretary of State;
this was the tug Speedwell, an iron propeller of 310 tous and of great
stanchness, and thoroughly fitted for her work. She was equipped for
the special service at the navy-yard in Portsmouth, N. H., under the
direction of Commodore Guest, and the scientific apparatus formerly
used on board the United States steamer Blue Light was transferred to
her at New London. She was commanded by Lieutenant-Commander
A. G. Kellogg, with Dr. T. H. Sheets as surgeon, and Mr. A. V. Zane
as engineer. The vessel reported for duty on the 3lst of July, at Salem,
at which point Professor Baird had been stationed for a month, engaged
in the preliminary work of the commission prior to proceeding to Hali-
fax. This consisted, in part, in the collection of statistical information
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 49

in regard to the present condition of the American fisheries, for which
purpose circulars were printed and distributed very extensively along
the coast, and several competent agents were detailed for making the
necessary inquiries.

As in previous years, Prof. A. E. Verrill, of Yale College, assisted by
Mr. E. B. Wilson, took special charge of the investigations in regard to
the marine invertebrates, while Mr. G. Brown Goode and Dr. T. H.
Bean discharged a similar relation to the vertebrates. A number of
trips were made by the vessel from Salem, which resulted in the dis-
covery of some new and extensive fishing-grounds of much value, which
it is believed will in time be utilized in the interest of the American
fisheries.

Professor Baird proceeded to Halifax about the middle of August,
where he was joined by the Speedwell on the 22d, from which point a
new Series of researches was carried on tending to still further elucidate
the fisheries of the United States and of the British possessions.

The opportunity furnished by the presence of many intelligent fisher-
men and other witnesses called on both sid es by the convention, was
embraced by Professor Baird to secure information in regard to the
condition, extent, and location of the American fisheries and the details
of their prosecution, and enabled him to collect material for an ex-
haustive work on the subject, to be published at some future time in
the report of the commission.

Professor Baird’s duties in Washington required his return from
Halifax a short time before the close of the convention, and he left on
the 20th of October for home, the steamer Speedwell having proceeded
to Salem on the 13th; and, after remaining a few days and carrying on
some investigations in regard to the habits and distribution of the sea-
herring, she reported herself at Portsmouth and was taken out of com-
mission.

The season of 1877 was unusually productive in the increase of our
knowledge of the natural history of the coast; a number of species
having been added to previous lists, a considerable proportion new to
science.

The work of the commission in the direction of the propagation of
food-fishes began in April with the shad, an establishment having been
formed at Havre de Grace, in the Susquehanna, where 11,000,000 of
young shad were hatched out and distributed throughout the United
States. During this season an entirely new system of hatching shad,
invented by Mr. T. B. Ferguson, fish commissioner of Maryland, was
put into successful operation. In this the necessary motion required by
the eggs is imparted by steam machinery, which causes a cylindrical
vessel in which the eggs are placed to rise and fall in the water with a
proper degree of velocity. In this way many practical difficulties in
the hatching of shad in open bays and elsewhere are overcome.

The work of hatching shad at Havre de Grace was prosecuted with
the assistance of Mr. Ferguson, while the shipment and distribution of

48
50 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

the young fish was directed by Mr. J. W. Milner, Assistant United
States Fish Commissioner.

After completing operations at Havre de Grace, the commission,
under Mr. Milner, transferred its operations to Holyoke, in Massachu-
setts, which resulted in about the average success.

The yield of eggs of the California salmon from the United States
establishment situated on the McCloud River, in Northern California,
was not so large as usual, in consequence of the interference with the
upward run of the fish by some canning establishments on the Lower
Sacramento. Between five and six millions of eggs, however, were se-
cured and duly distributed. These were sent to all parts of the United
States, as also to Canada, Australia, New Zealand, the Sandwich Isl-
ands, Germany, France, England, and the Netherlands.

Nothing was done during the year with the Atlantic salmon, although
the establishment at Bucksport was kept in repair.

Unusual success was experienced in the collection of eggs of the land-
locked salmon in the Grand Lake Stream in Eastern Maine, about two
millions having been secured and distributed to fish commissioners and
other parties in a large number of States. This work was prosecuted
in co-operation with the fish commissioners of Massachusetts and Con-
necticut, who bore a share of the expense.

In the early part of the year Mr. Rudolph Hessel, an experienced fish
culturist, was sent to Germany to obtain a supply of the German carp,
and he brought back several hundred of the best varieties. These were
placed temporarily in certain ponds in Druid Hill Park, Baltimore, un-
der the care of Mr. T. B. Ferguson.

For the further treatment of these fish, and the multiplication of sufii-
cient numbers to commence distributing them throughout the United
States, Congress, in the latter part of the year, granted to the commis-
sion the use of the ponds on the Monument lot, in the city of Washing-
- ton, and made an appropriation to fit them up properly. Work has
been begun upon these ponds, and it is hoped that in the course of the
year 1878 a successful beginning may be made in the way of distribu-
tion of fish from them.

The labors of the United States Fish Commission can searcely be too
highly estimated. A very large and increasing portion of human life is
sustained by the product of the water, especially of shores and rivers.
Organic matter necessary to the sustentation of life is produced by
radiation from the sun in connection with plants, but a large portion of
this is carried into the waters of rivers and that of the sea, by sewage
and drainage, and can only be reclaimed for human use by the produc-
tion of fishes. Hence, with the increase of population of civilized coun-
tries, the art of breeding and catching fish becomes as important,
almost, as the extension of arable land and the improvement of agri-
culture. Indeed, it becomes in some respects more valuable than these,
since it supplies food differing from that of the land; and, therefore,
adds to the variety of the means for gratifying the palate.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 51

The improvement which has been made in the art of producing fish is,
truly wonderful. Rivers, ponds, and lakes which are almost entirely
barren or inhabited only by fish of but little value may be filled to reple-
tion and kept full by judicious arrangement of the time of catching.
The rules, however, for the art of fish culture are founded on scientific
observations relative to the natural history of fish, and especially in
regard to one principle, namely: that nature, to preserve a species, is
prodigal in the production of individuals. This is especially true in
regard to fishes; for example, from a single shad may be stripped 10,000
eggs which, being left exposed to all the enemies to which they are sub-
jected, will yield not more than 50 young individuals able to feed them-
selves, and not more than 5 adult fish capable of reproduction, while
the same number of eggs hatched by artificial means ought to yield
9,500 young fish, with a reasonable expectation of 950 adults.

The subject of fish culture has, however, but lately attracted the
attention of the general government, the first small appropriation in
regard to it having been made in 1872. It has, however, been extended
year by year by small additional appropriations, and has now attracted
such attention that the country will demand a still wider extension of
its labors.

In this connection I would draw attention to the immense importance
of the National Museum as an educational establishment. Specimens of
every variety of fish in the different waters of the United States are sent
by the employés of the Fish Commission to Washington in a fresh con-
dition, and from them molds are immediately made in plaster from
which again models are cast and painted to give exact representations
in form and color of the original specimens. In this way in the course
of a limited time a full set of all the edible fish of North America will
be obtained, as well as models of those of a similar character from other ~
countries. In addition to this, the National Museum has now in its
possession ready for exhibition when a new building shall be provided,
specimens of all the apparatus used in all the different countries of the
world for the capture and utilization, as well as the propagation of fish.

The importance of such a collection as a means of diffusing and im-
proving practical ideas can scarcely be too highly estimated.

CONCLUSION.

It will be seen from the report of Professor Baird that a large amount
of his time has been expended in labor for the general government, in.
relation to American fisheries. >

Almost from the first organization of the Institution until the present
time the officers of the Institution have rendered service to the general
government without additional salary. For several years past the Sec-
retary has devoted the greater part of the summer to investigations on

sound in its application to fog-signals,in connection with the Light-
House Board.
52 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

These investigations have been made along the coast on light-house
steamers, with the assistance of members and officers of the light-house
establishment. During the last year a series of experiments were made
along the coast of Maine, which served to establish some new principles,
as well as to confirm previous results.

From all the experiments which have been made by the Light-House
Board in regard to the transmission of sound in free air and those
derived from other observations which can be fully relied upon, the
following conclusions may be considered established, subject, however,
to such further modification and extension as subsequent investigation
may seem to indicate:

‘61, The audibility of sound at a distance (the state of the atmosphere
being constant) depends upon the character of the sound. The distance
through which a sound may be heard is governed by the pitch, the
loudness, and the quantity of sound. The pitch or frequency of the
impulses in a given time must not be too high, otherwise the amplitude
of vibration will be too small to allow a sufficient quantity of air to be
put into motion; neither must the pitch be too low, for in this case the
motion of the atoms of air in the sound-wave will not be sufficiently rapid
to convey the impulse to a great distance. Again, the greater the loud-
ness of the sound, which depends upon the amplitude of the vibrations
of the sounding body, the greater will be the distance at which it will be
heard. And finally, the greater the quantity of sound, which depends
upon the magnitude of the vibrating surface, the greater will be the
distance to which it is audibly transmitted. These results are derived
from observations on the siren, the reed-trumpet, and the automatic
buoy. The effect of quantity of sound is shown in the fact that in
sounding different instruments at the same time, it was found that two
sounds apparently of the same loudness were heard at very different
distances. The audibility of sound depends upon the state of the
atmosphere.

2. A condition most favorable to the transmission of sound is that of
perfect stillness and uniform density and temperature throughout.
This is shown by the observations of Parry and other Arctic explorers;
although in this case an efficient and co-operating cause is doubtless
the downward refraction of sound due to the greater coldness of the
lower strata of air, as first pointed out by Professor Reynolds. Air,
however, is seldom in a state of uniform density, but is pervaded by
local currents, due to contact with portions of the earth unequally
heated, and from the refractions and reflections to which the sound-
wave is subjected in its passage through such a medium it is broken up
and lost to the ear at a less distance.

3. But the most efficient cause of the loss of audibility is the direct
effect produced by the wind. As a general rule, a sound is heard far-
ther when moving with the wind than when moving against it. This
effect, which is in conformity with ordinary observation, is not due to
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 53

an increase of velocity of the sound-wave in one direction and a dimi-
nution in the other by the motion of the wind except in an imperceptible
degree; for since sound moves at the rate of about seven hundred and
fifty miles an hour, a wind of seven miles and a half an hour could in-
crease or diminish the velocity of the sound-wave only one per cent.,
while the effect observed is in some cases several hundred per cent. It
is, however, due to a change in its direction. Sound moving with the
wind is refracted or thrown down toward the earth; while moving
against the wind itis refracted upward and passes over the head of the
observer, so as to be heard at a distance at an elevation of several hun-
dred feet when inaudible at the surface of the earth.

4, Although, as a general rule, the sound is heard farther when moy-
ing with the wind than when moving against it, yet in some instances
the sound is heard farthest against the wind, but this phenomenon is
shown to be due to a dominant upper wind, blowing at the time in an
opposite direction to that at the surface of the earth. These winds are
not imaginary productions invented to explain the phenomena, but
actual existences, established by observation, as in the case of the ex-
periments made at Sandy Hook in 1874, by means of balloons, and from
the actual motion of the air in the case of northeast storms, as observed
at stations on the coast of Maine.

5. Although sound issuing from the mouth of a trumpet is at first con-
centrated in a given direction, yet it tends to spread so rapidly, that at
the distance of three or four miles it fills the whole space of air inclosed
within the circuit of the horizon, and is heard behind the trumpet nearly
as well as at an equal distance in front of its mouth. This fact pre-
cludes the use of concave reflectors as a means of increasing the inten-
sity of sound in a given direction; for although at first they do give an
increase of sound in the direction of the axis, it is only for a compara-
tively short distance.

6. It has been established, contrary to what has formerly been thought
to be the case, that neither fog, snow, hail, nor rain materially interferes
with the transmission of loud sounds. The siren has been heard at a
greater distance during the prevalence of a dense and widely-extended
fog than during any other condition of the atmosphere. This may, how-
ever, be attributed to the uniform density and stillness of the air at the
time.

7. In some cases sound-shadows are produced by projecting portions
of land or by buildings situated near the origin of the sound, but these
are closed in by the spread of the sound-waves, and thus exhibit the
phenomenon of sound being heard at a distance and afterwards lost on
a@ nearer approach to the station.

8. It frequently happens that on a vessel leaving a station the sound
is suddenly lost at a point in its course, and after remaining inaudible
some time, is heard again at a greater distance, and is then gradually
lost as the distance is farther increased. This phenomenon is only ob-
served when the sound is moving against the wind, and is therefore
54 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

attributed to the upward refraction of the sound-wave, which passes
over the head of the observer and continues an upward course until it
nearly reaches the upper surface of the current of wind, when the refrac-
tion will be reversed and the sound sent downward to the earth; or
the effect may be considered as due to a sound-shadow produced by re-
fraction, which is gradually closed in at a distance by the lateral spread
of the sound-wave near the earth, on either side, in a direction which
is not affected by the upward refraction. Another explanation may be
found in the probable circumstance of the lower sheet of sound-beams
being actually refracted into a serpentine or undulating course, as sug-
gested in the Appendix to the Report of the Light-House Board for 1875.
Such a serpentine course would result from successive layers of unequal
velocity in an opposing wind; as being retarded at and near the sur-
face of the earth, attaining its maximum velocity at the height of a
few hundred feet, and then being again retarded at greater elevations
by the friction of upper counter-currents, or statiopary air. In some
cases the phenomenon is due to one or the other of these causes, and in
other cases to both combined. That it is not due to the obstructing or
screening effects of an abnormal condition of the atmosphere is shown
by the fact that a sound transmitted in an opposite direction, through
what is called the region of silence, passes without obstruction. It is
probable, from all the observations, that in all cases of refraction of a
sound moving against the wind, it tends again to descend to the earth
by the natural spread of the sound.

9, The existence of a remarkable phenomenon has been established,
which is exhibited in all states of the atmosphere during rain, snow,
and dense fog, to which has been given the name of aerial echo. It con-
sists of a distinct echo, apparently from a space near the horizon of
fifteen or twenty degrees in azimuth, directly in the prolongation of the
axis of the trumpet. The loudness of this echo depends upon the loud-
ness and quantity of the original sound, and therefore it is produced
with the greatest distinctness by the siren. It cannot be due to the
accidental position of a flocculent portion of atmosphere nor the direct
reflection from the crests of the waves, as was at first supposed, since
it is always heard except when the wind is blowing a hurricane.

As a provisional explanation, the hypothesis has been adopted that
in the natural spread of the waves of sound some of the rays must take
such a curvilinear course as to strike the surface of the water in an
opposite direction and thus be reflected back to the station or location
of the origin of the sound.”

Respectfully submitted.
JOSEPH HENRY,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution.
WASHINGTON, January, 1878.
APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.
GOVERNMENT EXPLORATIONS IN 1877.

In accordance with the law of organization of the Institution, all the
specimens that are brought to Washington by the various government
surveys and expeditions are turned over to the National Museum in
charge of the Smithsonian Institution, and, therefore, accounts are here
given of the Government explorations during the past year under the di-
rection of Professor Hayden, Professor Powell, and Lieutenant Wheeler,
furnished by the directors of the explorations.

THE WORK OF THE UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL AND GEOGRAPHICAL
SURVEY OF THE TERRITORIES, UNDER THE DIRECTION OF PROF. F.
V. HAYDEN, DURING THE SEASON OF 1877.

On the completion of the work in Colorado in 1876, it was determined
that the work should continue northward into Idaho and Wyoming
Territories. The belt of country along the fortieth parallel, including
the Union Pacific Railroad, having been explored in detail by the sur-
vey of the fortieth parallel under Clarence King, it was deemed best to
commence at the northern boundary of that work and continue north-
ward and westward.

The survey was divided into five parties for field, geological, and topo-
graphical work, besides several parties for special investigation. The
following notes present the salient features of the summer’s work:

Primary triangulation.—The primary triangulation party in charge
of Mr, A. D. Wilson, chief topographer of the survey, took the field from
Rawlins Springs, Wyo. Near this place a base-line was carefully meas-
ured and from this a net-work of triangles was extended to the north
and west. After completing the work in the vicinity of Rawlins, the
party marched northward, making stations on Seminoe and Whiskey
Peaks, and thence traveled westward to Yellow Butte, where another
station was located. From this point the work was carried to the Wind
River Range. Three stations were made on the more prominent points
of this range with much difficulty, owing to the great quantities of snow
found in these mountains during the month of June—the time the party
was working there.

Continuing the work northward and westward, stations were made
on the Grosventre and Wyoming Ranges and on Caribou Mountain and
Mount Putnam near Fort Hall. After refitting at the latter place the
party marched south via Soda Springs to the valley of Bear Lake, where
another base-line was measured and connected with the work as brought
forward from the Rawlins base.

After occupying Mount Preuss, Soda, Paris, and North Logan Peaks,
the party marched to Evanston where a connection was made with the

55
56 APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

astronomical station made at this point by the boundary survey of Wyo-
ming. Stations were also made on Medicine Butte and Ogden Peak,
thus connecting with the primary triangulation of the fortieth parallel
survey. From Evanston the party moved eastward, occupying Pilot
and Black Buttes, again visiting Separation Peak near Rawlins, thus
bringing the work back to the point of beginning where the party was
disbanded and the train sent into winter quarters at Cheyenne.

Mr. Wilson has finished the preliminary computations of his work,
and a chart, showing the results, has been published. Twenty-six points
were occupied, while many others were located by foresights, among
them the Grand Téton and Washakie Needles.

The triangulation covered an area of about 28,000 square miles, extend-
ing from longitude 107° to 112° and between north latitude 41° 10’ and
43° 50’.

Stone monuments were built on all occupied points for future refer-
ence, and when the final computations are made, the latitude and longi-
tude of all these points will be given, with azimuths and distances
between the points.

Topography.—The topographical field-work of the past season was ear-
ried on by three parties, to each of which a definite area was assigned to
be surveyed. These areas were approximately in the form of rectangles,
limited by meridians and parallels of latitude. Each of them contained
about 11,000 square miles. That assigned to the Teton division, in
charge of Mr. G. R. Bechler, lay between the meridians of 109° 30’ and
112° and the parallels 43° and 44° 15’. This area comprises nearly all
the country about the sources of Snake River, including the very rugged
range of the Teton Mountains and the northern half of the Wind River
Mountains. From the character of the country, being nearly all moun-
tainous, and much obstructed by living and fallen timber, work was
necessarily slow, yet Mr. Bechler succeeded in surveying nearly 6,000
Square miles up to the early part of September, when he was obliged to
stop work and leave the country, owing to the proximity of Joseph’s
band of hostile Indians. About one-third of the area surveyed by this
division lies south of the Snake and west of Salt River. The remainder
includes the greater part of the most rugged mountains, among them
the Tetons and a portion of tne Wind River Range.

That portion of the district lying south of Snake River consists of the
northern ends of two mountain-ranges, known as the Blackfoot and
Caribou ranges, with their adjaceut valleys. These ranges have the
normal trend; are here scarcely high enough (6,000 to 8,000 feet above
sea-level) to be dignified with the name of mountains, and are bare of
timber and grass-covered. All this section is fine grazing-land, and in
the valleys are large areas of arable land.

North of the Snake are several fine valleys, well watered from the
snow-fields of the high mountains, among which are Pierre’s and Jack-
son’s Holes; but the mass of the country is made up of mountains.
APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. ON

As a rule, the valleys are narrow, mere cafions in very many cases. The
mountains are everywhere heavily timbered with pine and spruce.

During the season, Mr. Bechler occupied 60 stations, and measured
7,340 horizontal and 5,700 vertical angles.

The area assigned to the Green River division, in charge of Mr. Henry
Gannett, lay between the meridians of 109° 30’ and 112° 00! and the
parallels of latitude of 41° 45’ and 43° 00’, being directly south of that
of the Teton division. This district includes the northern half of the
Green River Basin; nearly all the drainage area of the Bear, and sev-
eral large branches of the Snake, comprising portions of the three
Territories Wyoming, Idaho, and Utah. The country being especially
well adapted to this class of surveying, work was pushed very rapidly,
so that, after finishing his district, Mr. Gannett was enabled to carry the
work westward over the valleys of the Portneuf and Malade, with their
bounding ranges.

With the exception of the Green River Basin, which is a broad, flat
expanse of sage and grass, the country consists of a succession of par-
allel ranges of mountains, with the normal Rocky Mountain trend, sep-
arated by broad valleys. The valleys are fertile, and easily irrigated,
while everywhere there is a bountiful supply of water. The average ele-
vation of these valleys is from 4,000 to 6,000 feet, while the mountains
rise to heights ranging from 8,000 to 11,000 feet.

The lower mountain-ranges are grass-covered, while the higher ones
are well timbered, in some cases even densely timbered, with heavy
spruce and pine. The area of irrigable land is, by a rough estimate, ten
per cent. of the district, while at least three-fourths of it is suitable for
grazing. In surveying this area, Mr. Gannett made 347 stations of all
grades of importance, building monuments on 53 of the principal ones
for future reference by the land surveys, or other purposes.

The district assigned to the Sweetwater division, under Mr. George
B. Chittenden, lay between meridians 107° 00’ and 109° 30/ and parallels
41° 45’ and 43° 00’, being east of that last described. It includes the
southern half of the Wind River Range, the valleys of Wind River and
the Sweetwater, with the Sweetwater Mountains and the desert-like
plateaus about the continental divide south of the latter. Of this area
nearly all or between 10,000 and 11,000 square miles were surveyed.
Of this district, a rough estimate makes five-eighths desert country, two
eighths mountainous, of value only for its timber, or, hypothetically, for
its mineral contents, and one-eighth only valuable as pasture or agricul-
tural land. In surveying this area, Mr. Chittenden made nearly 200
Stations. Between 80 and 90 of these were marked permanently by
stone monuments for future reference.

As heretofore, attention has been paid to the economic value of the
land surveyed. Map notes and sketches indicate the extent of land
suitably situated for irrigation, and as all streams of any magnitude are
gauged, and their slopes measured, the data for estimates of the amount
58 APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

of arable land are at hand. Areas of pasture and timber land are also
noted.

During the whole season, of four months’ duration, the weather was
unexceptionably favorable for the prosecution of the work; scarcely a
day was lost from bad weather by any of the parties.

The total area surveyed during the season, and to be mapped during
the winter, was about 29,000 square miles, a very considerable addition
to our knowledge of the Western country.

In succeeding years the work is to be extended toward the north,
east, and west.

Geology.—The geological field-work of the survey for 1877 was as-
signed to Dr. F. M. Endlich, Prof. Orestes H. St. John, and Dr. A. C.
Peale, in the Sweetwater, Teton, and Green River districts respectively.
Many interesting geological facts were observed which will be detailed
in the annual report of the survey.

The Sweetwater district comprised a well-diversified country. The
eastern portion of the Green River Basin was found to be underlaid
with Tertiary formations, with isolated volcanic eruptions at several
points. The prevailing westerly winds of the region have resulted in
the formation of sand dunes wherever the configuration of the country
has offered an obstacle to the progress of the sand that is formed from
the readily disintegrating Tertiary sandstones. On the eastern side of
the Wind River Mountains a full series of the sedimentary formations
was noted, beginning with the Silurian, and numerous stratigraphical
phenomena were observed and studied with a view to the determina-
tion of the age of the mountain-range.

Camp Stambaugh, at the south end of the range, is located within
the area of the oldest metamorphic rocks of the district In these, gold
has been found in varying quantities for the last ten years, and, at one
time, the region was the scene of considerable mining excitement.

The western side of the Wind River Mountains was found to be very
interesting on account of the remains of enormous ancient glaciers.
Moraines, covering many square miles, and often a thousand feet in
thickness, extend downward through narrow valleys that now contain
rushing streams. Striation, grooving, and mirror-like polish of rock in
situ, denote the course taken by the moving ice-fields that have left
these marks of their former existence. From all indications, the cessa-
tion of glacial activity must have occurred within a comparatively recent
time. Scarcely any vegetation has sprung up on the light glacial soil,
and the characteristic distribution of erratic material bears every evi-
dence of ‘‘ freshness.”

All along the Sweetwater River the characteristic Sweetwater group
of the Tertiary was found, continuing northward to the hills opposite
Seminoe Pass. These hills were found to be projections of granite that
during the Tertiary epoch, and probably long before, existed as islands
in a widely extended sea.

On the south side of the Sweetwater, in the Seminoe Hills, the older
APPENDIX TC REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. oo

sedimentary formations were noted. In the region between the Seminoe
Hills and Rawlins, on the Union Pacific Railroad, an interesting group
of mud-springs, analogous to the mud-puffs of the Geyser region, were
seen. About four hundred of these curious springs were found and ex-
amined.

After finishing his work with the field-party, Dr. Endlich visited the
coal-mines near Evanston, Wyo., to examine the coal-bearing rocks of
that region.

The Green River district lies directly west of the Sweetwater district.
With the exception of a small area of granite, along the southwestern
side of the Wind River Mountains, and some basaltic flows in the north-
western portion of the district, the rocks are sedimentary. The Green
River Basin was the first areasurveyed. The prevailing formation was
found to be the Green River group of the Tertiary, underlaid by the
Wahsatch. Toward the south, buttes of the Bridger clays rest on the
Green River marls and sandstones. They are the northern outliers of
the extensive Bridger areas found farther southward.

On the northeast, the Tertiary beds rest on the granites of the Wind
River Mountains, the line of junction being considerably obscured by
morainal material. One of the most interesting points noted in the
Green River Basin was on its west side, where the Wahsatch Tertiary
is seen resting unconformably on Jurassic and Cretaceous strata. At
one point, Carboniferous fossils were obtained from bowlders of lime-
stone found in a conglomerate in the Wahsatch group. These were
derived without doubt from the Carboniferous limestones of the mount-
ains that stand a short distance to the westward, and which must once
have formed a portion of the shore-line of the lake filling the Green
River Basin.

An arm of this Tertiary lake extended up Harris Fork of the Green
River, where Green River and Wahsatch beds are found in horizontal
position. In the Green River shales, at several localities, good collec-
tions of fossil fish and insects were found, among which were many new
species.

The region of the Blackfoot River, in the northwestern part of the
district, is covered in all its lowest portions with flows of basalt which
had their origin in craters that still show between the Blackfoot, Bear,
and Portneuf Rivers. The pouring out of this basalt must have occurred
either during or just prior to the present period, as there has been but
little if any change in the surface since the eruption. On the Portneuf
River a narrow tongue of basalt extends almost to Snake River Valley.
The surface of this basalt slopes somewhat, but not so much as the pres-
ent bed of the Portneuf. The lower valley of the Portneuf is interesting
from the fact that it is probably one of the ancient outlets of the great
lake that once filled the Salt Lake Basin and extended across into
Cache Valley. In Cache Valley and Malade Valley, modern Tertiary
deposits are found jutting against the mountains, and in the central por-
60 APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

tions of the valleys they seem to pass gradually into the more modern
deposits.

The interesting soda-springs at the bend of Bear River were carefully
examined.

Although the area surveyed by the Green River division was large,
comprising about 13,000 square miles, large collections of fossils (many
of them new) were made. Notes were obtained for the preparation of
a geological map of the area, and data collected for the elucidation of
many interesting problems in relation to the age of the mountains.

Coal-outcrops were noted at a number of localities, on some of the
branches of the Upper Bear River and of Green River. The famous salt-
works on a branch of Salt River were also examined.

Professor St. John reports the Teton district to be one of great inter-
est. He found extensive areas covered with rocks of igneous origin, ba-
salts, and trachytes.

The Snake River plains are everywhere floored with basaltic rocks.
They extend up the valley of the Snake as far as the lower basin, where
they are succeeded by other volcanics, mainly trachytes. The latter are
observed inclining at greater or less angles and appear to be more an-
cient than the basalts. The Blackfoot Valley and the valley depressions
between the Blackfoot Mountains and the Caribou Range are floored
with basalts in every way similar to those occurring in the Snake River
plains. These extend southward into Dr. Peale’s district.

Rhyolitic products were found at a few localities. In one instance the
eruptive matter appears as a dike in the crest of a low, short ridge be-
tween the Blackfoot and Caribou Ranges, its eruption having tilted the
sedimentary deposits into an anticlinal ridge.

In Caribou Mountain, also, interesting phenomena were observed. The
mountain is a monoclinal ridge, made up of sedimentaries, between
whose strata the igneous material is intruded, appearing from a distance
like veritable beds of deposition, while the bulk of the west portion of
the mountain appears to consist of an enormous mass of eruptive mat-
ter thrust up from below. This mountain would therefore appear to be
another instance of local outburst, similar to those brought to light by
the survey in Western and Southwestern Colorado.

Extensive areas of the district are occupied by sedimentary or strati-
fied rocks, which were referred to the Lower Silurian, Carboniferous,
Jura-Triassic, Cretaceous, and Tertiary ages. These rocks have been
subjected to considerable folding and displacements ia the different por-
tions of the district.

One of the most interesting discoveries was that of the presence of
fish-remains in the Lower Carboniferous. Several forms were found,
identical with or closely allied to Keokuk species of the genera Oladodus,
Petalodus, Anthiodus, and Helodus.

In the upper basin of Snake River, Tertiary lacustrine beds occur.
These are probably the equivalents of the lake-beds of Dr. Hayden.

The Teton Range was examined and found to be a gigantic monoclinal
APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 61

ridge, with a metamorphic and granitic nucleus, which forms a lofty,
exceedingly rugged, jagged crest, extending in a north and south direc-
tion three-fourths the length of the range, culminating in Mount Hayden.

In Jackson’s Basin, east of the Teton Range, a vast accumulation of
morainal matter was noted. Along the west side of the basin, extensive
morainal accumulations occur, which have been cut into beautiful ter-
races by Snake River.

Calcareous tufa, indicating the presence of springs, was found at the
mouth of Salt River, in a small basin east of Lincoln Valley, &c.
None of these, however, are comparable with the enormous spring de-
posits met with at the northeastern foot of the Wind River Mountains,
in the upper portion of the Wind River Valley, which were hastily ex-
amined late in the season.

The geological notes given above present only the salient features of
the season’s work.

Paleontology.—During the past year the prosecution of paleontological
investigation in the field has constituted a prominent feature of the
work. This investigation embraces not only a collection and study of
the fossil remains, but also the application of such study to the correla-
tion of the geological formations that occupy the different districts that
have from year to year been surveyed by various parties. Dr. C. A.
White, the paleontologist of the survey, has been placed in chage of this
branch of the work, which he pursued in the field during the whole of
last season. The region studied by him is briefly as follows: That por-
tion of the great plain which lies adjacent to the east base of the Rocky
Mountains between Cheyenne and a point 25 or 30 miles south of Den-
ver; a portion of Middle Park; the district drained by Yampa and
White Rivers into the Green; the district which lies adjacent to the
southern base of the Uinta range of mountains; that which lies adja-
cent to the northern side of those mountains; a large part of the Green
River Basin, and eastward as far as Rawlins Station on the Union
Pacific Railroad.

The results have been very gratifying; among the more important of
which is the definition of the paleontological boundaries of certain of the
groups of strata, especially those of the Laramie group, over a large area,
including both sides of the Rocky Mountains. He has demonstrated
the fact that at least the lower portion of the Fort Union group, the
Lignitic group of Colorado east of the Rocky Mountains, and the Lara-
mie group of King west of those mountains, including the great Bitter
Creek series of beds, all belong to one period, and which are included
under the general name of Laramie group.

In the valley of Lake Fork south of the Uinta Mountains, he found
the Bridger group well exposed, and in the valley of the Du Chesne, the
Green River group. Both these groups have there the peculiar litholog-
ical characteristics that distinguish them in the Green River Basin north
of the Uintas.

Important collections of fossils were made by Dr. White, comprising
62 APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

many new forms, and also many interesting types. Some important
data were also obtained, showing the early differentiation and extraor-
dinary persistence ot fresh-water and land molluscan types. A discus-
sion of these and other kindred questions will appear in his paleontolog
ical reports. (

Fossil entomology.—Messrs. 8. H. Scudder, of Cambridge, and F. C.
Bowditch, of Boston, spent two months in Colorado, Wyoming, and
Utah, in explorations for fossil insects, and in collecting recent Coleop-
tera and Orthoptera, especially in the higher regions. They made large
collections of recent insects at different points along the railways from
Pueblo to Cheyenne and from Cheyenne to Salt Lake, as well as at Lakin,
Kans., Garland and Georgetown, Colo., and in various parts of the
South Park and surrounding region.

For want of time, they were obliged to forego an anticipated trip to
White River, to explore the beds of fossil insects known to exist there.
Ten days were spent at Green River and vicinity in examining the Ter-
tiary strata for fossil insects, with but poor results; the Tertiary beds of
the South Park yielded but a single determinable insect, but near Flo-
rissant the Tertiary basin, described by Dr. A. C. Peale in the annual
report of the survey for 1873, was found to be exceedingly rich in insects
and plants.

In company with Rev. Mr. Lakes, of Golden, Mr. Scudder spent several
days in a careful survey of this basin, and estimates the insect-bearing
shales to have an extent at least fifty times as great as those of the
famous locality at Oeningen in Southern Bavaria. From six to seven
thousand insects and two or three thousand plants have already been
received from Florissant, and as many more will be received before the
close of the year.

Mr. Scudder was also able to make arrangements in person with par-
ties who have found a new and very interesting locality of Tertiary strata
in Wyoming, to send him all the specimens they work out, and he con-
fidently anticipates receiving several thousand insects from them in the
course of the coming winter. The specimens from this locality are re-
markable for their beauty. There is, therefore, every reason to believe
the Tertiary strata of the Rocky Mountain region are richer in remains
of fossil insects than any other country in the world, and that within a
few months the material at hand for the elaboration of the work on fossil
insects, which Mr. Scudder has in preparation for the survey, will be
much larger than was ever before subject to the investigation of a single
naturalist.

Fossil botany.—Prof. Leo Lesquereux has been engaged during the
past year in studies of the tertiary flora. These are now completed,
and his monograph has been issued from the press.

Botany.—The botany of the Survey was represented the past season
by the two great masters of that department, Sir Joseph D. Hooker,
director of the Kew Gardens, England, and president of the Royal
Society of London; and Prof. Asa Gray, of Cambridge, Mass. Their
APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 63

examinations extended over a great portion of Colorado, Wyoming, Utah,
Nevada, and California. Their investigation into the Alpine floras and
tree-vegetation of the Rocky Mountains and Sierra Nevada enabled them
to give a clear idea of the relations and influence of the climatic condi-
tions on both sides of the great mountain-ranges.

Sir Joseph Hooker, whose botanical researches embrace the greater
part of Europe; the Indies, from the Bay of Bengal across the Hima-
laya’s to Thibet; the antarctic regions and the southern part of South
America, New Zealand, Australia, South Africa, Morocco, and Asia
Minor, presents in the English periodical ‘ Nature,” for October 25, 1877,
an outline of his studies during the season, and this outline, when filled
out, will form a most important part of the eleventh annual Report of the
Survey. It will be seen at a glance that the report will be of the most
comprehensive character, and cannot fail to be of the highest interest
to our people. The tree-vegetation, and especially the conifers, were
made special objects of study, and many obscure points were cleared up.

Dr. Hooker sums up the results of the joint investigations of Dr. Gray
and himself, aided by Dr. Gray’s previously-intimate knowledge of the
elements of the American flora, from the Mississippi to the Pacific coast :

That the vegetation of the middle latitudes of the continent resolves itself into three
principal meridional floras, incomparably more diverse than those presented by any
similar meridians in the Old World, being, in fact, as far as the trees, shrubs, and many
genera of herbaceous plants are concerned, absolutely distinct. These are the two
humid and the dry intermediate regions above indicated.

Each of these, again, is subdivisible into three, as follows:

1. The Atlantic slope plus Mississippi region, subdivisible into (a) an Atlantic, (/3)
a Mississippi Valley, and (y) an interposed mountain region with a temperate and sub-
alpine flora.

2. The Pacific slope, subdivisible into (a) a very humid, cool, forest-clad coast range;
(2) the great, hot, drier Californian valley formed by the San Juan River flowing to
the north and the Sacramento River flowing to the south, both into the Bay of San
Francisco; and (y) the Sierra Nevada flora, temperate, subalpine, and Alpine.

3. The Rocky Mountain region (in its widest sense extending from the Mississippi
beyond its forest region to the Sierra Nevada), subdivisible into (a) a prairie flora,
(8) a desert or a saline flora, (y) a Rocky Mountain proper flora, temperate, subalpine,
and Alpine.

As above stated, the difference between the floras of the first and second of these re-
gions is specifically, and to a great extent generically, absolute; not a pine or oak,
maple, elm, plane, or birch of Eastern America extends to Western America; and genera
of thirty to fifty species are confined to each. The Rocky Mountain region again, though
abundantly distinct from both, has a few elements of the eastern region and still more
of the western.

Many interesting facts connected with the origin and distribution of American plants,
and the introduction of the various types into three regions, presented themselves to
our observations or our minds during our wanderings. Many of these are suggestive of
comparative study with the admirable results of Heer’s and Lesquereux’s investiga-
tions into the Pliocene and Miocene plants of the north temperate and frigid zones,
and which had already engaged Dr. Gray’s attention, as may be found in his various
publications. No less interesting are the traces of the influence of a glacial and a
warmer period in directing the course of migration of arctic forms southward and
Mexican forms northward in the continent, and of the effects of the great body of
64 APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

water that occupied the whole saline region during (as it would appear) a glacial
eriod.

; Lastly, curious information was obtained respecting the ages of not only the big
trees of California, but of equally aged pines and junipers, which are proofs of that
duration of existing conditions of climate for which evidence has hitherto been sought
rather among fossil than among living organisms.

' Zoology.—Prof. Joseph Leidy, the eminent comparative anatomist and
microscopist, made his second visit to the West the past season under
the auspices of the Survey. He madea careful exploration of the coun-
try about Fort Bridger, Uinta Mountains, and the Salt Lake Basin, in
search of rhizopods. He has been engaged for a long time on a memoir
on this subject, which will eventually form one of the series of the quarto
Reports of the Survey.

The rhizopods are the lowest and simplest forms of animals, mostly
minute, and requiring high power of the microscope to distinguish their
structure. While most of them construct shells of great beauty and
variety, their soft part consists of a jelly-like substance. This the ani-
mal has the power of extending in threads or finger-like processes, which
are used as organs of locomotion and prehension, often branching.
From the appearance of their temporary organs, resembling roots, the
class of animals has received its name of rhizopoda, meaning literally
root-footed. . |

In compensation for the smallness of these creatures, they make up
in numbers, and it is questionable whether any other class of animals
exceeds them in importance in the economy of nature. Geological evi-
dence shows that they were the starting-point of animal life in time, and
their agency in rock-making has not been exceeded by later higher and
more visible forms.

With the marine kind, known as foraminifera, we have been longest
familiar. Their beautiful many-chambered shells—for the most part
just visible to the naked eye—form a large portion of the ocean-mud
and the sands of the ocean-shore. Shells of foraminifera likewise form
the basis of miles of strata of limestone, such as the chalk of England
and the limestones of which Paris and the pyramids of Egypt are built.

Fresh-water rhizopods, though not so abundant as marine forms, ‘are
nevertheless very numerous. They mainly inhabit our lakes, ponds, and
standing waters, but they also swarm in sphagnous swamps and ever
live in newest earth. Professor Leidy has devoted several years of
study to the fresh-water rhizopods of the eastern portion of our country,
and his especial object in the past expedition was to investigate those
which are to be found in the elevated regions of the Rocky Mountains.

Dr. Elliott Cones, secretary and naturalist of the Survey, though pre-
vented from taking the field during 1877 by the press of publications,
which required his stay at the Washington office, has continued his in-
vestigations in Mammalogy and Ornithology. The printing ofthe “ Birds
of the Colorado Basin” has steadily progressed during the year, and very
great accessions of material for his forthcoming Report -on North Ameri-
APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY, 65

can Mammalogy have been received. He is at present investigating the
Insectivora of North America, with a view to a special monograph on
that subject.

Mr. J. A. Allen is engaged upon an exhaustive memoir on the Pinni-
peds, to be probably completed this year.

Dr. Coues reports unusual activity in the department under his charge,
and a very forward state of the several investigations now in progress.

Archceology.—Mr. W. H. Jackson, photographer of the Survey, has
added to his department the work of reproducing the ancient ruins of
Southwestern Colorado, &c., by models. Specimens of the ancient pottery
are also represented, not only by photographs, but also by actual models.

In the spring of 1877, Mr. Jackson made a tour over much of the .
northern part of New Mexico and westward to the Moqui towns in
Arizona, and secured materials for a number of very interesting models,
illustrating the methods of the pueblos, or town-builders, in the con-
struction of their dwellings. Two villages have been selected for imme-
diate construction, as showing the most ancient and best-known exam-
ples of their peculiar architecture, viz, Taos and Acoma; the one of
many-storied, terraced houses, and the other built high upon an impreg-
nablerock. The model of Taosis now completed, the dimensions of which
are 42 by 39 inches, and the scale one inch to twenty feet, 1:240.

Of this town Davis says:

-Tt is the best sample of the ancient mode of building. Here are two large houses
three or four hundred feet in length and about one hundred and fifty feet wide at the
base. They are situated upon opposite sides of a small creek, and in ancient times
are said to have been connected by a bridge. They are five and six stories high, each
story receding from the one below it, and thus forming a structure terraced from top
to bottom. Each story is divided into numerous little compartments, the outer tier
of rooms being lighted by small windows in the sides, while those in the interior of the
building are dark, and are principally used as store-rooms. * * * The only means
of entrance is through a trap-door in the roof, and you ascend from story to story by
means of ladders on the outside, which are drawn up at night.

Their contact with Europeans has modified somewhat their ancient
style of buildings, principally in substituting door-ways in the walls of
their houses for those in the roof. Their modern buildings are rarely
over two stories in height, and are not distinguishable from those of
their Mexican neighbors. The village is surrounded by an adobe wall,
which is first included within the limits of the model, and incloses an
area of eleven or twelve acres in extent. Within this limit are four of
their estufas, or secret council-houses. These are circular underground
apartments, with a narrow opening in the roof, surrounded by a pali-
sade; ladders being used to go in and out.

These models are first carefully built up in clay, in which material all
the detail is readily secured, and then east in plaster, a mold being
secured by which they are readily multiplied to any extent. They are
then put into the hands of the artists and carefully colored in solid oil
paints to accurately resemble their appearance in nature, and, in the
case of restorations of modern buildings, all the little additions are made

oS
66 APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

which will give them the appearance of occupation. The Survey is in
possession of the data for the construction of many more models, and
they will be brought out as opportunity is given. They have also, in
connection with the views, multiplied many of the curious pieces of pot-
tery which have been brought back from that region by the various
parties connected with the Survey.

Office work in 1877.—The early part of the year in the office was
devoted to the completion of the Colorado work, and the latter part was
occupied in working up the summer’s notes.

During the summer, Mr. W. H. Holmes remained in the office, super-
intending the publication of the Atlas of Colorado, which is now rapidly
approaching completion. A large portion of the time was devoted by
him to the preparation of the “‘ Economic Map,” the “‘General Geological
Map,” the “Geological Sections,” and the “Panoramic Views.” The fol-
lowing are the sheets included in the Atlas of Coloradc:

I. Triangulation Map.

II. General Drainage Map.
III. Economic Map.
IV. General Geological Map.

V. Northwestern Colorado. XI. Northwestern Colorado.
VI. Northern Central Colorado. XII. Northern Central Colorado.
VII. Central Colorado. XIII. Central Colorado.
VIII. Western Colorado. XIV. Western Colorado.
IX. Southwestern Colorado. XV. Southwestern Colorado.

X. Southern Central Colorado. XVI. Southern Central Colorado.

XVII & XVIII. Geological Sections.
XIX & XX. Panoramic Views.

Publications.—The year 1877 witnessed a marked increase in the num-
ber of publications of the Survey, no fewer than nine separate and formal
works having been issued. These are enumerated as follows:

1, Catalogue of the publications of the Survey (second edition, revised
to December 31, 1876).

2. The annual report for 1875, a large octavo of over 800 pages, fully
illustrated with plates, maps, and wood-cuts, giving the results of the
field-work of the year 1875, with an extensive appendix, consisting of
J. A. Allen’s Memoir on the Buffalo, and A. S. Packard’s Report on
Noxious and Beneficial Insects.

3. A preliminary report of progress for the field-season of 1877, forming
part of the annual report of the Secretary of the Interior for 1877. The
full reports for the years 1876 and 1877 are in press, and will form two
large octavo volumes.

4. Volume III of the “Bulletin” of the Survey, containing very nu-
merous articles in various departments of physical and biological science.

5. The fourth edition of miscellaneous publications No. 1, being ‘ Lists
APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 67

of Elevations,” &¢e., by Henry Gannett, entirely revised and greatly en-
‘larged, now forming an independent octavo volume of 167 pages.

6. Misceilaneous publications No. 7, ‘*Ethnography and Philology of
the Hidatsa Indians,” by Dr. Washington Matthews, U.S. A.

7. Miscellaneous publications No. 8, “ Fur-bearing Animals: a mono-
graph of North American Mustelidz,” by Dr. Elliott Coues, U. 8. A.

8. Miscellaneous publications No. 9, ‘ Descriptive Catalogue of Photo-
graphs of North American Indians,” by W. H. Jackson.

9. Eleventh volume of Final Reports, quarto series, ‘‘Monograph of
North American Rodentia,” by Dr. Elliott Coues, U. 8. A., and Prof.
J. A. Allen, forming a large quarto volume of 1110 pages, with plates.

Various publications, including Leo Lesquereux’s Tertiary Flora, to
form Volume VII of the quarto series, several numbers of the Bulletin,
miscellaneous publications, and two annual reports are now in press.

GEOGRAPHICAL AND GEOLOGICAL SURVEY OF THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN
REGION, BY PROF. J. W. POWELL, IN 1877.

About the middle of May last, the surveying corps again took the
field. This year the rendezvous camp was at Mount Pleasant, a little
town in Utah, about 125 miles south of Salt Lake City. Three parties
were organized, under the direction of Prof. A. H. Thompson; one to
extend the triangulation, and two for topographic purposes, the latter
being under charge of Mr. W. H. Graves and Mr. J. H. Renshawe, re-
spectively, and the former under the immediate diiection of Professor
Thompson, assisted by Mr. O. D. Wheeler.

The area designated for the season’s work lies between 38° and 40°
30/ north latitude, and between 109° 30’ and 112° west longitude, Green-
wich, and is embraced in atlas sheets 86 and 75.

Triangulation.—The triangulation party left Mount Pleasant in June.
The work of this year being a continuation of the expansion from
the Gunnison base-line, measured in 1874, it was desirable to first visit
some of the geodetic points established in previous years, but the
unprecedented amount of snow yet remaining in the high plateaus and
- mountains rendered this impracticable, and the first part of the season
was spent in establishing stations on the Ta-va-puts Plateau west of the
Green River. In midsummer the party was able to visit the high plateaus
and connect the work of past years with that of this season. Later the
triangulation was extended to the east, joining the work of the United
States Geological and Georaphical Survey of the Territories, under
charge of Dr. F. V. Hayden, and to the north to join the work of the
United States Geological Exploration of the Fortieth Parallel, Clarence
King, United States geologist, in charge. The whole area of the sea-
son’s work embraces something more than 13,000 square miles. The
instrument used was the theodolite, hereafter described. The points
sighted to on the geodetic stations were either artificial monuments or
well-defined natural points, and all stations were marked by stone cairns.

Topographic work by Mr. Graves.—The district assigned to Mr. Graves
68 APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

for topographic work was that embraced in the eastern half of atlas
sheet 75, and that portion of sheet 86 lying east of the Green and
Colorado Rivers, an area of about 10,000 square miles. The most re-
markable topographic feature of this region is a bold escarpment facing
the south, and extending from the western, far beyond the eastern limit
of Mr. Graves’ work. This is known as the Book Cliffs. At the foot
of this escarpment lies a narrow valley, through which passes the only
practicable route of travel between Central Utah and Western Colorado.
South of the valley the whole region is cut by a labyrinth of cafions,
formed by the Grand, Green, and San Rafael Rivers and their tribu-
taries. This region is one of the most inhospitable and inaccessible in
the territory of the United States. It is characterized by extreme
aridity, and some portions are cut by many narrow gorges, forming
‘alcove lands.” In other portions are found hills of naked sands and
clays, regions of bad lands, bold cliffs, towering monuments, hills of
drifting, glittering sands, and deep, tortuous caions, which give to the
landscape a strange and weird appearance.

The Book Cliffs rise to an average altitude above their base of 3,000
feet, and about 8,500 feet above the sea-level, and the country from the
southern crest inclines gently northward to the valleys of the White and
Uinta Rivers. This gigantic terrace, called the Ta-v4-puts Plateau, is
cut in twain from north to south by the profound gorges through which
the Green River runs, known as the Caton of Desolation and Gray
Cation. The drainage of the plateau is northward from the brink of
the cliffs through deep, narrow cations for many miles, but at last all
these enter Canon of Desolation a few miles from its head. North of
the Ta-va-puts Plateau are the valleys of the White and Uinta Rivers.
Nearly all the former and a large portion of the lower course of the
latter are within the boundaries of Mr Graves’ work.

Over the whole district assigned to Mr. Graves he extended the
secondary triangulation. Owing to the peculiar topography of the
country, his stations will average about twelve miles apart. He also
made a connected plane-table map of the whole area, and complemented
his work with orographic sketches.

In the southern portion of the area surveyed by Mr. Graves, consider-
able bodies of irrigable lands are found along the Grand, Green, San
Rafael, and Price Rivers, and in the northern part, along the Green
River and in the valleys of the Uinta and White Rivers, are other large
tracts, on which the waters of the streams named can be conveyed at
slight cost. Mr. Graves determined the extent, character, and location
of these lands, and the amount of water carried by the streams through-
out the area embraced in his work.

On the Ta-va-puts Plateau are small forests of pine and fir, but gener-
ally Mr. Graves’ district possesses no more timber than sufficient to
meet the future local requirements of actual settlers.

Topographic work by Mr. Renshawe.—The district assigned Mr. Ren-
APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 69

shawe was that embraced in the western portion of atlas sheet 75, an
area of about 6,000 square miles. The eastern portion of this area is a
broad table-land called the Wasatch Plateau, having an average eleva-
tion of about 9,500 feet, cut by deep valleys and drained from its very
western edge toward the east by the Fremont, San Rafael, and Uinta
Rivers. The western portion includes broad valleys, abrupt ranges of
mountains, and one plateau of considerable extent. The principal val-
leys in this part are the San Pete, Juab, and Utah all having a general
northern and southern trend, an average elevation of about 5,000 feet,
and all are drained by the San Pete River and the streams flowing into
Utah Lake. The mountain-ranges standing between the valleys are the
Wasatch, rising in its highest peaks to 12,000 feet, the Lake Mountains,
and the Tintic Hills, each reaching an altitude of nearly 7,500 feet.

The table-land called Gunnison Plateau has an area of about 750
square miles, and an average elevation of 8,000 feet. It is bounded on
three sides by almost vertical walls, and is extremely rugged and diffi-
cult to traverse.

There is but little irrigable land in the eastern portion of Mr. Ren-
shawe’s district, but the broad valleys of the western portion contain large
areas of excellent lands, and the numerous streams furnish a good sup-
ply of water. Mr. Renshawe determined the volume of water in every
considerable stream, as well as the extent and localities of the irrigable
lands, throughout his district.

On the plateaus and mountain-ranges are large quantities of excellent
timber. On the head-waters of Price River and on Huntington Creek
are extensive beds of coal, and on that portion of the Wasatch Range
included in Mr. Renshawe’s district are deposits of silver and galena.

Mr. Renshawe extended the secondary triangulation over the whole
district assigned him, making stations at an average distance of about
eight miles, and measuring all the angles of nearly every triangle in the
extension. He also made a connected plane-table map of the whole
area, and complemented his work with a complete set of orographic
sketches.

Hypsometry.—The hypsometric work of this season rests on a primary
base established at the general supply and rendezvous camp at Mount
Pleasant, and connected by a long series of observations with the sta-
tion of the United States Signal Service at Salt Lake City. At the base-
station observations were made with mercurial barometers four times
each day, and for eight days during the month hourly from 7 a. m. to 9
p.m. Mercurial barometers were carried by each field-party and obser-
vations made to connect every camp with the base-station. All the
geodetic points and topographic stations were connected by observa-
tions with mercurial barometers either with the camps or directly with
the base-station or both. All the topographic stations were also con-
nected with each other by angulation, and from these stations the alti-
tudes of all located points were determined by the same method.
70 APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Instruments—Base-measuring apparatus.—The apparatus used in meas-
uring the base-lines from which the primary triangulation is developed
consists essentially of wooden rods aligned and Jeveled on movable
trestles or tripods, the contact being made by coincidence of lines in-
stead of by direct abutment.

The rods are 15 feet long, one-half of an inch square, thoroughly dried,
oiled, and varnished; they are supported in cases made truss-form to
prevent sagging, and moved in these cases to make the contact by a
rack and pinion motion. Both ends of the rod are shod with a plate of
brass firmly fixed upon and half the width of the rod, or one-fourth of
an inch, and so arranged that the plate upon the forward end of any rod
projects by the plate upon the rear end of the preceding one in such a
manner that both rods are in the same straight line. The line of coinci-
dence is marked upon both plates and contact is determined by a mag-
nifier.

A delicate spirit-level is attached to each case to adjust it horizontally
and a thermometer inserted to determine the temperature of the rod.
Two steel pins, by which the rods are aligned, are fixed on the cases
directly over the center of the ends of the rods.

The tripods (or stands upon which the cases carrying the rods rest)
have short double legs of the usual construction. Firmly fixed upon the
tripod-heads are two uprights upon which a sliding cross-piece is clamped
by thumb-screws. Above this cross-piece, parallel to and carried with
it, is a second, which can be moved up or down three-fourths of an inch
by means of a long slender wedge working between the cross-pieces,
and furnishing an easy means of making the final adjustment of the
rods in level. The uprights are several inches apart, and give sufficient
range to align the rods, which is done by a theodolite placed in advance
upon the line to be measured. Two or three rods and six or eight tri-
pods are used. The rods are kept in a horizontal position, and, when the
inequalities of the ground demand, vertical offsets are made with a the-
odolite. The line is first ranged out, and stakes set 500 feet apart along
its length, then, with six men to work the apparatus, 3,000 feet per day
can be measured with all the accuracy the refinements of the triangu-
lation demand.

Theodolite.—The theodolite used in the triangulation is of a new pat-
tern, embracing a number of improvements demanded by the character
of the work. So far as possible the number of parts has been reduced
by casting in a single piece parts that are usually combined by screws.
In this manner the liability to derangement incident to the vicissitudes
of mountain work is greatly reduced. The telescope has been enlarged
as compared with the graduated circle, so as to make its defining power
bear a greater proportion than usual to the refinement of graduation.
The object-glass has an aperture of two inches and a focal length of
twenty. The horizontal circle is ten inches in diameter, and reads by
double veraiers to five seconds of arc. The vertical circle is five inches
APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 71

in diameter and reads to one minute. The instrument also embraces
other improvements designed to secure greater stability, with ease and
rapidity in manipulation.

Plane-Table.—In the topographic work the gradientor and sketch-book
have been superseded by the plane-table and the orograph. The plane-
table in use is of a pattern designed by Professor Thompson especially
for work of this character. The drawing-board is made of a series of
slats firmly fixed to canvas in such manner that it can be rolled into
small compass for transportation ; but when unrolied for work it is so
secured by ecross-pieces and screws that great stability is attained.
When in use it is fastened to the platen of the orograph. The position
of important features in the topography is fixed with an alidade by the
usual methods of intersection and resection. Details are placed directly
upon the map while they are still under the eye of the topographer, and
much of the labor and uncertainty of description by notes is avoided,
and the experience of five years in its use has demonstrated that the
plane-table as modified is equally well-adapted to regions of mountains,
hills, plains, or plateaus. The sketches produced are actual maps and
not mere map material. They need only to be adjusted in conformity
with the triangulation, and but slight adjustment is necessary. And it
has been further demonstrated that a topographer in one field-season
can extend his work over an area of about 7,000 square miles with all
the accuracy necessary for the scale adopted by the Interior Depart-
ment for the physical atlas of the Rocky Mountain Region, 7. e., a scale
of four miles to the inch.

Orograph.—The orograph is an instrument new to topographic survey-
ing, adapted to the requirements of this work by Professor Thompson.
It consists essentially of a telescope erected above a platen or drawing-
board, on which the movements of its optical axis are recorded. The
telescope rotates about a vertical and about a horizontal axis, similarly
to the telescope of a theodolite, and is connected by simple mechanism
with a pencil which rests on a sheet of paper fixed to the platform.
When the topographer moves the telescope so as to carry its optical
axis over the profiles of the landscapes the pencil traces a sketch of
the same. This sketch, being mechanically produced, is susceptible
of measurement, and is a definite and authoritative record of the angular
relations of the objects sketched. The instrument is also furnished with
graduated circles, on which horizontal and vertical angles may be read
to the nearest half minute, and these circles are used for the secondary
triangulation. The orograph and plane-table are used conjointly, and
their results furnish data for the production of contour maps. It is
believed that by their introduction the quality of topographic work has
been much improved without addition to its cost. When a topographer
takes the field with these two instruments and plane-table sheets on
which the primary triangulation has been previously plotted, he returns,
with a map on which all of the geographic features to be delineated
12 APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

have been determined by their angular relations, and the scenic char-
acteristics necessary to give proper effect to the maps have been out-
lined by instrumental means. In this manner the subsequent construc-
tion of maps at the office, ready for the engraver, is reduced to a
minimum of labor, while for the proper accuracy the topographer is not
necessitated to resort to his memory for the appearance of the land-
scape, but only to the definite record.

Barometers.—Tne instruments used in the hypsometric work are Green’s
mercurial mountain barometers, Green’s psychrometers, and aneroid bar-
ometers of the usual construction.

Cartography.—Much attention has been given to this subject for the
purpose of determining the best method of representing the topography
of the region surveyed, taking into consideration the character of the
country, the more important facts to be embodied, and the scale adopted
for the physical atlas of the Interior Department. The systems of car-
tography in use in this country and many of those of Europe have been
examined and studied, and many experiments have been made in the
office for the purpose of determining the best methods adapted to these
circumstances and conditions.

For the physical atlas heretofore mentioned it is proposed to represent
the topography by contour lines with auxiliary hatchings to indicate
rock surface and shading for general reliefs, these so applied as not to
obscure the contours. For special purposes hatched maps are used, for
others contour maps, and for purposes relating to the discussion of geo-
logical structure maps are made by photographing or lithographing
models or relief maps in plaster.

Classification of lands by Mr. Gilbert.—The survey under the direction
of Professor Powell has been extended over the northern portion of
Arizonaand the greater part of Utah, but a broad strip along the north-
ern end of the latter Territory was embraced in the survey made by Mr.
Clarence King, under the War Department. It seemed desirable, how-
ever, to extend the classification of lands over this latter region, and
this duty was assigned to Mr. G. K. Gilbert.

Mr. Gilbert took the field at Salt Lake City and traversed all of the
Territory lying west, north, and northeast of that point, a tract compri-
sing so much of the drainage basin of Great Salt Lake as liesin Utah. In
this area is included the most valuable portion of the Territory, as well
as the most sterile. A very small part of it will repay cultivation
without irrigation, but this is exceptional, and in general the possibility
of agriculture depends upon the possibility of artificial watering. The
Bear River, the Weber, and the Jordan carry as much water as can
profitably be used upon all the lands to which it is practicable to convey
them by canals, and those lands were measured, in order to determine
the agricultural capacities of the river valleys. The smaller streams, on
the contrary, are inadequate to serve the arable lands through which
they severally run, and theagricultural capacities of their valleys were as-
APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. (ie:

certained by measuring the volume of each stream. Eastof Great Salt Lake
are great mountain ranges, the Wasatch and the Uinta, and large streams
flow from their melting snows all through thesummer season. The Bear,
the Weber, and the Jordan flow to the lake, and the three rivers can
be made to reclaim 800,000 acres of land in their valleys. This is 124
per cent. of the district that they drain. West of the lake the plaius
are interrupted by mountains, but there are none of great magnitude;
the snows of winter are dissipated too early in the spring to be of use
for irrigation, and much of the land is an absolute desert. In a total
area of 8,300,000 acres only 21,000 acres are of value for farming—one-
fourth of one per cent.

These estimates are based upon the experience of the farmers of the
district, who have practiced irrigation for thirty years, and have given
ita greater development than can be found elsewhere in the United
States. They have now under cultivation a third part of the irrigable
lands of the Salt Lake Basin, and are utilizing many of the small
streains to the full extent of their capacities. A careful study was made
of their operations, for the purpose of learning the quantity of water
necessary to redeem a given quantity of land under various conditions
of soil and climate, and the resulting determinations were used in com-
puting the areas susceptible of irrigation by the streams and parts of
streams that are still unused. The greater part of the future extension of
the cultivated areas will be accomplished only by extensive engineering
works, including the damming of the principal rivers and the construc-
tion of long canals. Five million dollars is probably a moderate esti-
mate of the cost of redeeming the 500,000 acres that are susceptible of
reclamation, and the requisite capital will have to be concentrated upon
a small number of large canals.

Since the first settlement of the Territory, in the year 1847, the water-
supply has increased. It is reported by the citizens that each stream
is now capable of irrigating a greater area of land than when it was
first used. Creeks that once scantily watered afew acres of ground
now afford an ample supply for double, treble, or even fifty times the
original area. This increase has been accompanied by a rise of Great
Salt Lake, which, having no escape for its water except by evaporation,
has stored up the surplus from the streams. For the purpose of inves-
tigating the extent and the cause of the increase of the streams, Mr.
Gilbert made a study of the fluctuations of the lake. It was a matter
of common report that the surface of the water had been subject to
considerable changes, and that on the whole it had greatly risen since
its shores were first settled, but previous to the year 1875 no systematic
record of its movements had been kept. In that year a series of obser-
vations was inaugurated by Dr. John R. Park, of Salt Lake City, at the
suggestion and request of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
A small pillar of granite, graduated to feet and inches, was erected at
the water’s edge near a rocky islet known as Black Rock.
as APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

The locality was then a popular pleasure resort, and the record was
undertaken by Mr. J. T. Mitchell. Observations were made at frequent
intervals for more than a year, but were then interrupted by reason of
the disuse of the locality as a place of resort, and they have not since
been resumed in a systematic way. To obviate a similar difficulty in
the future, Mr. Gilbert caused a new record-post to be established near
the town of I'armington, where the work of observation has been un-
dertaken by Mr. Jacob Miller, and it is anticipated that in the future
there will be no break in the continuity of the record.

In the interval from 1847 to 1875, during which no direct observations
were made, there was nevertheless a considerable amount of indirect
observation incidental to the pursuits of the citizens. The islands of
the lake were used for pasturage, and the facilities for the transfer of
cattle to and fro were greatly affected by the fluctuations of the water.
A large share of the communication was by boat, and the frequent
changes of landing-place which the boatmen were compelled to make
impressed upon their memories the character and order of the principal
oscillations. In pursuance of the inquiries instituted by the Secretary
of the Smithsonian Institution, the testimony of the boatmen was com-
piled by Mr. Jacob Miller, and a history of the oscillations was deduced.

A similar and corroborative history has been derived by Mr. Gilbert
from an independent investigation. Two of the islands used for pastur-
age are joined to the main-land by broad, flat bars, and during the lower
Stages of the lake these bars, being either dry or covered by a moderate
depth of water, have afforded means of communication. It happens
that the Antelope Island bar was in use until 1865, when it became so
deeply covered that fording on horseback was impracticable; and that
the Stansbury Island bar was first covered with water in 1866, and has
been used as a ford with slight exception ever since. By the compila-
tion of the testimony of those who have made use of these crossings, a
continuous record was derived which cannot deviate very widely from
the truth, and the work was checked by making careful soundings to
ascertain the present depth of water on the Antelope Island bar.

From 1847 to 1850 there was little change beside the annual tide—a
variation dependent upon the spring floods, and which makes the sum-
mer stage in each year from one to two feet higher than the winter.
Then the water began to rise, and so continued until in 1855 and 1856 its
mean stage was four feet higher than in 1850. This progressive rise was
followed by a progressive fall of equal amount, and in 1860 the lake had
returned to its first-observed level. In 1862 there began a second rise,
which continued for eight years, and carried the water ten feet above the
original level. Since 1869 there has been no great change, but the mean
height has fluctuated through a range of about two feet.

As the lake has risen it has encroached upon the land, and the shores
are in many places so flat that large areas have been submerged. At
one point the water edge has advanced 15 miles, and the surveysof Capt.
APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. is:

Howard Stansbury and Mr. Clarence King show that from 1850 to 1869
the total area of the water surface increased from 1,750 to 2,166 square
miles, or nearly 24 per cent. By this expansion the surface for evapo-
ration was increased, so that the lake could return to the atmosphere the
surplus thrown into it by the augmented streams.

Whatever land is at any time flooded by the lake becomes saturated
with salt, and, if the water afterward retires, remains barren of vegeta-
tion for many years. The highest level reached by the water in storms
is marked by a line of driftwood and other débris. Above this line there
is usually a growth of grass and sage-brush, but below it nothing grows.
Previous to the last great rise of the lake the storm-line was six feet
lower than at present, and tlie intervening belt of land still retains the
Stumps and roots of bushes that have been killed by the advancing brine.
The encroaching water overran the ancient storm-line in about the year
1866, and for the past eleven years it has covered ground which had
been exempt from incursions of brine for a time sufficient to permit the
rains to cleanse the soil, and for a further time sufficient to produce a
growth of sage-brush. The whole period is as likely to have been meas.
ured by centuries as by decades.

Thus it appears that the last twelve years have witnessed an exten-
sion of the lake which is not only without precedent in the experience
of the citizens of Utah, but is clearly an anomaly in the history of the
lake. To explain it, and to explain at the same time the increase of the
streams, there are two general theories worthy of consideration.

The first is that there has been a change of climate in Utah whereby
the atmosphere is moister, so that the fall of rain and snow has become
greater and the rate of evaporation has become slower. The second is
that the industries of the white man, which have been steadily growing
in importance for the last thirty years, have so modified the surface of
the land that a larger share of the snow and rain finds its way into the
water-courses, and a smaller share is returned to the air by evaporation
from the ground. The latter theory, which is the one proposed by
Professor Powell, is considered by Mr. Gilbert the more probable, and
he finds reason to believe that the tax imposed upon the streams by the
work of irrigation is more than repaid by the effects of the draining of
marshes and the destruction of herbage and timber. <A great volume of
water is turned upon the cultivated fields, and from their moist surfaces
is absorbed by the atmosphere without ever reaching the lake; but, on
the other hand, the farmer has found it to his advantage to drain the
beaver-ponds and other marshes, and thus check the evaporation from
their surfaces, and the streams which he thereby rescues from dissipation
are used in irrigation for a few months only, while for the remainder of
the year they pay their tribute to the lake. The destruction of grasses
by herds of domestic animals and the cutting of trees upon the mount-
ains expose the ground to the sun and facilitate the melting of the snow;
the removal of the grass opens the way also to a fieer circulation of sur-
76 APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

face-waters, so that the rain and melting snows are gathered more
quickly and thoroughly into rills and streams; and both these influences
increase the inflow of the lake.

This discussion has an important bearing upon the agriculture of the
arid region, for if the theory favored by these gentlemen is the true one
the work of irrigation can be pushed forward with the confident assur-
ance that the supply of water is more likely to increase than diminish
in the future; and it may even be possible, when the subject has been
fully developed, to devise measures which shall directly promote the
increase.

Geological work by Mr. Gilbert—During the preceding summer Mr.
Gilbert had discovered a peculiar series of phenomena produced by re-
cent orographic displacements, and he has this year found opportunity
to study them in numerous new localities. It appears that the system
of faults and flexures, the system of upward and downward movements,
by which the mountain-ranges and the valleys of Utah and Nevada
were produced, have continued down to the present time. Evidence of
recent movement has been discovered on the lines of many ancient
faults. The ancient shore-line of Great Salt Lake, which is exhibited
so conspicuously upon the surrounding mountain-slopes, and which must
originally have been level, is no longer so, but has been shifted up and
down by the displacement of the mountains. Its present altitude above
Great Salt Lake was determined at four different points by spirit-level,
and the determinations were found to range from 966 feet to 1,059
feet. The measurements by level were all made in the immediate vicin-
ity of the lake, but the barometer indicates that at points more remote
the discrepancy is several times greater.

These observations are valuable additions to our evidence that mount-
ain-making is a work of the present as well as of past ages, and that
the grand displacements by faults and folds are caused by slow and
intermittent movements.

Mr. Gilbert also traced and mapped the northern portion of the
ancient shore-line of the lake from Salt Lake City to Redding Spring,
following its sinuous course for 900 miles in Utah, Idaho, and Nevada,
and demonstrating that the ancient outlet he had discovered the pre-
ceding summer at Red Rock Pass was the only one by which the lake
had ever discharged its water to the Snake River. ;

During the winter of 1876~77, Mr. Gilbert prepared his report on the
geology of the Henry Mountains, and the manuscript was sent to the
printer. The Henry Mountains constitute a small group in southeastern
Utah and stand quite by themselves. They are of a peculiar character
and represent a type of structure that has never before been fully de-
scribed. Mr. Gilbert’s report is a monograph at once of the mountain
group and of the type of mountain structure. The mountains are of
igneous origin, but the rising lavas, instead of outpouring at the surface
of the earth in the usual way, failed to penetrate the upper portions of
APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. ei

the crust and formed subterranean lakes or chambers. The strata lying
above the lava lakes were upbent in the form of great bubbles, and from
these bubbles of sandstone and shale, with their cores of trap, the erosive
agents of the air have carved the mountains. The mountain structure
is thus two-fold, comprising first voleanic upheaval, and second atmos-
pheric degradation. To aid in the discussion of the first element of
structure, Mr. Gilbert constructed a stereogram of the district, in
plaster, exhibiting the forms due to upheaval as they would appear if
unmodified by degradation. He prepared also a topographical model,
exhibiting the same forms as actually modified; and the two models
will be reproduced by photography to illustrate the report. The treat-
ment of the second element of structure is of a thorough character and
includes a discussion of the general principles which control the sculp-
ture of the land surfaces of the earth by rains and rivers. The volume
is ready for the binder.

Geological work by Captain Dutton.—Captain C. E. Dutton resumed his
exploration of the same field which he has been studying for three years,
having recognized in it a certain unity which renders it eminently
adapted to an important monograph. The region explored by him is
centrally situated in the Territory of Utah, extending from Mount Nebo
in the Wasatch, nearly southward a distance of about 180 miles, and hav-
ing a maximum breadth of about 60 miles. It possesses certain features
which serve to distinguish it both topographically and geologically,
and he proposes to call it the District of the High Plateaus of Utah. It
consists of a group of uplifts now standing at altitudes between 9,000
and 11,500 feet above sea-level, while the general platform of the coun-
try is from 5,000 to 7,000 feet high. The plateaus have been carved
out of this platform by great faults, and the general structure corresponds
closely to that described by Professor Powell under the name of the
Kaibab structure, and illustrated by him in his section of the region
traversed by the Grand Caiion of the Colorado. The relations of this
belt of high plateaus to the regions adjoining are of special interest.
At the close of the cretaceous the country lying to the eastward of it
passed by gradation from an oceanic to a lacustrine condition, the inter-
mediate stage presenting, doubtless, a strict analogy to the condition of
the Baltic. This eocene lake area now constitutes the southern part of
the drainage-system of the Colorado River. During cretaceous and
eocene time, the area now occupied by the Great Basin was dry land,
and its denudation must have furnished a large part of the sediments
which were spread over the bottom.of the great lake. The movements
which took place during the eocene at last resulted in the desiccation of
the lake, and though a strict chronological correlation to European and
other divisions of time cannot be made with certainty, it may be provis-
ionally inferred that this desiccation was completed before the commence-
ment of the miocene. It was brought about by the more rapid uplifting
of the lake area than that of the Great Basin, until at last the former
78 APPEND!IX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

area became the loftier of the two, thus reversing their relative altitudes.
The lake area is now a portion of the so-called plateau country, and
since the commencement of the miocene (para-miocene) has been subject
to a great and continuous erosion. The District of the High Plateaus
occupies a portion of a narrow belt separating the plateau country from
- the basin province, and therefore stands upon the locus of the ancient
shore-line, which, in the lacustrine stage, bounded the two areas. To
that shore-line they stand in an intimate and remarkable relation. To
its trend the great displacements maintain, not merely a general paral-
lelism, but an approximation to strict parallelism both in totality and in
detail, which would not have been anticipated, and which cannot be
purely accidental, and seems to point to some definite determinative
association between the littoral deposits and the great lines of displace-
ment. The great structural features are these faults and their equiva-
lent monoclinal flexures. They are remarkably persistent, extending in
parallel courses throughout the entire length of the region surveyed.
One of them, the great Sevier fault, becoming here and there a mono-
clinal flexure, has been traced continuously over a length of 240 miles,
and others of nearly equal persistence have been noted. The High
Plateaus belong to the Plateau country, for notwithstanding the great
amount of dynamical energy indicated in their uplifting, they preserve
in a remarkable manner the plateau type of structure, which is distin-
guished sharply from the arched, flexed, and tilted types prevailing in
other disturbed localities. There is an abrupt transition from this
plateau structure to that found in the adjoining basin. There are some
localities where one may hurl a stone from one province to the other,
and in general it may be said that the dividing line must pass within a
single range or table. The plateau province seems to stand here in
strict correlation to the tertiary beds; where the tertiaries end there
also end the plateaus. The relation between the tertiary and cretaceous
throughout this belt is one of general unconformity; in many places
where the contacts are seen, the tertiary is revealed lying across the
upturned and eroded edges of the cretaceous, showing clearly a break
between those portions of the two series which are here preserved.

But of all the features displayed by the high plateaus the most re-
markable are the manifestations of former volcanic activity. Both in
area and thickness the volcanic emanations are very extensive. They
cover more than 5,000 square miles, and sections of 4,000 to 5,000 feet
are presented without revealing the lewest beds. The greater part of
the eruptions took place after the lake basin had been drained or had
shrunken to limits outside of the district, for sedimentary beds have not
been found intercalated between the various flows, but always underlie
them. lt is therefore impossible to fix with great precision the com-
mencement of the outbreaks; but the general indications are that they
began very soon after the close of the lacustrine period, and they may
have commenced still earlier. The eruptive epoch was undoubtedly a
APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 79

long one. The individual flows are very numerous, and represent all
the great groups of eruptive rocks. In many cases the quantity of ma-
terial extravasated is so great that the eruptions may well be called
massive; not, however, of such marvelous extent as are asserted to
have been poured forth from fissures during the basaltic period in
Oregon and Northern California ; but there are many individual sheets
which surpass in magnitude any which is known to have emanated
during recent or modern times from any existing volcanic vent at a
single eruption. From what openings these masses were extravasated
it is usually difficult to fix with certainty and precision. So vast are
the accumulations and so expansive are the sheets, and, at the same
time, so numerous, that wheresoever they were emitted the earlier vents
must have been buried by later deluges of lava; and even the more
recent vents, except in the case of the latest basalts, have been swept
away by slow erosion in the long period which has elapsed since their
activity was extinguished. There are, however, still remaining, distinct
traces of localization of eruptive activity in the form of greater accumu-
lations, at some points from which, in mcst directions, the total thick-
ness of the volcanic series appears to attenuate. Moreover, in those
central localities of maximum accumulation there appears to be a large
amount of what might be called, in a certain sense, unconformity of the
various eruptions, and greater irregularities in their bedding, as com-
pared with the more even layers and more regular distribution of the
sheets more remote from these centers. This fact appears to be of gen-
eral application also to existing volcanic regions of great extent. Cap-
tain Dutton has succeeded in locating at least five areas, from which
the various overflows appear to have emanated, and believes that further
research might result in the determination of others.

At the time these eruptions were in progress it is probable that the
country was not an elevated one as at present, though it may have
been a rising area. The great displacements, consisting of faults
of extraordinary length and persistency, took place after the close or
during the decadence of the principal eruptions, and it was at this lat-
ter epovh that the greater part of the general elevation of this portion
of the plateau province occurred. During its progress many eruptions
must have taken place, and their later age is readily identifiable ; but
none of them were comparable in extent and in the volume of ejected
materials with older eruptions prior to the great displacements. Al-
though it is ordinarily not difficult to determine whether a particular
event preceded or followed some other within the locality, there seems
to be no way of correlating these different events strictly with the epochs
which are designated by the sedimentary formations of the adjoining
country, and it is therefore impossible to determine the exact period in
the chronological scale at which the faulting took place, further than
the fact that it must have occurred long enough after the close of the
eocene to allow for the accumulation of these vast bodies of volcanic
80 APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

beds. This may carry the period of faulting far into the miocene period,
or possibly as far as the commencement of the pliocene. But while the
first stage in the activity of these ancient volcanoes was undoubtedly
the greatest, and accompanied by an incomparably greater amount of
extravasation, it by no means constitutes the whole of it. Even after
the great displacements, and after the principal topographic features of
the country, depending upon structure as they now exist, had received
their shape, minor eruptions continued ; they present, however, a some-
what remarkable fact. The later eruptions did not take place from the
same centers as the earlier ones, but show a tendency to recede from
them and to occur around the borders of the older volcanic. district.
The central portions of the volcanic area are unquestionably the oldest,
while the younger ones are found around their borders, and sometimes
at considerable distances. ie

One point which during the study of this region has engaged the care-
ful attention of Captain Dutton has been to ascertain whether it presents
any such sequence in the lithological character of the eruptions as is
asserted by Baron Richthofen to prevail in the volcanic districts of
Europe, South America, Asia Minor, and the Sierra Nevada. This as-
serted sequence has engaged the profound attention of most vulcanolo-
gists and is of great importance in relation to all questions bearing upon
the origin and causes of volcanic action. Although at first disposed to
doubt the prevalence of this sequence, and not favorably impressed with
the speculations and theoretical views of Baron Richthofen, Captain
Dutton has reached the conclusion that the high plateaus of Utah ex-
hibit in a decided manner essentially the same sequence which Richt-
hofen claims for other volcanic regions. The earliest eruptions consist
of rocks agreeing well in lithological characteristics with those described
by Richthofen under the name of propylite. This rock is usually con-
cealed if it exists in any great quantities by the later flows, but is in
several places brought to light partly by the great displacements, and
partly through the agency of erosion, and wherever found it is seen to
occupy the lowest position of all. Itis also worthy of note that this
rock is found at those points which constitute the centers of eruption
before referred to, showing that the activity which it ushered in con-
tinued to have its seat through a long cycle in and about the same lo-
cality. The propylite is succeeded by a rock answering to Richthofen’s
description of hornblende andesite, which is usually overlaid by a rock
rich in augite with triclinic feldspar which may be termed augitic ande-
site. Still higher in the series are found immense masses of trachyte
which, however, is frequently intercalated with dolerite. The variety of
the trachytes is very great; so great, indeed, that were it not for the per-
sistence of certain mineralogical as well as textural characteristics which
are universally accepted as being distinctive of that group of rocks, one
might feel strongly tempted to make numerous subdivisions of them into
a series of groups. The extremes of the varieties of the trachytes
APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 81

might be represented at one end by a coarsely granular micaceous rock
composed chiefly of orthoclase, and is sometimes hornblendie and some-
times augitic, at the other end a highly porphyritic trachyte consisting
of well-developed orthoclase feldspar imbedded in a fine paste highly
charged with peroxide of iron. Between these masses of trachyte are
intercalated, though in subordinate quantities, beds of dolerite showing
distinct crystals of striated feldspar with great abundance of augite and
magnetite. In the earlier and grander periods of the eruptions the fol-
lowing sequences may therefore be recognized : first, propylite; second,
andesite; and, third, interblended trachyte and dolerite. Still later than
these, and occurring at new centers of eruption, were outpours of rhyo-
lite, while last of all were erupted around the outskirts of the district
great quantities of true basalt. There does not appear to be any single
locality where all the groups of rocks are found superposed ; neverthe-
less the relative ages do not admit of any doubt, whether the various
beds are superposed or not; but while furnishing a general verification
of the sequence, the district of the High Plateaus presents the fact with
certain modifications which may be set forth in the following manner:
In the lithological scale propylite and hornblendic andesite are very
nearly intermediate between the extremes of acid rocks represented by
rhyolite, and basic rocks represented by basalt. Taking propylite as a
starting-point in the scale of classification, we find two divergent series
proceeding on the one hand toward the acid end of the scale, and on the
other toward the basic end. As we follow the eruptions down into the
later epochs, we find that both series are represented in a certain sense in-
dependently of each other so that they intercalate; the acid becoming at
one end more acid with the progress of the volcanic cycle, and the basic
rocks becoming more basic. Hach series seems to pursue its own order
and to be subject to its own law, so that, being originally divergent, they
become more and more widely separated in their lithological characters
as the cycle proceeds. Thus at the commencement of the activity we
have propylite and hornblendic andesite, which are closely assimilated
to each other in their physical characteristics; at the middle stage we
have trachytes and moderately basic dolerites, which are moderately
separated, and at the close we have rhyolites and basalts, which stand
at the opposite ends of the scale. .

Plan of publication.—In the geological branch of the work the plan has
been adopted as far as possible of publishing monographs, each embrac-
ing all the studies made by the corps of any particular region to which
it relates, preferring this to a system of annual reports consisting of
résumés of the field-notes of each season. In the preparation of these
monographs, relief maps or plates are constructed on a scale of two miles
to the inch or larger, vertical and horizontal scales being equal; and to
correspond with each relief map a stereogram in plaster is constructed
on the same scale, designed to exhibit such a surface as would appear
had there been no degradation by atmospheric agencies, but displace-

ES
&2 APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

ment only. By this means the characteristics of displacement can be
studied independent of the phenomena of degradation, with which,
in nature, they are always associated, and by which they are more
or less obscured; and a comparison of the stereogram with the relief
map gives approximate quantitative results of degradation; that is, the
two factors of mountain structure, elevation by displacement and degra-
dation by rains and rivers, are separated, that each may be considered
independent of the complicating conditions of the other.

Geological illustration—Much attention has been paid to the graphic
representation of the important features of geological structure. The
Rocky Mountain Region has proved to be one of great interest in this
branch of investigation, because of the peculiar features of its physical
geography. Long and towering escarpments are found, deep cafions
with precipitous walls are numerous, its hills and mountains are often
without soil and vegetation, accumulations of subaerial or glacial drift
are infrequent, and thus the general rock-structure is well revealed.
Several new methods of illustration have been devised, some of which
have already appeared in the publications of the survey.

Ethnographic work.—During the season the ethnographic work was
more thoroughly organized, and the aid of a large number of volunteer
assistants living throughout the country was secured.

Mr. W. H. Dall, of the United States Coast Survey, prepared a paper
on the tribes of Alaska, and edited other papers on certain tribes of Ore-
gon and Washington Territory. He also superintended the construction
of an ethnographic map to accompany his paper, including on it the
latest geographic determinations from all available sources. His long
residence and extended scientific labors in that region peculiarly fitted
him for the task, and he has made a valuable contribution, both to eth-
nology and geography. With the same volume was published a paper
on the habits and customs of certain tribes of the State of Oregon and
Washington Territory, prepared by the late Mr. George Gibbs, while he
was engaged in scientific work in that region for the government. The
volume also contains a Niskwalli vocabulary, with extended grammatic
notes, the last great work of the lamented author. In addition to the
map above mentioned and prepared by Mr. Dall, a second was made,
embracing the western portion of Washington Territory and the northern
pa.t of Oregon. The map includes the latest geographic information,
and is colored to show the distribution of Indian tribes, chiefly from
notes and maps left by Mr. Gibbs. Much of the linguistic material of
this volume was collected by correspondents of the Smithsonian In-
stitution, and turned over to Professor Powell to be consolidated with
materials collected by members of his corps.

These papers form a quarto volume of 361 pages, entitled Contributions
to North American Ethnology, Volume I, the first of a series to be pub-
lished on this subject.

Volume IT, relating to the tribes of the eastern portion of Washington
APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 83

Territory and the State of Oregon, was partially prepared for the printer,
but it was thought best to withhold its publication until further mate-
rials were collected from that region.

The third volume of the series has been published. This relates
to the Indians of California. Mr. Stephen Powers, of Ohio, has been
engaged for several years in the preparation of this volume. The first
part contains an account of the habits, customs, mythology, &c., of the
several tribes. At our earliest knowledge of the Indians of California
they were divided into small chieftaincies speaking diverse languages
and belonging to radically different stocks, and the whole subject was
one of great complexity and interest. The materials collected by Mr.
Powers were sufficient to successfully unravel the difficult problem rela-
ting to the classification and affinities of a very large number of tribes,
and his account of their habits and customs is of much interest. A
number of vocabularies of the Smithsonian collection are published with
those of Mr. Powers. The linguistic portion of the volume was edited
by Professor Powell.

The volume is accompanied by a map of the State of California, com-
piled from the latest official sources and eplered to show the SESE
tion of linguistic stocks. °

The Rev. J. Owen Dorsey, of Maryland, has been engaged for more
than a year in the preparation of a grammar and dictionary of the
Ponka language. His residence among these Indians as a missionary
has furnished him favorable opportunity for the necessary studies, and
he has pushed forward the work with zeal and ability.

Prof. Otis T. Mason, of Columbian College, has for the past year
rendered the office much assistance in the study of the history and sta-
tistics of Indian tribes.

Brevet Lieut. Col. Garrick Mallery, U. 8. A., has during the year
been engaged in the study of the history and statistics of the Indians
of the United States. His researches lead him to the conelusion that
the generally received opinion that a very large Indian population oc-
cupied this country at the time of its discovery is erroneous; that the
supposed rapid and general decadence of the Indians arising from con-
tact with civilization is not sustained, and that, when circumstances
have not rendered it impossible, they are making reasonable progress
toward civilization, together with which in many instances their num-
bers have increased. No final publication on the subject has yet been
ssued, but he has read papers before the Philosophical Society of
Washington, and other scientific bodies, to invite the attention of
ethnologists to the subject. He has also been engaged in preparing the
history and bibliography of the Klamath, T’sinuk, Wayiletpu, Sahap-
tin, and other families of Oregon, and his papers on this subject will
appear in the second volume of Contributions to North American Eth
nology.

In March last Mr. Albert 8. Gatschet was employed to assist in the
84 APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

study of Indian languages, and during the spring months his time was
occupied as an assistant in compiling the bibliography of the North
American languages. During the summer and autumn months he vis-
ited a number of tribes in Oregon for the purpose of collecting vocabu-
laries and grammatic notes. On his way to the field he stopped at
Ogden, where he found a tribe of Shoshoni Indians from whom he
procured @ vocabulary of about five hundred words.

In Chico, Butte County, California, he stopped one week to visit the
Michépdo Indians, a branch of the Maidu stock, where he collected lin-
guistic material of value. From Chico he proceeded directly to the
Klamath agency, in Southern Oregon, where eight weeks were devoted
to the study of the language of the Klamath Indians, a branch of the
Modok family. Mr. Gatschet had previously studied this language by
obtaining words from Modok Indians visiting Washington and New
York, and his work at the Klamath agency was a continuation of such
study. Altogether he has collected a vocabulary of about five thou-
sand words, also many sentences and texts, on historic and mythologic
subjects, arranged with interlinear translations.

The numerical system of this language is quinary, end the numerals
above eleven have incorporated particles giving them a gender or classi-
fying significance, apparently based upon form. ‘The subject and ob-
ject pronouns are not incorporated in the verb; the personal pronouns
differ from the possessive ; and a true relative pronoun exists. An im-
portant characteristic of the language is the use of prefix particies in
nouns and verbs indicating form, and the reduplication of the first syl-
lable, which is usually the radical syllable, for the purpose of showing
distribution. It is often equivalent to our plural. It occurs in the
singular of adjectives indicating shape and color; in augmentative and
diminutive nouns and verbs; in iterative and frequentative verbs; and
forms the distributive plural of many substantives, adjectives, numerals,
verbs, and adverbs.

From the Klamath agency Mr. Gatschet proceeded to the Grande
Ronde agency in the northwestern part of Oregon. On his way he
stopped at Dayton and made collections of Shasta and Umpqua words
from reliable Indians. On the Grande Ronde agency are found a large
number of tribes and remnants of tribes, which were collected there after
the Oregon war of 1855-56; and with the exceptions of the Klikatats
they are all from Western Oregon. The following is a classification of the
linguistic stocks now on this reservation: ‘Tinneh, Siletz, Wayiletpu,
Shasta, T’sinuk, Sahaptin, Selish, Modok, and Kalapuya. The Kalapuya
once occupied almost the whole extent of the beatiful and fertile Willa-
mette Valley, and one branch of this stock, the Yonkalla, even extended
into the Umpqua Valley.

The Tudlati language, a dialect of the Kalapuya siock, was the one
studied by Mr. Gatschet, and from his notes the following characteris-
tics appear: The phonetics are strikingly soft and harmonious, and

APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 85

though consonants are often assembled in large clusters they never of-
fend the ear, nor do they seem unpronounceable to Americans. <A large
number of words begin with vowels, especially with a,7,and wv. The
substantive, adjective, and numerals are not inflected for case, as in the
Modok. Adjectives and numerals and some substantives are varied to
indicate the plural number. The parts of speech are very imperfectly
differentiated. The personal and possessive pronouns have the same
form. Gender asa distinction of sex is indicated in the singular of sub-
ject pronouns, but not in the plural. Prefix particles are extensively
used to express the mood, voice, and tense of the verb, and the same
particles fulfill this fanction in the noun. The personal pronouns of the
direct object differ greatly from the pronouns of the indirect object ; and
every one of the three persons, in the singular and plural, possesses a
different series of direct and indirect objective pronouns. The conjuga-
tion of the transitive verb differs in many particulars from that of the
intransitive. There appears to be structural affinities between the Kala-
puya and Selish stocks. Over three thousand words, many hundred sen-
_ tences, and valuable ethnologic texts were collected.

Besides the Michépdo, Modok, and Tudlati, before mentioned, Mr.
Gatschet also collected vocabularies and sentences of the following
languages: Shoshoni, Achomawi, Shasta, Wintun, Waccanéssisi, Wasko,
Klakamas, Molele, Nestucca, Yamhill, Lukamayuk, and Akantchuyuk.
In the collection of all these vocabularies the ‘‘ Introduction to the Study
of Indian Languages,” prepared for the Smithsonian Institution by Prof.
J. W. Powell, was used.

Dr. H. C. Yarrow, U. S. A., now on duty at the Army Medical Mu-
seum, in Washington, has been engaged during the past year in the col-
lection of material for a monograph on the customs and rites practiced
in the disposal of the dead among the North American Indians. To aid
him in this work circulars of inquiry have been widely circulated among
ethnologists and other scholars throughout North America, and much
material has been obtained which will greatly supplement his own ex-
tended observations and researches.

During the summer some interesting work was done in the exami-
nation of the stone graves of Tennessee, and valuable collections were
made. Professor Powell hasco-operated with the Institution in providing
for a more thorough examination of the archeology of the islands off the
shore of Southern California. This exploration was made by Rev.
Stephen Bowers, of Indianapolis, Ind., and his report will be published
with the papers of the Survey.

A small volume, entitled “Introduction to the Study of Indian Lan-
guages,” has been prepared. This book is intended for distribution
among collectors. In its preparation Professor Powell was assisted by
Prof. W. D. Whitney, the distinguished philologist of Yale College, in
that part relating to the representation of the sounds of Indian lan-
guages. <A few preliminary copies have been printed and distributed
86 APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

among gentlemen interested in the study of Indian languages, for such
additions and emendations as may be suggested preparatory to final
publication. A tentative classification of the linguistic families of the
Indians of the United States has been prepared. This will be published
as soon as the bibliography is ready.

In pursuing these ethnographic investigations it has been theendeavor,
as far as possible, to produce results that would be of practical value
in the administration of Indian affairs; and, for this purpose, especial
attention has been paid to statistics, the progress made by the Indians
toward civilization, and the causes and remedies for the inevitable con-
flict that arises from the spread of civilization over a region inhabited
by savages. It is believed that the labors in this direction will not be
void of useful results.

Survey of the Black Hills—In 1875 a reconnaissance survey was made
of the Black Hills of Dakota, by Mr. Walter P. Jenny, with a corps of
assistants, under the direction of the honorable Secretary of the Interior.
On the return of the party from the field, Mr. Jenny’s report, relating
to the mineral resources of the country, was immediately published ; but
the geographical and geological report was unfinished at that time.
This latter work was left in the hands of Mr. Henry A. Newton, his
geological assistant, to be completed. On May 28, 1877, at the request
of Mr. Newton, the completion of the work was placed under the diree-
tion of this survey, by order of the Secretary of the Interior.

On consultation with Mr. Newton it appeared wise that he should
visit the field again, for the purpose of determining certain doubtful
points in the geological structure, and to insert on the maps the position
of the several towns and roads established in that region since the dis-
covery of gold; and Mr. Newton was employed for this purpose. He
had been in the field but a short time when he was prostrated by the
sickness which resulted in his death. Previous to his departure he
completed his report on the geology of that country, and the map had
been placed in the hands of an engraver; the whole embodying all the
facts discovered up to that time. Thus, happily, his work will not be
lost. Itis expected that his report will be published, during the present
winter, in the shape in which it was left by him.

The death of Mr. Newton makes a serious break in the ranks of the
younger and more active geologists of America. He possessed rare
abilities, had much experience ia field operations, and had received
thorough and wise training; and his work in other fields had exhibited
his ability. But the great work of his short life will doubtless be his
report on the geology of the Black Hills of Dakota.

During the past six years one branch of the work of the Survey has
been considered of paramount importance, namely, the classification of
lands and the subjects connected therewith. The object has been to de-
termine the extent of irrigable lands, timber lands, pasturage lands,
coal lands, and mineral lands. In general the lands that are cultivable

|
APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 87

only through irrigation are limited by the supply of water. There are
some exceptions to this. Where streams are found in narrow valleys
or run in deep caiions, the limit of agricultural land is determined by
the extent of the areas to which the water can be conducted with
proper engiveering skill. In the study of this subject many interesting
and important problems have arisen, and many valuable facts have
been collected.

From the survey of the timber lands one very important fact appears,
that the area where standing timber is actually found is very much
smaller than the areas where the conditions of physical geography are
such that timber should be found as a spontaneous growth; that is, the
area of timber is but a small fraction of the timber region. The destrue-
tion of the timber in such regions now found naked is due to the great
fires that so frequently devastate these lands; and the amount of tim-
ber taken for economic purposes bears but an exceedingly small ratio
to the amount so destroyed. Hence the important problem to be solved
is the best method by which these fires can be prevented.

Another subject which has received much attention is the utilization
of the pasturage lands; and still another, the best methods of survey-
ing the mineral lands for the purpose of description and identification,
that the owners of mines may be relieved of the great burden of litiga-
tion to which they are subjected by reason of the inaccurate and ex-
pensive methods now in vogue.

UNITED STATES GEOGRAPHICAL SURVEYS WEST OF THE ONE-HUN-
DREDTH MERIDIAN, IN CHARGE OF FIRST-LIEUT. GHORGE M.
WHEELER, CORPS OF ENGINEERS, U. S. ARMY, IN 1877.

The geographical surveys west of the one hundredth meridian,
under First-Lieut. George M. Wheeler, Corps of Engineers, United States
Army, for the field season of 1877, were conducted in three sections,
named the Colorado, Utah, and California sections, respectively. In
each section were two main parties, besides special parties in the Utah
and California sections, making ten in all. One of the special parties in
Utah, being under the immediate command of Lieutenant Wheeler, oper-
ated in the northern part of that territory and southern part of Idaho;
others under his immediate direction were engaged in Utah, Idaho, and
Nevada. ;

(1) The parties of the Colorado section, under Lieutenants Bergland
and Morrison, operated from Fort Lyon, Colo., the former wholly in
Colorado, and the latter mostly in New Mexico, and to some extent in
Colorado and Texas. The special field of the former was in the Un-
compahgre region, the topography and drainage of which were deter-
mined, and the Gunnison and Tumichi rivers gauged, and mines of the
locality examined. The country examined is well watered, with plenty
of fish and game, rich minerals in the mountains, and portions of the
valley of the Uncompahgre good for agricultural purposes. For the
greater part of the season the party under Lieutenant Morrison was
88 APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

engaged in Central New Mexico, south and southeast of Santa Fé, in
the area of atlas-sheets 77 D and 84 A and 84 B. Throughout the Rio
Grande and Fort Stanton sections, good agricultural lands were found,
and copper, silver, and gold deposits in the mountains. Ancient pue-
blos, among them the “‘Gran Quivira,” were visited, and a cave, in the
limestone near Fort Stanton, was explored for the distance approxi-
mately of one mile.

The various parties in the Utah section took the field from Ogden,
that one under Lieutenant Tillman operating in the area between the
meridians of 111° and 112° 20’ west longitude, and the parallels of 43° 10/
and 41° 40’.. The work was connected with a base measured at Ogden.
The whole area was triangulated and numerous secondary points located.
About 8,000 square miles were surveyed, and the data collected to com-
plete atlas-sheets 32 D and 41 B. In September, Lieutenant Young,
Corps of Engineers, took charge of this party, and Lieutenant Tillman
proceeded to Fort Ellis, Montana, where he measured a base-line in the
vicinity of the main astronomical station at Bozeman, for future use.
Lieutenant Birnie, in charge of Utah party No. 2, operated in an area
connecting with the geological exploration of the fortieth parallel under
Clarence King, with a view to finishing the work on atlas-sheets 41 A
and 32 C, containing approximately 6,800 square miles. This area in-
cludes the great basin north of Great Salt Lake; the drainage basin of
Snake River; several detached mountain groups, which were examined
for low passes, these passes being also examined as to their altitude
compared with the highest beach-marks of the ancient Lake Bonne-
ville; and north of Snake River an unbroken lava desert, remarkable
for its rock surface, almost entire absence of water, and fine grazing
near the few water-courses. In the mountains some timber was found,
and they have been prospected for silver in the Clear Creek and Black
Pine regions, from which a few streams run toward Great Salt Lake, to
be lost, however, in the neighboring valleys. Cattle-raising is exten-
sively carried on upon the grazing-fields in the vicinity of the numerous
tributaries of Snake River, running south from the mountains. Snake
River was gauged and examined for fords, and the party made several
trips outside the area particularly alluded to, one being for the purpose
of determining the course of Wood River, and to examine and locate
the Great Shoshone Falls.

The parties of the California sections took the field from Carson,
Nev., in June. One under Lieutenant Symons, Corps of Engineers,
occupied the area of atlas-sheets 38 B, 38 D, and 47 B, for the prosecu-
tion to completion of the work therein. A side party made the detour
of Pyramid Lake for the purpose of occupying outlying triangulation
stations, the main triangulation being extended over the whole area to
be surveyed. The main party worked from Honey Lake Valley north
to Eagle Lake, Horse Lake, Smoke Creek, the Madelin Plains, and by
the Warner Range to the west of Goose Lake to Drew’s Valley, in Ore-

APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 89

gon, all of which area was occupied with a view to correct topographical
data, and the triangulation carried as far north as Beatty’s Butte.

Returning by the east shore of Goose Lake, Granite Mountain, and
Honey Lake, to Verdi, Nev., a base line was measured and the triangu-
lation of 1876 and 1877 connected. The country surveyed by this party
embraced parts of California, Oregon, and Nevada, and is of volcanic
origin. Water is scarce, and except in the valleys there is scanty veg-
etation.

The party under Lieutenant Macomb pursued its labors principally in
the area of atlas-sheets 47 D and 56 B; its route was up Carson Valley
and cafion into Hope Valley to Placerville, Cal.; thence north and
among the headwaters of the American and Yuba rivers, connecting
with work of the previous year. In August it again moved from Placer-
ville eastward across the Sierras, occupying numerous triangulation
points, to Silver City. Thence it moved south to Sonora Pass, and as
far as Bridgeport, Cal. From thence its course was north by the Sweet-
water Mountains, and west by San Andreas, to Silver City, for sup-
plies, at which point the geologist was occupied for nearly a month in
the mountains east of Carson Valley, and the field-season closed. The
following summary shows a number of the principal instrumental
observations made:

Number of azimuths measured, 13; number of sextant latitude sta-
tions occupied, 118; number of main triangulation stations occupied,
108; number of secondary triangulation points occupied, 262; number of
three-point stations occupied, 1,414; number of meander stations occu-
pied, 11,227; number of variations of the needle taken, 423; number of
miles measured, 9,728; number of cistern-barometer stations occupied,
1,255; number of aneroid stations occupied, 7,558. The highest alti-
tude noted was 14,415 feet, and the lowest 900 feet, the latter at San
Andreas, Cal.

The special parties operating in Utah, Idaho, and Nevada, other than
Lieutenant Wheeler’s, consisted of Dr. Kampf, Miles Rock, and Francis
Klett, and their assistants. The results of their labors consist in the
establishment of a number of main triangulation stations, the measure-
ment of three bases, the occupation of a number of trigonometric stations
in the valley of the Great Salt Lake about Ogden, and the measurement
of several minor traveled routes from the Union Pacific Railroad to the
northward. The special parties in the California section were occupied,
one, under Mr. Weyss, in the Lake Tahoe region, productive of very
interesting topographical results; and one, consisting of John A. Church,
mining engineer, and A. Karl, in a critical survey of the Comstock
Mines, an interesting preliminary report of which has been made
by Mr. Church. The examination of the Washoe mining region, in
which the famous Comstock lode is situated, consists of an elaborate
contour survey of the entire area covered by the mining and milling
works, delineated upon a scale of one inch to five hundred feet, each
90 APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

contour representing a vertical distance of fifty feet. The field-work for
this purpose is now completed. Cross-sections at horizontal distances
of one hundred feet are being made; the workings along each of the
opened Jevels of the numerous mines are being mapped, and a longi-
tudinal section on an appropriate scale will show most accurately the
relative position of the mines, their present openings, and the lines of
all tunnels, including the Sutro Tunnel. In this work the engineers
and surveyors of the region have gratuitously contribated the use of
their maps and tracings made by them for the several mining companies,
and especially Mr. I. E. James, whose name in this relation has been
connected with the Comstock Mines almost continuously since their
early working. The examinations proposed to be made include the sub-
ject of temperatures, ventilation, drainage, and treatment of ores. In
this work, that must cover a number of years in order to prove success-
ful, the officer in charge will be able to devote some of his time, and the
different problems involved will be submitted to experts in the branches
of geology, mineralogy, and metallurgy.

Mr. Henshaw, zodlogical assistant, accompanied party No. 1 of the
California section as far as Southern Oregon, and largely supplemented
the collections made during the previous year illustrative of the zodlogy
of that interesting region. The habits of the water-birds were carefully
studied, and large collections made of skins and eggs. A thorough col-
lection of fishes was also made, and the discovery of a large and fine
trout, one of two species inhabiting Lake Tahoe, is announced. The
Lepidoptera, Orthoptera, &c., gathered have yet to be examined and re-
ported upon.

Mr. A. R. Conkling accompanied party No. 2 as geological assistant,
and examined the eastern and western slopes of the Sierras, in contin-
uation of previous examinations. Some important mining stations were
visited, including Bodie, where new and promising discoveries of gold-
bearing quartz have been recently found, and Aurora, which is again
becoming prominent. The country examined, however, offers few
problems of interest to the geologist, presenting a morotonous uniform-
ity of stracture, granitic rocks largely predominating, with occasional
evidences of volcanic outbursts. Volcanic breccia abounds in some
sections. Evidences of glacial action, so abundant at Lake Tahoe, were
found at various points southward, notably about the headwaters of
the Stanislaus, American, and Mokelumne rivers. A small collection
of vertebrate fossils of the Tertiary age was made near Carson, Nev.

At the Washington office the usual number of draughtsman have
been continuously engaged upon the topographic sheets in course of
construction, upon scales of one inch to eight miles, one inch to four
miles, One inch to two miles, one inch to one mile, and one inch to two
thousand feet. The number of sheets so projected as to conjoin, cover-
ing the entire area of survey, is 95, each 19x24 inches. Many of these
sheets are now complete, and thirty-two sections to be represented by
APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. SL

distinct sheets have been entered. The geological maps are based upon
the topographical-atlas sheets, and have corresponding numbers. The
following sheets appear with the annual report submitted to the Chief
of Engineers, June 30, 1877, viz: Atlas-sheet 53 C, embracing portions
of Central Colorado, and showing the drainage-basin of the South Platte
River; 61 B, Central Colorado, showing portions of the drainage basin
of the Rio Grande, Arkansas, Gunnison, and South Platte rivers, indi-
cating economic features; 61 C, sub, part of Southwest Colorado, and
drainage-basins of the Gunnison, Rio Grande, Animas, Miguel, and Un-
compahgre; 61 D, embracing portions of Southern Colorado, and lying
principally in the drainage-basin of the Rio Grande; 65 D, embracing a
portion of Southeastern California, showing the interior basin of Pana-
mint and Death Valleys, Amargosa River and Owens Lake drainage;
69 B, Southern Colorado and Northern New Mexico, lying principally
in the drainage-basins of the Rio Grande, Conejos, Chama, aud Navajo
rivers; 70 A, Southern Colorado and Northern New Mexico, showing
the drainage-basins of the Purgatory and Canadian rivers, and Costilla
and Culebra creeks; 70 C, Northern New Mexico, and drainage-basins
of the Canadian and Mora rivers; and 77 B, embracing portions of
Central New Mexico, and lying in the drainage-basins of the Rio Grande
and Pecos rivers.

All these sheets except 53 C and 61 D show economic features of the
areas represented by arrangement of colors.

A temporary field office has been established at Ogden, where time
and meteorological observations are being taken, and the further topo-
graphical and hydrographical survey of the Great Salt Lake basin is
being carried forward by a special party.

During the year, volume IV of the quarto reports on Paleontology
has been published, and volume II, on Astronomy and Barometric Hyp-
sometry, is passing through the press; as is also a catalogue of the
mean declinations of 2,018 stars, which useful work will supply all the
needed latitude stars for the entire area west of the one hundredth me-
ridian from latitude 30° to 60° N. During that part of each year, 7. e.,
from May to December, in which the season is best adapted for such
observations, it will appear that this Survey, having at its base the sys-
tematic collection by the most scientific method of topographical data
for an accurate map of the Western mountain region, has gone on with
its usual vigor, having now prosecuted its labors in the States and Ter-
ritories of Texas, Colorado, Nebraska, California, Nevada, Oregon, New
Mexico, Arizona, Utah, Wyoming, Idaho, and Montana, and already
published original maps covering an area of 242,598 square miles. It
will be seen that considerable progress has been made toward the com-
pletion of the great topographical map, on a scale of one inch to eight
miles, that will embrace an approximate area of 1,443,360 square miles ;
or an area considerably larger than that embraced by all the States lying
east of the Mississippi River.
92 APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

STATISTICS OF EXCHANGES.

BOXES SENT ABROAD IN 1877.

=e) 5
<= 2 | Government
82 | exchanges.
Country. 2 Total.
2S |No.of
a= S |boxes. Mark.
AFRICA.
JAN oiers pper LAN COL. semceieame seins iclnie alone s/c in-cle.cs aa «)>'sslolomigiaimiatsininsins\cie orel| = Seer leet | Seer ea ere
Cape Colonies) per dneland jase ee ees celica ccsaiooplost cas bem e bik tees moist] (een alae eee eee eee
SED atete slom ete aie arate te let etre eine ne eee nw nie’ sin lalv ov e'= vinll= =m =iniviv =imieintelpieielnineeiniaies Pe So aes|bocoecck 2
Manritins, per Hin clanGeesees cer cccen cles -ccis < came nscsiccioaestesseadn manent ace ae. tas obec tae ee eee ee
St. Helena, per England -... 2.0... oe e penn nn onnnne sence, ene Seno 050 jponces pearod e=s0agc-||soc5a-
AMERICA.
Argentine Confederation -..-.. 2... ot cece ewes cocen SaSscoseooes- sose 4 5 |G. H.I. 9
DB A De Sis i Hi See SOCIO O SID ESRD SOO E CHC COCO UD EDO OSCUCUSOMASoccnSanocios a PAWN 8 Gib 9
OME Mine a2 cc 68 6c ig OS OUD SES OO CELE OEICUO OOO San CORDS ucHIaod 20d = Sra if Qi Fim 5
Ciera ee eee remecensc cc cscciscemecescacsnacuutmacaviccatmnianaeee| aeauee 27) SHC 23
@astaphicdeeeses sseessrccce= SIC IE SOOO OS SOO ESI SC EOD anodanaseecoodecss 2: eee emer eser 1
(Ce ose sge82 56.56 seb coos DOORS E ON CCH ESHEC OnE bp cOnessoceoccs sso saccass: 1 eS Bee il
Gupta ase esa eines oases ciaaie cls sem eeeisee = acls cieries mech sites eats | Em — ea esos ete 1
yee eee a eee cee ek eect csopeenesscoccsauus use vcnccateccpacsswocccecsilsasane 3 |G. HL 3
WSSU) 5.490506 Soe SOS IO CRODOTORU DEB OOCICOLO DD OOOO COC OSU USNEEO ECE OanGOnG0 3 P| eis Ba 5
ISN GUD) sae CAS ate SAS GR OSC SEO R EO Ce HEE Ca OS RO Sn ee soso nese Je. eemeSaSsooaeeos PA es Al Prin arnt 2
United States of Colombia.........-....-...-.--2+-.-6 seta ae iucive teres sees Li sh | See 1
Wien OZUGl acess oe eae ccc crecdascccces clas uccenscseeneacecr ar meme meee 1 3 |G. HL 4
Wiestindiess-cecccnessssecee SEAR CO SEI C HOSE COOH CER CCe nO RCOp ACHE Nab SCbsesan i Sse cso sore 1
ASIA.
Ghina tper ln Pland 32. feciscwc cae knaoesassccsteedecns soceeslassencsen<sess|toscerlsossesleseaaeameeeese
HASoNdIeSs, POL MNPlANd 252 csc ccnscacccses eas -boce cheese mete sp ences oeiaa he aera eee eee ees eee Peete
SIG; TRUSS Seo eee See ee ee Se ene eee aerasceeaetccseTacte 9 Pay 18 aC 11
Pavaepor HOMaANG «.o\- csicos cassie wow visiciciesiewcis caitiviee Swiss oclele/slen/sjausciaereiuicinacoei| se cmetalne mas ere eten eee
Philippine Islands, per Spain ....-...- BORE BAC O ICR EIC RDO SCOUE Dor ee deo nopanod jucisess|pasbad|eodseee|[ob2ec2
AUSTRALIA.
New South Walessis. scsc. cclswccce tacos eeava bows deur op Cactesenececer ances 4 Oi 1860 6
NOW GOAIANG oaienicc'scc acts caajsas nosis scicecenes clsisae ces ote cewisme aoe cote aise 7 eae ae 9
Queensland |. 5<hncde cissaconiecocc sesovesces ecelsesios seieseh caceadsiecor ee eee? 1 Daa as BP 3
South Australia’: 33522 leeatacoawacee tens cectaaceacceece Pee sescaceenes os 2 b3) lsh bs 4
TDASMANI Gi. Men Lowes cep abiomioce nes See nee See eens aoeaisc oe Rem eae eee 2 25| He 4
WiGbOrig: Pebe Re cic oe aeiwateicie ce dacicte eee oo tee eee ee oe ene e Seem oe nee 5 Pol (aca § 653 “f
EUROPE,
Belpinmlc socks ceecasets acs be a enews erase Seam ee see ee See Mee eee ne 4 Hal ie Ge & 6
Denmark’. sce. cemessse ke ootae cee ciate sctco ee ee eee eee ee aes epee Bi |e Sera | oeraee ees 5
TANCE eos. ed eee ee eee oe ca oc kas Sac on aes carteine Bien Soe recat babes 29 i Geske ae 32
Germatiy, 252202 5s. See Se ee Tee Eee RS Se ae acemencetis 89 Ga| bee 95
GreatBritain’ t) 3e5 0 See eo as Show te eaten de ee aa soiseeeee cecamins 67 4| 5 EE vel
GTECCOL eee a ee eed tcitaln de cee de sean Sea o as eae eet e ebb enowces shaseee 7 | C.to I. 7
Bolland. cette ee eee ad See eee ee ae See eee teres il Quit Hels 13
Kecland per MenMarkeoe .cos~ vetes scien coe te ek eee Pee oe nine eee eee he cae ce asi| Soca alana sen!| een e en | eee
tally ee a Fe ae a 2s ats SE oe ee ee ee eee REE Eanes oe DD eee | a 20
Malta, per Wnpland <2 285 Fs eee ares c area tone epee entice sacboue sl saccoc| caeeee | seme cal hetane
NOLrWaVreeeartccctsccceeeewessctes ceed doch cap wepeteeece Soaeew abet coi Js 7 DAA LE Isa bs 9
Portugal eee enn. er se teen cemeiee se oecscme 12 Pye 3 its 14
DRUSSIB: 222 See See ote Soa ob cabs ob ade ieee eee swine see aie ace es i eer ae en ee 16
Spaink Fee Mes ee ee ee ee eee on oemeeenince cee csninen 8 27] SEE 10
Sweden | 54:08 245.5 Fob 38 eB ee ee SE ae 7 al Sern ie 9
Switzerland... 2) HI. 6
Turkey OPA) 5 i 2
Sandwich [slands:ssacccsaeecsceeseeeisecee ss -saheree Wb eeenecceciris session ye ate eae Se 1
335 70: EN tee ees 406
RECAPITULATION.
PAW CR eee labs cies c Liincecee cosas coe ee ee dicine soc ce bee ee ee Sa eeeeene sbriears Oi eoaee eee 2
TRONGCLICH 6 2 oe esa oases so oc Hosen cee sae seas sje nies ae 6 aaah ee ee oe ee meee =e ener 23 Dic. seem 44
BAS Tey errs icin cicis cae o aie la cialanwloie cienineinin seis cielale iste weimineiaiee tte elstntas aetanale tetera stetel=-= 9 Dil coleniaere 11
Australia..... 21 12) ewes. ase 33
Europe ..... 279 SGM] |e aeeieerar 315
Palyneeiasess sees ee ee eee see eee eme heer «acto eice see eee eter et coy eee ek ge oe 1
Ro talycsseciev se ctcks see decee ee mepoe ect cuecesths ect eee eee sere eet 335 Tia ee adersee 406

Nore.—Fifteen thousand two hundred and thirty-three miscellaneous packages, of which 100 con-
tained specimens of natural history, exclusive of 3,500 Smithsonian publications, in all 18,733 addressed

packages.

APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 93

Table showing the number of entries in the record-books of the United States National Museum
at the close of the years 1876 and 1877, respectively.

[These tables show only whathas been recorded or entered in the detailed catalogue, constituting but a
small proportion of the whole.]

Class. 1876, 1877.

INTE ppaoeecodaacccsiecnd bod Codecs Stel b55555 JocndCOE Cobo’ Den Oe EERO ERSROCOGEOEC 12, 612 12, 838
727b1(0 ESSERE 6 5S e DEBE So Since ESSE BSB E eo Sere eae ag a 70, 987 73, 523
Reptiles and amphibians 8, 572 9, 500
TUG Cr eee ho er ae 16, 893 20, 864
Skeletons and’ skulls 25 < ss oe ee coco eee ale oan een wn cen nisawececcisaeccss 15, 442 15, 877
FiGGS 2-6 - ene ne enn cnn ne cen ne ene oe enn een rene nnn nese een e eens 17, 301 17, 500
Crustaceans ..-.-.--- 222 20-20 one ene cece ne een e cen ns cnn e ne eee e ene ne ene e ne 2, 310 2, 324
PATIMONIOS ocean ate cs now er meee cere wc cee na ween an sna n ernie = cin eniwinewiccece=- 100 100
MOM ns er seae so ce sole w cise ss omincinm acnin onl wininin slominn weenie win ani man leninin= anna nswsiicins 30, 721 30, 72L
Radiates .2. 22-222. <n cece ne nee ona enn, cece wen e nena nena n enn n eas ccenns secess- 3, 229 3, 229
HONS DISbOMOSSIS pees aria aise sein elas aelelniam alee nice eminiola om nisinlnlninicinw'<eiaisiwinie amin in\e=1=1- 7,905 7, 906
BVI Grn Spee so cape ae + owe inieisic =< 0icinaiaisinivicieive nici «ninioleinninieini sine mnie niam wine inv anim win'= @ 20, 050 20, 135
Ethnological specimens... -......-- 22.00.0250 02-02-22 - ono nnn nnn ee een n ence: 27, 880 30, 883

ANT Sess Shecocasceetia scone Gaede 5 CORD OC SDSS GsoecneupSrSerabposobacessobAcoos 234, 002 245, 400

Approximate table of the distribution of duplicate specimens to the end of 1877.

Total to the end of | Distribution during | Total to the end of
1876. 1877. 1877.
Class.

Species. | Specimens. } Species. | Specimens. | Species. | Specimens.
Skeletons and skulls..........---- 531 1, 624 5 194 536 1, 818
ANGER TERT TE ye ee Se eve 2, 141 4, 792 18 18 2,159 4,810
IBITO S22 Se ee ess 222 oer ees 25, 816 39, 426 1, 778 2, 440 27, 594 41, 866
Reptilest ee ert es eee 2, 005 3, 282 13 206 2, 135 3, 488
HHISHGS 2. oe eee eS aes eco 2, 924 6, 222 3, 156 3, 423 6, 140 9, 645
Nests and eggs of birds......-.--- 7, 423 8, 128 Qi 618 7, 639 18, 746
msects: 2.22225: Be Sp SE Hee ee 4,081 9, 360 123 | 140 4,209 9, 500
(nnstaceansyse ae nian seen seine 1, 078 2, 650 9 14 1, O87 2, 664
SIGH ER ARS Fe ae ee es oe Lee ers 89, 961 195, 514 210 929 90, 171 196, 443
RAOIAGCS eae ae aie aes tol ais, orniainicinin 5e3 778 10 15 593 793
Other marine invertebrates. ...--- 1, 844 5, 160 48 65 1, 892 5, 225
Plants and packages of seeds -..-.. 28, 450 49, 855 987 1,114 29, 437 50, 969
PROGR Ree ae Ce eee es. 4,125 10, 154 236 314 4, 361 10, 468
Minerals anditocks) ss. si aesac- <n 9, 083 16, 824 Q1 44 9, 104 16, 868
Ethnological specimens ..--..----- 2, 065 2, 481 169 200 2, 234 2, 681
Diatomaceous earths (packages) .- 408 1, 162 20 20 428 1, 182

Mota sete eek 182, 583 367, 412 7, 136 9,754 | 189, 719 377, 166

94 APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

LIST OF DONATIONS TO THE NATIONAL MUSEUM IN 1877.

Alaska Commercial Company, San Francisco, Cal. Two skins of the blue

fox and two of the white fox (Vulpes lagopus), from the Prybilov
Se Islands, Alaska.

Ammen, Commodore Daniel, Hydrographic Office. Soundings of the United
States steamer Gettysburg, on the Gorringe bank.

Anderson, W. Bones, shells, &c., from cave in Ohio.

Appleton, R. M. (through John Sutherland). Salmon-trout and white-fish,
from Lake Winnipiseogee, New Hampshire.

Arnold, J. Edward. Three eggs of selachian, from Santa Monica Bay,
California.

Atkins, Charles G. Collection of fishes (salmon, white-fish, suckers, &c.),
from Grand Lake Stream, Maine.

Anderson, William. Box of stone implements and pottery, from Mlinois.

Babcock, L. L. Skin of Hedymeles ludovicianus, from Massachusetts.

Baird, Prof. S. F. Three everglade kites, two boxes fishes, reptiles,
shells, seven boxes turtles, fishes, &c., and potstone dish from Florida ;
two boxes of fishes from Wilmington, N.C.; box of fishes from Charles-
ton, S.C.; four living terrapins from North Carolina; stone tube from
Tennessee, and specimen each of Morpho cypris and M. menelaus,
from South America.—See, also, Washington, United States Fish
Commission.

Baldwin, D. Skull of black-tailed deer, and skeletons of skunks.

Ballou, W. H. Box of Indian relies, from Oak Harbor, Ohio.

Bannister, Marshall. Box of skins of Massachusetts birds.

Barber, E. A. Skin of loon, from California (collected by J. H. Buel),
box of fossils, shells, and minerals, from Colorado and Arizona.

Barringer, A. L. Your boxes of living snakes, from North Carolina.

Bassett, William. Specimen each of shad and cat-fish, from the Sacra-
mento River.

Beach, Miss Agnes. Horned toad (Phrynosoma), from Colorado.

Beach, Seth. Piece of enamel of tusk of mammoth.

Bean, Dr. T. H. Skin of night-jar, specimens of Hybognathus regius,
Pseudopleuronectes americanus, and plaice, Pleuronectes glaber; frogs,
(Rana halecina and R. clamitans), from Washington, D. C.; three boxes
of stone implements, from Bainbridge, Pa., and stone celt, from Ma-
ryland.

Bean, Dr. T. H., & F. H. Cushing. Collection of fragmentary pottery,
arrow heads, &ce., from Washington, D. C.

Beardslee, Commander L. A., U. 8S. N. Box of salmon and trout, from
Piseco Lake, New York.

Beaty, John F. Ball of matted hair taken from stomach of Texas ox.

Beauchamp, Rev. W. M. Box of stone implements and shells, from West-
ern New York.

fame Q.4. YHerkhtn. ef Par ome alt Ok:
me Hee CREA Yrs U ot jt ru - fone

Pa
yp 8 Gan. Sas GA =) thos 8 deer ee Hoe”
APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 95

Beaumont, Thomas. Specimens of arrow-heads and rocks, from Kansas.
Beckwith, J. Rk. Devil beetle (Dynastes), from New Orleans, La.
Belding, L. Large collection of birds’ skins, from California.

Bellinger, Edmund. Narcotic bean (Indian “ Freholea”), from Texas.

Benecke, Louis. Box of minerals, from Missouri.

Bennett, Dr. Jaw of fossil Macropus, from Darling Downs, Queensland.

Bennett, C. J. Collection of arrow-heads and chippings, from Virginia.

Bennett, Henry B. Fragments of pottery, from near Cape Henlopen.

Berlin, A. F. Collection of rude stone implements, from Pennsylvania,

Bernays, Dr. F. T. Echinoderm, from Missouri.

Binney, W. G. Seven species of Helices.

Bishop, J. N. Box of 17-year locust and box of minerals, from Con-
necticut.

Blackford, Eugene G. Specimens of blue-back trout, suckers, Cristivomer
namaycush, Salmo salar, Coregonus albus, Lota lacustris, Alepidosaurus
Jerox, Argyrosomus tullibee, smelt, Esox nobilior, Lachnolemus, Ostra-
cion, shad, Bermudian prawn, oyster shells, and many other species
of fishes, from various localities in the United States.

Bland, Thomas. Nine species of Helices.

Boardman, Geo. A. Egg of Aramus giganteus; mounted skin of albino
robin from Maine; skins of blue heron and hawk, from Florida.

Boehmer, Geo. H. Nest and 4 eggs of crow, from Maryland.

Bowers, Rev. Stephen. Forty-four boxes of ethnological collections, from
Santa Barbara, Cal.

Boyd, Dr. S. B. Shed skin of black snake.

Brackett, Col. A.G., U. S. A. Box of birds’ skins and eggs, from Wyom-
ing.

Bransford, Dr. John F., U.S. N. Thirty-five boxes of pottery and tank of
alcoholics, from Nicaragua.

Brazilian Commission, Philadelphia. Specimens of glue, marine grasses,
&e.

Lrodnax, Benj. H. Indian utensils, and iron dust, from Plantersville
La.

Brown, A. Centipede and tarantula, from Texas.

Brown, Dr. J. J. Box of Pupas, Helices, &c., from Bermuda; specimen
of Chrosomus erythrogaster, from the Baraboo River, Wisconsin.

Bruner, C. 0. Box of invertebrate fossils, from the Mississippi.

Bunting, Gen. T. B. Two stone idols, from Guatemala.

Butler, A. W. Skin of Regulus calendula, from Indiana.

Carley, B. J. M. Specimen of borer-clam, and box of Calcutta oysters.

Carpenter, Lieut. W. £., U.S. A. Box of birds’ eggs, from the West.

Case, 1. B. Casts of stone implements, from Ohio.

Casey, Edward P. Carved black-slate dish, from the northwest coast.

Catlin, J. C. Insect, from Ohio. .

Centennial Board of Finance, Philadelphia. The Swedish exhibit of iron
and steel at the Vienna Exposition of 1873.
96 APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Chapman, N. A. Stone implements, from Ohio.

Chase, Orem M. Specimen of Lota lacustris, from Detroit, Mich.

Chester, Capt. H. C. Stomachs of mackerel, from Fisher’s Island Sound

Clark, Geo. A. Spider, from Washington, D. C.

Oleneay, Thomas. Collection of stone.implements, from Ohio.

Coggswell, Amos. Specimen of silver ore, from Oregon.

Coleman, George. S. Specimen of coal, from Texas.

Colvin, Verplanck. Specimens of white-fish and salmon, from Raquette
and Bisby Lakes, New York.

Coues, Dr. Elliott., U. S. A. Five skins of birds, from Wyoming and
Dakota.

Coulter, k. M. Crustacean (Branchipus), from Ohio.

Coup, W. C., New York Aquarium. Flying-fox (Pteropus); and Mexican
Axolotl, from Germany.

Courtenay, William. Insects, from Dakota.

Cruger, Kortwright. Fresh-water polyp.

Cunningham, K. M. C. See Gaines.

Cushing, Frank H. and Henry J. Biddle. Three boxes of cave remains,
from Hagerstown, Md.

Cheney, S. F. Star-fish and specimens of coral, from Grand Manan, N. B.

Daggett, P. Rocks and minerals, from Vermont.

Day, Robert. Two fish (Cyprinodonts).

De Beck, D. W. Collection of fossils.

Derry, C. W. Box of silver ores, from the “J. D. Dana” Ledge, Dana.
ville, Colo.

Dimock, W. D. Stone implement, from Ohio. .

Doron, T. S. Specimens of fishes, from the Alabama River.

Doughertyville, Tenn., Quarry Company. Slab of marble.

Downing, S. W. Sulphate of soda, in deposit and solution.

Duffy, Daniel J. Specimens of Dorosoma and Hyodon, from the Tennes-
see River.

Duges, Dr. Don Alfredo. Box of birds’ skins, from Mexico.

Dunn, Geo. 7. Casts of stone implements and images, from Indiana and
Ohio.

Dunn Brothers, Philadelphia. Three boxes of China clays.

Du Pre, D. A. Box of fossil plants, from Virginia.

Dickinson, E. Specimens of birds’ eggs, from Palestine, and nest and
eggs of Selasophorus allent, from California.

Haston, D. M. Specimens of quartz, from New Mexico.

Edwards, Vinal N. Thirteen boxes of fishes, from Wood’s Holl, Massa-
chusetts.

Hlliott, B. 8S. Bone from round of beef with circular rings.

Ellsworth, H. W. Collection of shells and wooden implements, from
Connecticut.

Hversfield, Dr. W. O. Drilled ceremonial implement from Maryland.

Ferguson, 8S. W. Live snappipg turtle and specimens of pike-perch,
from the Mississippi River.
APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. Si

Fisher, Miss Collection of English mosses.

Flack, J. O. Specimen of ore, from Fort Smith, Ark.

Fogg, W. H. Specimen of fossil (Allorisma), from Indiana.

Ford, John. Stone implement, from Illinois.

Ford, J. B. Quartz pebble.

Forney, D. S. Specimen of magnetic iron, from Virginia.

Fox, W.H. Thirteen bird’s skins, from New Hampshire.

Frink, W. R. Specimen of sounding sand, from Kania, Hawaii.

Frith, David R. Native Carib chairs, from Turk’s Island, West Indies.

Fuller, Capt. Joseph J. Collection of fishes, birds and mammals, from
Kerguelen Land, S. A.

Fitzhugh, D. A. Specimens of Notemigonus chrysoleucas, from Bay City,

Mich.

Gabb, Dr. W. M. Two wooden idols and box of alcoholics, from St.
Domingo; one Carib wooden chair, two wooden Carib carvings.

Gaines, Maj. A. S. & K. M. Cunningham. Two boxes of pottery, from
Mobile, Ala.

Galbraith, F. G. Arrow points and stone implements, from Bainbridge,
Pennsylvania.

Garreth, J. H. Newt in alcohol, from Pennsylvania.

Garland, Maurice H. Red-tailed hawk ( Buteo borealis), from Virginia.

Gibbs, Geo. J. Corals, ball of matted hair from stomach of cow, seeds
of giant yellow stramonium, and stone relics, from Turk’s Island,
W. SE.

Gill, Mrs. Charlotte. Insects, from Colorado.

Glass, Dr. J. H. Box of shells, from Oneida County, N. Y.

Goodale, S. LZ. Samples of Menhaden oil and extractum carnis.

Goode, G. Brown. Collections of fishes, shells, coral, twenty-two eggs of
Phaeton flavicauda, and fish-trap (model), from Bermuda; specimen of
salmon, from the Connecticut River.

Gordon, J. J. Specimen of coal, from West Virginia.

Graham, J. B. Model of fish-weir.

Grant, General U. S. Bust of General Grant executed in wire, exhibited
by. the Peruvian section, International Exhibition, 1876.

Greegor, I. Collection of Indian relics, from Florida.

Gregg, A. Photograph of sternum of deer.

Griest, Jesse W., United States Indian agent. Specimen of mineral,
from Otoe agency, Nebraska.

Gundlach, Dr. Juan. Ten specimens of birds’ skins, from the West In-
dies.

Haldeman, Dr. S. S. Indian slung-shot and plume, collected by Lewis
and Clarke expedition.

Hall, M. E. Fresh and alcoholic specimens of herring, from Lake Cham-
plain.

Hall, Capt. W. G. Basket, ceremonial ax, and collection of shells, from
the South Sea Islands.

78
98 APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Haller, Chris. D. Albino robin, in flesh, from Virginia.

Hallock, Charles. Collection of alcoholic fishes.

Hammons, S. C. Minerals, from Alabama.

Hardenburgh, A. R., United States surveyor-general, California. Speci-
mens of gold, silver, and other ores from various mines in California.

Haskin, S. D. lydite, celt, and double-grooved stone ax, from Tennes-
see.

Harman, A. G. Broken arrow-head.

Hayward, F.W. Collection of sirens, from South Carolina.

Hessel, Rudolph. Specimen of Astacus fluviatilis, from Bohemia.

Hewitt, H. N. Specimen of pike.

Hewitt, John R. Entozoic worm, from liver of cat.

Hilder, Fred. F. Collection of mound pottery, from Missouri.

Hill, Charlotte. Fossil insects and leaves, from Colorado.

Hill, H. H. Casts of stone implements, from Ohio.

Himes, Prof. Chas. F. Bones, from cave near Hagerstown, Md.

Hirst, F. Collections of fossil shells, bones, fishes, Indian stone imple-
ments and pottery, birds’ eggs and skins, fishes and worms, and skull
of Castor fiber, from Wyoming.

Hitchcock, H. N. Skin of Plectrophanes maccowni, from Arizona, and
skin of Louisiana tanager, from California.

Hoffman, Dr. W.d., U. S. A. Album of autobiographical pictures, by
“Running Antelope,” a Dakota Indian chief.

Holden, Captain. Snake, from Indianola, Tex.

Hubbard, S.jr. Box of California birds’ eggs.

Hulbert, Robert H. Specimen of fish (Chimera plumbea), from the La
Have banks.

Illig, H. L. Box of stone implements, from Lebanon County, Pennsyl-
vania.

Irwin, Dr. B. J. D., U. 8. A. Specimens of 17-year locust, from New
York.

Ives, Frank. Box of fossils, from Kenyon County, Minnesota.

Jackson, H. E. Penis of Lacertian and specimens of gold-fish, from South
Carolina.

James, Dr. T. H. Box of Indian relics, from Arkansas.

Janeway, Dr. J. H., U. S.A. Three bottles of fishes, from Saint Augus-
tine, Fla.

Jeffries, W. W. Collection of rocks, from Pennsylvania.

Jennings, k. G. Eggs of tarantula, from Arkansas.

Jewett, Colonel. Bottle of parasites (Cymothoids), from Santa Barbara,
Cal.

Johnson, W. R. Mineral, from Marion County, Virginia.

Jones, H. R. Stone pipe and arrow-heads, from Indiana.

Jones, W. Mineral earth, from Alabama.

Jordan, Prof. D. S. Collection of western and southern fresh-water
fishes.

APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. do

Kales, J. W. Indian stone tube, from Ohio.

Keep, Professor. ————_—_—_——_—_—_—_

Kendrick, Frank F. Specimen of coal, from Virginia.

Kercheval, A. W. Quartz crystals, from West Virginia.

Kershaw, John. Box of fossils, from Nebraska.

Klemm, Theodore. Swan, in flesh, from Maumee Bay, Ohio.

Kohn, G. Collection of turtles and salamander (Manculus 4-digitatus),
from Louisiana.

Krefft, Gerard. Specimens of Lleotris, perch, and Phascogale, from
Queensland, Australia.

Kumlien, A. L. Collection of birds’ skins, from Wisconsin; nest and
eggs of Zonotrichia coronata, from California.

Langdon, Frank W. Collection of birds’ skins, from Ohio.

Langley, William FE. Crab, from New South Wales, Australia.

Lawrence, Alfred N. Skeleton of cow-fish (Tursiops), from Rockaway
Beach, Long Island.

Le Baron J. F. Box of shells, bones, pottery, &c., from Florida.

Letton, Rev. J. H. Insect (Lampyris), from Kentucky.

Locke, William M. Boxes of stone implements, from Ohio and New
York.

Lockwood, Samuel. Prepared skeletons of bass and shad.

Loomis, W. T. Two frost-fish (Coregonus), from White Lake, New York.

Love, Dr. J. G. Two marine shells.

Lugger, Otto. Specimens of Umbra pygmaa, Parephippus faber, Gobiids,
&c., and shark (Ginglymostoma cirrhatum), from Chesapeake Bay.

LIyford, W. H. Portion of lower jaw of musk-rat.

McAdoo, Col. W. G. Box of pottery, from Georgia.

McGannis, A. Specimens of mineral, from California.

McGregor (Iowa) Artesian Well Company. Bottle of artesian-well water.

McKinley, Wm. Box of Indian relics and funeral urn, from Georgia.

McLeod, R. R. Black fox in flesh, from Maine.

McNeill, Alexander. Specimen of sand impregnated with asphaltum.

McWilliams, Dr. Skin of Carpodacus hemorrhous, from Mexico.

Mahrenholz, H. @ A. Tanned skin of breast of human being.

Marsh, H. N. Quartz pebble, from New Jersey.

Martin, F. H. Skin each of Dendroica coronata and D. laburniie, from
New Hampshire.

Mason, Prof. O. T. Fossil fish, from California.

Mather, Fred. Eggs of Urophycis regius and parasites from Menobranchus
lateralis.

Matteson, F. S. Skin of cinnamon bear and skin of cuckoo (Coccyzus
americanus), from Oregon.

Maxson, O. P. Salmon, from Lake Michigan.

Maynard, C. J. Skin of Passerculus princeps, from Massachusetts.

Mazyck, W. G. Box of alcoholic specimens of mollusks, from South
Carolina.

100 APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Meigs, Henry. Two boxes of antiquities, from Bolivia.

Meigs, General M. C., U. 8. A. . Rat, in flesh.

Meldrum, George. Collection of Indian relics, from Ohio.

Mercer, R. W. Supposed cremated remains from Indian vase.

Merrill, Mr. (through J. Henderson.) Chipped arrow-points, from Illinois.

Merrill, Dr. J. C., U. S. A. Three boxes of birds’ skins, two boxes of
general natural-history collections, skin of Felis yaguarundi, from
Texas.

Mickleborough, John. Collection of Lower Silurian fossils, from Ohio.

Middleton, H. J. Thirty-six birds’ and one weasel’s skin.

Miller, Howard. Dried plant, from Pennsylvania.

Mills, Clark. Sixty-four casts of heads of Indians, from Florida.

Milner, J. W. One box general natural history, 1 keg of alcoholics,
5 living turtles, box of fishes, from Havre de Grace, Md.; 1 black
bass, box of stone implements, from Lllinois.

Minnieville Mining Company, New York. Specimens of iron ore.

Moore, N. B. Four birds’ skins, from Nassau, N. P., West Indies.

Morgan, Senator John T. (through Interior Department). Mica, from
Alexander City, Ala.

Mueller, Dr. Rudolph. Stone celts, from Ohio, and moccasins, from
“Custer’s battle-field.”

Murphy, W. M. Jaws of Haploidonotus grunniens.

Nash, J. C. Brass hose-nozzle, from mound, in West Virginia.

National Museum of Mexico. Collection of Mexican ethnologicaand birds.

Neff, Peter. Cast of stone face.

Nelson, E. W. Skin of wild cat (Lynx rufus), from California; collection
of fishes from the Illinois and Calumet Rivers; collection of ethno-
logica and general natural history, from Saint Michael’s, Alaska.

Newton, H. Three boxes of fossils, from the Black Hills.

Nichols, Dr. C. H. Specimens in flesh of peacock and Canada goose.

Norway, King of. Two native chairs.

Nottingham, Wm. Specimen of Inoceramus, from Washington, D. C.

Nye, Willard. Box of alcoholic fishes, from New Bedford, Mass.

Ober, F. A. Collection of birds, mammals, reptiles, and fishes, from Do-
minica; and box of general natural history, from the Bahamas, West
Indies.

Ogle, David G. Collection of rocks, fossils, and Indian relics, from Mary-
land.
Ordnance Department, U. S. A., Gen. S. V. Benét. Large collection of

general natural history, fossils, minerals, and Indian implements, from
the West.

Osgood, F. Story. Minerals, from Massachusetts.

Outerbridge, A. E., jr. Microscopic slide of gold, from the United States
Mint, Philadelphia.

Owingo, Mr. Ironstone nodule.
Palmer, Joseph. Skeleton each of horse and duck.

APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 101

Palmer, William. Collection of fishes, from the Potomac River; snakes,
from Virginia and Maryland.

Peeler, Henry A. Caterpillar, from New Orleans.

Pergande, Ph. Collection of eggs, bones, woods, &e., from Missouri.

Permanent Exhibition Company, Philadelphia. New South Wales’, Vic-
toria’s, and Carneghy’s exhibits of minerals.

Perrine, T. M. Box of stone implements, from Illinois.

Plummer, Miss 8S. A. Can of mollusks, from California.

Powel, Samuel. Two tanks, 1 box, and 1 keg of fishes, from Newport,
R. I.

Preston, D. A. Box of minerals, from Joplin, Mo.

Queensland, Australia, Acclimatization Society. Package of seeds of
Maba fasciculosa and photographs of aborigines of Australia.

Ramsey, N. A. . Specimen of kaolin, from North Carolina.

Rau, Dr. Charles. Indian stone tube, from Warren County, Kentucky.

Ravenel, H. W. Bermuda grass, from Aiken, 8. C.

Redding, B. B. Fishes and invertebrates, from Japan; specimens each
of awa(Chanos salmoneus) and mullet (Mugil chaptalia), from Honolulu.

Reeder, H. J. California salmon (Salmo salar), from the Delaware River.

Reid, Dr. J. H. Two Indian mallets and arrowhead, from Colorado.

Reinsch, Dr. P. F. Box of microscopic slides of meteoric stones.

Reis, Prof. J. B., Centennial Commissioner. Portuguese arboretum,
specimens of cottons from African and Indian colonies, books, photo-
graphs, &e.

Republic (the) Iron Company, Darid Morgan, President. Specimens of red
specular iron-ore.

Reville, Father D. Anal spines and interspinal bones of sheep’shead.

Reynolds, Hon. A. k., Minister to Bolivia. Box of copper ores, {rom Boli-
via.

Richard, J. H. Thirty-one turtles, 1 frog, and 12 shells, from Pennsyl-
vania.

Richmond, A. G. Small package of fragmentary pottery, from New
York.

Ridgway, Robert. Box of birds, reptiles, &c., from Mount Carmel, IL;
2 birds, nest and eggs, from Washington, D. C.

Robertson, k. S. Two stone implements al portions of human crania,
from Illinois.

Robertson, Dr. W. B. Specimens of Campostoma, from Holstein River,
Virginia.

Robinson, Neill. Stone celt from West Virginia.

Rosamond, W. B. Box of stone implements, from Ohio.

Rust, H. N. Box of mound pottery, from Illinois.

Samuels, S. B. Minerals, from Virginia.

Schneck, J. Bottle of spiders, from Illinois.

Seligman, Henry, G Co. Sample of stable-purifying compound.

Sellers, G. H. Box of pottery and stone implements, from Illinois.
102 APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Shaffer, David H. Box of Unios, from Little Miami River, Ohio.

Sharp, S. Z. Box of fresh-water shells, from the Holstein River, Ten-
nessee.

Sharp, R. Bowlder. Nine species of Old World birds.

Shaver, Amanda B. Geological specimens, from the Ohio River bottom.

Shelby, Dr. D. Stone bowl, from Jackson County, Alabama.

Sherman, N. A. Collection of bird eggs.

Shorne, Mr., through T. B. Ferguson. Section model of oyster pungy.

Slingerland, A. Stone implement, from Missouri.

Smith, J. P. Arrowheads, from Maryland.

Small, H. £. Two grampuses, from Highland light, Massachusetts.

Smith, Frank. Collection birds’ eggs.

Smith, W. H. Gall insects, from Chapel Hill, N. C.

Snyder, 8S. P. Specimens of galena, from Wyoming Valley, Pennsyl-
vania.

Sonnanstine, J. F. Supposed Indian implement, from Ohio.

Southwell, J. H. Bone perforator, from Illinois.

Spangler, Geo. Box of fossils, from Indiana.

Spanish Legation, Washington. Collection of Spanish pottery.

Stabler, James P. Snake (Ophibolus triangulus), from Maryland.

Stearns, R. FE. C. Stone implements and Indian food, from California.

Sterling, Dr. E. Cast of ovaries of fish, and dwarf pike (Zsox pygmceus.)

Stone, Gen. Chas. P. Block of Egyptian marble.

Stone, Livingston. Collection of salmonide, from the Clackamas River,
Oregon; box of fishes, from the McCloud River, California.

Stout, Mrs. Georgia. Box of Indian relics, from Pima Agency, Arizona.

Sutro, Adolf. Papier-maché models of the Sutro Tunnel and Comstock
Lode.

Taggart, k. F. Tooth of Equus occidentalis, from West Virginia.

Talbut, William. Living snake, from Washington, D. C.

Tanaka, Hon. Fusimaro. Collection of Japanese coins.

Tasmania, Government of. Two specimens of Platypus and three of
Echidne ; three boxes of seeds of Australian plants.

Tate, Geo. K. Specimen of iron pyrites, from North Carolina.

Thomas, Hilton. Orange infested with insects.

Thomson, J. H. Chub-sucker (Hrimyzon oblongus), Paratractus pisquetos,
and Achirus lineatus, from Massachusetts.

Thomas, Pack. Shad (Alosa sapidissima), from the Ohio River.

Thompson, J. B. Five specimens of Salmo quinnat, reared from eggs
planted in 1874 and 1875.

Thornburgh, Hon. J. M. Fossil coal plant, from Anderson County,
Tennessee...

Thornton, S. C. Skin of common myna (Acridotherus tristis).

Tilghman, Dr. Chas. H. Seeds and shells, from craw of red-head duck.

Tingley, Prof. Joseph. Fossils, from Indiana.

Tokio, Japan, Museum of, Hon. Kubo, in charge. Collection of
woods and stone implements, from Japan.

* See ote Ohvpaucu, Ck i
APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 103

Toner, Dr. J. we Stone pipe, arrowheads, and unfinished tube, from
Ohio and Kentucky; stone pestle, from Maryland.

Turner, Granville. Specimen of belemite, from the Black Hills.

Turner, Lucien M. Hight boxes of ethnologica and general natural
history, Saint Michael’s, Alaska.

Ull, Henry I. Box of botanical specimens, from New Jersey.

Valentine, G. G. Box of stone implements, from Virginia.

Van Benschoten, Prof. J. C. Stone ceremonial implement, from mound
in Indiana.

Van Dyck, W. T. Skin of Pastor, from Beirut, Syria.

Vickers, J. P. Stone implement, from Illinois.

Washington, D. C.:
Department of State. See under the name of Hon. A. R. Reynolds,

minister to Bolivia.
Treasury Department. Box of building stones, from new custom-house,
Chicago, Il.

United States Coast Survey (Capt. C. P. Patterson, in charge). Spec-

imens of starfish, from off Cape Cod, Mass.
War Department :

United States Army. See under the names of Col. A. G. Brackett,
Lieut. W. L. Carpenter, Gen. M. C. Meigs, and Lieut. Willis Wittich.

Surgeon-General’s Office. See under the names of Drs. Elliott Coues,
B. J. D. Irwin, J. H. Janeway, and J. C. Merrill.

Survey west of the one hundredth meridian (Lieut. G. M. Wheeler, in
charge). Collection of west-coast fishes, 941 birds’ skins, and 2
bales of ethnologica, from the West.

Signal Service. See under the names of Sergeants E. W. Nelson and
L. M. Turner.

Navy Department :

United States Navy. See vxzder the name of Ogmmander L. A.
Beardslee.

Burenx wf Navigation, Commodore Daniel Ammen. Soundin gs, from
the Gorringe bank, by the United States steamer Gett ysbure.

Medical Bureau. See under the name of Dr. J. F. Bransfora

Interior Department :

General Land Office. See under the names of Surveyors- General *
R. Hardenburgh and John Wasson.

Indian Bureau. See under the name of Indian Agent Jesse W.
Griest.

United States Geological Survey of the Territories, First Division,
(Dr. F. V. Hayden, in charge). Five boxes and 2 tanks general
natural history collections, from the West; 9 models of cliff-houses
and relief maps.

United States Geological Survey of the Territories, Second Division
(Prof. J. W. Powell, in charge). Eleven pieces of Shoshone In-
dian clothing, 1 box ethnologica. See also under the name of
Rev. Stephen Bowers.
104 APFENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Washington, D. C.:

United States Fish Commission (Prof. 8S. F. Baird, Commissioner).
Eleven boxes, 4 tanks marine zodlogy, collected at Wood’s Holl,
Salem, Mass., and at Halifax, N.S. See also under the names of
Chas. G. Atkins, S. F. Baird, T. H. Bean, H. C. Chester, Vinal N.
Edwards, Rudolph Hessel, A. L. Kumlien, J. W. Milner, and Liv-
ingston Stone.

Wall, John P. Two stone sinkers, from Florida.

Wasson, Hon. John United States surveyor-general, arizona. Specimens .
of gold and silver ores, from various mining claims in Arizona.

Way, D. 8S. Living diamond rattlesnake, from Florida.

Webb, John 8. Fossils, from near Dayton, Ohio.

Werner, W. H. Skin of solitary sandpiper, from Pennsylvania.

Whitman, G. P. Marine fern (Pennatula phosphorea var. aculeata), from
Brown’s Bank, Mass.

Whittlesey, Charles. Cast of stone implements, from Ohio.

Willets, Joseph C. Trolling-hook used for lake-trout, at Skaneateles, N.
Y.; 14 bottles of Forida fishes.

Willird, Mrs. Celeste. Box of insects, from Florida.

Williams, C. Foster. Shell, Pyrula, from Tennessee.

Williams, Dr. M. Specimen in flesh of Mexican flycatcher.

Williamson, J. M. Specimens of fulgurite, from Illinois.

Williamson, T. Spawn of black bass.

Wilmot, Samuel. Specimen of Dorosoma heterura, from Lake Huron;
stuffed skin of Ontario salmon.

Winchell, Prof. Alex. Collection of fresh-water fishes, from Tennessee.

Wittich, Lieut. Willis, U. 8S. A. Collection of shrews, reptiles, and in-
sects, from Fort Klamath, Oreg.

Wood, Thomas. Collection of fossils, from Maryland.

Wooster, A. F. @Aicétions of general navural history and Indian relics,
from Connestiee cate

Yarrow, Dr.‘ G, Box of slugs, from Washington, D. C.; tcaof shells
(Hydati ay Seon Santa Barbara, Cal.

Yerkes, Pct Two celts and quartz crystal, from Pennsylvania.

“Os mglove, John E. Pentramites, from Bowling Green, Ky.

Wack, John A. Sample of glass wool.

Unknown. Two boxes alchoholic birds’ skins; cast of human face; 2
grooved celts; pair of moccasins and belt; 3 pieces of rock; specimens
mica and granite; larvae of migratory praeeheaner:

APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 105

LIST OF THE MORE IMPORTANT EXPLORATIONS AND EX.

PEDITIONS, THE COLLECTIONS OF WHICH HAVE CONSTI-

TUTED THE PRINCIPAL SOURCES OF SUPPLY TO THE
NATIONAL MUSEUM, WITH INDICATION OF THE DEPART-
MENT OF THE GOVERNMENT UNDER WHICH PROSE-
CUTED.

[ Where no department is mentioned it is to be understood that the collections were

made more especially at the request and under the direction of the Smithsonian In-
stitution and to a greater or less degree at its expense. ]

1.

bo

ii

15.

16.

Prior to 1850.

Captain Wilkes, U. S. N. The coasts of South America, Western
North America, Polynesia, etc. 1838-1842. United States Navy
Department.

. Rev. Dr. Gurley. West Africa. 1846-1857.
. Rev. C. W. Dennison. British Guiana. 1842-1857.

1850.

. Dr. D. D. Owen. United States Geological Survey made in Iowa,

Illinois, and Minnesota. 1850-1857. United States General Land
Office.

. Capts. L. Sitgreaves and J. C. Woodruff, U.S. A. The survey of the

Creek boundary. War Department.

. Dr. J. Evans. United States Geological Survey of Oregon and

Washington Territories. Land Office.

. Dr. Charles T. Jackson. United States Geological Survey of Lake

Superior. Land Office.

. Messrs. J. W. Foster andJ. D. Whitney. United States Geological

Survey of Lake Superior. Land Office.

. W. Stimpson. The New England coast.
. Thaddeus Culbertson. Upper Missouri.

1851.

. Col. J. D. Graham and Maj. W. H. Emory, U. S. A. United States

and Mexican Boundary Survey. 1851-1855. Interior Department,

. Capt. L. Sitgreaves, U. S. A. Zuni and Colorado Rivers. War De-

partment.

. Capt. Howard Stansbury, U. S. A. The Valley of the Great Salt

Lake, Utah. War Department.
1852.

. Lieut. J. M. Gilliss, U. 8S. N. United States Astronomical Expedi-

tion to Chili. 1849-1852. Navy Department.

Lieut. W. L. Herndon, U. S. N. The Amazon and its tributaries.
Navy Department.

Capt. Kk. B. Marcy and Capt. George B. McClellan, U. S. A. The Red
River. War Department.
106 APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

1853.

. Dr. EL. K. Kane. North Greenland.
. Capts. C. Ringgold and J. Rodgers, U. S. N. Exploration of the China

Seas, Behring Straits, coast of California, ete. 1853-1856. Navy
Department.

. Gov. I. I. Stevens. The Pacific Railroad Survey of the forty-seventh

parallel. 1853-1855. War Department.

. Lieut. R. 8. Williamson, U. 8. A. The Pacific Railroad Survey on

the partial route in California. 1853-1855. War Department.

. Captains Gunnison and Beckwith, U. 8S. A. The Pacific Railroad

Survey on the thirty-eighth, thirty-ninth, and forty-first parallels.
1853-1855. War Department.

. Captain Whipple, U. S. A. The Pacific Railroad Survey on the

thirty-fifth parallel. 1853-1855. War Department.

. Lieut. J. G. Parke, U. 8. A. The Pacific Railroad Survey on the

western end of the thirty-second parallel. 1853-1855. War De-
partment.

. Capt. J. Pope, U. 8. A. The Pacific Railroad Survey on the eastern

end of the thirty-second parallel. 1853-1855. War Department.

. Lieut. Rk. S. Williamson, U. S. A. The Pacific Railroad Survey in

California and Oregon. 1853-1855. War Department.

- Commodore M. C. Perry, U.S. N. Japan. 1853-1855. State and

Navy Departments.

. Capt. J. Pope, U. 8S. A. Artesian Well Borings in the Llano Esta-

cado. 1853-1857. War Department.

. Dr. George Suckley, U. S. A. Washington and Oregon Territories,

1853-1856. War Department.

. Dr. J. G. Cooper. Washington Territory, California, and Nebraska.

1853-1856. War Department.

. Dr. F. V. Hayden. Upper Missouri. 1853-1855.
. Lieut. D. N. Couch, U. S. A. Northern Mexico.
. Dr. L. Berlandier. Northern Mexico. Collections made 1826-1851

and purchased by Lieutenant Couch.

. Capt. T. J. Page, U. 8. N. Paraguay. Exploration of the Parana.

1853-1855. Navy Department.

. Kk. D. Cutts. The California coast. United States Coast Survey.
. Prof. S. F. Baird. Wisconsin, Illinois, and Ohio.

18354.

. A.J. Vaughan. Upper Missouri. 1854-1855.

. Dr. P. k. Hoy. Wisconsin and Missouri.

. Lobert Kennicott. Illinois, Minnesota, and Winnipeg. 1854-1857.
. Capt. k. B. Marcy, U. 8. A. Brazos River.

. Lieut. W. P. Trowbridge, U. 8. A. The Pacific coast. 1854-1855.

United States Coast Survey.

41.

APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 107

Gustavus Wiirdemann. Texas, Louisiana, and Florida. 1854-1858.
United States Coast Survey.

. Rev. A. C. Barry. Wisconsin.

1855.

. Prof. 8. F. Baird. Coast of New Jersey.
. BH. Samuels. California. 1855-1856. Boston Society of Natural His-

tory and the Smithsonian Institution.

1856.

. Maj. G. H. Thomas, U. S. A. Vicinity of Fort Yuma.
. Lieutenant Bryan, U.S. A. Wagon-road survey from Fort Riley to

Bridger’s Pass. 1856-1857. War Department.

. Lieut. G. K. Warren, U. S. A. On the Upper Missouri and Yellow-

stone. War Department.

1857.

. W. M. Magraw. South Pass wagon-road. 1857-1858. Interior

Department.

. Capt. T. J. Page, U. 8. N. Wa Plata River and tributaries. Navy

Department.

. Donald Gunn. Red River of the North and Nelson River. Hudson’s

Bay Territory.

. John Xantus. Fort Riley, Kans., and Fort Tejon, Cal. 1857-1858.
. Lieut. N. Michler, U. S.A. Exploration of a canal route. The Isth-

mus of Darien. War Department.

. Col. J. E. Johnston, U.S. A. Southern boundary of Kansas.
. J. B. Leech. El Paso and Fort Yuma wagon-road route. Interior

Department.

. A. Campbell. Northwestern boundary survey. Westernend. 1857-

1861. State Department.

. Lieut. G. K. Warren, U. 8S. A. The Platte River Valley. War De-

partment.
1858.

. Capt. Thos. Blakiston, R. A. The Saskatcbewan.
. Lieut. J. C. Ives, U. S.A. Navigation of the Colorado River. War

Department.

. Dr. F. V. Hayden and Prof. F. B. Meek. Kansas.
. Dr. F. V. Hayden. New Jersey.

1859.

. Capt. J. H. Simpson, U. S. A. Kansas, Nebraska, and Utah. War

Department.
F, W. Lander. South Pass wagon-road route. Interior Depart-
ment.
108 APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

63.

64.

65.

66.

Tieut. John Mullan, U. S. A. Wagon-road route from Walla Walla
to Fort Benton. Interior Department.

Capt. W. F. Raynolds, U. S. A. Upper Missouri and Yellowstone.
War Department.

Capt. J. N. Macomb, U. S. A. San Juan and Upper Colorado. War
Department.

John Xantus. Cape Saint Lucas, Lower California. United States
Coast Survey.

. John Feilner. Fort Crook, California.
. Robert Kennicott. British North America into the Arctic Circle,

1859-1861.

. J. W. Tolman. Illinois.
. Dr. J. B. Bean. Central Florida.

Dr. Suckley, U. S. A. Kansas, Nebraska, and Utah.

. William Cooper. Bahamas.

. Dr. H. Bryant. Bahamas.

. Dr. J. G. Cooper. South Florida.

. Capt. H. G. Wright, U. S. A. Tortugas.

. Capt. D. P. Woodbury, U.S. A. Tortugas.

. Dr. Whitehurst. Tortugas.

. Saint Charles College. Louisiana.

. James McLeannan. Isthmus of Panama.

. Theodore Gill. West Indies and Newfoundland.

1860.

. Dr. J. G. Cooper. To Oregon via Fort Benton. War Department.
. Capt. C. P. Stone, U.S. A. The Gulf of California.

. Dr. C. 8. Canfield. The coast of California.

. B. R. Ross. Mackenzie’s River district. Fort Simpson, Hudson’s

Bay Territory. 1860-1861.

. George Barnston. North shore of Lake Superior.

. J. Mackenzie. Moose factory, Hudson’s Bay. 1860-1863.

. C. Drexler. In James Bay, Hudson’s Bay.

. Elliott Coues. The coast of Labrador. :

. Williams College Lyceum of Natural History. Greenland and Lab-

rador.

. Dr. W. Stimpson. The coast of North Carolina,
. Theodore Gill. The coast of North Carolina.
. Dr. W. W. Anderson. Cantonment Burgwyn, N. Mex., and on the

Pecos.

. J. H. Clark. The Texas boundary survey. Interior Department.
. J. W. Swan. Puget Sound. 1860-1877.

. Dr. J. B. Holder. Tortugas.

. Charles Wright. Cuba. 1860-1863.

. J. M. Woodworth. Minnesota.

. Patrick Duffy. New Mexico.

oo:
. Lieut. J. D. Kurtz, U.S. A. On the Atlantic coast of the United

108.

APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 109

W. A. Henry. Uabrador Eclipse Expedition.

States.

. F. Germain. Chili.

. P. 8S. Dodd. Sable Island, Nova Scotia.
.d. Rk. Willis. Nova Scotia.

. W. G. Winton. Nova Scotia.

1861.

. John Xantus. Cape Saint Lucas and the Gulf of California. United

States Coast Survey.

. Robert Kennicott. Hudson’s Bay Territory: Fort Resolution, Peel’s

River, and Fort Yukon.

. Lawrence Clark, jr. Hudson’s Bay Territory: Fort Rae and Great

Slave Lake.
L862.

John Xantus. Western Mexico in the vicinity of Colima and Man-
zanillo. 1862-1863. State Department.

1863.

. Henry Connolly. Hudson’s Bay Territory: Rigollet, Labrador.

1863-1866.

. Hon. C. Rk. Riotte, United States minister. Costa Rica.
. J. Carmiol. Costa Rica.

. Dr. Charles Sartorius. Eastern Mexico.

. Prof. F. Sumichrast. Orizaba, Mexico.

. Capt. John. M. Dow. West coast of Central America.
. Hon. C. R. Buckalew, United States minister. Ecuador.
. Dr. Elliott Coues, U. S. A. Arizona.

. Dr. R. Hitz. Upper Missouri.

. Capt. John Feilner, U. S. A. Upper Missouri.

1864.

. Col. A. J. Grayson. Vicinity of Mazatlan, including the Tres

Marias and the Revillagigedo Islands.

. Dr. Arthur Schott. Yucatan, under the auspices of the government

of the province.

21. Hon. D. K. Cartter. Bolivia.
. W. T. March. Jamaica.

123. N. H. Bishop. Cuba.

125.
126.

. Lieutenant Fitzgerald, British Army. New Providence, Bahamas,

1865.

Gov. William McTavish. Vicinity of Fort Garry.
Robert Kennicott. Alaska and British Columbia.
110 APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

127. Dr. H. Berendt. British Honduras and the interior of Guatemala.
128. Robert Swift. Saint Thomas and Porto Rico.

129. George Latimer. Porto Rico.

130. Rev. H. B. Tristram. Palestine.

1866.

(51. CO. P. Gaudet. Hudson’s Bay Territory: Fort Good Hope.

152. William L. Hardesty. WHudson’s Bay Territory: Fort Simpson.

133. Strachan Jones. Hudson’s Bay Territory: Vicinity of Fort Rae.

134. James Lockhart. Hudson’s Bay Territory: Fort Resolution, Fort
Yukon. .

135. John Reid. WHudson’s Bay Territory: Big Island, Great Slave
Lake.

136. James Sibbiston. Hudson’s Bay Territory: Fort Yukon.

137. Donald Gunn. West of Lake Winnipeg.

138. George A. Smith. Hudson’s Bay Territory and Labrador.

139. Robert MacFarlane. Hudson’s Bay Territory: Vicinity of Fort An-
derson, Arctic Coast. 1860-1868.

140. William Bross. WHudson’s Bay Territory: Fort Halkett.

141. Thomas Flett. Hudson’s Bay Territory: La Pierre’s House.

142. C. L. Bulkley. Russian America. Western Union Telegraph Com-
pany.

143. William H. Dall. Shores of Behring Straits. Western Union
Telegraph Company.

144, Ferdinand Bischoff. Kodiak, Sitka, and other portions of Alaska.
Western Union Telegraph Company.

145. H. M. Bannister. Vicinity of Saint Michael’s, Norton Sound.
Western Union Telegraph Company.

146. Dr. J. T. Rothrock. British Columbia. Western Union Telegraph
Company.

147. Dr. 0. A. Canfield. Monterey, Cal.

148. Dr. Edward Palmer. Arizona.

149. Dr. Wernick. Colorado.

150. Dr. H. B. Butcher. Laredo, Rio Grande.

151. A. EH. Younglove. Hayti.

152. Dr. Henry Bryant. Porto Rico and the Bahamas.

153. Henry Hague. Guatemala.

154. Dr. Earl Flint. Nicaragua. 1866-1877.

155. D*. A. Von Frantzius and J. C. Zeledon. Costa Rica.

156. J. and T. Rhodes. Panama.

157. Valdimir Knudsen. Sandwich Islands.

158. William H. Hudson. Buenos Ayres. 1866-1868.

1867.

159. Hon. A. A. Burton. Columbia.
160. Ferdinand Bischoff. Vicinity of Mazatlan.

APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. Per

. Bernard R. Ross. Hudson’s Bay Territory: Moose Factory.
. Prof. F. V. Hayden. Geological Survey of Nebraska. United

States General Land Office.

. Dr. Thomas T. Miner. Winnebago Reservation.
. Clarence King. Along the line of the fortieth parallel. War De-

partment.

. Dr. M. Allen. Bermuda.

. Col. A. J. Grayson. Revillagigedo Islands.
. Dr. Van Patten. Guatemala.

. Mr. Hardemann. San Salvador.

1868.

. Prof. James Orton. Ecuador.

- Mr. McDougal. Hudson’s Bay Territory, Mackenzie’s River district.
. George Davidson. Alaska. United States Coast Survey.

. Dr. F. V. Hayden. Black Hills, Laramie Plains, &c. General Land

Office.

. J. H. Devereaux. Tennesee and Ohio. Ethnology.
. Dr. Edward Palmer. Indian Territory.

1869.

. Capt. C. M. Scammon. Coast of Oregon and Alaska. United States

Revenue Bureau, Treasury Department.

. Dr. F. V. Hayden. Colorado and New Mexico. Interior Depart-

ment.

. Lieut. F. M. Ring. In the vicinity of Fort Wrangel, Alaska.

Ethnology.

. P. Figyelmezy. British Guiana. State Department.

1870.

. Prof. S. F. Baird. In Marine Zoology, in Vineyard Sound. 1870-

1875. United States Fish Commission.

. Dr. F. V. Hayden. Rocky Mountains. Interior Department.

1871.

. Prof. J. W. Powell. Colorado. Interior Department.
. Dr. F. V. Hayden. Montana and headwaters of the Yellowstone.

Interior Department.

. Geo. A. Boardman. Florida and New Brunswick.
. Dr. H. C. Yarrow, U. 8. A. Vicinity of Fort Macon, North Caro-

lina.

. Capt. Chas. Bryant. Pribylov Islands, Behring Sea.
. Strachan Jones. Hudson’s Bay Territory, Lower Slave Lake Region.

1872.

. Prof. S. F. Baird. Marine Zoology in the Bay of Fundy. United

States Fish Commission.
112
188.

189.
190.
191.
192;
193.
194.
195.
196.
197.
198.
199.

200.

APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Dr. A. S. Packard, jr. George’s Banks, &c. United States Coast
Survey and United States Fish Commission.

Henry W. Elhott. Saint Paul of the Pribylov or Fur Seal Islands
of Behring Sea. Treasury Department.

William H. Dall. Alaska and the Aleutian Islands. 1872-1874.
United States Coast Survey, Treasury Department.

Prof. 7. V. Hayden. Basin of the Upper Yellowstone and various
regions of the Rocky Mountains. Interior Department.

Lieut. Geo. M. Wheeler, U. S. A. Southern Utah and Eastern
Nevada. War Department.

Prof. J. W. Powell. Colorado River. 1872-1875. Interior Depart-
ment.

F. Sarg. Guatemala.

Prof. William M. Gabb. San Domingo.

G. Brown Goode. Bermuda.

1873.

Capt. C. F. Hall and Dr. Emil Bessels. In the Arctic Seas, on the
Polaris. Navy Department.

Henry W. Elliott. Saint George’s Island of the Pribylov Group.
Treasury Department.

Commodore G. E. Belknap, United States Steamer Tuscarora. North
Pacific Ocean. Navy Department.

Archibald Campbell and Dr. Elliott Coues. Along the north
western boundary survey, in Dakota. State Department.

. Gen. David S. Stanley and J. A. Allen. Along the line of the North-

ern Pacific Railroad. War Department.

. Prof. F. V. Hayden. Colorado and New Mexico. Interior Depart-

ment.

. Lieut. Geo. M. Wheeler. The region west of the 100th meridian.

War Department.

. Capt. Charles Bendire, U. 8S. A. Arizona.
. Livingston Stone. Upper Sacramento River. United States Fish

Commission.

. James W. Milner. The Great Lakes and the Upper Mississippi.

United States ish Commission.

. Prof. 8S. F. Baird. Vicinity of Portland, Me. United States Fish

Commission.

. Vinal N. Edwards. Vicinity of Wood’s Hole, Massachusetts.

» United States Fish Commission.

. Samuel Powel. In Narraganset Bay.
. Prof. William M. Gabb. Costa Rica. Government of Costa Rica.
. Prof. F. Poey. Cuba.

1874.

. Lieut. Geo. M. Whecler. Nebraska, Utah, Colorado, New Mexico,

and Arizona. War Department.

APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 113

. Prof. F. V. Hayden. West of the one hundred and seventh merid-

ian, in Colorado. Interior Department.

. Prof. J. W. Powell. Utah. 1874-1877. Interior Department.
. Prof. S. F. Baird. South coast of Connecticut. United States

Fish Commission.

. Capt. Nicholas Pike. The Mauritius. State Department.
. A. B. Steinberger. The Samoan Islands. State Department.
. Lucien M. Turner. Vicinity of Saint Michael’s, Norton Sound.

1874-1877. United States Signal Service, War Department.

. Prof. H. E. Webster. The coast of Virginia.

1875.

. Prof. S. Ff. Baird. Vineyard Sound and Buzzard’s Bay. United

States Fish Commission.

. Alaska Commercial Company. 'The coast and islands of Alaska.
. Paul Schumacher. Oregon and the mainland and islands adjacent

to Santa Barbara. (Ethnology.) 1875-1876. Peabody Museum,
Cambridge, and Indian Bureau, Interior Department.

. Rev. Stephen Bowers. The south coast of California. (Ethnology.)

1875-1877. Indian Bureau, Interior Department.

. J. G. Swan. British Columbia: Vancouver's Island, &c. Indian

Bureau, Interior Department.

. Stephen Powers. Nevada and California. (Ethnology.) Indian

Bureau, Interior Department.

. Dr. J. H. Kidder, U. 8S. N. Transit of Venus Expedition: Kergue-

len Island and other points. Navy Department.

. Dr. LE. Kershner, U. S. N. South Pacific, in the United States

steamer Swatara. Navy Department.

. Hdwin Smith. Chatham Islands. United States Coast Survey and

Navy Department.

. Prof. F. V. Hayden. Colorado, Northern New Mexico, and Hast-

ern Utah. Interior Department.

. Lieut. Geo. M. Wheeler. Colorado and Arizona. War Department.
. Dr. Edward Palmer. Arizona and California. Indian Bureau,

Interior Department.
1876.

. W. A. Mintzer. Arctic America, north of Hudson’s Strait. Navy

Department.

. Dr. W. W. Hays. San Luis Obispo. (Ethnology.)
. Dr. J. F. Bransford. Nicaragua. 1876-1877. (Ethnology.) Navy

Department and Peabody Museum, Cambridge.

. Capt. J. G. Baker. Islands south of California. Treasury Depart-

ment.

. Prof. F. V. Hayden. ‘Nestern Colorado and Eastern Utah. Interior

Department.
8s
114 APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.
1877.

237. Prof. F. V. Hayden. Wyoming, Idaho, and Northern Utah. In-
terior Department.

238. H. W. Nelson. Norton Sound, Alaska. United States Signal Office
and Smithsonian Institution.

239. Prof. D. S. Jordan. Fresh waters of Southern States.

240. Dr. J. F. Bransford, U.S. N. Nicaragua and Costa Rica. Medical
Bureau, Navy Department.

241. Rev. Stephen Bowers. Islands and mainland adjacent to Santa
Barbara, Cal. Maj. J. W. Powell, Interior Department and
Smithsonian Institution.

242. Clark Mills. Indians in Florida. Peabody Museum, Cambridge,

: and Smithsonian Institution. |

243. FH. A. Ober. West India Islands: Dominica, Antigua, Barbadoes,
&e.

244, 8. . Baird. Coast of Massachusetts off Salem, and of Eastern Nova
Scotia. United States Fish Commission.

245. Livingston Stone. Clackamas River, Oregon. United States Fish
Commission.

246. Capt. J. J. Fuller. Kerguelen Island.

247. Maj. A. S. Gaines and K. M. Cunningham. Shell mounds near
Mobile, Ala.

248. G. B. Goode. Bermuda and surrounding waters. Wesleyan Uni-
versity, Middletown, Conn., and Smithsonian Institution.

CLASSIFICATION OF THE ABOVE MENTIONED EXPLORATIONS UNDER
THE DEPARTMENT BY WHICH CONDUCTED.

Smithsonian Institution: carried on directly by or under the supervi-
sion of the Institution, and for the most part wholly or partially at its
expense: 87, 88, 90, 91, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 102, 105, 106, 110, 111, 112,
113, 116, 117, 118, 119, 122, 123, 127, 128, 129, 137, 138, 139, 140, 141, 147,
148, 150, 151, 153, 154, 155, 158, 160, 163, 165, 166, 167, 173, 174, 177, 185,
196, 219, 233, 239, 243, 246.

Smithsonian Institution: less directly under the charge of the Insti-
tution, and not at its expense, but the results communicated to it: 82,
83, 92, 100, 101, 103, 104, 114, 115, 121, 124, 128, 129, 130, 149, 152, 156,
157, 159, 168, 178, 183, 184, 194, 195, 204, 209, 211, 247.

Smithsonian Institution, with the especial aid of the Hudson’s Bay
Company : 84, 85, 86, 107, 109, 125, 131, 132, 133, 134, 135, 136, 161, 170,
186.
Smithsonian Institution and United States Coast Survey: 105, 171,
188, 190, 228.

Smithsonian Institution and Western Union Telegraph Company:
126, 142, 143, 144, 145, 146.

Smithsonian Institution and Kentucky University : 119.

APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 115

Smithsonian Institution and Boston Natural History Society: 44, 113.

Smithsonian Institution and Peabody Museum: 222, 234, 242.

Smithsonian Institution and Wesleyan University, Middletown, Conn :
248.

Smithsonian Institution and Williams College, Williamstown, Mass.:
89, 169.

Smithsonian Institution and Costa Rican Government: 210.

Smithsonian Institution and Government of Yucatan: 120.

Smithsonian Institution and State Department: 108.

State Department: 200, 216, 217.

Navy Department : 197, 199, 226, 227, 228, 232, 234, 240.

Treasury Department: 175, 189, 198, 235.

Interior Department: 93, 176, 180, 182, 191, 193, 202, 213, 214, 229,
236, 237.

Interior Department, Land Office: 162, 172.

Interior Department, U.S. Geological and Geographical Survey of the
Territories, Second Division, J. W. Powell in chGERD: 19

Interior Department, Indian Bureau: 222, 223, 224, 225, 231.

War Department: 81, 181, 201.

War Department, Engineer Bureau: 164, 192, 203, 212, 230.

War Department, Signal Office: 218, 238.

United States Fish Commission: 179, 187, 188, 205, 206, 207, 208, 215,
220, 244, 245.

Alaska Commercial Company: 221.

ALPHABETICAL INDEX TO NAMES OF INDIVIDUALS MEN.
TIONED IN THE PRECEDING LIST.

Current No.

Current No.

A. Bishop: Niue 2 occ. .aeee eee 123
Alaska Commercial Company.... BOSE, Ce eae IES
UGS COYNE eee Oe 9 Bowers, S.....------------------ 223, 241
JNU WS Se es ee eens eee 165 Seep Ji oaeee seo oo air?
ee BL aEOSS;, Wi a-)o=8 sieeles oni see Ooo
Anderson, W W Sh elie ae ee eee ee g Bryan, Ji TT SO Ne ee ee) eee: 46
B. Bryant © ec meceraceee eet see 185
Bryant, H........- eteisis 5 Sides eer 73, 152
Baird, 8. F'.35, 43, 179, 187, 207, 215, 220, 244 | Buckalew, C. R.......---------- 115
Line di Cid oe 2oo.'|) DUCKIES Oa Lip einerin een am ccero-ae 142
iBannistepphian Meeesess secon. os. = 145) Durcony Ave Alea ee co eas aaa eks 159
Balnstony GQeOeessee scceece 2a So. huvehervHe Bese cess .acces cee cee 150
Barry. Aa Cm omens recs cece 42
Bean) le biessaeeeee eae eccscacs 70
Beckwith, Capteeanesesseeses - 5-6 ele @arppolloly cose. << cu ce.c ac eu ace 55, 200
Belknap, Gu Ercecsse eee sewers a LOOP E Canselde CuAtn.. ..cdccce cee case 147
Bendre, OC. . occu see eeeee een as - AUS Camitotd CaS. ccc pas-ce os se cnice 83
erent, EL. cca eeneee ees —— pies) 6 CE Ta 0) a a ee ee 111
enigtidier, To2. ooca-ee s-eeee === = P22] |a( Cee Fc) nD DA ¢ Gaara ae 121
BOSS INS Wisi) 5 -'b els aay ures enna AS F/O: Crider cal 8 (eee 93
INGHGH, Hitoesascesdesssosecaes IAS Or We larke, Wart. e ec ooces ctcciec cco cee 107
116

Current No.

Connolly phleer sesse =e eee 109
Cooper; Ja'Geekch tie seaceeee 29, 74, 81
Cooper) Williams Ses. seca sesee 72
(Chm@las 1D IS) Gaacoc ce todos occas 31
Cones Vet sce: etesace se ence 88, 116, 200
Culbertson; \T)..-2-562 sec cecccee = 10
Cunningham, Ko Mw. -s3c-=-- = 247
Catts, RD 22-2 a. .ctseee aces: 34
D.
Dall Wii dicas seeaeesiceas Sos 1438, 190
Davidson, (Gnseosee eee steswiccs 171
Denison Chasheecsseeteices cic a-< 3
Wevereauss, Wineliseecc ct. + s-- hecis 173
Dodd, PAaStesececccetce sce se See 102
DOW Ve due GOSS og ces eee eee 114
DTrexlenme meses cece cccosscoeee 87
Duthyepb eee sac cess loteccsscose 98
E.
ES CW ARS AV elINia ec weeric/paeerce eee 208
JBMGINR Eby Wieceocdssoanc coabo ac 189, 198
FEIMOLY.,| Welk toe 2) oot eee aera 11
lBWAsE diaseeee cocScoaasecssaaas 6
1Re
Meiners. samsee Sees. cese cece 67, 118
HMigvelme7ys (hao alelceeeeecies 178
Bitzeerald Waeuteesssaeeesinee ace 124
WI Gbts wlan tes2 stows ae eee ee 141
ling Sa 256/35) tot eee ba esa ee 154
Boster; J. W...-s-seec ee erese oe 8
lahMNPAINE, JN WOM 50. c6ges6 eaone 155
Buller d oso cece eae eee one 246
G.
Gabb sewn ee ate eecae snes 195, 210
Goines WAC See cee concer scenes 247
(Crib inl Od seas seaudacd oGcbne 6 131
(Ormain, Why sseaaoric sie ee esas 111
Cin cca tec acceete aac coe eens 80, 91
(Co WNC E Peed Bees AP eee es i 14
OO er Gopbyee ce citemere me sce eeeoee 196, 248
Graham, J. D’...... Econ sais See 11
Grayson AC sacs cece sass 119, 166
Gridiil 5 DRReeSe58 Sao toes Cee ae 50, 137
Gunnisons Capticc-cese s<ce aces 21
RMEIOY, OV. DPQ. cscs cco ciacs <0 2
H.
JeOGAIGy 1B Se a eee Peer nec oeee 153
Jel, (Ch ae eS eee ercrare 197
LONG OMAN tae tos cies eens Se cie 168
Je Genes Esiay, \k/od Viesosccossoeseeee 132

APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Current No.
Hayden, F. V-.-.30, 59, 60, 162, 172, 176, 186,
182, 191, 202, 213, 229, 236, 237

Hays, We Wssscssnaes a eeemtcice 233
Henry; W.cA assis eee eres 99
Herndon, W. Weis sos-e tesserae 15
Hitz, Riots Sasser eee 117
HolderkJwBa.- ose - eee 95
BOWE lies eben copood acco Sones: ai
JeUeG SOM Wolk pensas oe sodd sosehe 158
I.
Ives; J jCtee b> seathlasesameed 58
J.
Jackson) Cw eo sese~ seemcie scissice vi
Johnstons ys elieasece cies eeee eae 53
SOMES, US Saacicse stennie stoeeclecie/sice 133, 186
JORd aa DS ee ciate tees sete 239
K.
Kane), Bi iKe ose2 csite sensaecnsse 17
Kenpicott, Wessee esate siae eres 38, 68, 126
Kershner, Dr’ 2/2222 s2sccscscas 227
Kidders J). Eee = oie oe tee 226
LQon Ceo cCo cond esaccabecos YaobeC 164
Knudseny Visoac sencinss eee eee 157
Kuntz, Jie Dices Wetrias socwate te see 100
ip
IeandervEeeWisecc ssoacieescesesee 62
uatimery Geo; a. fosjaseie Soro- eee Se 129
IGG 04 U6. 1b ba acceso ocean Gsease 54
WockhartiyJeesecseeeseeeces staat 134
M.
M’Clellan, Geo. Brosccss 20 otes 16
MacDougallic. sa. sse ceases cee 170
MacWarlane, Riss-sswsssssassssee 139
IMAKenzie; Ji: -s2ss eseee eyocctanets 86
Miieannan, James coas weetoleel= 79
WEXGTINS dg I casecosescs0000.0055 65
Mactavish, Wicesecece ats as 00 s- 5 125
WERE Mio Wb so5 Sasen6 e555 0656 48
WEMGNG Lit icsessqsasoAbegs osucKC 16, 39
Wier}, W/o BUs5a9 scisocoudageecy 122
Mich] or yNpeeri1etantoseio' sclera 52
IW TIDER (Cas 58 SSO RS aapeeeeeooecos ac 242
IMblnervobmWineco-s.-2<2ceseeeees 206
yaya, Jy ARs peemeorsoeaococoad 163
IMMA \WinveGateeeeeanenceceacoc 232
folly d! eeasgenseese asecoo dos 63
N.
INI 1 Uioesedo lscicto seo oee 238

APPENDIX TO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Current No.

O.
Ober Py A v.2ces tiecee eae eeers 243
Onto Wess. os sec eee nes. 169
Owen OS Dy. nc.-casincisceeneosae 4

P;
a ckond), A‘. Ques sme tects sain ana 188
RACs Ds, Dace casgacccoceseienios 33, 49
Palmer; Wi Steceieceansen sn cos 148, 174, 231
Rake dey Geceanee secs sessions 23
Berry Me © eerie eserssieaciascicc =< 26
(Bike MN ese eeae ete wiaciniecoa aia aia =~ 216
MG TP snec coc a5 Soo ce oEES “Seae5 211
IEC) 5 Se Be OR BSOL GHSOC ECC COICO NID LU
IROWTEMll, IS) caso coboe ooep Sooeseseas 209
Pom, Gs WiSeeccdedseadesuces So) iene
IO WETS See tecictg or pan siete ia sitiniaieeinie 2290

R.
IRE ADOIOS MiMG 18 aed We Sopsesecee 64
INGO id) cegacepcmecne eaeeeC meres 135
Rhodes Si vWssc220 ceacice ssacrclee © 156

FY Cp! eas ee a 177

IMMER CAS ene Soon odeu EQUUOEe 18
TRIO. (Oh ine Spot ae BeEesebo moae 110
Rodeers, JOhM 22-2 cms esca= = 18
HOSS bs itescni< = sic sots- esis’ 84, 161
Rothrock Jelly ee serene- ss= 5 S22 146
S.
St; Charles College. -- 2... ....-- 78
Sia hoseooogakeoo BAeoOg anor 44
SI oppure reyatete nasi nelelelotelaizie) \s\cieiaie 194
Sera, © -scosccouss cava csadee 112

Scammon, C. M.....-

DCHOti PAN eyes omietea~ aS ssiatie siecle 120
Schumacher, BP ..5..-.<.c.52525 5 222
Si bestons Iles a. oceanic eters aoe 136
Shida oO ly U5 l8lAGcare Somer ea nocone 61
DIUOTCAVOS Me ais ciaemic cinta /ain-i> 5,12
SHATG RE estos a teysis ie inloerecnia.ci> Syeicie 228
PS) ELUILS}Tif C5 Ue \ eee a ee 138
Stanley Oe eee e cnc c sls 201
Stansburyspiiessneaeeee cs costes 13
Steinberger, At Biss ..255.)..2..< 217

SHOMGINH nl Le Seo AS ee eS 19

117

Current No.

Stimpson; Weemece sees sees se cons 9,90
Stone, Cs Batre eerste 82
Stone; ‘Ei. cssee coe eee eee ae Aly
Suckley;, Geo. steececeaacee eee 28,71
Sumichrast;.E--<.sen-se seer ¥. 113
Swany. Gr. coe aoe cee renee 94, 224
Siygiftes ys sos kee eee 128
als
Pe OMaS Crp lls nce ence cteee eee 45
Mlolmany Jian iWeoses sa. semeceeeeeee 69
AUTISULAIO Hp lsje nso cee en see 130
AMONMDEIES, Wig JP aaceeocsoco sec 40
MVOATNET Ayes scenic sini sinise oe eleva sare 213
We
Wan Patten: Drieseu. tosses ste 167
Vain osha AVP Se a cers Se yesieccerst 36
W.
Warren t Go IGes isa. sccm s- seiesels 47, 56
Webster, Hi Hit 2.2.02 cctcs. ae 219
Vieni Vie se soeaceensocaoacsos 149
Wiheeler.G oN es ssc or 192, 203, 212, 230
Wihipples:Captessss-sce5--sss== 22
ANAT ONESW AS Seeeboboosaosocodec 77
\eniinaeh A dod Daseecoseos ace cseccs 8
Wlkest* Chase 28? savceosacecss os 1
Williams: Collese cs. -s2s. esse 89
Nvallliomisoany vx. Wunsjo— selec se 20, 25
Wallis pene So) cjs pac ete 103
Wanton} Wie Giccos. cosaes esses 104
Woodbury.) bie secsocetee aes 76
Wroodnutt ry Cosscmeeeceeeseccets 5
Woodworth ran Mtcmase ieee 97
Waren, O eosusonecassasasco esac 96
Wigekeaoi Jeb CSeeseqcacoce scccaus 75
Wiardemann) Gere .)sssatecesenteeee 41
xX.
DEMME A yaaso7 conves GooKco e805 51, 66, 108
MG
Varrowi les@ ce eeee ts cece yecee 184
Noun clove peace bres seclssess eee 1ol
Z.
ASlEAOM Oe reece see siento: ssiseae 155
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

The Executive Committee of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian
Institution respectfully submit the following report in relation to the
funds of the Institution, the appropriations by Congress for the support
of the National Museum, the receipts and expenditures for both the
Institution and the Museum for the year 1877, and the estimates for the
year 1878.

Statement of the condition of the funds at the beginning of the year 1878.

The amount originally received as the bequest of James

Smithson, of England, deposited in the Treasury of the

United States, in accordance with the act of Congress of

ATISUSt AO. SABC cetcces iene Cals saree ecient $515, 169 00
Nesiduary ana of Smithson, received in 1865, deposited

in the Treasury of the United States, in accordance with

the act of Congress of February 8, 1867..............-. 26, 210 63

Total bequest of (Smithson ye eecet tecteto eset er $541, 379 63
Amount deposited in the Treasury of the United States as
authorized by act of Congress, February 8, 1867, derived
from savings of income and increase in value of invest-

HIG AAR ASG Saeaye oy nO bc oreb A Sao eA ode oe poe 108, 620 37
Amount of the bequest of James Hamilton, of Carlisle, Pa.,
February 24, 9804.25)..2 Seusishtseets peeicice s ectars Satoe e matelas 1,000 00

Total permanent Smithson fund in the United States

Treasury, bearing interest at 6 per cent., payable
semi-annually in S0lW oo 5. seem ices os ona $651, 000 00

In addition to the above, there remains of the extra fund,

from savings, &c., in Virgiaia bonds and certificates, viz:

Consolidated bonds .... ..-- eters at $58, 700 00
Deferred certificates’... 2. ae ssa 29,375 O7
Fractional] certificate ......... Seer tee aie 50 13
Dotale <cae dec.) ce eee eee 88,125 20
Walned- January, 1878, at... (omer meme ese sce 34, 562 00
Also, the cash balance deposited in the United States
Treasury, at the beginning of the year 1878.........- 25, 083 90
Total Smithson funds, January 6, 1878........--.. $710, 645 90

118
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.
RECEIPTS IN 1877.

Interest on $650,000, for the year 1877, at 6 per cent., gold..
Premium on gold interest :

June, 30) 1ST Oro yee a cincey. UM el OE age $1,035 94
January 6, 1878, @ 211........ JABS CSRERE 524 06

1,560 00
Less broker’s commission. ......<.----+-0-- 48 74

Interest on Virginia bonds:

Sale of coupons by Riggs & Co., for January 1 and
July 1, 1877, for $3,522, November 26, 1877, @ 82-
Interest on Hamilton fund of $1,000:

HIOEAUMC) CALLS). oa Sera et own ie fel -yernisiejave.s, Se $60 00
Premium on gold, less brokerage......-... 2 32

Repayment by National Museum:

For advances made by Smithsonian Institution in
1875~76, for International Exhibition, &c..........

Notal receipts forthe year 18M... s~.<i25 + ssccaccee

EXPENDITURES IN 1877.

Building, furniture and fixtures.............. $4, 050 66
BOHRA OXMCH SES ear ovat elec cles ele eae te aie esas 16, 052 64
Publications, researches and explorations. ..... 12,946 81
International literary and scientific exchanges. 9,790 73
Crallorya Ghana craters ab51 ciclo ores o's op patejanwiare)aisioxe < tT, 710783
AMON MINISOUMA ps seers ee hes ee cs. Soca oe ne 491 23
Balance unexpended of the income for 1877..............
Balance at the beginning of the year 1877.............-.
Cash balance, January 6,1878........-......- 0.0.

113

$39, 000 00

5,548 28

$49, 007 62

44,952 90

4,054.72
21,029 18

25,083 90
120 REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE,

HAMILTON BEQUEST.

Received from James Hamilton, February 24, 1874, and

deposited in the United States Treasury.......--.---- $1,000 00
Interest received from February 24, 1874 to December 31,
U STG ch ce ee eee orca rer ets fey str ino ever 2 eetete 183 85
Interest received from January 1 to June
30; UST: 2 Apacs ae oiels streets $30 00
Premium, 537..--...--+--.+-+-------- 1 59
31 59
Less commission ..... Rites cid ie Ron eer 04
—_——._ $31 55
Interest received from July 1 to Decem-
lei be a) Gael Lol (aR ee ORCAS ORE erie 30 00
Premium, 241 ...... 2.2.20 - sen ene ee aee 81
30 81
ese eeCOMMNSSON 5.2/2 ./s)ere clea ani Brion 04
—_—— 3077
—_- 62 32
Total income received to December 31,1877 ........ pee 5 246 17
Appropriated in 1876, for exploration of cave near Car-
TSS es We SRS Sos ebcia nb sa come Omridinerne stu os 58! 150 00
Balance on hand: January-1, 1818 12-2 oe. =e ore 9617
Statement of expenditures in 1877, in detail.
BUILDING.
Repairs and improvements. ...2.2- 3.0 2--.--- $2,325 46
Fire-proofing apartments for collections ....... 1,343 34
Furniture and fixtures ..........-- ego we AS ens 361 86
— $4,030 66
GENERAL EXPENSES.
Moetmes of tli¢ board vs ....'2 eee acess $197 50
1110) 1) 5110 > Se a Ree Pe IRIE Ao no ri : 238 09
BMA UDN Sate ea nye oo in eye's aie oi aia a3 aoe ee 1,029 10
BORA OGsS oc erin 2 onl w ws ones pee ead 162 31
SS UATIOM OLY oo So) s eo) eiew, 8,6 aie ore sisi 5 5.5 a Teer 286 16
Incidentals, ice, insurance, Ge....22 252 222. 560 60
Pee MINES aren ie cola one cuefeleieisie aac = los a ee 11,780 00
Waborand extra clerk hire <........--. senses = 1,382 11
Books and periodicals. <i 2c 5 -'=-1- <0. <a eee 416 77

—— $16,052 64

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 121

PUBLICATIONS, RESEARCHES.

Smithsonian Contributions ............ eae oe $6, 412 46
Miscellaneous collections .......--......-...- 2,205 81
MUNI MEREOLU! slc’ss cites sistas cies c es s/s ang barateie 994 09
Meteorology and researches ............-..... 985 43
RP MMCNECUDUC) im = le) a olalatal ola latetcle slates aime \-'= = Beier ae 1,406 14
WA WORACOLY -.(.2 ceenis soo) Cae ae nee 63 38
BES OT ALLOMS ies cleneets a alet= aleve s(cisie se 2s 2 <4) <'s 879 50
12,946 81
Literary and scientific international exchanges.....-...... 9,790 73
Gallery of art..... Oe UAB eng ors Bio Nera tela ee taliatisiet 1,710 83
HAM SOMiMNseLte). [acta yeseatita od id bale ersle wiles Need idid ea 421 23
eye aya asia FS) VRS oh fos Rtans a atoaken she =. a3 <etsrere hays © $44, 952 90
REPAYMENTS.

The Institution, as heretofore, has made temporary advances during
the year for the payment of freight on government collections, &e., the
repayment of which, together with the amount received from sales of
publications of the Institution, have been deducted from the several
items of expenditure for the year, as follows, viz:

From exchanges, repayments for freight ........-.-..-...- $459 65

Bron. postage re payMents\. .,2 js s/-sjs pa diutea oda sede e hes 7 42

Krompubheations, Saless..5./s1<\.)s,44ie ds. adid seen bb dps Sete 484 30

I'rom National Museum, repayments.....-.--... etre eee 427 34

From-eleetrotypes of wood-cuts - 2-25.45. sei sics<h bec ne ee be 87 50

alleges See tye 40ers Gen ziols Ha Ah eS. bc srce'se eis aoe sis0 BL, 446. 21
ESTIMATES.

The following are the estimates of receipts and appropriations for the
year 1878:
Estimated receipts.

Interest on the permanent fund receivable July 1, 1878, and

CaM LM OVO ANC ON <2 651s CoS eee ee sca Cosco san $39, 000 00
Interest on the Hamilton fund for the oe, 187 3, in gold-. 60 00
Probable premium on gold, 2 per cent...............00-- 781 20
Sale of Virginia coupons due January 1, 1878, and July 1,

USTS-2 «cae PDS BIR BE A ee OND 9 ON So 2,5€0 00

$42, 341 20
122 REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

Provisional appropriations.

Bor buildin gy: 4% ee AA em Oe ee eee $2, 000 00
Bor general Expenses... sacs eee. aol sce Ce eee 15, 000 00
For publicationsand researches? 2--.2.2...-..56 s2tsee ae 15, 000 00
Hor exchanges sek... seein earn ce Acree ce ate 9,000 00
For books and apparatus ..-.... MEAS AAT ee oes cee aes iwetee 1,000 00
For contingencies .-..-... Pee 4.5 a me epic san: ssic mere 341 20

$42, 341 20
NATIONAL MUSEUM.

The government collections of specimens of natural history, ethnology
geology, &c., continue in charge of the Smithsonian Institution, and
Congress has made the necessary appropriations for their care and
preservation, and for defraying the expense of packing, moving, and
storing the articles received at the close of the International Exhibition
in Philadelphia. The advances made by the Institution in previous
years for the construction of a laboratory of natural history, required
for the preparation of new specimens for the Centennial, have also been
refunded.

The following is a statement of the National Museum appropriations
for 1877 and 1878, and the balances at the beginning of the year 1878:

The appropriation by Congress for the care and preservation of the
collections for the fiscal year erding June 30, 1877, was $10,000. Of
this amount $5,090.86 were expended up to December 31, 1876, and the
balance of $4,909.14 has been expended during the six months ending
June 30, 1877.

For repairing and fitting up the ‘“ Armory Building,” and storing the
specimens received from the International Exhibition, an appropria-
tion was made by Congress of $4,500, of which $3,916.23 were expended
in the six months ending December 31, 1876, and the balance of $583.77
has been expended during the first six months of 1877.

APPROPRIATIONS BY CONGRESS FOR NATIONAL MUSEUM IN 1877.
Preservation of collections, Smithsonian Institution, 1878.

‘‘ For preservation and care of the collections of the National

MITRE SSSA ee MaRR AS 8 Sea CHES eS eS $18, 000 00
“For expenses of making up into sets for distribution to col-

leges and academies, the duplicate ores, minerals, and
_ objects of natural history now belonging to the United

States, or in the collections of the International Exposi-

tion presented toit by foreign governments.” Act March

3, 1877. (Digest of Appropriations, 1878, page 86.) .... 5, 000 00

$23, 000 00
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 123
Preservation of collections, Smithsonian Institution, Armory Building, 1878.

“For fitting up the Armory Building for storage of articles
belonging to the United States, including those trans-
ferred from the International Exhibition, and expense of
PLEIN: (NO SAMO eetete ccclo sistelsnr 3 riers hs ces cesta eee TRS 5300 00

National Museum, Smithsonian Institution.

“For the National Museum in charge of the Smithsonian
Institution, for restoring to their proper place in the
National Museum cases removed to the International
Exhibition, and rearranging the collections, and for ex-
penses and preservation of the collections, and for receiv-
ing, packing, and transporting the objects presented to
the United States at the Centennial by State and foreign
governments, and for properly storing and preserving
them until a proper disposition can be made of the same.”
Act March 3, 1877. (Digest of Appropriations, 1878, page
cS LTS)) nas Sa is Sala ay a nae at at ie AA SiG SPR $25, 000 00

The total receipts of the Museum for the year 1877 have therefore
been—
Preservation account, for fiscal year ending June 30, 1877

(Nar ERT aN RAR De 2 Oe SLs 82 eT ee ree eran a $4, 909 14
Armory account, Ao fiscal year ending June 30, 1877 (bal-

ONE Pe elo ies Mets ah sa aiaby a celainl wes sila) Sis einiais = -10°=/s'¢ 583 77
Preservation account, for fiscal year ending June 30,1878. 25,000 00
Armory account, for fiscal year ending June 30, 1878...-. 2,500 00
National Museum (return of Centennial collections, &c.),

fortiseal yeat ending dune a0) 18718 — << 5 oa wan, 0e ons 25, 000 00

$55, 992 91
Expended during six months ending June 30, 1877:

ETESCEVAUION ss 5522-5 «/ _--- $4,909 14

FA TINOBY/ |< Sorcee wows © cieista's eee : 583 77
— $5, 492 91

Expended during six months ending Decem-

ber 31, 1877:

RES ESODMUUNOH) 410 ac icre.co.ce sci. eerie $11, 676 79
SEN HOD ate ae sna. 2 ws a= a.c.s ai sreretertt oss 1,011 75
ONanOnaL WEISCHM” 5-26. <tam ose ieee 22,959 10

$41, 140 55

Balance January 8, 1878, to the credit of the Museum, to
defray expenses of the vollectiane for the six x months end:
mOVS UNE SOP USS 2a no dsl - Beit SOR eee $14, 852 36

124 REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

All the payments on account of the National Museum have been made
directly by the disbursing-officer of the Department of the Interior, on
the presentation of vouchers approved by the Secretary of the Smith-

sonian Institution.
SUMMARY.

The Executive Committee have examined six hundred and seventy-
six vouchers for payments made from the Smithson income during the
year 1877, and six hundred and eight vouchers for payments made from
appropriations by Congress for the National Museum, making a total of
1,284 vouchers. All of these vouchers have the approval of the Secre-
tary of the Institution and the certificate that the materials and ser-
vices charged were applied to the purposes of the Institution.

The Committee have also examined the account-books of the National
Museum, and find the balance, as before stated, of $14,852.36 to corre-
spond with the certificates of the disbursing-oflicer of the Department of
the Interior.

The quarterly accounts-current, bank-book, check-book, and journal
have all been examined and found to be correct, and to show a balance
to the credit of the Institution on the 6th of January, 1878, in charge
of the Treasurer of the United States of $25,083.90, to be appropriated
to the current operations of the Institution.

Respectfully submitted.
PETER PARKER,

JOHN MACLEAN,
GEO. BANCROFT,
Executive Committee of the Smithsonian Institution.

WASHINGTON, January 22, 1878.
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

WASHINGTON, D. C., January 16, 1878.
In accordance with a resolution of the Board of Regents of the Smith-
sonian Institution fixing the time of the beginning of the annual session
on the third Wednesday of January in each year, the Board met this
day, but a quorum not being present it adjourned to meet on Wednesday,
January 23, at 7 o’clock p. m.

WASHINGTON, D. C., January 23, 1878.

A meeting of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution was
held this day at 7 o’clock p. m., in the office of the Secretary.

Present, Chief- Justice Waite, Chancellor of the Institution; Hon. Wil-
liam A. Wheeler, Vice-President of the United States; Hon. h. H. Withers,
Hon. Hiester Clymer, Hon. James A. Garfield, Rev. Dr. John Maclean,
Prof. Asa Gray, Prof. Henry Coppée, Hon. Peter Parker, and the Secre-
tary.

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved.

Excuses for non-attendance were received from Messrs Hamlin, Sar-
gent, Bancroft, and Stephens.

The Secretary stated that on the 1st of November, 1877, the Vice-
President appointed Hon. R. E. Withers, of Virginia, as a member of
the Board of Regents, in place of Hon. J. W. Stevenson, of Kentucky,
whose term of service as Senator had expired. He also stated that the
Speaker of the House of Representatives, on the 14th January, 1878,
had appointed the following Regents: Hon. Hiester Clymer, of Pennsyl-
ania; Hon. Alexander H. Stephens, of Georgia; Hon. James A. Garfield,
of Ohio. He also laid before the Board a letter from Prof. James D.
Dana, resigning his membership in the Board, on account of continued
ill health, and stated that a joint resolution had just passed both houses
of Congress electing President Noah Porter, of Yale College, Connec-
ticut, to fill the vacancy.

Professor Henry presented a general exhibit of the condition of the
Smithson fund and a detailed statement of the receipts and expenditures
for the year 1877. He stated that to save time these statements and
all the accounts of the Institution had been referred by him to the
Executive Committee.

The subject of the Virginia bonds held by the Institution and the

propriety of disposing of them was considered, the Secretary having
125
126 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

called attention to the fact that their present value was about $7,000 less
than at the last meeting of the Board.

Mr. Withers was of the opinion that the temporary depression was
due to fears of improper legislation by the State, and he could not pre-
dict what course would be pursued, but he believed it injudicious for the
Institution to part with these funds at present.

The Chancellor and the other Regents concurred in this opinion.

Dr. Parker, from the Executive Committee, presented the following
report relative to the portrait of the Secretary, ordered by the Board at

its last annual session :
REPORT.

The Executive Committee, which were authorized and requested to have
a life-size portrait of the Secretary of the Institution painted by some
competent artist, report that after a full inquiry for the best artist, the
chairman of the committee visiting New York solely for the purpose,
consulting men acquainted with, and judges of, the artists of the city, and
visiting the studios of some of the most distinguished portrait-painters
and examining their works, their choice was between Daniel Huntington
and Thomas LeClear, esqs.

Mr. Huntington, who had painted Professor Henry when a younger
man, would have been happy to paint him again in the maturity of his
years, but his health was delicate and he was averse to leaving home.
Mr. LeClear could come to Washington and paint the portrait at once,
The prices were essentially the same with both artists.

Mr. LeClear was decided upon, and he agreed “ to paint a three-quarter
length life-size, the canvas to be three feet by two feet nine inches, head
and two hands, for $1,500, the same to be painted in the best style pos-
sible to him.”

Mr. Huntington, on learning the decision of the Executive Committee,
wrote: “I congratulate you on your choice of my esteemed friend, Mr.
Thomas LeClear, to paint the portrait, which will insure you a work of
rare artistic merit.”

The committee have now the pleasure of presenting the Board of Re-
gents the portrait of Professor Henry, the result of their endeavor to
discharge the delicate duty devolved upon them.

PETER PARKER,
GEO. BANCROFT,
JOHN MACLEAN,
Executive Committee.
JANUARY 22, 1878.

On motion of Mr. Withers, the report of the committee was received
and ordered to lie upon the table for the present.

Dr. Parker presented the annual report of the Executive Committee,
signed by himself, Dr. Maclean, and Mr. Bancroft, relative to the re-
ceipts, expenditures, estimates, &c.
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS. 1a

On motion of Professor Coppée, the report was adopted.

The Secretary stated that the ‘Memorial of the Board of Regents,”
relative to the new building for the National Museum, had been presented
to Congress, and that a bill in accordance with it had passed the Senate,
without objection, but it had been presented so late in the session that
favorable action could not be obtained in the House of Representatives.
A renewed effort would be made this session to accomplish the desired
object. Several of the Regents expressed the opinion that the bill would
be passed at an early day.

The Secretary presented to the Board a miniature likeness of James
Smithson, founder of the Institution, and also one of Col. Henry Dick-
inson, his half brother, which had been purchased from Mons. dela Batut,
of Belz, France, a half brother of the nephew of Smithson, who parted
with them on account of pecuniary need and his desire that the Insti-
tution should possess them. Mr.dela Batut had also presented to the
Institution a numober of notes addressed to Smithson by Oersted, Arago,
Biot, Tennant, Klaproth, and other distinguished scientific men of his
time, showing his intimate association with them; also a draught, in
Smithson’s handwriting, of his will, differing in one very slight particular
from the will as presented to the United States by the English Court.

Professor Henry gave an account of what had been received of the
personal effects of Smithson, and stated that nearly all these had been
destroyed in the fire at the Institution in 1865. He advised the repub-
lication, in a suitable form, of all the scientific papers of Smithson.

On motion of Dr. Maclean it was—

esolved, That the Secretary be requested to have a memoir of James
Smithson prepared and published, to include all his scientific papers
now accessible. |

On motion of Dr. Coppée it was—

Resolved, That the Secretary prepare and publish a history of the
origin and progress of the Institution.

On motion of Dr. Coppée the Board adjourned to meet on Saturday,
26th instant, at 7 o’clock p. m.

JANUARY 26, 1878.

A meeting of the Board of Regents was held this day at 7 p. m., in
the office of the Secretary.

Present, Chief-Justice Waite, Chancellor; Hon. R. E. Withers, Hon.
James A. Garfield, Hon. George Bancroft, Hon Peter Parker, Dr. Asa
Gray, Dr. Henry Coppée, and Professor Henry, Secretary.

Excuses for non-attendance were received from Messrs. Wheeler, Ham-
lin, Sargent, Stephens, Clymer, Maclean, and Porter.

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved.

Professor Henry presented his annual report of the operations of the
Institution for the year 1877, which was read in full.

On motion of Hon. James A. Garfield the report was accepted, and
the Secretary directed to transmit it to Congress.
128 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

The report of the Executive Committee, relative to the portrait of the
Secretary, laid over at last meeting, was considered.

On wotion of Dr. Gray it was—

Resolved, That the Regents accept from the Executive Committee the
portrait of the Secretary, procured in fulfillment of the resolution of the
Board of February 5, 1877, and present their thanks to the committee
for the satisfactory manner in which this duty bas been accomplished.

The Board then adjourned to meet at the call of the Secretary.
GENERAL APPENDIX

TO THE

SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1877.

The object of this appendix is to illustrate the operations of the Institution by
reports of lectures and extracts from correspondence, as well as to farnish information
of a character suited especially to the observers and other persons interested in the
promotion of knowledge.

129
9s
COLOR-BLINDNESS IN ITS RELATION TO ACCIDENTS BY RAIL
AND SEA.

By F. HOLMGREN,
Professor of Physiology at the University of Upsal.

[Translated for the Smithsonian Institution by M. L. Duncan. ]*

INTRODUCTION.

In several preceding memoirs I have treated the subject of color-blind-
ness from the theoretical side of this singular phenomenon. But it has,
likewise, a practical side of vast importance; for not only does this de-
fect of vision every day give rise to inconveniences in the various depart-
ments of the sciences, arts, and industries, but itis also the cause of most
disastrous accidents by rail and by sea. Public attention has been
attracted to this side of the question by scientific works or by accidents,
and to judge from certain facts reported in books and newspapers, there
now seems to prevail a more general conviction of the necessity of making
the sense of color amongst seamen and railway employés an object of
official scrutiny and control in order to guard against this hidden danger,
to which too little attention has been given. Our times are probably
ripe for such a reform, and there is only wanting, it seems, for its imme-
diate and general adoption, a practical method, a well-arranged plan,
and initiatory energy. It is to supply these deficiencies that we have
undertaken and published these pages.

To Sweden belongs the honor of having taken the initiative in this
reform, and in such a manner as to exercise a full control over the sense
of color on all our railways. This reform was promptly matured, and
introduced in a not less rapid, sure, and systematic manner, which un-
doubtedly proves the advantages of the method, plan, and principles
which were followed.

A knowledge of the method of investigation and of the principles
relating toit has been so far disseminated merely by oral exposition and
application before the physicians and railway employés in the Amphi-
theatre of Physiology of Upsal, during the latter part of the year 1876.
Consequently, what is remarkable with regard to the subject is that the
entire reform was established in Sweden before any rules or principles
were printed. One of the most important causes of this fact is found
in the conviction felt from the first of the advantages of speech over
writing in such matters. The other reason is that our results were ob-
tained with unexpected rapidity, and that the time devoted to it pre-

* This article has been necessarily somewhat abridged from the French translation:
De la Cécité des Couleurs, dans ses rapports avec les Chemins-de-fer et la Marine, par
F. Holmgren. Traduit du suédors avec l’autorisation de auteur. Stockholm. 8 vo.

pp. 144. [1877.]
131
32 COLOR-BLINDNESS IN ITS RELATION TO

vented us from publishing this work before the reform was introduced.
If this fact should render the publication of these labors less indispen-
sable for the time being, we must not forget the importance and neces-
sity of directions which will serve in the future for our own railways, as
well as for the introduction of a similar reform elsewhere.

The importance of uniformity in the method of examination, in the
classification, and in the principles relating to the disposal of the per-
sonnel, cannot be too highly estimated, for this is of consequence, not
only to science, and especially to statistics, but also to a purely practical
eud. This fact becomes the more forcible when connected with the in-
vestigation of the sense of color among seamen; for every reform of this
kind within tke province of navigation naturally assumes an interna-
tional character. Our classification as well as our method of examining
the color-blind is founded upon the Young-Helmholtz theory, and we
cannot refrain from enumerating here the principal elements. This
theory is assuredly not the only one, nor even the last that has been
given to the public and gained partisans; but it is, in our opinion, the
best for the end in view, and it will be seen that it essentially responds,
as far as regards practical interest, to all that we have a right to require
of atheory. We have no intention of attempting to establish its correct-
ness. We make use of it for a definite purpose, under the conviction
that itis a needful basis for the systematic and accurate solution of
some of the practical questions under consideration.

In brief, the object of this work is to give a practical and clear idea
of the nature of color-blindness, of its importance to marine and railway
service, and, finally, a concise summary of the principles to be followed
and the measures to be taken in order to secure immunity from its peca-
liar dangers. The reason why we confine ourselves almost exclusively
to railways here is that the reform in view has already been introduced
into this department, and a valuable experience acquired. And it is
clear that these results may equally well be applied to navigation, at
least in all essentials.

Color-blindness in many other departments of practical life also leads
to serious inconveniences, and as it is desirable that an examination of
the chromatic sense be undertaken on a large scale in schools, as a guide
in the choice of professions, we hope this memoir may serve in a meas-
ure to this end. We should, moreover, be very happy to have the
opportunity (so rarely accorded to physiology) of being useful to haman-
ity, without the intervention of practical medicine.

I.— HISTORICAL SKETCH.

Color-blindness has been known for a long time, and, therefore, has
its history. The first cases known to the public are mentioned in a let-
ter from Joseph Huddart* to Joseph Priestley, dated January 15, 1777,

* An Account of persons who could not distinguish colors. By Mr. Joseph Huddart,

in a letter to the Rey. Joseph Priestley, L.L.D., F.R.S. Philosophical Transactions of
the Royal Society of London. Vol. Ixvii. For the year 1777, part i, p. 260.
x

ACCIDENTS BY RAIL AND SEA. 13a

just one hundred years ago. The cases in point were those of a shoe-
maker, named Harris, of Mary-port, in Cumberland, and his brother,
master of a merchant-vessel, belonging to the same port. Although the
description is very brief, several features, which at a later date charac-
terized complete color-blindness, are recognized, and especially in the
latter case the type of blindness known at present under the name of
red-blindness.

The first case of color-blindness accurately described, known to us, is
that of John Dalton, the celebrated English chemist and physicist.
Unable to distinguish red, he studied this defect of nature in himself,
and published in 1794 a detailed and accurate description of it.* It is
after him that color-blindness received the name of Daltonism, an ap-
pellation which appears to have been employed for the first time by
Pierre Prévost, at Geneva, in 1827, and was, therefore, in use during the
life of Dalton, who did not die until 1844. It is not known whether
Dalton was aware of this appellation, but, however that may be, he
probably would not have objected to this use of his name, for according
to George Wilson he was more amused than annoyed by his defect, he
himself enjoying the amusement he afforded others by his mistakes
in colors. His countrymen have, however, warmly protested against
this manner of immortalizing the memory of Dalton by perpetuating a
congenital defect, especially as his scientific merits are sufficient to ren-
der his name imperishable. But notwithstanding these protestations,
and the universal use in England of the name of color-blindness, which
was first introduced by Sir David Brewster, and is now in general use in
Germany (farbeblindheit), the terms Daltonisme and Daltonien are still
in common use in France.

Dalton also cites a number of instances of color-blindness, similar to
his own, and later a host of others are mentioned by different authors;
but, on the whole, these are isolated cases accidentally encountered, and
considered as curiosities, and their most striking features described and
discussed, but with no knowledge of how to reduce them to fixed laws.
For this purpose, three things were especially wanting: a practical
method of investigation, a large material for the purpose, and a satis-
factory theory for direction in the employment of this material.

Seebeck was the first to interest himself especially in systematically
collecting a number of cases relatively very large, and in comparing
them with each other. In 1837 he made a strict examination of the
students of one class in a school in Berlin, and gave a detailed account
of twelve cases of complete color-blindness examined by himself, and of
one mentioned by his father, as well as a few other instances more or
less color-blind, which form the transition between complete color-blind-
ness and the normal chromatic sense. Seebeck understood the uncer-

* Extraordinary facts relating to the vision of colors: with observations by Mr. John
Dalton, read October 31st, 1794. Memoirs of the Literary and Philosophical Society
of Manchester. Vol. v, part i (1798), p. 28.
134 COLOR-BLINDNESS IN ITS RELATION TO

tainty and inadmissibility of attempting to discover the nature of this
blindness by simply interrogating the color-blind as to the names of the
colored objects; he was careful to note what mistakes they made in
comparing the colors, or, in other words, he ascertained between what
colors, different to the normal eye, they found resemblances. Follow-
ing up this principle, he proceeded methodically to examine individuals ;
he invited them to arrange, in the order of their resemblances to each
other, a number of colored objects, which in the beginning were in confu-
sion. He used principally paper, about three hundred pieces of differ-
ent colors, not, however, rejecting other materials, especially pieces of
colored glass. He objected to silk on account of its brilliancy, but ree-
ommended wool, although he does not appear himself to have preferred
to use it. Itis not clear from Seebeck’s writings whether, after each
examination, he preserved the order in which these pieces of paper were
arranged by the color-blind; but it is certain he compared the manner
of arranging them in different cases, and drew his own conclusions.
By this comparison, Seebeck succeeded in pointing out two classes of
specifically distinct color-blindness. Of the thirteen cases he examined,
eight belonged to the first and five to the second class. Moreover, he
shows that in the two classes there is a great variety of degrees of color-
blindness, and seeks further to prove the probable existence in the two
classes of a gradual transition to the normal sense of color.

But Seebeck and his contemporaries, like their predecessors, could not
discover a satisfactory explanation of the defect in question, or practi-
cally see its relation to the normal sense of color. This is easily ex-
plained by the fact that at this time there was not the least plausible
system of a physiological doctrine of colors. Indeed, as early as the
beginning of our cenvury, a useful and satisfactory theory had been
devised by Thomas Youug, but it had been neglected or forgotten, as were
many of the other ideas of this extraordinary man, who was far in
advance of his age, and consequently not understood. The theory of the
three primitive colors, or fundamental perceptions, of Young, was rescued
from oblivion by Helmholtz about the year 1850, and also later, but inde-
pendently, by Maxwell. This theory has undoubtedly already exerted a
very happy influence over the physiological doctrine of colors in general,
as well as over thatof the anomaly in chromatic perception. In designat-
ing this theory by the names of both scientists, we thereby simply ren-
der justice to the merit which accrues to Helmholtz for having revived
and applied it. Owing to this theory, the question of the nature of color-
blindness has been of late the object of strong and growing interest. The
number of cases, and also of treatises on the subject, have increased very
considerably, and the study, undertaken by physiologists as well as by
ophthalmological practitioners, has not been confined to congenital color-
blindness and its different forms, but has also extended with much
earnestness over pathological diagnostics. It is only about ten years
since that a new theory, that of four cardinal colors, succeeded in making
ACCIDENTS BY RAIL AND SEA. 135

many partisans. But when will it be in a condition to meet the exigen-
cies of the physiological doctrine of colors in a more satisfactory manner
than the Young-Helmholtz theory? Thisis yet unknown. With regard
to the defect now occupying our attention, it seems very doubtful, to
judge by the trials that have been made, whether this theory would better |
meet practical necessities than that of the three cardinal colors. And
it is precisely these practical requirements that have led us to mention
the theory here

Up to the present time, the theoretical problem of color-blindness
has undoubtedly been the object of more serious attention, and has been
richer in results than the practical. Now, as the latter is nevertheless
of singular importance, and the difficulties to be encountered to solve it
in a satisfactory manner seem, in many respects, of only secondary
importance, it is not easy, in reality, at the first approach, to find a suit-
able explanation. It will not, therefore, be uninteresting, we believe, to
cast a rapid glance over this side of the question from a historical
point of view, which will, in the first place, bring out the fact of which
we speak, and perhaps also contribute to bring to light the point at
which it is necessary to look for the cause of this state of things. The
first writer who seriously occupied himself with the investigation of
color-blindness in the various departments of practical life, and especially
drew attention to the possible accidents occasioned by the employment
of color-blind individuals on railways and at sea, and generally in all
operations where colored signals are used, was George Wilson, professor
of technology at the University of Edinburgh.* Wilson’s researches.
were purely practical in aim and end. The mistakes made by the
students of his laboratory in judging the colors of chemical precipitates
led him to reflect upon this subject, after reading the memoir in
which Dalton describes his own anomaly. Tor a long time, he tells
us he scarcely dared suspect any of his pupils of having so rare an‘in-
firmity, but, like many after him, he took courage, proceeded to make
an examination, and found that not only were his suspicions perfectly
correct, but that color-blinduess was far from being so uncommon
as usually supposed.

He dilates at length, in his memoir, on the peculiar characteristics of
seventeen color-blind individuals; eight were examined by himself, and
the others described by different observers, or the color-blind them-
selves. These cases were distributed as follows: fourteen men and
three women; sixteen cases were congenital, and one proceeded from
a cerebral affection caused by a fall from a horse. It must be re-
membered that this last case had not been examined before the acci-
dent; a circumstance renderipg the verification of the pathological
origin of color-blindness difficult, but the description seems to authorize

* Researches on color-blindness, with a supplement on the danger attending the

present system of railway and marine colored signals. By George Wilson. Edin-
burgh, 1855.
136 COLOR-BLINDNESS IN ITS RELATION TO

the conclusion that the case was correctly judged. Besides these
cases described in detail, and illustrated by a number of interesting anec-
dotes, Wilson cites a great many others analogous, but only accidentally
encountered by our author, or mentioned to him by other persons, for
which he was indebted to the interest the question had excited in Eng-
land by his own initiatory steps. Wilson’s data are not merely limited
to this kind of investigation. Healso mentions thesystematic researches,
(analogous in some measure to those of Seebeck,) which he undertook in
order to discover color-blind individuals, and by that means form some
idea of the frequency of color-blindness amongst the population. It is
to him, in fact, we owe the first efforts to establish regular statistics on
this subject, as it would be difficult to receive as such the cases collected
by Dalton. To attain this‘end, Wilson examined at the same timea large
number of individuals belonging to the same class, such as soldiers,
students, police-agents, veterinary students, etc., and discovered in this
way 65 color-blind out of 1,154 persons examined; that is, 5.6 per
cent., or one color-blind out of every 17.7 persons. If desired that statis-
tics of this nature should render the service expected, it is plain that
there must be great strictness in the use of the methods of examination,
and especially in any case where a doubt of color-blindness exists. Here,
as in the classification of color-blindness in general, theory exercises
great influence. In this respect, it is very important that uniformity
should prevail, or at least that, at the time of the employment of the
different theories and methods, the limits should be well defined between
color-blindness on one hand, and, on the other, between the different
kinds of anomalies, and finally that the process should be so selected for
examination and classification that from any practical point of view
an accurate judgment could be formed of the result, and a classifica-
tion made of the different cases under any system whatsoever. It is only
by fulfilling these conditions that these statistical data can be useful;
and that they may have a real value, it is the more necessary that the
method should be so sure that no color-blind individual could escape
the experimenter. .

It is impossible to say that Wilson’s statistics fulfill these requirements.
Wilson was not ignorant of Young’s theory as restored by Helmholtz
and Maxwell. But this theory had not as yet begun to excercise a
general influence over the ideas of the nature of the anomalous percep-
tion of colors, the methods employed in discovering it, and the manner
of classifying the different forms. Wilson’s method and classification
therefore are deficient. His method consists in presenting to the
individuals to be examined pieces of colored paper, one after the
other, or a diagram in an illustrated work, and asking the names of
the colors. Those only who evince some hesitation in distinguishing
red, green, and brown are required to submit to Seebeck’s proof, that is
to say, classifying according to their analogy, but without indicating by
name the pieces of colored paper, glass, or wool. From this it can be
ACCIDENTS BY RAIL AND SEA. 137

quite positively concluded that this method is not altogether safe.
Wilson acknowledges as possible that some of the color-blind might pass
unperceived, especially when, to save time, the examination is made more
hastily than the method allows.

The classification is not better regulated; in fact, it distributes the
color-blind into three classes: Ist, those who confound red with green ;
2d, those who confound brown with green; and, 3d, those who confound
blue with green. This distribution is not founded upon any theory, nor
is it either the exact expression of well-defined kinds. Wilson himself
agrees that those who make the mistakes characterizing the first class do
not fail to make those of the second also. The second group might there-
fore be correctly regarded as the same kind as the first, of an inferior
degree. With regard to the third class, it is more than doubtful whether
the greater number of the cases which it includes can be classed under
the head of color-blindness. It also seems that Wilson hesitated with
regard to this, since he has excluded this group from one of his tables.
This class contributes the most also in rendering the proportion of color-
blindness as great as Wilson found it. From these statements, the
statistics given by this author cannot be regarded as very useful.
Besides, the number of cases examined is too limited, especially as the
particular figures forming the sum-total differ considerably among them-
selves. There is, however, another reason rendering Wilson’s work of
great importance, and worthy of being especially mentioned here. Wil-
son’s constant aim, in fact, was to direct attention to color-blindness in
its connection with practical life, and that in a very extended sense. He
shows that an individual whose anomaly from infancy has been estab-
lished should avoid selecting a profession in which his defective sense of
color might occasion difficulties and annoyances to himself as well as to
others. According to Wilson, the color-blind should never become paint-
ers, dyers, weavers, tailors, chemists, botanists, geologists, ph ysicians, ete.
Amongst the occupations in which the color-blind risk being the cause of
embarrassments and annoyances to themselves as well as to others, and of
real and serious accidents, Wilson especially mentions those of the
sailor and railway employé, because the color-blind, who have a peculiar
tendency to confound the very colors employed as signals at sea and
on railways, may in this way occasion even death itself.

Wilson does not confine himself to pointing out these dangers to their
full extent, but proposes preventive measures. For this purpose, he
Suggests very sensibly the only two measures that could be taken: to
preserve the colored signals in actual use,—red (= danger), green (=
attention), and white (the ordinary light of lanterns, that is yellow =
clear track), and in this case eliminate all the color-blind; or else
retain all, and change the signals. Wilson decides in favor of the latter
alternative, which he considers preferable. He says that the managers
of railways have been very unfortunate in their choice of colors, select-
ing precisely those, red and green, the color-blind confound the most.
138 COLOR-BLINDNESS IN ITS RELATION TO

This opinion does not extend to the signals used during the day. But
Wilson fails, and very naturally, when he proposes other colors prefer-
able, according to his judgment, for night-signals; for example, a blue
light, excellent in all other respects, cannot fail to be useless in conse-
quence of the small amount of power it is capable of acquiring in an
ordinary lantern. Wilson reaches the conclusion that colors should be
discarded as principal signals; they should be employed, he says, only
as auxiliary, and founds his system of signals on form, motion, and num-
ber. He enlarges to some extent upon this subject in a supplement to
his memoir, into the details of which we cannot now enter.

The dangers which threaten travel by rail and sea, and the disasters
resulting from mistakes of the color-blind with regard to colored signals,
were clearly understood and distinctly expressed, and the measures to be
taken to avoid them plainly proposed more than twenty years since. If,
therefore, it is now asked, as would be natural, to what practical results
all this has led, we might reasonably expect, especially when we recall the
attention that Wilson awakened on the subject amongst his contempora-
ries, that an important reformation for assuring public safety would long
since have been accomplished not only in England, but in every civilized
country. A mere glance over the existing condition of things, however,
reveals the fact that the answer is not satisfactory. The only practical
result mentioned by Wilson in his work as a result of his writings, is
the resolution of the Great Northern Railway Company that the entire
personnel must in future prove themselves free from this defect of the
chromatic sense before entering the service; and, as Wilson says, the
public is indebted for this wise measure to one of the directors of the
company, Mr. Graham Hutchison, whose attention was called to Wil-
son’s works by Dr. Mackenzie, of Glasgow. We see by this that the
numerous articles written by Wilson before publishing his views and
experience in full had aroused public attention to an interesting phe-
nomenon in the scientific world, but had not led to any practical appli-
cation, except in the one case in which a physician had succeeded in per-
sonally interesting one of the directors of a railway company in the ques-
tion. We know not how far other administrations have followed this
example. It is very probable that this measure has not been adopted by
a single company in Dalton’s country, where color-blindness was dis-
covered in the first place, and where it was studied with so much care
that England was long regarded as the veritable land of this anomaly.

It would appear then that no considerable change has taken place in
the matter since Wilson’s time. With regard to the English navy, we
still lack positive information.

With regard to France we are more fortunate. Fora long term of
years, Dr. A. Favre, of Lyons, was occupied with the practical side of
this question, and made different investigations into the perception of
colors, especially amongst the employés of the Paris-Lyon-Mediterranean
Company, of which he was for a long time one of the consulting physi-
ACCIDENTS BY RAIL AND SEA. | 139

cians. He then proceeded to make an examination of soldiers, sailors,
. and students. The information we are about to give is principally
derived from Dr. Favre’s pamphlet, which he kindly sent us.

We will give a brief statement of his statistics, his method, and his
idea of color-blindness, and then his propositions for practical measures.

In relation to the frequency of color-blindness amongst the personnel
of railways, Dr. Favre tell us that out of 1,196 candidates examined by
him from June, 1864, to December, 1872, thirteen were red-blind and
one green-blind (1.17 per cent.) ; but out of 728 employés of the same
line examined in 1&72 and 1873, he found not less than 42 cases (5.76
per cent.) of color-blindness more or less pronounced, and that although
276 amongst them had previously submitted to an examination for the
same defect. During a subsequent examination, from July, 1873, to Oc-
tober 1, 1875, he discovered, amongst 1,050 men from eighteen to thirty
years of age, nearly all formerly soldiers, not less than 98 color-blind
(9.33 per cent.). The increasing proportion of color-blindness at each
series of inspection must be attributed to the modifications introduced
into the method and diagnosis, owing to which a comparatively much
larger number of cases has been classed under the head of color-blind-
ness. This large proportion is easily explained by the method and man-
ner of makiug the diagnosis. Dr. Favre’s method, which he has devel-
oped from year to year, consists in this: he presents to the subjects to be
examined wool of different colors corresponding to those of the spectrum,
red, yellow (including orange), green, blue (including indigo), and violet,
and demands the name of each of these colors. All who are at fault
about them are pronounced color-blind. He regards also as such those
who hesitate, and who, when the test is repeated several times, give toa
color sometimes its own name and sometimes another. And yet, Dr.
Favre thought it his duty to correct the result obtained at the last exam-
ination: from the 98 cases, he withdrew 29, who hesitated only in the
designation of the colors, and 8, who, after repeated tests, corrected their
preceding mistakes; the proportion falls by that from 9.33 to 5.8 per
cent. |

On two points, Dr. Favre has in his works announced new views, and
whether they ought to be accepted or merely left to gain supporters,
they are of a nature to produce consequences of great importance in the
practical world. In fact, it has invited especial attention on one hand
to acquired color-blindness, which is quite common, according to his pam-
phlet, on the Paris- Lyon- Mediterranean line, and results from various
causes. On the other hand, he asserts that congenital color-blindness is
not incurable, but can be eed by means of assiduous and syste-
matic exercise in colors.

The practical measures demanded by Dr. Favre, in accordance with
his views and experience and that of his fellow-laborers, with regard
to color-blindness, might be embodied in the following terms: an ex-
amination of the chromatic sense, obligatory upon all candidates for
140 COLOR-BLINDNESS IN ITS RELATION TO

railway employment, and upon those already in service ; exclusion from
active service of all who cannot distinguish red; especial examination of
all employés afflicted with contusions or wounds on the head, orrecovering
froma serious illness; examination of drinkers and smokers; and, finally,
a periodical examination of the entire personnel in active service; these
last measures having reference to acquired color-blindness. These prin-
ciples apply equally well to sailors. In behalf of his views on the
curability of acquired color-blindness, in which he seems more and more
interested, Dr. Favre earnestly urges the intreduction of systematic
exercise in colors in schools, in the army and navy, and on railways.

It is readily seen that these views, and the measures based upon them
might have very considerable practical consequences; in fact, if they were
proved by a decisive test, we would have the best and most radical means of
preventing all the inconveniences and dangers that color- blindness might
occasion. But, on the other hand, if the ideas of our honorable colleague
prove to rest on but slight foundation, as is generally admitted so far,
and as we ourselves believe, it is to be feared lest through an actual
improvement in the chromatic sense, on which these measures depend,
we might be led into error as to the ability that the color-blind often
acquire by practice in designating the colors of common objects accu-
rately by conjecture or the help of other characteristics, and, lulled into
a false security, neglect the measures that should and might be taken.
We are far from asserting that Dr. Favre’s opinion on this point may
have already exercised such an influence, but we cannot refrain from
mentioning a circumstance, which, at all events, would not contradict
such asupposition. In fact, Dr. Favre tells us that in 1875 the Academy
of Sciences and Letters at Lyons voted resolutions calling the attention
of the ministers, and amongst others that of the navy, to Dr. Favre’s
publications, and especially his request that sailors should be educated
and exercised in colors. We do not know whether this decision has
been put into practice, but we have no reason to doubt it. But, on the
other hand, we learn, from special information, that up to the present
(January, 1877) no examination of the chromatic sense has been exacted
of those desiring to enter the French navy. Nevertheless, Dr. Favre’s
labors and his practical efforts in the cause of color-blindness have
awakened genuine attention in France and Belgium. He tells us bhim-
self, also, that the greater part of the precautionary measures in use on
the Lyons railway from 1857 have been since introduced on other lines,
and quite recently on the Belgian railways. Moreover, Dr. Favre’s
example has enlisted the interest of several physicians in this cause.
One of the most distinguished, Dr. Féris, surgeon-general of the navy,
has written a memoir on the importance of color-blindness to navigation.
This memoir describes an examination, by the author, of 501 sailors,
amongst whom he discovered 41 cases, more or less affected with this
anomaly of the chromatic perception, that is to say, 8.18 per cent. This
large proportion is explained by the fact that Dr. Féris finally employed
ACCIDENTS BY RAIL AND SEA. TAT

the same method and made the same diagnosis as Dr. Favre, ard nearly
the same classification, with slight modifications. .

The foregoing seems to show that the question is now exciting atten-
tion in France, and this owing to the activity of a single individual.
It is obvious, however, that although Dr. Favre may have succeeded
in introducing measures insuring the communications against color-blind-
ness amongst the employés of the line to which he was himself attached, or
those of other lines, no reform has been generally recommended or intro-
duced on the French railways, and that absolutely no measures have
been taken in thenavy. Besides, it is evident from certain passages in
Dr. Favre’s pamphlet and from his opinion of the curability of congeni-
tal color-blindness, that the principles applied, where a control has been
introduced, have not been particularly rigorous. <As to the elimination
of the color-blind personnel, it might with certainty be concluded that no
rigid rule has been followed; from the fact that those only are dis-
charged from active service who “‘ cannot or only partially can distinguish
red, and are consequently dangerous,” and the fact that of the forty-two
color-blind subjects detected by Dr. Favre in one of his examinations,
nine only were removed from active service.

In Germany, where an interest in color-blindness has been lately ex-
cited in many quarters, but little is presented in regard to the control of
this defect on railways and in the navy. We can supply only a few data
capable of throwing any light upon the state of the question there.

In an article on the works of Dr. Favre, Mr. Blaschko points out the
importance of seriously making the sense of color amongst the person-
nel of railways an object of official scrutiny and control, according to
Dr. Favre’s plan.

Dr Stilling in 1875 gave us still further information in an account of a
method proposed by him for discovering color-blindness by means of
colored shadows. “Here also in Germany,” says he, “several railway
companies have directed their attention to this subject (color-blindness),
and the time is probably not far distant when investigation amongst
railway personnel and others will be undertaken ex officio and en
masse.” We do not know how or in what measure this prediction may
be realized, but inasmuch as the late movement in Sweden was regarded
by the German papers as a new and extraordinary phenomenon, and as,
moreover, one of the most eminent physiologists of Germany writes us
that no general measures have been adopted with regard to it in that
country, we may conclude that no practical reformation on the subject
has been generally introduced there.

We hear from Holland that measures with regard to this defect are
now on the road to execution.

A rapid glance over the development and existing state of this ques-
tion in Sweden canuot be void of interest. In what is called the Lager-
lunda case or trial, instituted in consequence of a railway accident, of
which Lagerlunda in Ostrogothia was the theater, November 15, 1875,
142 COLOR-BLINDNESS IN ITS RELATION TO

and which at the time intensely excited public attention, testimony
was adduced which led me to suppose that color-blindness was one of
the principal causes of the disaster. This impressed me with the idea
that official scrutiny and control should be exercised over the sense of
color amongst railway employés. Without knowing what had been
done or written with reference to this in other countries, I considered it
my duty to take the initiative. After convincing myself that the steps
to be taken should consist, with the preservation of the existing system
of signals, in eliminating from the railway service all employés afflicted
with color-blindness, or at least those with certain kinds and degrees, I
regarded it, first, of the highest importance, to have a practical method
which should render the discovery of the color-blind rapid and certain,
without incurring heavy expense or requiring extensive preparations,
and in consequence to be able to examine easily a considerable number
of individuals. Then it seemed to me essential to endeavor to interest
the high functionaries at the head of the railways personally in the
matter.

As regards the method, I had already found one purely theoretic,
which, while in agreement with that of Young-Helmholtz, proved to be
practical in the examination of the color-blind. But this method was
only intended for discovering the types of partial color-blindness (com-
plete, according to the theory), but not the form of blindness I had
ascertained by the perimetrical examination of the colored visual field,
and defined under the name of incomplete color-blindness. The method
received accordingly a new practical aim, and it became necessary, in
consequence, to render it more accurate, and especially to make a trial
of it by an examination of the masses, so as to determine, by experiment,
the practical value of the method, and form an idea of the amount of
color-blindness in our country, of which no one had the slightest con-
ception. The desired occasion presented itself in the month of June,
1876, and I am indebteded to the politeness of Major-General Von Knor-
ring and Major Rudbeck for permission to examine 2,220 men belonging
to a regiment of infantry, cantoned in Upland (standing army and mili-
tia), and to the dragoons of the guard (militia). The method proved to
be capable, in its extraordinary simplicity, of perfectly answering the
end in view with reference to rapidity and accuracy. The examination
of each man required, on an average, one minute, sometimes more and
often less ; and with the improved form we had given the method, we
also discovered, with accuracy, every individual incompletely color-
blind. With regard to the knowledge acquired by this examination of
color-blindness amongst the population of the province, we found that
out of 2,220 men eleven could not distinguish red, seventeen green, one
violet (?), and thirty-one were incompletely blind, according to the
classification I had used. There were, then, in all, sixty color-blind,
or 2.7 per cent. —The instances of a feeble sense of color are not in-
cluded in this.
ACCIDENTS BY- RAIL AND< SEA. 143

On the 14th of July, of the same year, I had an opportunity, before a
congress of Scandinavian physicians assembled at Gothembourg, of
giving an account of the method, of stating the results obtained by its
use, and, besides, of expressing my views on the necessity of taking
measures, on a large scale, for the detection of color-blindness, especially
amongst railway employés. It resulted in the congress unanimously
resolving that it was necessary to make investigations for the detection
of color-blindness: 1st. Amongst employés of railways; 2d. Amongst
pilots, light-house keepers, and sailors in general; and 3d. In schools.
During the session of the congress I had an opportunity also of proving
to the physicians the practical utility of the method by examining, in their
presence, and with the permission of Colonel Carlsohn, 100 men of a regi-
ment of artillery from Gothia, amongst whom we found four color-blind,
namely, one red-blind, one green, and two incompletely blind. Besides,
on the same occasion, we discovered amongst the medical members of
the congress one green-blind, and amongst the audience one red-blind.

I was then advised to apply directly, in person, to the directors of rail-
ways. Thanks to the press, which had attentively followed up the
debates of the Gothembourg congress, the question had reached the
public. It naturally became an object of attention to railway officials,
although received by a greater portion of them with a certain mistrust,
seeing in it the result of a scientist’s imagination or an overwrought
solicitude, rather than a matter of practical application for the benefit
of railways. ‘If color-blindness really exist,” they said, “‘it cannot, at
any rate, be amongst the employés, or it would undoubtedly have been
remarked ; especially must this be the case amongst the engineers and con-
ductors, as they rise from inferior grades, and consequently have amply
proved their ability to distinguish signals.” It was therefore of extreme
importance to endeavor to obtain at once positive assurance on this
point. The opportunity soon presented itself. Mr. Jacobsson, superin-
tendent-in-chief of the Upsala-Gefle line, invited me to accompany him
in a tour of inspection to examine all the employés under his con-
trol. The trip was made in a special car; we left Upsal the 7th of
September, and, to make our inspection, halted at every station and
gate-keeper’s and guard-house. Inbrief, we stopped at every place where
an employé could be found. The investigation was concluded at Gefle,
the Sth of September. The entire personnel, men and women, number-
ing 266 individials, was examined. We discovered amongst these
thirteen color-blind men, that is, 4.8 per cent.; six were completely green-
blind, and seven incompletely blind. They were distributed as follows,
with reference to their functions: one station-master, one engineer, two
conductors, one foreman, two workmen (one a supernumerary), two
overseers (one a Supernumerary), two way-guards, one porter (messenger),
and one journeyman engineer. Immediately after the examination, the
general superintendent discharged all who were completely green-blind.

This first inspection was in many respects very interesting. It showed
144 COLOR-BLINDNESS IN ITS RELATION TO

that the method of inspection could be used and was expedient for rail-
ways. Moreover, it proved that there really were color-blind in almost
every grade of service of a Swedish railway, and this without there
having been the slightest suspicion of it, which confirmed my opinion of
the utility and importance of enabling those employed on railways to
convince themselves de visu of the nature of color-blindness and of its
practical value to railways.

Relying upon the experience I had just acquired, I wrote, September
25, to the royal directors of the state railways, and called attention,
amongst other matters, to the necessity of establishing a systematic con-
trol over the sense of colors amongst railway officials, and requested at the
same time permission, in the presence of the directors, or a person desig-
nated for the purpose, to examine the officials attached to any railway
whatsoever for the purpose of convincing the directors, in a practical
manner, of the true nature and importance of the question. At this time
the directors had already issued orders that as incapacity to distinguish
primitive colors closed the avenue to railway employment, the physi-
cians attached to the different lines must examine all applicants, and
that heads of sections must afterward examine into whether any of
their subordinates were incapable of distinguishing these colors, in the
use of flags and ordinary signal-lights, in any way which seemed pro-
per to them. On the other hand, however, debates and experiments on
color-blind individuals, at the Physiological Institute of Upsal, had
enabled me to succeed in interesting in the question several persons at-
tached to railways, and amongst them all the directors of the Upsal-
Gefle line.

In another letter to the royal directory, dated October 8, I invited
the members to be present at one of these experiments, to be able to
form a better judgment of the question. Two engineers of the rail-
way presented themselves October 11, and on the 13th the chief
director, Mr. Troilius, came in person. From this day success seemed
assured. As early as October 16, the directors ordered that a physician
from each district, and as many more as should desire, should assemble
at my office at an appointed time, to acquaint themselves with the
metheds that I would explain to them relative to the examination of
cases of color-blindness amongst the railway personnel. In consequence
of this, at the appointed time, October 24, twenty-six physicians at-
tached to railways assembled in the Amphitheater of Physiology at
Upsal, and also thirty-two individuals employed on railways, amongst
whom were the heads of nearly all the lines belonging to the private
companies of the country.

November 9, the managers directed the physicians of the lines to
proceed gradually, and according to my method, in the examination of
all the men then employed on railways. Those of the physicians
who did not understand this method, added the circular, should
study it, either with me, or with one of the physicians who had been
ACCIDENTS BY RAIL AND SEA. 145

present at my lectures on the subject; and finally the superintendents
must send a report of the result of this examination, suggest measures
to be taken, And in certain cases apply those that circumstances might
require. In this way the reform was actually introduced on the rail-
ways of the state. The example was soon followed by the private com-
panies (we do not know of a single exception), and although all the re-
ports have not been returned (February, 1877), and consequently the
result is not yet perfectly known, we might assert that the examination
itself is finished every where, in an almost if not entirely thorough man-
ner. Every case during the examination pronounced doubtful in the
diagnosis, or where doubt. existed about the measures to take with re-
gard to it, has been reported to me. Sweden is consequently the first
and only country, as we see, where the control in question has been gen-
erally adopted, and applied according to determined principles.

We have enlarged to some extent on the manner in which this matter
has been successively accomplished in our country, not simply to give
our experience on the subject, but rather that such details seem to us to
elucidate the question occupying us. This will be clearly evident if we
compare other countries with our own with regard to this. Let us recall
the following facts: In England, color-blindness has been known for a
century, and tor more than twenty years a strict control over the sense
of color amongst railway employés and sailors has been demanded. In
France, a physician attached to a railway has been for a long time inter-
ested in color-blindness amongst its employés, and has been endeavor-
ing for at least three years to introduce a general control on railways, in
the navy, and in schools. Finally, in Germany, color-blindness has
been for a long time a subject of scientific study, where the necessity
of a control of the railway officials has been urged by a number of
people of late years. Well, we have seen that in spite of all this, not one
of these countries has yet decreed or introduced a general control on
railways and in the navy. In Sweden, on the other hand, where color-
blindness had scarcely been mentioned until the last few years, and
where a proposition to examine railway officials was only publicly made
July 14, 1876, and referred to directors of railways September 25, of the
same year, this important reform may be already regarded (February,
1877) as actually and thoroughly established, in all essential details, on
the entire system of railways throughout our country. To complete our
data, it may be added that since November 12, 1876, the king has issued
orders that, at the time of a general review of the fleet, every man should
be examined with reference to color-blindness. This result is so truly
remarkable that we cannot refrain from endeavoring to discover the
probable explan ition of the unexampled rapidity with which it has been
reached in our evuntry. The explanation does not seem to us difficult.
In our opinion, if is chiefly owing to two circumstances: one is the
method employed, which is not only accurate, as well as simple and
rapid, a effects so palpable a result that the most skeptical observer

Ss
146 COLOR-BLINDNESS IN ITS RELATION TO

is struck by it; the other circumstance is the manner in which the
knowledge of the method, as well as the principles for the introduction
of an official control, has been spread throughout our country. This
publicity was not reached in the usual way, through the medium of
books, but by oral exposition, practical application, and de visu. Our
idea is confirmed by the fact that this personal influence is recognized
in the cases brought to our knowledge in England and France, where
the scrutiny and control over the sense of color amongst the personnel
of railways has been introduced, particularly on the Great Northern
Railway of the first-named country, and the Paris-Lyons-Mediterra-
pean line. But even without this support, our experience would suffi-
ciently convinee us that it is important, if not necessary, to explain the
question orally and de visu to the physicians, and especially to railway
employés. Speech, in such cases, has an undoubted advantage, and
our experience of the last months of 1876, when the Amphitheater of
Physiology at Upsal was often the resort of physicians, railway officials,
and individuals afflicted with color-blindness, proves to us that this
kind of communication, especially in such a case as that now before us,
undoubtedly exerts a more powerful influence than the best written book.

The warm interest with which the question has been followed up by
the journals is too important a circumstance to be forgotten. Not only
has this kept the public on the alert, but the movement begun by us
has been continued in other countries. Immediate effects were visi-
ble amongst our neighbors. In Finland, Dr. L. Krohn, who acquainted
himself by correspondence with the method and principles used in
Sweden, has already examined the railway officials of his country. A
locomotive and ambulance were placed at his disposal for examining
the personnel the whole length of the line. All was accomplished in
twelve days. He discovered amongst twelve hundred individuals exam-
ined, sixty color-blind, that is, 5 per cent. They were distributed as
follows: four red-blind; twenty-five green-blind; and thirty-one incom-
pletely blind.

We have as yet heard of no results from our method in Denmark and
Norway, but the question is there under serious examination, as the
Physiological Insti‘:te of Upsal has been visited on different occasions
by two Danish ph sicians, Dr. Slidelin and Dr. Fontenay, sent by the
railway managers »f Zeeland, and by Mr. Hagen, assistant at the Physi-
ological Laborat: ry of Christiania, sent by the Medical Board of Norway
at the suggestivn of Professor Worm-Miiller. I have thus had the
pleasure of ex iaining to them the method of examination as well as the
practical prin :iples and rules I propose to communicate in this work.

Il.—THE NATURE OF COLOR-BLINDNESS.

It is not my intention to treat this question in a thorough manner,
but simply to mention what is essential to the practical end in view.
It has been known for a long time that every one does not possess
—

ACCIDENTS BY RAIL AND SEA. 147

the power of distinguishing colors in the same manner, and that some
exhibit a divergence of such a nature as to excite surprise and amuse-
ment. The confusion of green and red is very common. But, in many
instances, the difficulty consists merely in discriminating between deli-
cate shades, while the principal colors are easily distinguished. How
shall we explain all this; how find the relation existing between the
normal sense of colors and the abnormal; and where must the limit be
drawn ?

1.— THEORETICAL SKETCH.

Every one knows that a radiant body creates, throughout the ether
which surrounds it, undulations which are propagated in every direction.
When these undulations—whether they proceed directly in right lines
from the radiant body, the sun for example, or whether they are reflected
by some intervening body encountered in their course—come in contact
with special organs of sense, they produce certain corresponding changes,
which, in their turn, excite certain perceptions in our mind. If the un-
dulations come in contact with our skin, we experience the sensation of
heat; if they strike the retina, that of light. It is consequently our own
brain that produces both light and heat, resulting from certain changes
that take place in our organs of sense (the retina or the skin), although
by these names we designate the external cause, when we say that the
rays of light and heat proceed from the ineandescent body. Neverthe-
less, to thoroughly understand this fact it is necessary on the one hand
to distinguish between light and heat in an objective sense, which are
virtually the same thing, that is to say, undulations of the ethereal
medium; and, on the other hand, between light and heat in a subjective
sense, which are sensations of an altogether different kind. We have,
in the first place, here to consider our perceptions, and as their most
immediate cause is found in a modification or activity of our own organs
of sense, whatever be the external cause, it is clear that we must seek
the explanation of all Jaminous phenomena in our special organism—
the optic nerve; comprehending by that term the retina, the optic nerve,
and those portions of the brain with which they communicate.

If all the undulations of the luminous ethereal medium were exactly of
the same nature, or,on the contrary, if all the elements of our optic
apparatus reacted in the same way on every kind of undulations of the
ethereal medium, we could with difficulty imagine sensations of light of
a different nature. Every specific activity of our apparatus of the optic
nerve would produce a perception of light which would vary in degree,
but not in quality. We could have no conception of, according to the
cases, a light of different kinds, that is to say, of color. But, on the one
hand, the science of physics teaches that the undulations of ether are
of various kinds, differing in the rapidity, and consequently in the length
of the waves; and, on the other hand, the subjective qualities of light,
or our perceptions cf color, fali within the range of our daily experience.
148 COLOR-BLINDNESS IN ITS RELATION TO

It belongs to theory to discover the law regulating these two factors.
All the qualities of light must depend upon functional differences of the
elements of the organ of the optic nerve. A necessary alternative is,
either this organ has but one kind of elements, and then different kinds
of undulations of the ether induce it to act under different forms, or else
there are several kinds of elements or terminal organs in the retina or
in the brain, which always act respectively in the same way, while differ-
ing from each other. This latter hypothesis accords better with all we
know otherwise of the physiology of the nervous system, and is virtually
but J. Miiller’s principle of the specific energies of the senses applied in
detail to the sense of sight. It is also on this last hypothesis that the
Young-Helmholtz theory is based.

The following is the principle upon which this theory explains the
qualities of light or colors. When one kind of element alone is excited
or set in motion, or when all are simultaneously excited, but one in a
higher degree than the rest, our sensation takes hold of that element as
the quality of the light, as the colored light or color, and particularly the
cardinal or primitive color, which corresponds specifically to the excited
element. If there are several kinds of elements, and only two of these
are excited or more excited than the rest, we see the light colored, but
of a color which constitutes the combination of the two colors corre-
sponding to the excitedelements. It is clear that the principle on which
this reasoning is based gives room for the admission of as many differ-
ent elements, and, consequently, primitive colors, as could be desired.
At all events, it results from the principle that when all the kinds of
elements, whether there be one or several, are excited simultaneously
with the same force, there is no possibility of perceiving the quality of
jight. We then see but a light in general, in contradistinction to the
absence of light or darkness; in other terms, we see a colorless light, or,
as it is called, a white light, and incorrectly a white color. It follows
therefore that when one element is principally excited while the rest
are also excited, but in a less degree, the perception of the specific
quality of the light is feeble in proportion to the degree of excitation
of the other elements, since this effect of their excitation must be, in
short, like a mixture of colorless light, or white relatively to the color in
question.

Let us now see how the Young-Helmholtz theory applies the principle
we have just explained. It recognizes three cardinal colors, red, green,
and violet, and consequently three kinds of corresponding elements in
the organ of the optic nerve; elements respectively perce.ving red,
green, and violet. When the perceptive element of red is excited alone,
or in a greater degree, we experience the sensation of red, and so on.
Different kinds of undulations of the ethereal medium excite, in differ-
ent degrees, the different elements; but in such a way, however, that
all excite in some measure each of these elements.

Without attempting, from a scientitic point of view, to explain the dif-
ACCIDENTS BY RAIL AND SEA. 149

ferent kinds of objective light in the length of the wave, in the practical
course we are pursuing here it is much more convenient to designate
them by the effect they exert on the normal sense of colors. With
this explanation we will then proceed to speak of red, green, and violet
light, and so on, meaning those ethereal waves which differ in length, in
duration of undulations, in refrangibility, ete.

The easiest and most convenient means of describing the relations
existing between the kinds of objective light and the excitability of the
different elements, or, in other words, of the different kinds of subjective
light, will be to construct a diagram in which the curves indicating the
different kinds of light will be traced on an abscissa according to the
order in which they are presented in the solar spectrum, and those
which indicate the excitability of the respective elements, or rather the
intensity of the sensation of colors, will be expressed by the ordinate. To
save space, and more easily to comprehend the whole, we have drawn
the curves of intensity of the different elements on the same abscissa,
which consequently serves for each one of them.

Figure 1 represents this diagram, showing the normal sense of colors.
The spectral colors are here found placed horizontally in the natural
order, beginning with the red (R.), and finishing with the violet (V.);
the three curves of excitability, namely, 1st, that of the organ perceiv-
ing red; 2d, that of the perceptive organ of green; and, 3d, that of the
organ perceiving violet; these curves indicate the manner in which the
different systems of waves of solar light act on each of the three ele-
ments sensible to light.

Fie. 1.

1 2 3

R. Oo. Y. G. B. Nv.

According to these curves, the bomogeneous red, from the extremity of
the spectrum to beyond the orange, affects the perceptive elements of
red strongly, in a much less degree those of green, and still less those of
violet. From this results the sensation of red, which is transferred more
and more into orange in proportion to the increase of the excitation of
the perceptive elements of green. Homogeneous yellow intensely excites,
and almost in the same degree, the perceptive elements of red and green,
while only feebly affecting the perceptive elements of violet. Hence, the
sensation of yellow, which is a2 combination of red and green. Green
light strongly excites the perceptive elements of green, and very feebly
and almost equally the two other elements. Hence, the sensation of
green. -Hemogeneous blue excites quite strongly and almost equally the
150 COLOR-BLINDNESS IN ITS RELATION TO

perceptive elements of green and violet, but feebly those of red. Hence,
the sensation of blue, which is a combination of violet and green. Violet
light powerfully affects the perceptive elements of violet and feebly the
two others. Hence, the sensation of violet.

These curves enable us to explain easily the colors of the spectrum by
the theory. We find in what proportion each one of the three fundamen-
tal perceptions entersinto it by measuring the vertical distance from their
place on the horizontal line (abscissa) to the corresponding points of each
of the three curves. It is then seen that there is no color of the spectrum
into which but one primitive color entersexclusively. The two others also
furnish their contingent. Noone is therefore perfectly “saturated.” They
are more or less spread with white, and green is the least sensibly ‘‘sat-
urated,” or more whitish. The curves also show us that yellow and blue
are at the same time whitish colors, and the most intensely luminous in
the whole spectrum. When we again add that a color “saturated” in
almost the same degree as the other spectral colors, proceeds from the
homogeneous combination of red and violet, that is to say, purple, and
its whitish shade, pink, we shall have said all, theoretically, that we
have to say in relation to the normal chromatic sense.

To explain the abnormal sense of colors by the theory of the normal, we
can, in advance, conceive various possibilities. Let us suppose that one
of the three fundamental perceptions is wanting, or that one of the prim-
itive colors is absent; it is clear that the whole chromatic system will be
upset. It is evident, therefore, that this system must be completely dif-
ferent, according to the absence of one or the other of the three primi-
tive colors. It is virtually just in this way that it has been attempted
to explain cases of a strongly marked defect in the chromatic sense, or
genuine types of blindness to color, found in real life: The term color-
blindness has been justified by this, as it indicates in each case a genuine
blindness to one of the cardinal colors. In this way, therefore, we dis-
tinguish, according to the kind of element wanting, three classes of
blindness :

ist. Red-blindness.

2d. Green-blindness.

od. Violet-blindness.

We shall see that the Young-Helmholtz theory, as we have explained
it far from being contradicted, as has been recently claimed, by the
phenomenon of color-blindness, finds in it, on the contrary, a support,
and this theory most certainly furnishes the best guide for attaining
the practical end in view for which we intend to use it. Let us, in the
first instance, cast a rapid glance over the different kinds of typical and
complete blindness to colors, as their features are presented by the
theory. This sketch will be singularly facilitated by the use of the same
kind of curves employed in illustrating the normal sense of colors.

1. According to the theory, blindness to red is due to the absence or
paralysis of the organs perceiving red (fig. 2). Red-blindness has then
ACCIDENTS BY RAIL AND SEA. 151

but two fundamental colors, which, adhering strictly to the theory, are
green and violet (blue according to Maxwell).

Fia. 2.

The curves distinctly show what aspect the various kinds of lights of
the spectrum must have for the chromatic sense such as the one we
have in view.. We will give a short list of them, according to Helm-
holtz, by designating here the different kinds of lights, as we did before,
that is to say, by using terms borrowed from the impressions they pro-
duced on the normal chromatic sense; the comparison will not be with-
out interest.

“ Spectral red, which feebly excites the perceptive organs of green,
and scarcely at all those of violet, must consequently appear to the red-
blind a ‘saturated’ green of a feeble intensity, more ‘saturated’ than nor-
mal green, into which a sensible portion of the other primitive colors
enters. Feebly luminous red, which affects the perceptive organs of red
in a normal eye sufficiently, does not, on the other hand, sufficiently
excite the perceptive organs of green in the red-blind, and it, therefore,
seems to them black. Spectral yellow seems to them a green ‘saturated’
and intensely luminous, and as it constitutes the precisely saturated and
very intense shade of that color, it can be understood how the red-blind
select the name of that color, and call all those tints that are properly
speaking green, yellow. Green shows, as compared with the preceding
colors, a more sensible addition of the other primitive colors; it then
appears, consequently, like a more intense but whitish shade of the
same color as yellow and red. The greatest intensity of light in the
spectrum, according to Seebeck’s observations, does not appear to the
red-blind to be in the yellow region, as it does to the normal eye, but
rather in that of the blue-green. In reality, if the excitation of the per-
ceptive organs of green, as it was necessary to assume, is strongest for
green, the maximum of the total excitation of the red-blind must be
found slightly toward the blue side, because the excitation of the organ
perceiving violet is then increased. The white of the red-blind is natu-
rally a combination of their two primitive colors in a determinate pro-
portion, a combination which appears blue-gray to the normal sight;
this is why he regards as gray the spectral transitition colors from green
to blue. Then the other color of the spectrum, which they call blue, pre-
ponderates, because indigo-blue, though somewhat whitish, according
152 COLOR-BLINDNESS IN ITS RELATION TO

to their chromatic sense is to them, owing to its intensity, a more evi-
dent representative of that color than violet.”

This description of the manner in which the red-blind forms a con-
ception of the different kinds of light of the spectrum is assuredly a
conclusion logically deduced from the theory, but it accords so well, at
the same time, with the experience acquired in examining the color-
blind, that this might perfectly serve to support and corroborate the
theory. We will simply add a point for our especially practical purpose,
or rather emphasize one point of this theory. In fact, it is clear that a
red and green light especially excite one and the same element in the
red-blind. A ray red and green, or an object red and green, to the nor-
mal sense, must seem fundamentally to the red-blind to be the same color,
and if, in especial cases, he knows bow to discriminate, his judgment
is simply guided by the intensity of the light. The intensity of light
is much more feeble, as shown by fig. 2, in red than in green. If then
a red-blind individual finds that a red and green tint are exactly alike,
it is necessary that the green be to the normal eye much less intense
than the red. This is distinctly shown by the vertical dotted lines
between R. and O., and also between Y. and G., in fig. 2, and this is
entirely confirmed by experience.

2. Green-blindness derives its origin, according to the theory, from the
absence or paralysis.of the perceptive elements of green. The green-
blind has therefore but two fundamental colors, that is—still closely
adhering to the theory—red and violet (blue according to Maxwell).
The spectrum for green-blindness should be, according to the theory,
constructed in the following manner:

FiG. 3.

The spectral red, which strongly excites the perceptive organs of red,
and but very faintly those of violet, must therefore appear to the green-
blind as an extremely “saturated” red, but of a light somewhat less in-
tense than the normal red, which is comparatively more yellowish, as
green forms a part ofit. The spectral orangeis again a very “ saturated”
red, but much more luminous. Yellow is undoubtedly a more intensely
luminous red than the spectral red, but, on the other hand, more whit-
ish, because a sensible portion of the other primitive color enters into it.

Green, with its shades inclining to yellow and blue, ought, correctly
speaking, to be a ‘‘saturated” purple and with a mean intensity of

7 a
ACCIDENTS BY RAIL AND SEA. : 153

light, but it is the white (gray) of the green-blind, for it is composed of
almost equal parts of the two primitive colors.

The blue is an intense violet, but a little less “saturated” than indigo,
which is more strongly luminous and more “ saturated.” Violet isa little
less intense, but more “saturated” than normal violet. The tints most
luminous and at the same time most “saturated” which must constitute
the types of the primitive colors of the green-blind are orange or its im-
mediate neighbor in the spectrum, red, and indigo-blue. Noworangeis a
color which, in ordinary language, especially amongst the uncultivated
and unpracticed, is indiscriminately called red and yellow; this fact
explains why the green-blind denominate their first fundamental color
sometimes “red” and sometimes “ yellow.” We will add to this descrip-
tion the same remark made about red-blindness. In green-blindness
the same organ is also found affected by spectral red and green light.
Red and green are then perceived by the green-blind in the same way,
or, in other words, are to him in fact exactly the same color. In cases
where he succeeds in distinguishing them, it is by the aid of the inten-
sity of the light; but with regard to this intensity of light, it is the op-
posite of what occurs in the case of the red-blind. <A green tint which
to the green-blind must appear exactly like a red one, to a normal sense
of color must be sensibly more luminous than red. This is shown by
the dotted vertical lines between R. and O. and also between Y. and G.
(fig. 3), and is confirmed in every respect by experience.

3. Violet-blindness (or blue according to Maxwell) is due, according
to the theory, to the absence or paralysis of the elements perceiving
violet. The two primitive colors of the violet-blind are then, according
to theory, red and green. The spectrum of the violet-blind must in conse-
quence be represented as follows:

Fig. 4.
1 2
R. oO. x. G. B. Vv.

The red is a purer red color (not yellowish) than normal red, but still
less “saturated”; the more it inclines toward orange the more strongly
luminous it is, but is at the same time less “saturated,” more whitish.
The yellow is, as it were, a combination of almost equal proportions of
the fundamental colors that form white. Green is a strongly luminous,
but whitish green, which in tending toward the blue, becomes more and
more ‘“ saturated,” so that greenish blue must be the type of these hues.
The blue is a green of moderate luminosity and strongly “ saturated”,
and violet is green very feebly luminous, but also “saturated” in a much
higher degree than the normal. A violet strongly luminous is sufficient
154 COLOR-BLINDNESS IN ITS RELATION TO

to induce this green, but a feeble violet, although very sensible to the
normal eye, is black to the color-blind in question.

Itis plain that the violet-blind, whose primitive colorsare red and green,
do not confuse these colors. This kind of blindness, from the experiments
made so far, must be very rare. For our part we have not succeeded in dis-
covering more than two cases agreeing quite exactly with the descrip-
tion given by the theory, while the first two kinds are comparatively
very common. In order to be abnormal it is not necessary that a sense
of color should completely fulfil the conditions indicated in the types
we have just described. We might perfectly conceive a resultant, not
of an absolute absence or of a complete paralysis of one kind of percept-
ive elements, but solely of a comparatively very low excitability, or, if
preferred, of a much more limited number of one kind of elements, act-
ing on the retina, as compared with the two other kinds. It is very easy
to construct curves in conformity with this idea, and not less easy to
arrange in this manner a continuous series of transitions and gradual
forms between one kind of complete color-blindness on one side and
the normal chromatic sense on the other. This kind of defective vision
might be called incomplete color-blindness, to distinguish it from complete,
as we have just characterized the three different kinds. Our experience
has taught us that the intermediary forms agreeing with the data given
above are met in large numbers in practice and of very different degrees.
These are the forms we designated under the common appellation of
incomplete color-blindness, but we can according to the theory still con-
ceive other forms of a defective sense of color. There is one, amongst
others, which has at command only one of the three kinds of elements.
Such a sense of sight is not properly a chromatic sense. For it, there
exists no specific difference in light, that is to say, no color. Every kind
of light here acts as if on one element alone. This is why the single
perception of differences of intensity of light (quantity), but not of dif-
ferences of color (quality), is possible. This condition may then be
designated under the name of total color-blindness. Several cases have
been mentioned from time to time, but we have not succeeded in find-
ing a single one, and it may well be questioned whether such a case has
actually existed. We may also conceive that another form of a defective
sense of color arises from the three kinds of elements being uniformly of
moderate sensibility. We are able to trace the following diagram (fig.
5), by which the three curves. simultaneously approach the abscissa, and
are flattened in such a manner that the vertices disappear the first.
ACCIDENTS BY RAIL AND SEA. 155.

As is readily observed, green is then precisely the color which, being
ordinarily the most whitish of the primitive colors, is the first to lose its
quality of “saturated” color, and shades into gray. This must then be
the exact scheme of pathological color-blindness, according to the theory.
In fact, we have found in our examinations a large number of cases per-
fectly harmonizing with this scheme. We have, therefore, classed them
under the head of incomplete color-blindness ; and this from essentially
practical reasons. To define their nature according to the theory, it is
necessary to regard them as a particular variety, which we shall call a
feeble sense of colors. Weare not of course able to decide how far defects
of this kind should be considered as having a pathological origin, or
whether they are ever congenital. For this determination a much wider
experience in this particular department than we now possess is requi-
site, for reasons to be given hereafter. This kind of defect in the sense
of color leads, if we fancy it carried to its highest degree, or in such a
condition that all the elements lose sensibility, to the complete absence
of perception of light, that is to say, to blindness, strictly so called.
Every defect in the sense of color must then proceed either from a sensi-
bility anomalously reduced to a complete paralysis of one or several kinds
of elements, or from a number relatively diminished in sensibility to the
complete absence of one or several amongst them.

The experience acquired by an examination of colors in different parts
of the visual field elucidates our theory of color-blindness, while at the
same time having a practical value. The following is the manner in
which this examination is conducted: the eye is fixed upon an im-
movable point; a colored object—for example, a colored paper one or
two centimetres (two or. four-fifths of an inch) square—is slowly
passed from the side of the visual field toward the fixed point. This
experiment is performed still better by means of a special instrument,
Forster’s perimeter. We then find that the colored surface, of any color
whatsoever, appears completely colorless at the extreme periphery of
the visual field. Surfaces of different colors exhibit only variations
in intensity of light, not in color. The ground on which the surface
appears plays here an important part; since every time our visual
sense perceives the light and color of an,object, it partly depends upon
the comparison with that which surrounds it. Thus a colored surface
seems to us, in this part of the visual field, black or gray on a light
ground, and gray or white on a dark. If while following the same
direction, the colored object is carried within the region which surrounds
the rest of the visual field, like a belt of greater or less width, we begin
to see the colored object, but not always in its natural color. Two colors
alone, yellow and blue, retain their natural colors. All the others have
the appearance of one of these colors, consequently yellow or blue. It
is only after the colored object is carried a little farther toward the fixed
object that it is seen in its natural color. Consequently we normally
see colors only in the middle of our visual field, within a compass extend-
ing in a more or less eccentric manner in every direction from the fixed
156 COLOR-BLINDNESS IN: ITS RELATION TO

point. Outside of the central field extends a belt which surrounds it
on all sides, and in which our whole system of colors is classed under two
heads, exactly as in the case of the red-blind. We have here, as in the
last case, buttwocolors, yellow and blue. In other words, wearecompletely
red-blind in this intermediary zone; beyond this, there isa peripheral belt,
in which we are totally color-blind. These are matters unquestionably
of great theoretic value, but it must be acknowledged they are also of
great practical importance. Although we have adopted the Young-Helm-
holtz theory, we mustadmit that the different kinds of perceptive elements
of colors have a different local division upon the retina; and this is why
we may speak of the topography of the chromatic sense. The fact is ex-
plained in this way: in the retina ot the normal eye, there are simultane-
ously three kinds of elements in the central part, corresponding to the
central region of the visual field. Toward the periphery, beginning at
the central fossa, the elements become more and more rare, but in un-
equal proportions, so that the perceptive organs of red cease first, and
this at a limit corresponding to that of the central region. In a belt
which answers to the intermediate zone, or the belt of the red-blind,
there remains in consequence but the perceptive elements of green and
violet. At the limit near the periphery of the retina, corresponding to
that of the peripheral zone of the visual field, or region of absolute
color-blindness, the perceptive elements of green cease also, so that there
only remains in this last zone the perceptive elements of violet. We
have been especially led to this last conclusion by the examination of
two cases of color-blindness, where the visual field was so abnormally
small that the peripheral zone seemed to be effaced, and where we be-
sides recognized the characteristic features of violet-blindness. This
experiment, which perfectly harmonized with the theory, showed us the
relation of complete red-blindness to the normal chromatic sense. Red-
blindness is distinguished from the normal sight in this, that the normal
central field is wanting, but is replaced by a mean corresponding at the
same time to the central field and to the intermediary zone of the normal
sight. We have also succeeded, owing to the peripheral investigation
of the colored visual field, in verifying in a great number of cases the
continuous series of forms of transition which we have classified as one
kind under the head of incomplete color-blindness, or in the instance es-
pecially occupying us here, incomplete red-blindness. In the same way,
the other kinds of color-blindness may also, as regards the visual field,
be classified according to the theory. The visual field of the green-blind
is distinguished from that of the normal observer in this, that it has a
peripheral field corresponding in extension both to the intermediary and
peripheral zones of the normal observer. The violet-blind is distinguished
on the other hand in this, that it is completely deficient in the normal
peripheral zone. These two kinds of incomplete color-blindness are charac-
terized by a central field diminished at every degree. With regard to
the visual field we may therefore lay down this rule, that it has as many
distinct zones, with reference to the perception of colors, as the chro-
ACCIDENTS BY RAIL AND SEA. L557

matic sense has fundamental colors or different kinds of perceptive ele-
ments, and that the different degrees of incomplete color-blindness are in
the inverse ratio to the dimension of the visual field. If the central field
is limited to a circle of ten degrees from the fixed point, all the respective
characteristics of color-blindness are usually found in it, sometimes
within even a narrower range. A feeble sense of color manifests itself in
a much wider central field. All the anomalies that can be discovered in
an examination of the visual field might, in consequence of the method
employed, be explained by a diminution of excitability as well as of the
number of the elements. The intermediary zone of the normal visual field
or belt of red-blindness has an especial interest, as it furnishes us with
the opportunity of seeing with our own eyes as the red-blind sees, and
conseauently of exactly comprehending his abnormal perception.

According to the theory, we see only yellow and blue in this belt, and in
consequence we admit that the red-blind not only call yellow and blue their
principal colors, but moreover see them exactly as the normal observer does.
This hypothesis cannot assuredly be proved, but this is not necessary, as
the explanation Helmholtz has given of the designation of one of the
principal colors of the red- blind is perfectly satisfactory. This circum-
stance, however, has given rise, amongst others, to a doubt about the
Young-Helmholtz theory, and to another theory admitting four principal
colors to the normal seuse of colors, yellow being classed amongst them.
But thisis useless. It must not be forgotten that colorless light as well
as colored light are subjective perceptions, and that comparison here per-
forms an important part. This fact is sufficiently proved by the phe-
nomena of contrasts, accidental colors, ete. White is not a color; it is
merely a general, neutral light, and is therefore produced when one kind
of element is not more excited than another, or when all the elements
are equally excited.

But as the theory obliges us to admit that the excitation of the
perceptive elements of green and violet may in certain cases, as in
the instance of the red-blind, supply the perception of white, and
not bluish green, and that in certain cases, as in that of the green-blind,
the excitation of the perceptive elements of red and violet does not give
purple, but white, it is in no wise contrary to the theory to admit that
the excitation of the organ perceiving green gives the perception of
yellow in cases where all that remains moreover of the system of colors
is the complementary color of yellow, thatis to say, blue. The excitation
of the perceptive organ of green gives the perception of green only
on the retina or on a point of the retina which also contains the organ
perceiving red. But this is not the place for further developments of
this theory.

2.—CLASSIFICATION OF THE DIFFERENT KINDS OF COLOR-BLINDNESS.

In the preceding we have indicated, in conformity with the theory,
the different forms of a defective sense of colors to which, we think,
158 COLOR-BLINDNESS IN ITS RELATION TO

‘should be applied the name of color-blindness, and which, owing to their
nature theoretically, must be considered as of different kinds. This
division will be sanctioned if we consider the relations in which it stands
to the method pursued for discovering them, and which is based on the
Young-Helmholtz theory. It is this we are about to explain.

We classify the different kinds of color-blindness under especial heads,
to be able the better to grasp the whole. We might indeed divide this
blindness into congenital and acquired, but as such a division has refer-
ence alone to the mode of origin, and not to the nature of this blindness,
and affects in no wise the manner of its discovery, it has no practical
importance in the case now occupying our attention. Besides, our
division relates, as does our entire memoir on this subject, essentially to
congenital color-blindness. The division is as follows:

I. Total color-blindness (total fargblindhet), in which the faculty of
perceiving colors is absolutely wanting, and where the visual sense con-
sequently can only perceive the difference between darkness and light,
as well as the different degrees of intensity of light.

II. Partial color-blindness (partiel fargblindhet), in which the faculty
of certain perceptions of color, but not ofall, is wanting. It is subdivided
into—

1. Complete or typical color-blindness (fullstandig or typisk farg-
blindhet), in which one of the three fundamental sensations, one of the
three perceptive organs of color in the retina, is wanting, and in which
consequently the colored visual field has but two ranges. This group
includes three kinds, namely :

(a) Red-blindness (red blindhet).

(b) Green-blindness (grén blindhet).

(c) Violet-blindness (violett blindhet).

2. Incomplete color-blindness (ofullstdndig fargblindhet), where one
of the three kinds of elements, or perhaps all, are inferior in excitability
or in numbers to those of the normal chromatic sense. Incomplete color-
blindness exhibits, like the normal sense, three zones in the visual field,
but is distinguished from it by an unusually small central field. This
group includes the whole of a series of different forms and degrees, a
part of which—the superior degrees, which might be called incomplete red-
blindness and incomplete green-blindness (and incomplete violet-blindness)—
constitutes the transitions to the corresponding kinds of complete color-
blindness, and another part of which—the inferior degrees, which we call
a feeble chromatic sense—constitutes the transition to the normal sense
-of colors.

We will show further on that this classification, based entirely upon
the Young-Helmholtz theory, is quite practical, and conformable to
experience. We know no classification which, though distinguishing
accurately between the different essential forms of a defective sense of
colors, draws a surer, more decided, and more practical limit between
the defective sense of colors and the normal sense.
ACCIDENTS BY RAIL AND SEA. 159

For the classification of the different forms of the defective sense of col-
ors, regard is generally paid to the methods of investigation, and the divi-
sion is governed much more by those methods than by a theory of the
sense of colors. But in every case it is found that the classification lat-
terly in use leaves room for much improvement, either because some of the
forms of defective color-sense not taken into account, or, on the other
hand, because even some cases of normal chromatic sense, wanting in ex-
ercise and intelligence, have been classed amongst the different kinds
of defective color-sense. As an instance of the first kind, Dr. Stilling’s
classification should be mentioned, which is based upon the theory of the
four primitive colors, complementary two by two. According toit, there
could be but two kinds of color-blindness, namely : “ rothgriinblindhet” and
“ gelbblaublindheit” (green-red-blindness and that of blue-yellow). With-
out allowing ourselves to criticise the theory itself here, we will simply
remark, looking at it practically, that, on one side, this classification
draws no distinction between the various kinds of red- and green-blind-
ness, Dr. Stilling classing them as one, and that, on the other side, the
whole series of forms classed by us under the head of incomplete color-
blindness is not included in his plan.

As an example of a classification of the last kind, the one which seems
universal in France, and employed by Dr. Favre and Dr. Féris, may be
cited. It is reduced nearly to this: all those who give false names to
the primitive colors belong to one class; those who are only mistaken
in the shades, but not in the principal colors, are classed under another ;
and, finally, those who, after several trials, evince some hesitation in des-
ignating colors, form a third class. It is plain that this classification
gives but little idea, properly speaking, of the nature of the different
kinds, and that the third class must include a large number of individ-
uals endowed with normal sight, but who have been mistaken or hesi-
tated at the time of the test, in consequence of want of exercise.

3.—COLOR-BLINDNESS IN PRACTICAL LIFE.

Volumes might be written on this subject, if the different instances
of all the peculiarities presented by color-blindness, and all the embar-
rassment to which they give rise, were cited. We will limit ourselves
to a few facts here, closely connected with our really practical end, and
over which they exert a direct influence. To avoid being prolix, we
will merely remark that in alluding to color-blindness in general, with-
out naming one especial kind or form, we usually mean the ordinary
typical kinds of partial and congenital color-blindness, namely, red and
green. |

We must first remember that color-blindness is not a disease in the
sense of being attended with suffering, obliging the individual to have
recourse to a physician. Color-blindness, quite as well as the normal
sight, is a sense of color, though of another and a more simple nature.
He whom we call color-blind is not correctly speaking at all blind to
160 COLOR-BLINDNESS IN ITS RELATION TO

colors. He perceives, in the main, the same kind of light as the normal
observer, but sees a part ofitin another manner. In the system according
to which he arranges his colors, he has fewer kinds than the normal ob-
server, and this is why he is obliged to classify under the same denomina-
tion a portion of the colors classed by the normal observer under different
heads. It results from this that he finds resemblances between colors or
confuses others that the normal observer finds different; for instance, red
and green. These confusions naturally surprise and amuse the normal
observer, who readily imagines that it arises from very great ignorance of
colors, or from defective training. He ordinarily supposes that there is
no limit to the mistakes the color-blind might make in this respect. But
such is not the case; he obeys laws quite as exact as does the normal
observer ; a color-blind person can no more accustom himself to seeing
colors as the normal observer does than the red-blind can see colors in
the same way that the green-blind does, or conversely.

This theory, which is based upon experience, explains to us how the
color-blind see colors. But if we only base our ideas on the names
given to colors by the color-blind, we can be easily deceived. To judge
correctly of color-blindness, and the various practical questions con-
nected with it, it is of the highest importance to distinetly observe the
difference between the manner in which the color-blind person sees and
the manner in which he names colors. The sensation is based upon the
nature of the sense of color in the organization of the optic nerve from
birth. The name, on the contrary, is learned; it is conventional; it de-
pends upon exercise and habit. The names of colors are naturally the
objective expression of subjective sensations; but, on the other hand,
they are regulated by the system of normal sight, and cannot conse-
quently agree with that of the color-blind. They can, nevertheless, be
learned by the latter, and even applied correctly in many cases. There
is connected with this fact a peculiarity of the utmost importance
practically to the question in point, and one that has given rise to the
most serious embarrassments and misunderstandings. This has been
and is still one of the chief causes of our erroneous ideas on the subject
of color-blindness existing in the masses, because it is the veil under
which this defect usually conceals itself from our observation in every-
day life, and under which, even to the last moment, it will succeed in
escaping discovery in cases where, as frequently happens, the methods
of exploration employed are indecisive or are based upon erroneous
principles.

If we reflect on the condition of the color-blind, it is difficult to under-
stand how he can avoid being detected in his daily intercourse with
men endowed with normal sight. And yet experience has sufficiently
controverted this idea. That which we have acquired in examining en
masse the personnel of a railway, for example, where it is required night
and day to give attention to colored signals, is singularly worthy of notice.
We learn by it that a number of color-blind were discovered, although
ACCIDENTS BY RAIL AND SEA. 161

their defective sense of color had never been suspected by themselves
or any one else, and the majority had correctly performed their duties.
Such a condition of things furnishes us with food for reflection, and it will
not be uninteresting to examine some of the peculiar circumstances
which explain it. All the details connected with the subject cannot be,
of course, enumerated here. We will content ourselves by merely indi-
cating the course to be followed to obtain this explanation.

Agreeably to the property of our senses to serve as sentries before
the external world, we interpret the information they give us ‘in a partic-
ular manner. In fact, we do not consider the changes that take place in
our sensitive apparatus, of which alone, however, we possess any im-
mediate perception, but refer everything immediately to the cause that
has provoked it (that is to say, to the external objects), and we attribute
as qualities properly belonging to them what in truth is merely a pro-
cess of our own organs. If an object simply reflects certain kinds of
rays of light to our eye, we preceive a certain corresponding color, red,
for example. We ascribe this perception to the object itself as an
attribute, and we say it is red. A red carpet seen by daylight is and
remains red. It is red by no matter what kind of light. Itis red even
when behind our backs or before our eyes in the dark. We discard the
sensation of red, which belongs to our optic nerve, for the quality of red,
which we ascribe once and forever to the carpet, and by this name of
red we supply a whole definition, which, to be complete, should be stated
nearly thus: ‘A red carpet is a carpet which, by the ordinary light of
day, reflects only ethereal waves creating, when in contact with the
retina of a normal eye, the perception of red, but absorbing, per contra,
all the other luminous waves.” It is owing to this manner of imputing
qualities to objects that the name black has been admitted amongst the
names of colors, although properly speaking it would designate the
quality of absorbing all light, and consequently of not at all affecting
our eye. Now the tendency to employ our senses, as we have just inci-
dentally stated, is often promoted by a school education so limited and
partial that the immediate impression is referred to the external object,
and the faculty of observation is suppressed to give place to descriptions
and to names.

As color is an immutable quality in a variety of objects of different
colors, it is not very difficult to learn their names by heart. The direct
impression is not even necessary. We may hear a really blind man,
even one born blind, give the exact names to colors of common objects of
which he has often heard. To the color-blind this is still more easy, as
he derives some assistance from his incomplete chromatic sense. On the
other hand, it must be comparatively very rare to meet one color-blind, who
influenced as Dalton was by individual interest carries his reflections
on colors and the chrometic sense so far as to reach the point of discov-

ering his own anomaly. Amongst the color blind discovered by us,
11s
162 COLOR-BLINDNESS IN ITS RELATION TO

while directing our researches especially to this point, not a few have
been painters and tailors.

But such disregard to the subject of colors is no longer permitted in
occupations where colored signals are employed and where human life
may depend upon the manner in which the signal is or is not understood,
as on railways and at sea.

A great number of color-blind are to be found employed in almost
every position on railways, without the defect in their chromatic sense
being suspected by themselves or others. Nay, more, a number of them,
far from being willing to acknowledge, even after the examination, the
existence of such a defect, urgently demand a new trial, even six or
seven, offering all kinds of pretexts to account for their repeated failures.
They all agree in declaring that they have excellent sight; that they
have never had the least difficulty in distinguishing signals, though they
have been employed for a long time and in the most important positions,
that for instance of engineer, and had never made the slightest mistake;
that the engineer is never the only one whose duty it is to watch the
signals. He has always near him a fireman, and in his neighborhood
an assistant engineer, a greaser, etc., who come to his aid at critical
moments. That must be a very rare case where all the officials are
affected with color-blindness.

Looking practically at the fact mentioned and the explanation given,
it might be imagined probably that color-blindness, although a subject
of scientific interest, could not possess any possible practical interest.
At least, it might be believed that all the stir which has been made in
our country about color-blindness amongst railway employés was founded
upon nothing real. Since it is proved (it may perhaps be urged) that the
color-blind have long been employed on railways and the defect never
remarked, withont any accident or even inconvenience resulting from
it, and finally since they can really learn to distinguish signals, although
otherwise than by colors, their kind of blindness should not legitimately
give rise to any preventive measures whatsoever. And doubtless a
great many still reason in this manner. ‘

We will not dwell here upon what experience has or has not proved
with regard to this in our country. The fact is certain that color-blind-
ness in other countries has caused numerous and serious accidents. And
even though experience should not have proved it in an absolute manner,
it would not be the less evident that in such cases no one has the right
to await a new experience of this kind before proceeding from words
to acts, inasmuch as it can be demonstrated that, in spite of the many
circumstances aiding the color-blind to obey signals, all danger is not
averted, and uncertainty still remains. Now, this is not difficult to
prove, for neither the fact that color-blind individuals have been long
employed on railways without causing accidents, or without the discov-
ery of the defect, nor the circumstances we have cited to explain this
fact, furnish the slightest ground for security.
ACCIDENTS BY RAIL AND SEA. 163
A color-blind individual of the typical kinds cannot distinguish red
from green. This is an undoubted fact, easily explained by theory and
adequately proved by experience. All that he asserts about differences
between these colors is founded consequently upon conjecture. But this.
manner of perceiving signals is attended by great uncertainty, and he
who guesses correctly in this manner in a certain number of special
cases must infallibly guess wrong in some cases. This is a principle
which does not rest on a theory, but which has been confirmed by our
experience without an exception in an examination of more than two
hundred color-blind persons, and its evidence could be extended far
beyond the limits to which we are confined here, or, in other words, to
the majority of the cases of incomplete color-blindness.
if a small amount of soot, smoke, vapor, ice, snow, etc., adhere to the
glass, the lantern shines less brightly. A lantern shines differently in
clear or foggy weather, etc. All this may give rise to mistakes. But,
on the other hand, the sensibility of the eye is very different according
to circumstances. The nervous organ of the eye may, like every other
part of the system, vary extremely in sensibility. The same light is to
the sound and rested eye stronger than to the weak and tired eye, etc.
But every modification of intensity of light is equivalent, to the color-
blind, to a change of color. All this proves how little reliance can be
placed upon tie knowledge of signals acquired by the color-blind by
practice.

IIL—REFORMS RELATING TO COLOR-BLINDNESS.

As we have shown already, the tendency of color-blindness to conceal
itself wheresoever it occurs, in all classes of society, especially in the lower,
may be regarded as one of its most remarkable peculiarities. It is
necessary to add still another circumstance: one whose color-blindness
has been disclosed, and who is thus himself made aware of his defect,
and who has been, as is so commonly the case, a subject of ridicule
to his acquaintances, is generally more than ever eager to conceal his
infirmity. The result of this is, in spite of all that has been written on
color-blindness, this affection of the sight, far from being recognized
as a fact belonging to every-day life, has been and still is considered by
the public as a legend about which anything desired could be believed.
The idea, at least, usually formed with regard to its frequency and prac-
tical importance, is far from corresponding with the reality. It is diffi-
cult to accustom one’s self to the idea of the necessity of refusing to
3% number of persons admission to a career which would afford them
means of subsistence, and, what is worse, to discharge from their present
position those who have performed their duties in an irreproachable
manner, and which have been to them and their families a legitimate
source of income.

Prompted by a just regard for the good of man, it is asked whether
164 COLOR-BLINDNESS IN 1TS RELATION TO

the difficulty in distinguishing colors experienced by certain individuals
may be corrected by exercise. And if this is not possible, it is natural
to conclude that more regard is due to the men than toa particular kind
of signals, since the latter is not absolutely essential, and consequently
may be changed if not adapted to the employés.

1.—INSTRUCTION AND EXERCISE OF THE PERSONNEL IN RECOGNIZ-
ING COLORS.

The importance of the habitual exercise of our senses generally should
not be underrated. As we are born with naturally sound organs of loco-
motion, and yet require to be taught to walk, so it is necessary to learn
to use our organs of sense; and when experience shows us that many
original defects of our organs of locomotion can be remedied as well as
those of our visual organs, we readily conceive the idea that this is also
possible with color-blindness. If it were the case, this would be, without
doubt, the most radical means possible for protecting railway lines, with-
out the necessity of displacing a single employé.

To avoid all misunderstanding, we must dwell upon the difference that
we have mentioned between the genuine perception of the color-blind
and the name he gives to the color of the objects. We have already seen
that a true name may often be united to a false perception, but it is evi-
dent, also, that just as the perception is anomalous, or merely uncertain,
the name must also be uncertain, as it is simply a conjecture. We do
not here allude to that acquired color-blindness which, casually occur-
ring, might also disappear, but to congenital color-blindness, let it be
understood.

We will endeavor to give some account here of what experience has
furnished on this subject, and first of all we will try to discover upon
what grounds it is claimed that color-blindness can be cured.

An effort has been made to derive one indication of this from the fact
that amongst the numerous instances of color-blindness that have been
discovered and mentioned by different writers since Huddart, there are
many more amongst men than women. It is concluded from this, in the
first place, that color-blindness is much more common amongst men than
women, and from this statistical fact, added to the undoubted experience
that women have more to do with colors from their very infancy than
men, from the nature of their clothing, etc., another inference is reached,
namely, that exercise assists in diminishing and counteracting color-
blindness. All this may be true, but the argument fails in more than
one particular. In the first place, it has not been at ali proved, we think,
that color-blindness is less common among women than men. The
majority of the cases of color-blindness described by writers have been
accidentally discovered, that is to say, without any special examination.
If we observe, first of all, that these are probably the most marked eases
of color-blindness, and also that they are usually not persons who have
much to do with colors (as these easily conceal their defect), it will be
“=

ACCIDENTS BY RAIL AND SEA. 165

readily understood why the female sex has furnished so small a proportion
to statistics. Again, in cases where experiments are made to discover
color-blindness, it is evidently much easier to find opportunities to ex-
amine menthan women. For the most part, those examined are soldiers,
students, agents of police, etc., it being difficult to find equal oppor-
tunities for examining women en masse. It is necessary to operate on
a large number to obtain very satisfactory statistics. The data we pos-
sess are furnished mainly by experiments among men. This is why we
venture to dispute what is usually admitted as a certain fact, that color-
blindness is more common among men than women, the necessary infor-
mation being so far wanting to establish such a fact. We must not
overlook the testimony of Prof. H. Dor on this subject, who examined
the very considerable number of 611 women at Berlin, amongst whom he
found only five color-blind, or little less, therefore, than 1 per cent., or
exactly 0.82 per cent. We do not desire in the least to deny the possi-
bility that color-blindness amongst women is less common; on the con-
trary, we think it even probable that this may be the case.

In using the statistics of the experiments thus far made on women, it is
important to observe carefully whether the method of scrutiny has been
such that previous exercise has not had some effect upon the result. For
if the method is founded upon the principle that those examined must be
interrogated as to the names of the colored objects presented to them,
and their chromatic sense judged according to the answer, it is clear
that the proportion of failures will be relatively less amongst women than
men, as they have much more practice. We are not certain that this
may not be the explanation of the result thus far obtained.

For anumber of years, Dr. Favre devoted himself to the study of color-
blindness amongst railway employés, and succeeded in introducing
reformatory measures on several railwaysin France. This circumstance,
and the manner, also, in which he has treated this subject from several
points of view, are more worthy of attention, since he has boldly pro-
nounced in favor of the curability of color-blindness by exercise, and
urged measures founded upon this principle. We will give his result
in the author’s own words:

“Out of one hundred and forty-six scholars, from seven to sixteen
years of age, belonging to two schools, one hundred and eleven named
the natural colors without error or hesitation; thirty-five made mistakes
in different degrees; twelve made serious mistakes with regard to sev-
eral colors; the errors of the others were with regard to orange, blue,
or violet; some were mistaken about all these three colors, others about
two, and some only about violet. These thirty-five children were sub-
jected by their instructors to repeated methodical exercises according
to the directions I had given them. One of the teachers cured all his
defective pupils; the duration of the treatment varying from two weeks
to six months. The other teacher had on the 2d of April of this year

only two patients out of eleven uncured.”
166 COLOR-BLINDNESS IN ITS RELATION TO

In an additional note, he adds: ‘This account of the treatment of
color-blindness must be brief on account of the object for which it is in-
tended ; but it may be necessary to set forth in a few words the process
in use in schools. I have simplified it as much as possible. The chief
point was to have the colors corresponding with those of the solar spec-
trum, that is, those generally designated by the names of violet, indigo,
blue, green, yellow, orange, and red. ‘The scale of colored wools that I
presented in large quantities to managers and agents of railways, to my
colleagues, to several teachers, male and female, and to individuals under
treatment, was thus arranged: five packages were composed of three
shades each—three shades of red; three of yellow, including orange; three
of green; three of blue, including indigo; three of violet; and besides one
package of white and one of black wool. The children are summoned
one after the other, and separately interrogated. The examination of
those who are without this defect, and are well trained, is soon made.
Those who hesitate or trip should be treated with great indulgence, and
set straight, if I may so express it, and if their errors are not easily cor-
rected, their answers are accurately noted down. The master then, in
another lesson, shows and names the colors to the children, and makes
them repeat with him. It is important not to make the inexpert pupil
an object of ridicule or even of attention to bis companions. The
lesson should be repeated every three or four days until he is quite cer-
tain that the idea of colors is well established. The training is com-
pleted by making them name the color of the various objects within
reach of the master; flowers, fabrics, geographical maps, ete. Ourpupils
will not be able to distinguish the 14,420 tints established by M.
Chevreul, but they will have acquired the indispensable mimimum; they
will know the a, b, ec, of the science of colors.”

What we have just quoted cannot essentially change the view we
have adopted and described in the preceding pages. ‘To demonstrate
the curability of color-blindness, it is indispensable to prove, first, that
the treatment is applied to those whose deficiency has been duly estab-
lished, and, in the second place, that these same at the end of the treat-
ment have a normal chromatic sense, or at least are not color-blind.

Dr. Favre’s pamphlet does not furnish us on these points with sufficient
evidence. We cannot, from our point of view, have much confidence
in the method of investigation employed by Dr. Favre. It is not only
possible, but even extremely probable, that ignorance and a want of prac-
tice might pass for color-blindness, and especially as the examination is
that of children. That there were among the individuals under Dr.
Favre’s treatment some cases of genuine color-blindness would appear
from the fact that two children, a year after beginning the training, had
not succeeded in learning the task imposed, which nevertheless does
not seem to present insurmountable difficulties, even in instances of per-
sons really color-blind.

In brief, without attempting to deny the curability of color-blindness

_——

= ee eee
ACCIDENTS BY RAIL AND SEA. 6%

theoretically or practically, we maintain that not one positive proof of it
has so far been produced.

It is a significant fact that individuals who have themselves discov-
ered their own chromatic blindness, and have been very much interested
in it, having reflected and experimented, and consequently exercised
themselves much in colors, have nevertheless retained their anomalous
perception, such as it was in the beginning, for many years, indeed, as
long as they lived. Such was the case with Harris, who himself discov-
ered his defect at the age of four years, and studied it with much inter-
est, but never succeeded in correcting it. Milne was found by Wilson to
be as color-blind at Edinburgh in 1854 as he was thirty years before,
when Combe examined him. Such was also the case with Professor
N. , examined twenty years before by Sir David Brewster. But
such was especially Dalton’s case, who has thrown much light upon
the subject. No one will deny that if exercise in colors can cure chro-
matic blindness, Dalton would have been cured, and yet it must be ac-
knowledged that at the meeting of the British Association at Oxford
in 1832 he then compared a scarlet red to the leaves of trees, proving him
to be as color-blind as in 1792, the date of the discovery of his color-
blindness, and as far as his friends could observe he continued so to
the end of his life (1844).

The history of science tells us of cases of persons completely blind who
can easily and correctly distinguish wool of different colors by means of
other senses, smell, taste, or touch. The power of touch in this case
deserves especial attention, as it is exactly adapted to the kind of quali-
ties now interesting us. The close connection between touch and sight
in determining whether an object is smooth, rough, etc., is well known.
The assistance which these two senses render each other in a gen-
eral appreciation of everything in space is not less well known.
These are the very qualities, beyond any doubt, that the color-blind call —
to their aid to supply the place of colors. This is why many color-blind
are seen placing the samples of wool in different lights, bringing them
quite close to the eye and in different angles to the visual axis. But
we have heard many color-blind, who knew the difference between red
and green, or purple and green, frankly acknowledge that they only
recognized them because one colored wool was coarser, harsher, or
rougher than the other. Consequently it is not the color, that is, the
quality of the reflected light, but the coloring matter and its peculiar
effects upon the wool, which were to them the distinguishing features.
As the result of our investigation we can state that exercise is certainly
not without value, but is more useful in other respects than in curing
color-blindness, or in removing the causes of the mistakes made by the
color-blind with regard to the colors of signals. We maintain, therefore,
that not one case has been sufficiently established to prove that a genuine
case of color-blindness has ever been cured by exercise.

But it in no wise follows, we repeat, that we deny the possibility of

168 COLOR-BLINDNESS IN ITS RELATION TO

improvement in cases where the corresponding organs are not wanting,
but are simply deficient in sensibility. Moreover, we are very much in-
debted to Dr. Favre for having interested himselfin the question of the
treatment of congenital color-blindness, and also for having undertaken
the work of applying this treatment. If this idea is generally admitted,
it will, without any doubt, produce excellent fruits, among others that
of introducing examinations into schools, so that color-blindness will be
discovered in time to be cured, if thatis really possible, or if not, that its
subjects may be enabled to choose a career in which their infirmity will
not be attended by inconvenience or danger. This is, moreover, the only
means by which we can reach a perfectly decisive answer to the extremely
important question, whether or to what degree color-blindness may be
improved or cured. But it is also evident that the more important the
answer to this question, practically, the more does its solution require
critical methods and rigid investigation and control in order that when
the answer is once obtained no doubt may be cast upon its accuraey.
On the other hand, we oppose in the most positive manner every
measure relating to railway officials, sailors, ete., founded upon the idea
of the curability of color-blindness, until this question has been perfectly
established by an affirmative answer. It is evident that otherwise not
only is the danger of employing the color-blind on railways, ete., not
diminished, but also that the introduction of a radical reform in this
matter is impeded. When Dr. Favre requests that the personnel on
railways and in the navy, ete., be exercised in distinguishing colors,
this demand, favorably received, can only lead to the admission of the
color-blind to the positions in question ; and then under the assurance
that their congenital defect may be cured, they are watched over until
they acquire the necessary amount of training. According to our opinion,
such a measure is positively dangerous, because it merely lulls the
authorities with the belief that the color-blind can cause no accident,
while in reality their defect is exactly where it was before, and, owing
to the exercise, has only become more difficult to detect, if for this pur-
pose a defective method is adopted.’ From this point of view it is
apparent that exercise, far from removing the danger, only increases it.
It may be answered indeed that, owing to exercise, the color-blind will
less frequently confound the signals than they will without exercise, and
this we willingly grant. But, on the other side, it is evident there should
be no question here of an alleviation, but of a radical correction. The
danger of employing the color-blind on railways or at sea once well
established, it is necessary, it seems to us, to take measures for com-
pletely removing the danger, if possible. If comparative security can
satisfy, we already have it, either from the fact that all the officials cannot
be color-blind, or that the majority of such do not usually cause accidents.
But it is precisely the desire to save the communications from this state
of uncertainty that has inspired us with the idea of taking measures
against it, and we believe that we have proved by what we have said that

ACCIDENTS BY RAIL AND SEA. 169

any reform that can be introduced at present in this matter should be
established just as if it were already decisively proved that color-blind-
ness is incurable. It is therefore this hypothesis that we intend to apply
in what follows.

2.—MODIFICATION OF THE SIGNAL SYSTEM.

(a) Other colors for signals.—If congenital color-blindness is incurable,
or at least if we know no actual remedy for it, it is necessary to devise
some other method (while retaining the color-blind in the employment
of railways) of guaranteeing the communications against any mistakes
they might commit with regard to signals. It is seen by what precedes
that these errors can and must occur in the use of the signal colors
generally alopted, red, green (and yellow). This choice seems there-
fore unfortunate. Wilson is of the same opinion. When red and green
eolor-blindness are the kinds of complete or typical partial blindness
which are most generally seen, it would seem that the difficulty might
be considerably diminished, if, in place of using the actual colors, those
should be selected best suited to these kinds of color-blindness, although
they might not suit the third kind of typical partial color-blindness or
violet-blindness, which, according to the experience acquired up to the
present time, is much more uncommon.

Undoubtedly, the principle we have endeavored to establish would not be
radically enforced, but the practical result at least would be comparatively
nearly accomplished. As the color-blind has but two principal colors, or
two classes to which he can refer all the colors, it is evident that to select
two colors that he can recognize and distinguish without the least hesita-
tion, it would be necessary to select one from each class. “In this way, itis
always possible to bear in mind that each kind of color-blindness will
always be able to find twocolors distinctly defined, but not more than two.
It is therefore necessary first to ask how far two colors for signals could
satisfy the demands of railways and the navy. As regards railways,
it is claimed, and it may be conceded, that, in case of necessity, and
perhaps without too great inconvenience, two colors might be made
to answer. It is certain that three colors are a great improvement
upon two. Let us admit, however, that two colors would answer, and
that it were desired to sacrifice the advantage of three colors for an-
other advantage, namely, that of retaining in the service of railways the
color- blind, there will still remain the necessity of making a good selec-
tion of these two colors. This is more easily said than done. The choice
must be so made that one color may be selected from each of the two
groups in which all the colors are classed according to the system for the
eolor-blind. Now, it is found, as we have already seen in the instances
of the principal colors of the red and green blind, that, amongst the seven
colors of the rainbow perceptible to the normal observer, four, namely,
red, orange, yellow, and green, belong to one class, and three, especially
blue, indigo, and violet, to the second. Consequently, one of the colors
170 COLOR-BLINDNESS IN ITS RELATION TO

must be red, orange, yellow, or green, and the other blue, indigo, or violet.
It should very naturally be our object to give the preference in the
selection to the colors which most strongly affect the eye at the time of
the comparison. Now, the most intense colors of the spectrum, that is
to say, the most vivid colors which enter into the white light of the sun,
are yellow and blue, one of each of the two groups. We then select them,
the more willingly, that the light of the lantern is, without any prepara-
tion, and to a very high degree, yellow, though it is not homogeneous.
But we are far from being so fortunate with regard to blue. We here
encounter a difficulty, on the contrary, which induces us to doubt
whether a change of colors will accomplish the desired end.

On all colored surfaces—flags, paintings, semaphores, etc.—employed
by railways to reflect during the day the sunlight or daylight, the pro-
posed colors answer perfectly without any doubt, and, in all probability, no
color-blind individual of the kinds specified would nominally make mis-
takes of judgment. But the night-signals are quite another matter, and
are by far more important for many reasons. This is therefore why we
prefer to attach here so much importance to them, as during the day a
multitude of different circumstances might give warning of danger,
while during the night the colored light is the only signal which indi-
cates it.

The colored lights used for night-signals are made, as all know, by plac-
ing colored glass before the flame of a lantern. The use of Bengal lights
as regular signals could scarcely be introduced into practice. Now, a
colored glass produces a colored light, because, of all the kinds of light
radiated from the flame, but one kind (or, at least, mainly one kind) is
allowed to escape, while all the others, or a greater part of the others,
are absorbed by the glass. Thus, blue glass, according to its thickness
or degree of coloring, absorbs all the other kinds of light emitted by the
flame of the lantern, allowing only the blue rays to escape. But, un-
fortunately, as is well known by direct experience, the flame of the lan-
tern emits comparatively but a small amount of blue light when rape-
seed oil and photogene, or generally any of our ordinary sources of
artificial light, are employed ; and this is why all appear yellow or red
when compared with the light of day. Under such circumstances, blue
glass can naturally transmit only a small amount of blue light; and the
light of a blue lantern must consequently always be very feebly lumi-
nous.

What we have just said of blue applies equally to indigo and violet.
The proposed changes of the colors of signals furnishes, therefore,
but two colors in place of three; and then one is a very feeble light,
so that it is difficult to see it far off so long as it is sufficiently colored.
This state of things scarcely holds out much inducement to introduce a
reform of this nature. And it seems the more dengerous that this change
of colors in the signals would cause those with normal sight amongst the
personnel to run the same risk that the really color-blind do; I mean that
ACCIDENTS. BY RAIL AND SEA. Jags

they would be forced to distinguish and judge the night-signals alone
by the intensity of the light.

The result of all that we have just said is, it seems to us, that the
proposed change of the signal colors is not very practical, and such
would be the case with any other choice of two colors. It must at least be
conceded that the new signal colors would be to every normal observer
worse than those now in use with us, as with nearly all nations; in
brief, if they were adopted, it would diminish the public safety. We
must add that, by adopting them, the principle we have explained
is not taken into consideration, according to which it is necessary to
use a system of signals adapted to all kinds of color-blindness, since
the violet-blind are not able to distinguish between yellow and blue.
The proposed change should therefore be rejected, it seems to us, on
every practical consideration.

(b) Colorless light and darkness, black and white.-—It has been seen
that it is impossible to hope for colored signals suiting every one,
color-blind or not; it becomes necessary, therefore, to try to devise a
plan for establishing a system of signals independent of colors, and
based upon the introduction of a colorless light of different degrees of
intensity. While there is nothing more sensible to our sight than the
relative intensity of two lights placed side by side (when the absolute
intensity does not exceed certain limits), in the present case the
only comparison involved is made from memory, so to speak, which
is equivalent almost to an appreciation of the absolute intensity
of light. We are so far from being able to judge of this, that, in spite
of a deeply felt need and constant efforts, science even has not suc-
ceeded in discovering suitable measures to apply to it.

It is, however, necessary to acknowledge here that a system of signals
based only on two extremes of intensity of light, namely, on light and
darkness, white and black, ought to suit the normal observer as well as
the color-blind. Moreover, such a system ought to satisfy all exigencies,
provided it is practically applied, and that two signals only are sufficient.
A white and black flag, etc., would fully suffice during the day; but
such would unfortunately not be the case at night, for a black light is
a contradiction of terms, and it would be necessary, consequently, ac-
cording to this system for the night, when signals are of the greatest
importance, to be limited not to three, but to one signal only, unless the
absence of all signals could be considered as one. Here it might be
well asked, whether the better system is not that which is based on the
alternations of darkness and light, that is, movable signals or eclipsed
signal-lights. As far as we know, no system has yet been discovered,
based upon the principles alluded to above, which could advantageously
take the place of the one actually in use.

(c) Form, movement, number.—If we do not succeed in finding a suit-
able system of signals, based on the differences of the quality and quan-
tity of light, there remains but to appeal to some arrangement in space,
Lie - COLOR-BLINDNESS IN ITS RELATION TO

if absolutely limited to the visual sense. Many different ways suggest
themselves of varying the signals by form and arrangement in space:
large brilliant surfaces arranged in different forms; several small lights
grouped in different positions with reference to each other; lights sim-
ply disposed, but differing in value as signals according to their number,
or else illuminated figures of simple colors, and produced by different
movements, and soon. A practical difficulty seems to be connected
with such a system; the signals require the illuminated surfaces to be
large enough, or placed at distanees considerable enough between the
luminous points, to appear distinctly afar off; now the larger such a fig-
ure, having the outlines marked with luminous points, the greater the
risk that a portion of it be hidden by other objects intervening between
it and the eye. These two inconveniences must be apparent, particu-
larly if these surfaces and illuminated figures have to be placed at every
point where colored lanterns are found, as for example on locomotives
and ears.

If the system of signals were based upon form, and all persons dis-
charged from the service of railways who, in consequence of an imperfec-
tion of vision, could not clearly and decidedly distinguish these signals at
a distance, the proportion of such would be larger than that of the color-
blind. ‘To form an idea of the different capacities of the normal eye in
the various senses just mentioned, we will recommend a very simple ex-
periment. Take something, colored paper, for example; make some plain
figures, such as letters, one of which must be attached vertically to a
large black or white surface. To prevent any distraction from subject-
ive influences, let some one else select and attach this letter, while the
observer stands at such a distance that even with the eye directed
toward it but a single object can be seen. If the letters are small, it is
not necessary that the distance should be very great. Then if the sym-
bol be slowly approached, with the eye fixed on the colored surface, the
following observations in the order in which the different impressions
succeed each other will be made. When the letter is first perceived,
neither form nor color can be distinguished ; nothing is seen but a point
or patch darker than the background, if that be white, or lighter, if it
be black. The first attribute remarked, as the distance diminishes, is its
color. When the color is very distinet, it is necessary to approach con-
siderably nearer before the form is perceptible, that is to say, before this
letter can be read, and its name given. This simple experiment clearly
shows that the eye, as far as it is possible to compare its capacities in differ-
ent directions, is first sensible to the relative intensity of light, then to
color, and finally to form. It would be necessary, of course, to consider
various circumstances relative to the choice of color, form, ete., if the
experiment should be made with exactness to serve as a basis for a
scientific demonstration. It would appear therefore that a system of

signals based on the power of distinguishing light from darkness is less .

suitable than the one now in use; not ouly because this is based upon

———————e —

OO Ee ee
ACCIDENTS BY RAIL AND SEA. Ik te

the principle of the difference in the quality of light, that is to say, on
color, but because, in the application, the very colors have been chosen
which in practice are the best adapted to the object in view. Expe-
rience also seems {o have decided in favor of this system, since in spite
of the substitutes proposed with a view to retain the color-blind, it has
up to the present time maintained its ascendency, so to speak, through-
out the entire world.

3.—DISMISSAL OF THE COLOR-BLIND.

It now remains to solve the question of what reform is preferable. Is
it necessary, in order to facilitate the free admission of all classes of
color-blind to the service of railways, to change a system of signals
recognized as the best and generally accepted, or, continuing the system,
to discard the incompetent? It is manifest, from what we have just said,
which measure is most conducive to the safety of railway lines. All
depends upon knowing whether, from solicitude for the color-blind, any
measures tending to diminish systematically or on principle this security
should be countenanced. We are fortunately accustomed to accepting
the maxim that private interest must yield to the general welfare. The
proportion of color-blindness in the population of a country is relatively
very small. It is true that railway employés are not made for signals,
but the signals for them; yet it is no less certain that in this matter the
first consideration must be the public good, and not a personal advan-
tage. It is, without doubt, very praiseworthy to desire that any one
afflicted with a congenital defect, for which he is not responsible, should
not be debarred from entering every career open to those more favored by
nature. But this case is not peculiar, for there are many other careers
to which every one has not access for want of the natural ability requi-
site for the efficient discharge of the duty; and there'are numbers of
persons who, in consequence of some natural defect, cannot be admitted
into even the most common occupations. We will, therefore, maintain
the position that, as long as the existing system of signals used on rail-
ways is considered in almost all respects the best known, it is indis-
pensable that no one incapable of rapidly and accurately distinguishing
red, green, and yellow should be allowed to fill any position on railways
involving any connection with colored signals.

IV.—GENERAL PRINCIPLES AND PLAN OF CONTROL OF
THE CHROMATIC SENSE.

It is, of course, to the interest of railways not to take into their ser-
vice persons having any degree of defect in their chromatic sense. It
must be acknowledged tbat in several posts on railways, the observation
of signals is not considered an indispensable requisite; but as it is, at least,
unfortunate to have an employé who can not, in case of need, attend to
the signals, we consider this reason alone as quite sufficient. For no one,
174 COLOR-BLINDNESS IN ITS RELATION TO

and still jess a color-blind individual, could be regarded as born espe-
cially for a railway employé. Numerous other vocations are open to the
color-blind, although they might, on account of this defect, run the risk
of finding themselves excluded from many occupations where color-
blindness is much less injurious than to railways. Hence, we conclude
that the decision to be adopted in this matter must be comparatively
very stringent, that is to say, that a relatively slight defect of the chromatie
sense must suffice to prohibit admission to the service of railways.

The question is quite a different one with respect to those already
employed on railways, and other points must be weighed. It may be
necessary, perhaps, to remove them from a position which suits them,
and where they have earned a livelihood, and performed their duties in
the most irreproachable and decorous manner. Jt is just, therefore, that
the least severe principles be applied, and their personal interests as much as
possible considered without violating the requirements for the safety of the line.

In this case, no one should be dismissed without plausible reasons,
and when any such exist, the employés to be discharged should be trea-
ted with as much consideration as possible, and receive a legitimate
compensation for their loss by the offer of another place or a pension.

In order to secure an intelligent supervision and control, each employé
should submit to a rigorous examination of the chromatic sense, that
there might not be the slightest doubt as to the nature of its capacity.
To be able to attain this end in a perfectly certain and at the same time
practical manner, while creating as few difficulties as possible, is with-
out doubt the most difficult part of the reform to execute. It is admit-
ted as a fact that color-blindness may manifest itself in persons formerly
endowed with a perfectly normal chromatic sense. This is what is
called acquired or pathological color-blindness, only lately known, and
far from being as much studied as the congenital defect. It would be
perhaps more suitable for our practical purpose to divide pathological
color-blindness into two classes, one of which might be called general or
regular, and the other local or irregular. We will understand, by the
first term, that kind of pathological blindness due to general causes, and
usually concentrically disposed about the yellow spot; and, by the second,
that which is produced by local causes, and appears eccentrically placed
in the visual field, or having its center in the blind spot. This last class
should not belong to the subdivision now occupying us, principally because
it rarely appears in such a degree as to be able to occasion any danger to
railways. There is no doubt but that this acquired blindness really exists.
Dr. Favre and several other writers have especially devoted themselves to
this form of color-blindness amongst railway employés; they have pointed
out several causes to which it is due, and proposed measures for discov-
ering it. Itis of the highest importance here, it seems to us, that per-
feetly certain methods of investigation should be employed. Dr. Stilling
justly remarks that the great frequency of congenital color-blindness
constitutes one of the principal difficulties encountered in obtaining an

eee
ACCIDENTS BY- RAIL AND SEA. 175

accurate knowledge of pathological blindness. It is also plain that in
cases where pathological color-blindness might be confounded with con-
genital blindness, there is no means of arriving at a knowledge of its true
nature, unless in an individual who, after a rigid examination pre-
viously made by a trustworthy method, had been found to possess a
normal sense of vision. But it can scarcely be admitted that there have
been any such cases amongst those hitherto cited. But there is no better
way of definitely solving this question than by systematically organiz-
ing observations and repeated examinations on railways where all the
personnel have been previously examined. On this point, among many
others, the interests of science and those of the public go hand in hand.

Within the last few years sufficiently positive information has been
gathered to be able to form a fixed plan for enlarging these examinations.
Dr. Favre tells us—according to his experience and that of several of
his colleagues—that common causes of color-blindness are contusions,
serious illnesses, such as typhoid fever, etc., and the abuse of strong
liquors.

After every accident by rail or at sea, from collision, etc., where mis-
takesin distinguishing colors have been the principal or secondary causes,
not only the personnel present at the time of the accident, but also all
who have to give testimony about the signals, should be subjected to a
rigorous examination. The necessity of this measure must be evident
from what has been said before. Itis absurd to condemn any one because
some one who is blind says he has seen him violate the law, or to excul-
pate him because the blind person has seen him fulfill thislaw. To solve
the problems involved, it is necessary to make periodic examinations,
Ist, of every one who has a chromatic sense already acknowledged as
defective; 2d, of all who have had contusions, ete. ; and, 3d, of the whole
personnel, to discover any color-blindness that may have arisen without
apparent cause. The result of all that has been said is, that it is abso-
lutely necessary that the directors and principals should be perfectly
familiar with the nature of the chromatic sense of each one of their
subordinates.

V.—SHORT CRITICISM OF THE USUAL METHODS OF
INVESTIGATION.

Our exposition of color-blindness has shown, we hope, that, in spite
of its wide divergence from the normal chromatic sense, it is not so
easily discovered as one might imagine; quite the contrary. Just in
proportion to the increase of our knowledge of color-blindness and the
_ peculiarities of its subjects have we been led to establish different
methods for its discovery. Several already exist, which differ from each
other in the very principle upon which they rest or in the application
ot this principle.

Supposing the usual signal-lights be presented, one after the other,
176 COLOR-BLINDNESS IN ITS RELATION TO

to the person examined, he being required to name the colors or their
value as signals, his chromatic sense could not be judged by his answer.
For we have seen, on one side, that the color-blind can guess correctly
in such cases, and, on the other hand, it is scarcely necessary to say that
the normal observer might make a mistake in the name, either from negli-
gence, through inattention, or simply by a lapsus lingue. How many
times, then, must the trial be repeated to secure positive results? How
often must the individual make mistakes to be considered color-blind ?
How many times may he make them without being considered color-
blind? Evidently there is no categorical answer to these questions. We
are therefore authorized to conclude that the examination by means of
railway-lanterns, for discovering color-blindness, must be considered for
several essential reasons as an impracticable method, and consequently
to be rejected. The use of flags, for the same purpose, is still worse.
A general principle, applying to every examination of the chromatic
sense, is that such examination should not at first endeavor to trace the
connection of the chromatic sense with signals of any kind whatsoever,
but have in view only the discovery as to whether the subject is or is
not color-blind, or whether the chromatic sense is defective or normal.
While none of the various methods proposed can be condemned as ab-
solutely barren, there are several which, used alone, never give positive
results, or give them only in a limited number of cases, or else cause
so great a loss of time, and are so inconvenient, that they ought to be
rejected from this consideration alone. We class amongst these methods
all those which, as in the examination by means of the lantern, have a
tendency, in principle, to place before the one to be examined different
colors or colored objects to be named by him. The real question is not
to discover the degree of skill comparatively attained by each one in
correctly naming the colors, but the manner in which he sees them, or,
in other words, the nature of his chromatic sense. Any method fulfill-
ing this requirement must, in principle, be based upon the comparison
between different colors, and an investigation into the causes of the con-
fusion of the color-blind about several of them.

An example will more clearly illustrate our idea and show its impor-
tanee. Let us take a green-blind individual ; we know by experience
that he confuses or finds a perfect resemblance between the shades of
three colors very different to the normal eye. I allude topurple, green,
and gray. The reason of this is very simple according to the theory;
the green-blind is void of the organ for perceiving green. Purple, green,
and gray are, in reality, the same color to theeye of the green-blind,
but he has heard three names given to these colors under different cir-
cumstances. The result of this will be that he willin his turn designate
this color sometimes by one and sometimes by another of these names,
or else be will only use one, especially the one he first remarked or heard
most frequently applied to this color. If the subject use all three names,
he will apply them correctly in some instances and incorrectly in others.
ACCIDENTS BY RAIL AND SEA. IEEE

But if he employ a single name, it might in a consequent manner be,
according to the case, purple (improperly called red), green, or gray. Sup-
posing that heuses “ green,” according to the denominating method, his
chromatic sense will be judged as imperfect for purple and for gray, but
as correct for greem

From our point of view, therefore, Dr. Favre’s method does not seem
satisfactory. Besides, not appearing to us certain, and not supplying
us with any basis for a useful classification, it requires more time than
isexpedient; nevertheless, this principle seems usually applied in France
and England.

Dr. Stillings’s method is also founded upon the designation of colors,
and, if for no other reason, it should, we think, be condemned. ‘This
method is based upon the principle of colored shadows. Before a bril-
liant light in a dark room a colored glass is held, so that the light, pass-
ing through the glass, and in consequence colored by absorption, strikes
a white surface, a sheet of paper for instance, at right angles. In the
neighborhood of this sheet, and between it and the glass, a slender
and opaque object, a pencil, say, is held in such a manner that its
shadow distinetly falls upon the paper. This shadow then seems tinted
with the complementary color of the glass, that is to say, it shows the
different shades of purple or red if the glass is green; green or blue-
green if the glass is red, etc., in accordance with the Young-Helmholtz
theory. According to Dr. Stilling, the color-blind will be recognized by
the fact that the shadow in question appears to him uncolored, black
or gray, while to the normal observer it assumes the contrasted color, and
the diagnosis is established according to the names applied to the colors
of the shadows by the color-blind. It must be evident that his method
deserves very little confidence, and that it simply depends upona chance,
whether after such a proof a normal observer may not, be declared
color-blind. Besides, as the judgment is based upon the name given to
the colored shadow by the subject examined, it may readily happen
also that a color-blind person may be declared to have normal sight, if,
as is often the case, he guess the true name of the color. Briefly, then,
this method is not sure under this form. This judgment is not founded
merely upon theoretic reasons, but also upon a large number of direct
experiments, and is also confirmed by the examples cited by Dr. Stil-
ling himself.

It does not, however, follow that colored shadows may not be used in
the examination of the chromatic sense, if so arranged that the exam-
iner can perfectly regulate the light according to his pleasure. Accord-
ing to my method, with mirrors and two lights, a comparison between
two colors may be established. The green-blind here finds, as elsewhere,
a resemblance between a certain shade of green and purple, ete. As
by this method the intensity of the light may be exactly regulated, the
feeble perception may also be relatively determined. The experiment

we paves ete about this declares in favor of the Young-Helmholtz
28 ;
178 COLOR-BLINDNESS IN ITS RELATION TO

theory, but it has besides convinced us that the colored shadows are
not suitable for the discovery in the first instance of color-blindness.
This is the same case with Ragona Scina’s method of representing com-
plementary colors; and also that of Rose, which, Sees a strongly
resembles the recat

After having named the processes which, acperacie to our convic-
tions, are not suitable for the end in view, we must mention two other
inetnods which thoroughly supply us with the information wanted.
One is due to Seebeck; the other to Maxwell. They are both founded
on the comparison of colors, and do not assume either any knowledge
or any use of the names of colors, which is, we think, an essential
advantage.,

Maxwell’s method consists inrepresenting two colors on a rotatory disk,
to be compared by the person under examination, the tints, degree of
“saturation,” and intensity of light of which may be changed at will.
They can be modified, until, to the color-blind, they attain an absolute
resemblance. The chromatic sense is then judged by its dissimilarity to
that of the normal eye. It is in this that the force and accuracy of the
method consist. It shows us with certainty how the subject sees the
colors aS compared with each other. The Young-Helmholtz theory is
confirmed by Maxwell’s method, as this shows us that, by the aid of
only two primitive colors, we can exhaust the whole chromatic scale of
the color-blind.

Seebeck’s method consists in making the individual to be examined
classify a number of colored objects according to their reciprocal resem-
blance or dissimilarity. In this way, we have at once a complete picture
of the person’s chromatic sense. We learn what colors he distinguishes
and which he confounds. By this method, also, we can know how he
sees colors in their relations to each other. But, although these two
methods are perfectly reliable, they are not entirely suitable for a practi-
cal purpose, because they require much time and are very inconvenient,—
that of Maxwell for the examiner and that of Seebeck for the examined.
He who has examined a large number of color-blind by Maxwell’s
method knows only too well how much time this investigation consumes,
in however incomplete a manneritis made. This arises from the extreme
affectation of precision by the color-blind. It is not difficult for one
with normal sight to point out two similar colors on the rotatory
disk, because the essential point is the resemblance in the tint of the
color. But the color-blind person who cannot perceive this tint re-
quires a complete resemblance in the intensity of light or in the degree
of “‘saturation,” and in this lies the difficulty. His appreciation often
depends upon the addition of a minimum of white or black, which is to
him of the greatest importance, although the normal observer cannot per-
ceive any difference. We may add that the method is very fatiguing
and inconvenient to the examiner, on account of the continual changes
made in the colors, and the incessant work that the rotation of the
ACCIDENTS BY RAIL AND SEA. 179

apparatus necessitates. Finally, if we state that the apparatus is some-
what expensive, and is comparatively difficult to transport, it will suffice,
it seems to us, to condemn its use as a method of the first order when it
is required to make the examination on a multitude.

The method of Seebeck causes much loss of time by obliging those
examined to classify a large number of colored objects. This is not an
easy task for them. It not only progresses very slowly, requiring per-
haps an hour, but costs much trouble and evident effort. One may
obtain a tolerably clear idea of this by attempting to do the same work.
with the use of blue-green eyeglasses. The colors are then seen and
classified very nearly as they are by the red-blind, and almost the same:
difficulty is experienced. Seebeck’s method, however, is superior to
Maxwell’s in this, that it requires the subject to make an active use of
his chromatic sense, while the other allows him to remain passive, and
merely announce his decision. Both methods, however, require too
much time to be employed with advantage for the purpose in question.
But they are the best methods known to us at present.

The perimetric exploration with Forster’s apparatus may be excellent
in more than one case for examining those before examined, but it is
not advisable alone and as a primitive method. It is even inapplicable
to some persons; it entails much loss of time, requires much exertion on
the part of the one examined, and requires an expensive instrument,
which is besides very inconvenient for transportation.

It may be very interesting scientifically to use the spectrum for exam-
ining the color-blind; but this method is not very appropriate for
practical purposes ; it requires costly apparatus, and different arrange-
ments, which render it more or less long and inconvenient. It does not
enter into our plan to give an account here of all the known methods
that may be used in the first inspection, or when desired to establish a
test for examination. We shall limit ourselves to the examples cited,
and to explain in a special chapter the method we have ourselves used,
‘and which of all tried seems to us best adapted to the purpose.

VI—NEW PRACTICAL METHOD FOR DISCOVERING AND
DETERMINING DEFECTS OF THE CHROMATIC SENSE.

The method we are going to describe here has been employed in all
the examinations of the chromatie sense of the different classes of the
population which have been made in Sweden.

1.—A SHORT SKETCH OF THE GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE METHOD.

Theoretically, our method most resembles those of Seebeck and Max-
well, as itis based upon a comparison between different colors. It there-
fore first seeks to discover the chromatic perception of the subject, disre-
garding the names he gives to the colors, as generally it is not neces-
sary he should designate the names. Our method resembles Seebeck’s
180 ’ GCOLOR-BLINDNESS IN ITS RELATION TO

most in this, that it does not require a special apparatus for preparing the
necessary tints for the examination; it assumes there will be a supply of
objects of different colors provided inadvanee. It agrees again with this
method in not allowing, as Maxwell’s does, the person examined to remain
passive, and simply give his opinion of the resemblance or dissimilarity
of the shades indicated, but requires him to discriminate and select the
shades, and in consequence reveal by an act the nature of his chromatic
sense. But practically our method differs essentially from Seebeck’s.
His certainly gives, in a certain sense, more complete results than ours
by requiring the subject to thoroughly clessify, in accordance with their
reciprocal resemblances and dissimilarities, the various differently col-
ored objects placed before him. A complete table of his whole system
of colors is the result of this. Our method, on the contrary, requires the
person examined to select, amongst a large number of variously colored
objects, those alone which resemble the sample shown him by the ex-
aminer. The difference is evident. Seebeck’s method is, without any
doubt, preferable when the nature of the color-blindness in the aggregate
is to be considered ; that is, so long as this is yet unknown. His method
then gives a more complete idea than ours of the nature of the color-blind-
ness. But for our actual purpose, the main question is to discover a
defect,with the entire nature of which we are acquainted in advance.
Our practical mission then is evidently to discover, if possible, some cer-
tain sign which will enable us to accomplish this end by the shortest pos-
sible route. If a single proof which would detect the color-blind as
certainly as if he revealed to us his entire system of colors were discovered,
this would undoubtedly be the method preferred to any other, as it would
accomplish the object much more quickly and easily. This is the case
with our method. We are far from denying, in general, the value of a
thorough examination, but we will say that it may sometimes be super-
fluous. Its practical advantage will not be very great, if at the cost of
a great loss of time, and it may even be prejudicial, if, under a multitude
of details, it conceal what is essential; in a word, prevents our ‘seeing
the city ou account of the houses.” All this may be applied to Seebeck’s
method, when the object in view is the one of which we are in
pursuit. Our method again endeavors to seize as rapidly as possible
one or two essential characteristics while neglecting all the others. A
single caudal feather of the peacock reveals whence it came; a single
flower or fruit, the plant whence it was plucked; and the genus man is
recognized if we can but see a face. It is only when the face is muti-
lated, the flowers, fruits, and caudal feather are defective, that in certain
cases it is necessary to have recourse to other characteristics. Our
method rests upon these principles; it also offers the same security as
Seebeck’s. But, as regards the time necessary to accomplish the exami-
nation, it bears nearly the same relation to that of the learned German,
that a minute does to an hour. This may seem a very trifling matter
at the first glance, but is in reality of immense practical importance

ACCIDENTS BY. RAIL AND SBA. 181

when a multitude of persons are to be successively examined. A simple
calculation shows us in fact that an examination requiring one day by
our method would require two months by Seebeck’s.

It is but just to.acknowledge that it was only by weighing the results
obtained by Seebeck’s method and following the Young-Helmholtz
theory, as well as the principles we have indicated as indispensable to
a practical method, that we have succeeded in formulating our own
method, such as we shall explain it in what follows. We also will re-
mark that it is very simple and easily mastered; but we think this is
likewise often the case with all that is useful and practical, and that
simplicity offers great advantages. We prefer this method because it
seems to us more than any other to fulfill the conditions we have
pointed out as necessary to a practical method, namely, certainty, rapid-
ity, and convenience. The only inconvenience of any moment besides
those it has in common with a greater part of the others is that it re-
quires daylight. It can undoubtedly be used by artificial light (elec-
trical and calcium lights, and certain arrangements of lamp-lights with
blue glass), but this causes much loss of time.

After this rapid sketch of the general principles of the method, we
will proceed to give its details, and shall not fail to mention generally
the reasons why, amongst several possibilities, we have selected this or
that process.

2.—THE MATERIAL AND ITS ARRANGEMENT.

Our method demands neither costly apparatus nor a special place for
the examination. The only necessary elements are a number of variously
colored objects. It consists in taking one from a number of ol:jects pro-
miscuously thrown together, and asking the person examined to select
from amongst them all the others corresponding with the first in color.
With regard to the colored objects, it of course matters little in principle
what their nature is, as, in the main, the method never changes, no mat-
ter what the kind selected. But, practically, the choice is by no means
a matter of indifference. Among the ordinary objects suggested, and
also used for the purpose, are pieces of colored paper, glass, or silk,
or Berlin wool, etc., the last of which seems to us the best, for the
following reasons: One of the chief advantages of Berlin wool is, that
if can be procured in all possible colors corresponding to those of the
spectrum, and each in all its shades, from the darkest to the lightest.
Such selections may be found in trade, and are easily procured when and
where desired. It can be used at once, and without any preparation
for the examination, just as delivered from the factory. A skein of
Berlin wool is equally colored, not only on one or two sides, but on all,
and is easily detected in the package, even though there be but one
thread of it. Berlin wool is not too strongly glaring, and is, moreover, soft
and manageable, and can be handled, packed, and transported as desired,
without damage, and is conveniently ready for use wherever needed.
182 COLOR-BLINDNESS IN ITS RELATION TO

These advantages are wanting in the other colored objects suggested
for use. Colored paper or silk may be used when light or dark, dull or
bright colors are wanted; but they both have these inconveniences, they
must first be cut into suitable pieces, and they are troublesome to handle;
moreover, they are easily concealed from view, and it is necessary to
stretch them carefully on a large surface to enable them to be seen
without trouble. They are often glaring ; they reflect, besides their
particular kinds of light, a quantity of white light, which is a promi-
nent defect, as it misleads the cclor-blind, who, as we know, judge of
colors by the intensity of light, that is, the quantity of light, and he
consequently estimates differently the color of a brilliant surface, ac-
cording to the position in which it is found with regard to the eye, ete.
The paper is often colored on only one side, and this gives rise to much
trouble, as it is necessary to turn the pieces from one side to the other
to see them in their true colors. Finally, from being so much handled,
the pieces of paper or silk soon become tumbled and faded.

Colored glass, which must be in pieces, is not suitable either, from
the fact that it is difficult to procure it in sufficiently great variety. It
is besides troublesome to transport, easily broken, and finally inconve-
nient for using, because necessary to be held against the light of day, or
a luminous source, in order that the color may be seen. The advan-
tage of being able to use them by any kind of light does not counterbal-
ance their inconveniences.

Although these are not all the objections, the preceding will suffice
to prove the advantages of Berlin wool. All this applies equally well
to wafers, powders, colored solutions, spools of colored thread, pieces of
wood, and porcelain, especially painted for the purpose, ete.; they can
all be and have been employed, but nove of these objects are, in every
respect, so well suited to our purpose as Berlin wool.

A selection of Berlin wool is then made, including red, orange, yel-
low, yellow-green, pure green, blue-green, blue, violet, purple, pink,
brown, gray, several shades of each color, and at least five gradations
of each tint, from the deepest to the lightest. Green and gray, several
kinds each, of pink, blue, and violet, and the pale gray shades of brown,
yellow, red, and pink, must especially be well represented. The choice of
the material does not belong specially to our method. In fact, Seebeck
Suggested the use of Berlin wool, which was employed by his advice and
still is at present. To us only belongs the credit of originating the man-
ner in which it is employed. According to our method, the examiner
selects from the collection of Berlin wool in a pile on a convenient table,
and lays aside a skein of the especial color desired for this examination ;
then he requires the one examined to select the other skeins most closely
resembling the color of the sample, and to place them by its side. The
chromatic sense of the individual is decided by the manner in which he
performs this task. The rapidity with which this examination is made
does not seem to directly correspond with the nature of the chromatic

ee

ee ——————— eee
ACCIDENTS BY RAI, AND SEA. 183

sense, but to depend finally upon the character of the person examined.
One of intelligence, with a quick, practical mind, is examined in less
than a minute. In this time, in fact, a normal eye could easily find the
four or five skeins of the same color as the sample, and the color-blind
make a sufficient number of characteristic mistakes to thoroughly
establish the diagnosis. It is clear that a method such as ours affords
the opportunity in connection with the investigation of the chromatic
sense of learning much of all the peculiarities relating to the use of
our senses. This is why we maintain the principle that it is nece-
essary to leave to the activity of the hands the task of revealing the
nature of the sensations, and to have recourse to the tongue only for
verification when there is need of more information. The combina-
tion of the action of the eye and hands, which plays in general so
important a part in the training and use of the senses, is also of
great consequence in this examination. An attentive examiner, espe-
cially if be have already acquired some experience, can draw im-
portant conclusions from the manner fn which the other executes
his task, not only and directly with regard to the nature of his chro-
matic sense, but generally as to his intelligence and character, and
especially in some cases as to his previous training and exercise in the
use of colors, and his skill in recognizing them. The examination
affords us also the opportunity of making psychological observations,
which contribute in a great measure in giving us a clear idea of the
nature of the chromatic sense. A practiced examiner can often detect
color-blindness by the first gesture, and make his diagnosis before the
end of the trial. He can, according to the manner in which the task is
performed, form a judgment of a feeble chromatic sense in instances which
are proved correct by the final result. He alsocan and must see whether
the result is erroneous simply on account of a misunderstanding or a
want of intelligence, just as he can see whether the really color-blind
succeeds, in a certain degree, from much previous exercise or a consid-
erable amount of caution. In short, the method supplies us with all
necessary information, so that by an examination made with its assist-
ance, a defective chromatic sense, no matter of what kind or in what
degree, cannot escape observation. As we have already said, the prin-
ciple of our method is that the test is confined to one color.

The faculty possessed by the eye of distinguishing colors and that of
defining the degrees of light and color (of ‘‘saturation”) are relatively
very different; but these special faculties have this in common, that they
have their maximum activity in a certain intermediary region of abso-
lute intensity of light and their minimum at the two limits of this region.
Just as we experience the most difficulty in distinguishing between the
shades of intensity of light by a very feeble or very strong illumination,
so it is difficult for us to distinguish colors slightly or strongly luminous,
or the deepest and the lightest. It is, therefore, necessary to select as
a suitable color for discovering a feeble chromatic sense either the light-
184 COLOR-BLINDNESS IN ITS RELATION TO

est or darkest shades. The well-defined kinds and degrees of a defect-
ive chromatic sense confound only colors of mean intensity. I have
selected, to determine whether the chromatic sense is or is not defective,
a light green (dark green may be also used), because green, according
to the theory, is the whitest of the colors of the spectrum, and conse-
quently is most easily confused with gray. For the diagnosis of the
especial kinds of partial color-blindness, I have selected purple (pink),
that is, the whole group of colors in which red (orange) and violet (blue)
are combined in nearly equal proportions, at least in such proportions
that no one sufficiently preponderates over the others, to the normal
sense, So as to give its name to the combination. This is the reason for
this choice. Purple occupies a singular position amongst colors; although
it is a combination, it is, we know, a color, as well “saturated” as the
colors of the spectrum, and might be, from this point of view, classed
with them, although it is not found in the spectrum. In fact, it has been
regarded as the eighth color of the spectrum, closing the circle of satu-
rated colors. Purple is of especial importance in the examination of the
color-blind, for the reason that it forms a combination of two fundamental
colors—the two extreme colors—which are never confounded with each
other. In fact, from a color-blind point of view, one of two things must
happen, according to the theory: either it excites but one kind of per-
ceptive organ or it excites them all. It appears then either like a sim-
ple color, that is to say, like one of the two colors of the combination,
or like white (gray). Experiment has confirmed this hypothesis. Our
sample colors, therefore, are the two complementary colors of each other,
green and purple. In the examination of the chromatic sense of a large
number of individuals, it is, of course, of importance to decide, first,
whether the chromatic sense of the individual is or is not normal. Itis
only after establishing the existence of a defect that its nature or degree
must be determined. The sample colors are, therefore, employed with
more advantage in a certain order, as the test must be accomplished as
a whole, according to a plan that experience has proved the surest, most
rapid, and, finally, most suitable for the purpose.

3.—THE EXAMINATION AND DIAGNOSIS.

The Berlin wool is placed in a pile on a large plane surface and in
broad daylight; a skein of the test color is taken from the pile and
laid aside far enough from the others not to be confounded with them
during the trial; and the person examined requested to select the other
skeins most resembling this in color, and place them by the side of the
sample. In the first place, it is necessary that he should thoroughly
understand what is required of him; that is, that he should search the
pile for the skeins making an impression on his chromatic sense, in-
dependent of any name he may give the color, similar to that made
by the sample. The examiner should explain that resemblance in
every respect is not necessary; that there are no two specimens exactly
ACCIDENTS BY RAIL AND SEA. 185

alike; that the only question is the resemblance of the color; and that
consequently he must endeavor to find something similar, of the same
shade, something lighter and darker of the same color, ete. If the
person examined cannot succeed in understanding this by a verbal
explanation, we must resort to action. We must ourselves make the
trial by searching with our own hands for the skeins, thereby showing
in a practical manner what is meant by a shade, and then restoring the
whole to the pile except the sample skein. As it would require much
time to examine each individual in this way, it is advisable, when ex-
amining a large number at the same time, to instruct all at once, and
moreover to ask them to attentively observe the examination of those
preceding them, so as to become more familiar themselves with the
process. By this, time is saved, without loss of security; for no one
with a defective chromatic sense finds the correct skeins in the pile
the more easily from the fact of having a moment before seen others
looking for and arranging them. He makes the same characteristic
mistakes; but the normal observer, on the other hand, generally ac-
complishes his task much better and more quickly after having seen
how it must be done, and this is the advantage of our method.

The colors mentioned in this chapter are divided into two classes:

Ist. The colors for samples (test colors), that is, those presented to the
persons examined ; and

2d. The “ colors of confusion,” that is to say, those which the color-blind
selects from the heap, because he confuses them with that of the
sample.

TEST I.—The green sample is presented. This sample should be the
palest shade (the lightest) of very pure green, which is neither a yellow-
green nor a blue-green to the normal eye, but fairly intermediate be-
tween the two, or at least not verging upon yellowish green.

Rule.-—The examination must continue until the one examined has
placed near the sample all the other skeins of the same shade, or else,
with these or separately, one or several skeins of the class correspond-
ing to the “colors of confusion,” until he has sufficiently proved by his
manner of doing it that he can easily and unerringly distinguish the con-
fused colors or until he has given proof of unmistakable difficulty in
accomplishing this task.

Diagnosis.—He who places beside the sample one of the ‘“ colors of
confusion,” that is to say, finds that it resembles the “test color,” is
color blind. He who, without being quite guilty of this confusion, evinces
a manifest disposition to do so, has a feeble chromatic sense.

Remark.—We must remember that we cannot allow more than five
colors for “confusion,” But we have here in view, not every kind of defec-
tive color-sense, but only those important in the business of railways.
The number of colors allowed is therefore sufficient, as these are the
most important and most common.

Test If.—A purple skein is presented. The color chosen must be
between the deepest and lightest shades of the scale.
186 COLOR-BLINDNESS IN IT'S RELATION TO

Rule.—The trial must be continued until the one examined has placed
near the sample all or the greater part of the skeins of the same shade,
or else simultaneously or separately one or several skeins of “confusion.”
He who selects either the light or deep shades of blue and violet (es-
pecially the deep) or the light or deep shades of one kind of green or
gray inclining to blue has committed an error.

Diagnosis.—1. He who is color-blind by the first test, and who, upon
the second test, selects only purple skeins, is incompletely color-blind.

2. He who, in the second test, selects with purple only blue and violet,
or one of them, is completely red-blind.

3. He who, in the second test, selects with purple only green and gray,
or one of them, is completely green-blind.

Remark.—The red-blind never ratifies the test of the green-blind, and
vice versa. However, it happens in certain cases that the green-blind
selects a violet or blue skein, but always the lightest shades. This
should not affect the diagnosis. The examination may end with this
test, and the diagnosis be considered as perfectly settled. It is not even
necessary, practically, to decide whether the color-blindness is red or
green. But to be more entirely convinced of the relation of complete
color-blindness with the signal colors, and especially to convince, if neces-
sary, the railway employés and others who are not specialists, the exami-
nation may be completed by one more trial. The one we are going to
mention is not necessary to the diagnosis, and only serves to corrobo-
rate the investigation.

Trst III.—The red skein is presented to the subject. It is necessary
to have a vivid red color like the red flag used as signals on railways.

Rule.—This test, which is applied only to those completely color-blind,
should be continued until the person examined has placed beside the
specimen all the skeins belonging to this shade or the greater part or else
separately one or several ‘“‘colors of confusion.” The red-blind then
chooses, besides the red, green and brown shades which, to the normal
sense, seem darker than red. On the other hand, the green-blind selects
opposite shades which appear lighter than red.

Remark.—Every case of complete color-blindness discovered does not
always make the precise mistakes we have just mentioned in the preced-
ing examinations. These exceptions are either instances of persons
with a comparatively inferior degree of complete color-blindness, or of
color-blind persons who have been exercised in the colors of signals, and
who endeavor not to be discovered ; they therefore usually confound at
least green and brown, but even this does not always happen.

ADDITIONAL NOTE.—We have not given rules for discovering total
color-blindness, because we have not found any cases of this kind. If
any such should be found, they will be recognized, according to the
theory, by a confusion of every shade having the same intensity of
light. Violet-blindness will be recognized by a genuine confusion of
purple, red, and orange in the second test. The diagnosis should be
ACCIDENTS BY RAIL AND SEA. 187

made with discrimination. The first test often shows blue to bea ‘color
of confusion.” This may, in certain cases, be the sign of violet-blind-
ness, but notalways. We have not thought it advisable to admit defects
of this kind; only the most marked cases, that other examinations
establish as violet color-blindness, should be reckoned in the statistics.
Finally, to acquire a desirable uniformity, it is necessary to add that in
the preparatory examination, it is my habit to indicate in the journal,
especially kept for that purpose, cases of complete color-blindness by 2
(2 R., 2 G., 2 V.), those of incomplete blindness by 1, and those of feeble
chromatic sense by 0.5 (0.5 R., 0.5 G., 0.5 V.).

4.—PRAOCTICAL RULES AND SPECIAL DIRECTIONS FOR THE CONDUCT
OF THE TRIAL.

The method, as we have said, plays an important part in an examina-
tion of this kind, not only from the principles upon which it rests, but also
from the manner in which it is used. The best plan for directing how
to proceed is by oral instructions and de visu; but here we are obliged
to accomplish this by description. Now, this is always defective in some
respects, especially if we wish to be brief. What has been said would
evidently suffice for an intelligent and experienced physician, but it
may not be superfluous to enter still further into detail to provide against
any possible difficulties and loss of time. Theobject of the examination
is to discover the nature of a person’s chromatic sense. Now, as the
fate of the one to be examined and that of others depend upon the
correctness of the judgment pronounced by the examiner, and that this
judgment should be based upon the manner in which the one examined
stands the trial, it is of importance that this trial should be truly what it
ought to be, a trial of the nature of the chromatic sense and nothing
else, an end that will be gained if our directions are strictly followed. It
is not only necessary that the examiner carefully observe them—which
does not seem to us difficult—but that he also take care that the indi-
vidual examined does thoroughly what is required of him. This is not
always as easy as one might suppose. Ifit were only required to ex-
amine intelligent people, familiar with practical occupations and espe-
cially with colors, and with no other interest connected with the issue of
the examination than to know whether they are color-blind or not, the ex-
amination would be uniform and mechanical. But it is required to ex-
amine people of various degrees of culture, all of whom, besides, have a
personal interest in the issue of the examination. Different people act
very differently during the examination for many reasons. Some submit
to it without the least suspicion of their defect; others are convinced that
they possess a normal sense. A few only have a consciousness or at least
some suspicion of their defect. These last can often be recognized before
the least examination by keeping behind the others, by attentively follow-
ing the progress of the trial, but if allowed willingly remaining to the
last. Some are quick; others slow. The former approach unconcernedly
188 COLOR-BLINDNESS IN 1TS RELATION TO

and boldly; the latter with over anxiety and a certain dread. The lowest
class are those who have the opposite desire, that is, to pass for color-
blind, although in possession of normal sight. We will speak of these
later, to enable us now to devote ourselves to those who undergo the trial
in good faith, or, at least, with the desire to appear normal, even al-
though color-blind.

In the trial it is especially desirable to confine the range of selection
to the lighter shades of the test color (say green), for the trial would
cause great loss of time and be less reliable if it included every shade
of green. In fact, no little judgment has been exercised in the selection
of the very lightest shade of the green proposed as a sample color. For
it is exactly what the color-blind most readily confounds with the paler
shades of gray, drab, straw, and salmon-color. If the subject were
allowed to depart from the narrow limits established by the trial, it would
include every shade of green, the result of which would be that he would
prefer to select all the vivid shades, and thus avoid the dangerous ground
where his defect would certainly be discovered. This is why it is neces-
sary to oblige him to keep within certain limits, confining him to pure
green specimens, and, for greater security, to recommend him to select
especially the lightest shades. What we have just said of green applies
also of course to purple.

The principle of our method is to force the one examined to reveal,
himself, by an act of his own, the nature of his chromatic sense. Now,
as this act must be kept within certain limits, it is evident that the ex-
aminer must direct him to a certain degree. This may present, in certain
cases, some difficulty, as he will not always be guided, and does
either too much or too little. In both cases, the examiner should use
his influence in order to save time and gain certainty, and this is usually
very easily done. Tbis intervention is, of course, intended to put the
examiner in the true path, and is accomplished in many ways according
to the case in point.

We will here mention some of the expedients we have found useful :

A. Interference during an extended selection.—It is not always easy to
confine the one examined within the limitsof the method. He easily slips
in the first test, for example, a yellow-green or blue-green skein among the
others, and as soon as there is one, others follow usually, and it thus
happens that, in a few moments, he has a whole handful of yellow-green,
a second of blue-green, a third of both these shades at the same time.
Our process has assisted us in more than one ease of this kind.

(a) When the person examined has begun to select shades of one or sev-
eral other colors than those of the sample, his ardor is arrested by taking
from him the handful of skeins he has collected, and asking him whether
his eye does not tell him there are one or several which do not match
the others, in which case he is solicited to restore them to the pile. He
then generally remarks that there is some obscuration, and proceeds in
one of the following manners:
ACCIDENTS BY RAIL AND SEA. 189

1. He rejects one after the other, the foreign shades, so that the correct
remain, which is often only the sample skein. He is shown what mistake
he has made. Names are used to remind him that one class of green
may be yellow-green and another blue-green; and to induce him to
avoid them, he is advised only to select skeins of the same shade as the
specimen, although they be lighter or darker, and have neither more
yellow nor blue than that. If his first error arose only from a miscon-
ception or want of practice in handling colors, he begins generally to
understand what he has to do, and to do properly what is required of him.

2. Or else he selects and rejects immediately the skein of the sample
itself. This proves that he sees the difference of color. He is then
shown the skein as the only correct one, and asked to repeat the trial in
amorecorrect manner. He is again put on the right track as just before,
and the trial proceeds rightly, unless the error arise from a defect in
the chromatic sense. Many seem, however, to experience a natural diffi-
culty in distinguishing between yellow-green and blue-green, or the dull
shades of green and blue. This difficulty is, however, more apparent
than real, and is corrected usually by direct comparison. If the method
requiring the name of the color to be given is used, a number of
mistakes may be the result. If a skein of light green and light blue
alone are presented to him, asking him to name them, he will often call
blue, green, and green, blue. But if in the first case a blue skein is
immediately shown him, he corrects his mistake by saying this is blue
and that green. In the last case, it happens so mutatis mutandis. This
is not the place for an explanation. It must suffice to say that the error
is corrected by a direct comparison between the two colors.

There is, according to the theory, one class of the color-blind—violet-
blind—who, in consequence of the nature of their chromatic sense, and.
therefore, notwithstanding the comparison, cannot distinguish blue and
green. But our method has nothing to do with this class of the color-
blind, because such are not dangerous on railways.

(b) Another process.—If the one examined place by the side of the sam-
ple a shade, for instance, of yellow-green, the examiner places near this
another shade, in which there is more yellow, or even a pure yellow, re-
marking at the same time that if the first suit, the last must also. The
other usually dissents from this. He is then shown, by selecting and
classing the intermediate shades, that there is a gradation which will
diverge widely if logically carried out as he has begun. The same
course is followed with colors of the blue shades, if the blue-green were
first selected. He sees the successive gradations, and goes through
with this test perfectly if his chromatic sense is correct.

To ascertain further whether he notices these additions, or the tints of
yellow and blue in the green, we can take ourselves the yellow-green and
blue-green to ask him if he finds this to be so. Wecan judge by his
answer of his sense with regard to these shades, and the object of this
investigation is accomplished.
190 COLOR-BLINDNESS IN ITS RELATION TO

It results from all this that many who are finally considered to have
a normal chromatic sense may occasionally cause embarrassments. In
the main, the normal observer of this kind causes greater loss of time
than the color-blind. It is astonishing to see with what rapidity the
color-blind betray their defect. At least, it is found, in the majority of
the cases examined by us, that the first skein of wool selected from the
pile by the color-blind in the first test was one of the “colors of con-
fusion.” :

B. Intervention during a restricted choice.—Those who evince too great
slowness also require the interferences of the examiner in another man-
ner. We can lay aside here those cases in which at the sight of the
complex colors of the heap of wool, the examined finds it difficult to
select a skein resembling the sample in acollection where all the particu-
lar colors seem to differ from each other, and in consequence declares im-
mediately that he can find none resembling the specimen. It is replied
that an absolute resemblance is not demanded, and that no one asks
impossibilities, that time is limited, many are waiting, ete. But there
are people who from natural slowness, from being unaccustomed to such
business, from fear of making mistakes, and especially if previously ex-
amined and suspected of color-blindness, or from many other motives,
proceed with the greatest caution; they do not even wish to touch the
wool, or they search, select, and replace with the greatest care all the
possible skeins without finding one corresponding with the sample, or
that they wish to place beside it. Here then are two cases: on one hand,
too much action with the fingers, without result; on the other, too little
effort. The examiner is forced to interfere in both cases.

(a) At the time of a too great manual action without corresponding
practical result, the examiner must be careful that the eye and hand act
simultaneously for the accomplishment of the desired end.

Some people forget that the hands should be subservient to the eye
in this trial, and not aet independently. Thus they are often seen to fix
their eyes on one side while their hands are engaged on the other.
This should be corrected so as to save time and avoid further labor.
When, from the manual activity of the one examined, or by the unob-
served aid of the examiner, all the correct skeins or only a portion are
found in the pile, it is wise to stop and invite the former to cross his
hands behind his back, to step back a pace, and quietly consider all the
skeins, and, as soon as his eye has met one of those for which he is look-
ing, to extend his hand and take it. The best plan is to advise him to
look first at the sample and then at the pile, and to repeat this maneuver
until his eyes find what he is looking for.

This stratagem generally succeeds when nervousness from over-anxiety
causes his hands to tremble. But it is not always easy to induce him
to keep his hands behind his back until the moment for taking the skein
in question.

(b) In cases of great caution, the trial is hastened, if the examiner

ACCIDENTS BY RAIL AND SEA. 19%

come to the assistance of the other by holding above the pile one skein
after the other, and requesting him to say whether it resembles the color
of the sample or not. It will be advisable first to select the skeins that
a color-blind person would approve. If he is so, he will approve of the
selection, and the question is settled. If not, he rejects them, not with-
out a characteristic smile, or with an expression of wounded dignity.
This also enlightens us as to his chromatic sense. But even the color-
blind may in such a case refuse what is presented, especially if his cau-
tion is premeditated, and he suspects that a snare is intended. It is
found quite frequently that he rejects the correct shades likewise pre-
sented with the others. This is not the case when one, having a normal
chromatic sense, is slow and deliberative when subjected to the test
under this form. He has an eye alive to the correct colors.

One process, in cases of this last kind, is to select false samples which
are placed quite near the correct one, by the side, above or below, to
attract the attention of the examined from the right side. It is necessary
so to proceed that the true sample be displaced when the others are
drawn out, so that the person examined may see it move. It does not,
however, always happen to catch his eye. The best means is then to
make him examine the whole, with his hands behind his back, and invite
him to freely make his choice. But, whatever the process, it is neces-
sary, in every case where one has been assisted in selecting a certain
number of skeins which he has found analogous to the sample color, to
make a rule not to conclude the trial without examining into the effect
of the aid accorded. It is necessary to hold in the hand the approved
package, and ask if he is satisfied or if he would desire any change. If
he approve the choice, the diagnosis is established. The same course
must be pursued with the defective chromatic sense, that the trial may
be made with or without assistance. To be thorough, the name given
by the color-blind to the colors in question may be likewise asked.

In cases where any one suspected of color-blindness has remained
some time to see the trial of others, and where, as often happens, he
has remarked the samples belonging to a required green shade, he may
of course profit by it in his own trial. But this can be prevented by
furtively concealing one or two of these samples. If he seem to be dis-
posed to confound green and gray, it will be very easy to entrap him.
If we do not succeed, even when assisting him, in entrapping him in
this snare, the hidden samples may be put back into their places, to be
convinced that the trial is correct. ;

From the above, it is seen that many artifices may be necessary in
our examination. It may be regarded as an advantage of our method
that it has at command a great variety of resources. We have by no
means mentioned all; and yet many who have only read this descrip-
tion will probably reproach us with having devoted ourselves too much
to details which seem to them puerile. But we believe that those who
have examined the chromatic sense of a great number of persons, and
acquired thereby considerable experience, will think differently.
192 COLOR-BLINDNESS IN ITS RELATION TO
5.—APPRECIATION OF THE CAPACITY OF EXAMINEES.

The method of scrutiny here described is able to detect, as we have
seen, not only complete or incomplete color-blindness, but a feeble chro-
matic sense. Moreover, it has been proved that there is a perfect grada-
tion from complete color-blindness on the one side to the normal chro-
matic perception on the other. The question then naturally arises, from
our practical point of view, whether it is possible to draw a dividing
line between the kinds and degrees of defective color-vision which would
except those who could not cause any inconvenience to the railway ser-
vice, and, in case of an affirmative answer, where such limit is to be
found.

It must first be remembered that in the existing state of things, these
questions neither can nor ought to be settled in the same manner in
every case, Since the examination is intended for individuals of two dif-
ferent classes: 1st, the aspirants for railway employment; and, 2d, the
employés, or those already in service.

A. Aspirants—We must bear in mind that in Sweden, according to
the regulation in force there for the management of state railways (fol-
lowed also, as far as we know, on the private lines), it is required that,
in order to be admitted, each applicant “prove by a certificate from a
physician that he is exempt from any kind of infirmity, disease, or defect
of conformation that could be prejudicial to the exercise of his functions,”
and also, that among these defects of conformation, in connection with
signals, are reckoned the defects of the chromatic sense, to which the
managers have especially directed the attention of the physicians at-
tached to the lines.

According to the principles we have stated, the greatest severity
should be observed in this case, or, in other terms, the least defect in the
sense of colors should be a sufficient ground for rejection.

B. Persons already in service—We must here ask ourselves if there
is no necessity to modify the limit we have just traced, in order to carry
out the principle we stated before, namely, that it is necessary to adopt
less severe rules to eliminate from the service those who are already
employed. We here encounter great difficulties, and it will be seen that
it is not possible to settle the question summarily, that is, that a well-
defined limit cannot be traced. In such cases, the physician should
always, when he discovers a defect in the chromatic sense, give a certi-
ficate which should indicate its nature. These indications include, as we
have already said, the diagnoses: complete red-blindness, complete green-
blindness, incomplete color-blindness, or a feeble chromatic sense.

We are convinced that every case of complete color-blindness of both
kinds, as well as every case of incomplete of the higher degrees, should
be immediately dismissed. But as regards those who may be retained,
it is clear that the first question concerns those who, at the time of the
trial, were regarded in the diagnosis only as having a feeble chromatic
Sense, and then those who in the first test merely confound gray with

eee
ACCIDENTS BY RAIL AND SEA. 193

the sample color. But we do not venture to lay this down as a principle,
for, if it should be proved that these individuals can generally distinguish
the light of colored lanterns with sufficient accuracy, this does not prove
that it is so in every case, and especially not at every distance required
in the service. This is-why we know nothing better to advise than to
refer all such cases to competent specialists, as long as the transition
period of which we have spoken lasts.

In the examination of doubtful cases submitted to my judgment, I
determined according to several of the methods mentioned in one of the
preceding chapters. In general, these persons were all subjected to a
trial according to the methods of Seebeck and of Maxwell, and an exami-
nation by means of the visual perimeter and of colored shadows, as well
as the lanterns of my invention and colored glasses. These last means
have capacity especially in view, and they are very suitable for the ob-
ject, when it is desired to investigate those who have been already dis-
covered, by my method of Berlin wool, as having a defective chromatic
sense.

The light of colored lanterns and illuminated surfaces generally, con-
veniently arranged and methodically used, may serve especially in such
cases to enlighten us as to the faculty of the person,examined for appre-
ciating colored signals. Our experiences of this kind have shown us that
the majority of color-blind railway employés, however much practice they
have had, are utterly incapable of recognizing and distinguishing the
regulation colors of lanterns, especially when they are employed in the
shades which are not mostcommonly in use inthe service. This applies
not only to the completely red and green blind, but also to the incom.
pletely blind. These last require the most circumstantial investigation,
and it is not to be assumed that the lower degreescan stand the trial; they
may often, it is true, distinguish the signal-lights at a short distance
with sufficient accuracy, but they do not succeed at a comparatively
greater distance. As the places where the trials are usually made do
not command such distances as railways for observing signals, signal-
lights cannot of course be used for these trials. They are replaced by
small illuminated surfaces, which, seen from a suitable distance, produce
exactly the same effect as lanterns at a great distance. Such surfaces
are made by placing a screen with a suitable opening covered with a
colored glass before the flame of a lamp. This is enough to show how
to dispose of the case in question. :

6.—EFFORTS TO CONCEAL OR TO FEIGN COLOR-BLINDNESS.

We have announced that none of the kinds of color-blindness we have
in view in this work could escape discovery by our method. But this,
of course, assumes that the subject does his best in the trial and acts in
good faith. Ifit happen that one persists either in concealing a conscious
color-blindness or for some other motive, in not giving the least informa-

tion by act or word it is evident that the examination must fail from this
13 8
194 COLOR-BLINDNESS IN ITS RELATION TO

simple reason, and that it is impossible to draw any positive conclusion
with regard to his chromatic sense. The examiner may in such a case
mention unconditionally in the certificate that the one examined refused
to submit to the usual examination.

It is not difficult to say how it is necessary to act with regard to such
persons. It should, in fact, be to the interest of each one possessing
normal sight, desirous of entering the service of railways, ete., to en-
deavor to be competent in every respect, and consequently to give mani-
fest proof of his sense of colors. The color-blind alone have any interest
in concealing their defect; therefore he endeavors to escape the trial.
Every candidate who will try to avoid the prescribed trial must there-
fore be considered and treated as color-blind. Such obstinacy on the
part of an employé must be considered and treated as an infraction of
the regulations.

But cases may arise also in which those possessing normal sight will
feign color-blindness, and act as if they were so affected. This may occur
when some one wishes to receive a pension before the time, or else to
escape punishment consequent upon an unexpected accident. These
are just the very cases that put the method and perspicacity of the
examiner to the test. The examination then assumes the character
of a kind of eriminal inquest, where the judge and the accused must
give all the attention of which they are capable to their reciprocal acts
and expressions, to try to entrap each other. The one examined tries to
prove that he is color-blind, while the examiner endeavors to prove that
he has normal sight. The prospect of coming off victorious in so singu-

lar a contest rests, in the last resort, with him who best understands the | -

nature of color-blindness, and has most experience in the manner in
which the color-blind act. To enable the pretender to deceive the ex-
aminer, it is absolutely necessary that he surpass the latter in knowl-
edge of color-blindness. There is in this an element of success to the
examiner, as it would be extremely rare to find a railway employé or
sailor who would, under the circumstances mentioned, be subjected to
an examination by a person inferior to himself in knowledge. It is clear,
in fact, that an examination so difficult, so minute, and involving so
much responsibility, should be confided to the most competent person
possible. But it is, on the other hand, very improbable that a case
should occur where it would be necessary that a learned and experienced
specialist would have to submit to an examination.

In the first place, examinations of this kind must rarely occur, and
when they do, it must be at least in the most difficult cases, that is to say,
after an accident—under circumstances where the one examined has not
had much time to study his part. It will generally be seen then that he
has not a profound knowledge of the nature of color-blindness, but
imagines it to be a difficulty or incapacity to distinguish signal-colors or
colors in general. He will, therefore, be governed by this idea, and,
either he will perfectly distinguish every other color so as to mistake only
the signal-colors, or else he will believe he must confound no matter what

ACCIDENTS BY RAIL AND SEA. 195

color. But, as we have seen, each kind of color-blindness follows laws
as fixed as the normal sense. Such a stratagem will not fail to violate
them, and the individual will be caught in the very act.

But there is absolutely nothing which opposes the supposition that
this individual may have a certain knowledge of the nature of color-
blindness, or, at least, that he may have an idea of its regularity with
regard to the confusion of colors. He may have studied the proofs we
have cited, and, owing to the exercise and observation of the color-blind,
he will know how to perform them in a manner suitable to the object in
view. The examiner has always, however, the choice of other sample
colors, and the Berlin wool method affords a large choice. If that does
not sufiice. and the individual has learned from the truly color-blind
to classify the whole collection of wool according to their chromatic
sense, that is to say, that he can stand the trial according to Seebeck’s
method, and if he is so thorough in his part that there is no means of
making him depart from it by abrupt or contradictory questions, the
examiner may employ for the examination a number of other known
methods, but probably unknown to our individual. It must not be for-
gotten here that it is generally easier to discover faults committed by
others than to avoid being guilty of them one’s self, and one must be
profoundly familiar with his borrowed part not to be guilty of inconsist-
encies. With regard to feigning a certain kind of color-blindness, we
know by our experience with regard to this, that it is a very difficult
thing, and scarcely ever succeeds before an attentive and experienced
examiner. All these circumstances are advantageous for the examiner,

-. but his superiority is not limited to this. For if it should happen—an

extremely improbable thing—that a pretender were familiar with all the
known tests and methods, and besides had not less practice than talent
jn executing them as accurately as the color-blind, the examiner has,
nevertheless, the power of inventing, owing to his special knowledge,
new tests, and of varying those already known. |

Besides the precaution, which must not be neglected, of conducting
the examination in the presence of expert and competent persons, there
is an especial means, which, while being certain of preventing all frau-
dulent attempts, judges the accused in the usual manner, that is, by the
testimony of two persons. These two witnesses should be two color-
blind of the same kind as that feigned by the examined. If these two
individuals are first subjected separately and independently of each
other and the pseudo-color-blind, to the same trial as he, let the results
be noted down carefully, and then the whole three together, and it will
then soon be seen how the case stands with one individual. The two
color-blind will in this manner give the necessary testimony without
resting upon the discretion of the examiner. This manner of proceeding
must, however, be employed with caution and discrimination, as the
conformity between two color-blind of the same class is not absolutely
perfect in every respect. The result must, therefore, always be made te
harmonize by the explanation of the examiner.
COLOR BLINDNESS.*

By JOSEPH HENRY.

[From the Princeton Review, for July, 1845.}

It is an interesting fact in reference to the dependence of one class,
at least of our knowledge, on sensation, that many persons are born with
defective vision and yet remain for years of their lives without being
conscious of the deficiency. We know a gentleman who had probably
been always near sighted, but who did not discover the peculiarity of
his vision until the age of twenty-five, when it was accidentally made
known by looking at a distant object through a concave lens. Many
persons whose eyes are sound and capable of exercising the most deli-
cate functions, are permanently unable to distinguish certain colors.
And the number of such persons is much more considerable than we
would be led to imagine from the little attention this defect of vision
has excited. It is often unknown to the individual himself, and indeed
only becomes revealed by comparing his powers of discriminating dif-
ferent colours with those of other persons. The eye also under some cir-
cumstances may lose its sensibility for particular colors, or be thrown
into such an unusual state as to present all objects to the mind under
the appearance of a false color. Thus if a person looks fixedly for a time
at a bright red object and then turns his eye to a white wall, he will
perceive a green image of the red object depicted on the white surface.
A lady of our acquaintance was once thrown into an alarming but laugh-
able paroxysm of terror by an effect of this kind. She had been for some
hours attentively sewing on a bright crimson dress, when her attention
was directed towards her child, who, in its sport, bad thrown itself on
the carpet; its face appeared of the most ghastly hue, and the affrighted
mother screamed in agony, that her child was in convulsions—the other
inmates of the house hastened to her assistance, but they were surprised
to find the little one smiling in perfect health. The sanity of the mother
became the natural object of solicitude, until the effect was properly re-
ferred to the impression made on her eye by the crimson cloth.

Phenomena of this kind are known by the name of accidental colors ;
they have long attracted the attention of the natural philosopher, but
the explanation of them is still involved in considerable uncertainty.
The hypothesis which has been most generally adopted is that the eye
by long attention to a particular color, becomes fatigued with this and
colours. By Sir David Brewster, K. H., &c. Philosophical Magazine.

2. Memoir on Daltonism, (or colour blindness.) By M. Elie Wartmann, Professor of

Natural Philosophy in the Academy of Lausanne, &c. Scientific Memoirs.
196

—S

Ee
COLOR BLINDNESS. LOY

is incapable after a time, of distinctly perceiving it; while it retains its
full power of perception in reference to a tresh color. The consequence
of this is that when the eye is directed to a white surface, after having
attentively regarded a red object, green must appear; because white
may be considered as a compound of red and green, and when the per-
ception oi the red is destroyed, the green must become visible. This
explanation, however well it may apply to some of the phenomena, is
not sufficient for the whole. Accidental colors can be perceived in the
eye itself in perfect darkness. This is shown by steadily regarding for
a short time a brilliant lamp, and then covering the eyes with the hands
so as to exclude all external light, a luminous spot will be perceived
which passes in succession through all the colors of the rainbow.

Of the real cause of these appearances we are as yet almost entirely
ignorant. Professor Plateau, of Ghent, has indeed referred them all toa
few simple principles, but these appear to us rather expressions of the
law of succession of the phenomena, than physical explanations of them.
Wedo not however at this time intend to dwellon this class of phenomena,
but to give a succinct account of those peculiarities of vision, in which
abnormal perceptions of color are permanent, and which are fully treated
of in the memoirs, the titles of which stand at the head of this article.

The peculiarity of vision called color-blindness, aud sometimes Dalton-
ism, may generally be referred to two classes. 1. Those in which al! im-
pression of color, except white and black, are wanting. 2. Those in
which the individual can perceive certain simple colors, but is not able
properly to distinguish between them. There are persons, strange as it
may appear, in whom the sense of primary color is entirely deficient,
and who, in place of red, yellow and blue, see nothing but different
degrees of white and black. Professor Wartmann gives a number of
eases of this kind. The most ancient of those he finds described, is that
by Dr. Tuberville, in 1684, of a woman, of about 32 years of age, who
came to consult the Dr. about her sight, which, though excellent in other
respects, gave her no impression in reference to color, except white and
black. Spurzheim menticns a family, all the membersof which could only
distinguish different shades of white and black An account is given by
Mr. Huddart of a shoemaker, in Cumberland, who could distinguish in dif-
ferent colors only a greater or less intensity of light, calling all bright
tints white and all dull ones black. His peculiarity of vision was unknown
to him until one day, while a boy, playing in the street, he found a stocking,
and for the first time, was struck with the fact that it was called by his
companions red, whereas to his mind it was capable of no farther descrip-
tion than that designated by the word stocking; he was thus led to con-
clude that there was something else besides the form and position in the
leaves and fruit of acherry tree, perceived by his playmates but not seen by
himself. Two of his brothers had the same imperfection, while two other
brothers, his sisters, and other relatives, had the usual condition of vision.

Of theother class, the cases are much more numerous; we shall, how-
ever, give only a few examples. Mr. Harvey, of Plymouth, mentions a
98 COLOR BLINDNESS.

tailor who could see in the rainbow but two tints, namely, yellow and
bright blue. Black appeared to him in general, green, sometimes crim-
son—light blue appeared like dark blue, crimson, or black—green was con-
founded with black and brown—carmine, red, lake, and crimson with blue.

But the most interesting case of this kind, is that of the celebrated

chemical philosopher, Dr. Dalton, of England. He published anaccount :

of his own case and that of several others, in the Transactions of the
Manchester Society, in 1794. Of the seven colors of the rainbow, he
could distinguish but two, yellow and blue; oz at most, three, yellow,
blue, and purple. He saw no difference between red and green; so
that he thought the color of a laurel leaf the same as that of a stick of
red sealing-wax. Astory istoldof his having, on one occasion, appeared
at the quaker meeting, of which he was a member, in the usual drab
coat and small-clothes of the sect, with a pair of flaming red-colored
stockings to match. Whatever may be the truth in reference to this
story, we have the assertion of Professor Whewell, that when Dr. Dalton
was asked with what he would compare the scarlet gown with which he
had been invested by the university, he pointed to the trees, and declared
that he perceived no difference between the color of his robe and that of
their foliage. Dr. Dalton found nearly twenty persons possessed of the
same peculiarity of vision as himself; and among the number, the cele-
brated metaphysician, Dugald Stewart, who could not distinguish a
crimson fruit, like the Siberian crab, from the leaves of the tree on which
it grew, otherwise than by the difference in its form.

On account of the prominence which Mr. Daltow’s publication gave this
defect of vision, the continental philosophers gaveit the name of Daltonism.
To this name, however, several British writers have strongly objected. If
this system of names were once allowed, say they, there is no telling where
it would stop, the names of celebrated men would be connected, not with
their superior gifts or achievements, but with the personal defects which
distinguish them from their more favoured but less meritorious cotempo-
raries. Professor Whewell proposed the term Jdiopts, signifying peculi-
arity of vision; but tothisnameSir David Brewster properly objected, that
the important consonant p would be very apt to be omitted in ordinary pro-
nunciation, and so the last state of the Idiopt would be worse than the first.
The name color-blindness, suggested by Sir David, although not in all
cases free from objection, is perhaps better than any we have seen proposed.

It has already been stated that the number of persons affected with
color-blindness, is mach more considerable than is generally imagined
They are often themselves ignorant of their imperfection of vision, par-
ticularly when it is restricted to the want of power to discriminate
between colors nearly related to each other. Professor Seebeck found
five cases among the forty boys who composed the two upper classes of a
gymnasium of Berlin. Professor Prevost, of Geneva, stated that they
amounted to one in twenty; and Professor Wartmann does not think this.
estimate much exaggerated.

Observations on this peculiarity of vision have as yet been confined,

a
COLOR BLINDNESS. 199

so far as we know, to Europe, with the exception of two cases described
by Dr. Hays, of Philadelphia, in the Proceedings of the American Philo-
sophical Society. It has also as yet been found only among the white
race, although sufficient observations have not been made to render it
probable that it is confined to this variety of the human family. The
question has been asked, whether there is any external sign by which
to detect, with simple inspection of the visual organ, a case of color-
blindness. Professor Wartmann remarks, that he would not venture to
give an answer to this question in all cases in the negative. I have
observed, says he, in the case of Daltonians whose eyes are brown, of
the color which the English call hazel, a golden lustre of a peculiar
tint, when the eye was viewed under an incidence of some obliquity.

Color-blindness is found much more common among men than women.
Out of one hundred and fifty registered cases, there are but six of females,
and one of these is doubtful. It has been conjectured that needle-work
on a variety of colored articles, might be the means of counteracting the
tendency to this defect, as well as to produce a delicacy of discrimina-
tion of different shades of color not possessed by those otherwise em-
ployed. But, in answer to this, it has been remarked, that in the case
of Daltonians engaged in painting, there has been found but little, if any
improvement of condition of the vision; and the very employment of the
females on works which require a constant comparison of color, would
daily reveal cases of blindness of this kind, did it frequently exist in the
female sex. This peculiarity of vision is principally congenital. Pro-
fessor W. has found but two exceptions. In one of these, colors were
perceived in the usual manner, until at the ninth year, when at that time
the boy received a violent blow on the head, which fractured the skull,
and rendered surgical operations necessary. The fact, however, that
three of the brothers of this individual were affected with the same kind
of vision, renders it probable that he was constitutionally predisposed to
this peculiarity.

With regard to hereditary predisposition there are some persons in
whom this defect of vision occurs, whose relatives have never been
known to be affected with it; others appear to have inherited it from
their fathers through several generations, both on the maternal and
paternal side. The boy before mentioned, as becoming blind at the age
of nine years, was the eldest of eleven children, seven males and four
females ; these were singularly divided into two sets, one of which con-
sisted of individuals with blond hair, and all the males with defective
vision; the other, of those with red hair and ordinary power of vision.

Dr. Seebeck, as well as Professor Wartmann, has made a series of
experiments to determine whether a person of this peculiarity of vision
possesses the power of perceiving differences in colors which appear
identical to us. The result of the investigations of both these philoso-
phers was that he does not. Another problem has also been solved by
the last-mentioned gentleman, in reference to the difference between a
person with this defective vision, and one of ordinary conditioned sight, in
200 COLOR BLINDNESS.

the perception of complementary colors. He found that colors which
we regard as complementary, or such as when mingled together produce
white, do not appear as such to those affected: with abnormal vision.
They are not however insensible to accidental colors, but the feeling
which results from the fatigue of attempting to produce these appears to
be more painful in them than in us.

Various hypotheses have been advanced by different persons for the
explanation of color-blindness. Mr. Dalton supposed that his peculiarity
of vision, as well as that of those whom he had examined, depended on
the fact that the vitreous or principal humour of the eye, in these cases,
instead of being colorless and transparent was tinged with ablue. After
his death, in obedience to his own instruction, his eyes were examined
by his medical attendant, Mr. Ransome, but the vitreous humour was not
found to exhibit any tinge of blue; on the contrary, it was of a pale
yellow color. Objects viewed through it were not changed in color as
they should have been had the hypothesis been true. Indeed, were the
supposition correct, the same effect should be produced by blue specta-
cles, which is known not to be the case. ;

Stewart, Herschel and others are of the opinion that this malady of
vision is attributable to a defect in the sensorium itself, which renders
it incapable of appreciating the differences between the rays on which
the sensation of color depends. Sir David Brewster conceives that the
eye, in the case of color-blindness, is insensible to the colors at one end
of the spectrum, just as the ear of certain persons is insensible to sounds
at one extremity of the scale of musical notes, while it is perfectly sen-
sible to all other sounds. He knows nothing about the sensorium or its
connection witk, or mode of operation upon, the nerves of sensation; and
from the analogy of sight and hearing, he has no hesitation in predicting
that there may. be found persons whose color-blindness is confined to
one eye, or at least is greater in one eye than in the other. Nor is this,
says he, wholly a conjecture from analogy, for my own right eye, though
not a better one than the left, which has no defect whatever, is more
sensible to red light than the left eye. The case is precisely analogous
with respect to his ears, for certain sounds; and no person, it is pre-
sumed, will maintain that there is a sensorium for each ear and each eye.

Whatever may be the cause of the inferiority, there exists a very easy
means of rectifying it to a certain extent. This method, first used by Dr.
Seebeck, consists in viewing colored objects through colored media.
Suppose the medium to be a piece of red glass; the impression of a red
body and of a green one on the eye of a person like Dr. Dalton, would
be different, although with the naked eye they would be the same. , The
red glass would intercept much more of the light of the green object
than of the red one, and hence the two would be readily distinguishable
by a difference in the intensity of the illumination of the two objects.
Nothing can equal the surprise, says Professor Wartmann, of a Dalton-
ian when the errors which he commits every day in the appreciation of
colors are thus disclosed to him.

REPORT ON THE TRANSACTIONS OF THE GENEVA SOCIETY OF
PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY, FROM JUNE, 1874, TO
JUNE, 1875.

By E. PLANTAMOUR, President.

Translated for the Smithsonian Institution by M. L. Duncan.
BY KH. PLANTAMOUR, Wresident.

Translated for the Smithsonian Institution by M. L. Duncan.
BY KH. PLANTAMOUR, Wresident.

Translated for the Smithsonian Institution by M. L. Duncan.
BY KH. PLANTAMOUR, Wresident.

Translated for the Smithsonian Institution by M. L. Duncan.
BY KH. PLANTAMOUR, Wresident.

Translated for the Smithsonian Institution by M. L. Duncan.
BY KH. PLANTAMOUR, Wresident.

Translated for the Smithsonian Institution by M. L. Duncan.
BY KH. PLANTAMOUR, Wresident.

Translated for the Smithsonian Institution by M. L. Duncan.
BY KH. PLANTAMOUR, Wresident.

Translated for the Smithsonian Institution by M. L. Duncan.
BY KH. PLANTAMOUR, Wresident.

Translated for the Smithsonian Institution by M. L. Duncan.
BY KH. PLANTAMOUR, Wresident.

Translated for the Smithsonian Institution by M. L. Duncan.
BY KH. PLANTAMOUR, Wresident.

Translated for the Smithsonian Institution by M. L. Duncan.
BY KH. PLANTAMOUR, Wresident.

Translated for the Smithsonian Institution by M. L. Duncan.
BY KH. PLANTAMOUR, Wresident.

Translated for the Smithsonian Institution by M. L. Duncan.
BY KH. PLANTAMOUR, Wresident.

Translated for the Smithsonian Institution by M. L. Duncan.
BY KH. PLANTAMOUR, Wresident.

Translated for the Smithsonian Institution by M. L. Duncan.
BY KH. PLANTAMOUR, Wresident.

Translated for the Smithsonian Institution by M. L. Duncan.

BY HK. PLANTAMOUR, fresident.
