we * 4 ke ato

f ee a. pe Dae oe F
4 2 oe ~ 7 . > ‘ A Ta
ye hee Ce tee
‘ ; pes ey di Te we ‘f A ee
“ass ; + sn aa i oe ha Pi we BY ak
| » owe Oe oO ‘1 ye
0 ee pe

¥ ; ie | aa

| ieee’ jw »

‘ :

fee

. fs ? a x

>
am.

ner

=e

ANNUAL REPORT ‘OF. THE
BOARD OF REGENTS OF

THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION

SHOWING THE

OFERATIONS, EXPENDIP@RES, AND
CONDITION OF THE. INSTITUTION
pOte aE YEARY ENDING” JUNE. 30

1912

WASHINGTON
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
1913
lg Od Wd Dd Db

FROM THE

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

SUBMITTING

THE ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE
INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1912.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, March 29, 1913.
To the Congress of the United Staies:

In accordance with section 5593 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, I have the honor, in behalf of the Board of Regents,
to submit to Congress the annual report of the operations, expendi-
tures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year end-
ing June 30, 1912. I have the honor to be, .

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CuHarLes D. Watcort, Secretary.

ut
Ea

rer ey

~

™
¢

+>

GON TENE Ss:

Page.

Letter from the Secretary submitting the Annual Report of the Regents to
ere enone eee aie anise 25, nymiw oasis anise ee SERS Coe eMC ur
Serre MeO IMHO LEDOLG. noes 5 2 oi roo Sept ete CSR Stine See Aula ie v
Logi OU 1. DOSS. 2h BAe ee aes A A ee ee) 7 eeies ena fee Se ee VII
Goserlevbicesor the annual report... 2.522326 Je a. iba 22k EE Ooi eRe IX
Officials-o1 thes nstitution: and its branches: -| 2.2. 2.22.0 sss tse. So xI

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.
Ene mil hsoniaiMMmsambutlON..205. 2.22... See ee ee et ls ee 1
The Establishments... /.0...2-'2. 2 iad Oe Vea aera Sen Ny es RAO dane teks 1
BD IOME OAR EOMNC OCIA ees re c's arias EEA 2 a alee DR tits whe oh ine al
GC ONGER COnmCrAmOUAa! = 21 555.4 ese c to Pe dale wee aes eee TALS gts 2
JDstaP NITIES eS PNR el a rape ce Pe a Le Sar Ae 5
Explorations and researches—

Studies in Cambrian geology and paleontology..........-.-.---------- 7
Rae YW IAIFICATLOMMCM ENON 12:2 Sauer ctin S's 52's Saha sia stalntar as ntencictcle oo eia'sle 8
nel Airicanjompeniiaone. (thee Rene) ek Sebi a ee eee ats 9
Biological survey of the Panama Canal Zone............------.-.---- 9
Siberiamiexpedihiom ese ts sak ie ARS BR eee a8 eas 10
Borneo expedition....-.-++-+--+------- DS NRE tS a Lot 10
Biological Survey in the Canadian Roel iba: SP RIAA eg Dh i SES a Ea 11
Anthropological researches in Siberia and Mongolia..........-----.-- ati
Anpomiiy of Manin burope. see.) see st SL eo lee 12

escarches under the: Hodekins find 2222: fii. esis. ee eee: 12
Smithsonian table at the Naples Zoological Station.........-.....---- 13
Ermey ee Anton tis a eee Sia A Rese 14
aApeoveMicmorial tapletse--2-..2sefsch) Ui. Sete che see eS kee eee 19
Hamulton lecture. 22: y.c...2550.c8 SU el ol %)
21

22

International congresses and elepationss ay ae ETE ae Pee ae ee
George Washington Memorial Building..............-.-...-------------:
fection eNimnemrnee 5 Paine ek a SP Se ee es ae 23
Peer Or MMerical BLLNOW Res aa 5 sta \o.c'- wn Paes bates else sh 288i 25
PeemIAlIOHNN EY reh Anes. sans 8 seen ae ses Fee ete. ot ae SL SSS ee 25
Reaianaleoolorica Park iste 2 eeeee Gta Cis OSes ke SU See aaa 27
mreropb yaicalCbservatoby sees seem ick ee Seti Fees ALS NSS 28
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature.....2..25.....2...2222222.20. 28
Appendix 1. Report on the United States National Museum..............---- 30
2. Report on the Bureau of American Ethnology. ..-..--.--------- ai
3. Report. onthe International Exchanges: .1ukto55 0p SOL See Tae. 58
4, Report on the National Zoological Park..............-...------ TL
5. Report on the Astrophysical Observatory............-.---------- 82
G.2heport on the iaipramyeeen) 254s SS Ly SH Oe eS 82 89
7. Report on the International Catalogue of Scientific Literature. - . 99
Sivepors on thetL oblications: .<i4 0 ee SM ee ee A SS} 102
VI CONTENTS.

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

Condition-or. the: fund July Oa 2.5 foe See oe eee tae eee eee
Receipts and disbursements July 1, 1911, to June 30, 1912.............---..--
Summary of appropriations by, Congress. 2... -s:s- as-is se) oe ee eee

PROCEEDINGS OF BOARD OF REGENTS.

GENERAL APPENDIX,

The year’s progress in astronomy, by P. Puiseux...............-...2..+2+-5--
Theispiral nebulse, by P:-Puiseux.....2. 222)... Saes sock v2 eee
The radiation ofthe sun; by €.G: Abbot-2. 2... See Ree See eee
Molecular theories and mathematics, by Emile Borel..................--.----
Modern mathematical research, by G. A. Miller................-...----------
The connection between the ether and matter, by Henri Poincaré...........--
Experiments with soap bubbles, by C. V. Boys..-.2-.--- 2224 Seeds aee e
Measurements of infinitesimal quantities of substances, by William Ramsay.. -
The latest achievements and problems of the chemical industry, by Carl

Holes in‘the'air; ‘by We J... Humphreys. ..-\. so. .//2-- -.)- o.oo eee
Review of applied mechanics, by L. Lecornu...........--.------2++-++2--20-5
Report on the recent great eruption of the volcano ‘‘Stromboli,’’? by Frank A.

PGIVOU 2 2 sac este << wisn ef ols on s.ncs ounce des a See eens end ae eee

The glacial and postglacial lakes of the Great Lakes region, by rank B. Taylor.

Applied geology, by Alfred EH... Brooks... 2-0-4242 Stock tease see
The relations of paleobotany to geology, by F. H. Knowlton........--.-..- ee
Geophysical research, by Arthur b. Day..:-.:/2-2--. 22.2 4h-= Saeseegeraees
A trip to Madagascar, the country of beryls, by A. Lacroix...........-----.--
The fluctuating climate of North America, by Ellsworth Huntington. ........
The survival of organs and the ‘‘culture”’ of living tissues, by R. Legendre... -
Adaptation and inheritance in the light of modern experimental investigation,

by Paul Kammerer... 02cciate si ge nae eeee = - uo ee ee eee
The paleogeographical relations of antarctica, by Charles Hedley-...........--
The,ants and their guests, by P. lH. Wasmann:.--- 2-22 22-5. 522226. eee
The penguins of the antarctic regions, by L. Gain............:.----+-----2-4¢-
The derivation of the European domestic animals, by C. Keller. ......---..-.
Life: its nature, origin, and maintenance, by E. A. Schiifer.............-.-.--
The origin of life: a chemist’s fantasy, by H. E. Armstrong...............-.--
The appearance of life on worlds and the hypothesis of Arrhénius, by Alphonse

The evolution of man, by G. Elliot Smith).....: 2225... + --.<2eds ese eee
The history and varieties of human speech, by Edward Sapir...........------
Ancient Greece and its slave population, by 8. Zaborowski..........--------
Origin and evolution of the blond Europeans, by Adolphe Bloch............--
History of the finger-print system, by Berthold Laufer....:............--..--
Urbanism: A historic, geographic, and economic study, by Pierre Clerget- -
The Sinai problem, by EB. Oberhummer. +32. <2%,-,.- =< 4k eee eee
The music of primitive peoples and che beginnings of European music, by

Wally aRtor < . 2 oc suis shistee & ae cicso arebeiacd ols Baie eae el ope gic a et
Expedition to the South’Pole, by Roald Amundsen................-.----+---
Icebergs and their location in navigation, by Howard T. Barnes...........----
Henri Poincaré: his scientific work; his philosophy, by Charles Nordmann ....

iff
112
114

115

135
143
153
167
187
199
211
219

231
257
269

285
291
329
353
359
371
383
413
421
443
455
475
483
493
527

543
553
573
597
609
631
653
669

679
701
717
741
LIST OF PLATES:

Page.

SEcRETARY’S REPORT:

Plates ea 2ee ee ees Scene = 76
RapraTion oF Sun (Abbot):

Plates I-25 sees ecs nsec se 154

Plates 3-45.55. Soke so 158
Soap Bussuss (Boys):

Plates 2-25 seeeassecsceaes's 214
Hotes In THE Arr (Humphreys) :

lates 22 er ae eee ts 260
Eruption of Strompott (Perret):

Plates... sce. s savers 285

PIES 2-922). . c tc ones 290
CumaTE oF Norta America (Hunt-
’ ington):

IBIates le 28 etse scr c cmc. ssc 392

eaten See eetee ls NEA te 888

Plates! SiGst tases sone ssic8es 400

PIRtCR TAS no oniecie ste roe wisi: 402

lates OF 10... cc aeeee ees oe! 408
Livina Tissuns (Legendre):

PIstes 4S fee soos ies acie 420

ADAPTATION AND INHERITANCE
(Kammerer):

PlatesHla S325 Jes jesse oes cee
ANTS AND THEIR GuEsTs (Was-
mann):
Plates 15105. soe eestor
PENGUINS (Gain):
Plated .2 coats ae yee

Fincer-Print Sysrem (Laufer).
iPlatesiaseees eae seers
Plates A= (eee a eee ase ae

Svar Prostem (Oberhummer):
Plates! 2:5 See sees seer
Plates 2. ejacteiaine Sere see

Icrperas (Barnes):
Uae wees oe ees oe eer
Plates 2s sr aceins nis Soe eae

Vil

Page.
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR ENDING
JUNE 30, 1912.

SUBJECTS.

1. Annual report of the secretary, giving an account of the opera-
tions and conditions of the Institution for the year ending June 30,
1912, with statistics of exchanges, ete.

2. Report of the executive committee, exhibiting the financial
affairs of the Institution, including a statement of the Smithsonian
fund, and receipts and expenditures for the year ending June 30,
1912.

3. Proceedings of the Board of Regents for the sessions of Decem-
ber 14, 1911, and February 8, 1912.

4. General appendix, comprising a selection of miscellaneous mem-
oirs of interest to collaborators and correspondents of the Institution,
teachers, and others engaged in the promotion of knowledge. These

memoirs relate chiefly to the calendar year 1912.
IX
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

JUNE 30, 1912.

Presiding officer ex officio.—Wit11aM H. Tart, President of the United States.
Chancellor.—JAMES S. SHERMAN, Vice President of the United States.
Members of the Institution:

Wuuram H. Tart, President of the United States.

James S. SHERMAN, Vice President of the United States.

Epwarp Dovatass Warre, Chief Justice of the United States.

Pumanpver ©. Knox, Secretary of State.

FraNxkiin MacVeaau, Secretary of the Treasury.

Henry L. Stimson, Secretary of War.

GeorGceE W. WickersHAM, Attorney General.

Frank H. Hrrcscock, Postmaster General.

GEORGE VON L. Meyer, Secretary of the Navy.

Watrter L. Fisuer, Secretary of the Interior.

James Wi1son, Secretary of Agriculture.

CHARLES NAGEL, Secretary of Commerce and Labor.
Regents of the Institution:

James S. SHERMAN, Vice President of the United States, Chancellor.

Epwarp Doveiass Wurrs, Chief Justice of the United States.

SuHetspy M. Cuttom, Member of the Senate.

Henry Casot Lopar, Member of the Senate.

Avaustus O. Bacon, Member of the Senate.

Joun Dauze.t, Member of the House of Representatives.

Scorr Ferris, Member of the House of Representatives.

Irvin S. Pepper, Member of the House of Representatives.

Anprew D. Wurrs, citizen of New York.

ALEXANDER GRAHAM BELL, citizen of Washington, D. C.

GEORGE GRAY, citizen of Delaware.

CHARLES F. CHoarts, Jr., citizen of Massachusetts.

Joun B. Henperson, Jr., citizen of Washington, D. C.

CHARLES W. FarrBanks, citizen of Indiana.
Executive Committee—A. O. Bacon, ALEXANDER GRAHAM BELL, JoHN DALZELL.
Secretary of the Institution.—CHarLES D. WALCOTT.
Assistant Secretary in charge of National Musewum.—RicHarpd RaATHBUN.
Assistant Secretary in charge of Library and Exchanges.—FrepErick W. TRUE.
Chief Clerk—Harry W. Dorsey.
Accountant and Disbursing Agent.—W. I. Apams.
Editor.—A. Howarp CLARK.
XII ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

THE NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Keeper ex officio—Cuar.Es D. Watcort, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

Assistant Secretary in charge.—RicHARD RATHBUN.

Administrative Assistant.—W. DE C. RAVENEL,

Head Curators —Wiu1amM H. Homes, LeonnARD STEJNEGER, G. P. MERRILL..

Curators —R. S. Basster, A. Howarp Crark, F. W. Crarke, F. V. Covitiz, W. H.
Dat, B. W. Evermann, J. M. Fut, U.S. N. (retired), W. H. Hotmzs,
Water Hoven, L. O. Howarp, ALES Hrouéxa, G. P. Merritt, Gerrit
S. Minter, Jr., Ricoarp Rarusun, Rosert Ripaway, LEONHARD STEJNEGER,
CHarLes D. WaALcorT.

Associate Curators. —J. N. Rosr, Davin WHITE.

Curator, National Gallery of Art.—W. H. Hotmes.

Chief of Correspondence and Documents.—RanvotrH I, GEARE.

Superintendent of Construction and Labor.—J. 8. GoLpsmirH.

Editor.—Marcus BENJAMIN.

Photographer.—T. W. Smi.118.

Registrar.—S. C. Brown.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

Ethnologist in charge.—¥. W. Hones.

Ethnologists —J. Water Frwxes, J. N. B. Hewrrt, Francis LA Fiescue, TRU-
MAN MicHELSON, JAMES Mooney, MatinpA CoxE STEVENSON, JOHN R.
SWANTON.

Philologist.—FRANz BOAs.

Editor.—JosrerH G. GURLEY.

Iilustrator.—Dr Lancry W. GILL.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES.

Assistant Secretary in charge.—FREDERICK W. TRUE.
Chief Clerk.—C. W. SHOEMAKER.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK.

Superintendent.—F RANK BAKER.
Assistant Superintendent.—A. B. BAKER.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY.

Director.—C. G. ABBOT.
Aid.—F.. E. Fow er, Jr.

REGIONAL BUREAU FOR THE UNITED STATES, INTERNATIONAL
CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE.

Assistant in charge.—L. C. GUNNELL.
REPORT

OF THE

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
CHARLES D. WALCOTT,

FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1912,

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

GENTLEMEN: I have the honor to submit herewith a report show-
ing the operations of the Smithsonian Institution and its branches
during the year ending June 30, 1912, including the work placed by
Congress under the direction of the Board of Regents in the United
States National Museum, the Bureau of American Ethnology, the
International Exchanges, the National Zoological Park, the Astro-
physical Observatory, and the United States Bureau of the Inter-
national Catalogue of Scientific Literature.

The general report reviews the affairs of the Institution proper,
with brief paragraphs relating to the several branches, while the
appendix presents detailed reports by those in direct charge of the
work. Independently of the present report, the operations of the
National Museum and the Bureau of American Ethnology are fully
treated of-in separate volumes.

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.
THE ESTABLISHMENT.

The Smithsonian Institution was created an establishment by act
of Congress approved August 10, 1846. Its statutory members are
the President of the United States, the Vice President, the Chief
Justice, and the heads of the executive departments.

THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

The Board of Regents consists of the Vice President and the Chief
Justice of the United States as ex officio members, three Members of
the Senate, three Members of the House of Representatives, and six
citizens, “ two of whom shall be resident in the city of Washington,
and the other four shall be inhabitants of some State, but no two of

them of the same State.”
1
2 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

In regard to the personnel of the board I may here record that
Dr. James B. Angell, of Michigan, resigned on January 15, 1912,
after an honorable service as Regent for 25 years. The vacancy thus
caused was filled by Congress by the appointment of Hon. Charles W.
Fairbanks, of Indiana, who as Vice President of the United States
had formerly been a Regent from 1904 to 1909. Representatives
Scott Ferris and Irvin 8. Pepper were appointed Regents to succeed
Representatives Howard and Mann. The roll of Regents at the close
of the fiscal year was as follows: James S. Sherman, Vice President
of the United States, Chancellor; Edward D. White, Chief Justice
of the United States; Shelby M. Cullom, Member of the Senate;
Henry Cabot Lodge, Member of the Senate; Augustus O. Bacon,
Member of the Senate; John Dalzell, Member of the House of
Representatives; Scott Ferris, Member of the House of Representa-
tives; Irvin S. Pepper, Member of the House of Representatives;
Andrew D. White, citizen of New York; Alexander Graham Bell,
citizen of Washington, D. C.; George Gray, citizen of Delaware;
Charles F. Choate, jr., citizen of Massachusetts; John B. Hender-
son, jr., citizen of Washington, D. C.; and Charles W. Fairbanks,
citizen of Indiana.

The annual meeting of the board was held on December 14, 1911,
and the usual supplementary meeting on February 8, 1912. The
proceedings of these meetings and the annual report of the executive
committee are printed in the customary form and the details need
not therefore be repeated here.

GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS.

The affairs of the Institution and of its branches have been con-
ducted during the year with success and, I trust, to the satisfaction
of all interested. The work covers practically the entire field of
natural and physical science, as well as anthropological and archeo-
logical researches. The extent of that work is limited only by the
amount of the funds available. I referred in my last report to the
establishment of a trust fund by Mrs. E. H. Harriman for carrying
on certain research work, and I desire here to mention the generosity
of several friends of the Institution who have provided means for
engaging in certain biological expeditions.

The equipping of the new National Museum building with cases
and the installation of the collections progressed satisfactorily. It
is anticipated that during the fiscal year 1913 the building will be
entirely occupied and all the exhibition halls opened to the public.
The great extent of this work may be best understood by the state-
ment that the exhibition halls embrace an area of about 220,000 square
feet, or 5 acres. The installation had been so thoroughly planned
by Assistant Secretary Rathbun and his associates that the work in
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 5

all the departments has advanced in an orderly and systematic
fashion.

Although the new Museum building is intended primarily for the
exhibition of natural-history specimens, the main floor of the large
central hall has been temporarily given up to the exhibition of the
collections of paintings belonging to the National Gallery of Art.
It is to be noted in this connection that Mr. William T. Evans has
presented 137 paintings illustrating the work of 100 American artists.
This extremely valuable collection should in due time be housed in a
suitable art gallery, with other valuable collections of this character
belonging to the Government. The details of the development of the
Museum system and accessions made to the collections will be found
in the report of the assistant secretary in charge of the Museum.

As I have stated in previous reports, I believe it desirable to estab-
lish a number of research associateships similar to the Harriman
trust fund, whereby especially capable men in the several branches of
science may be afforded opportunities for research work without the
eare and burden of administrative duties, and with full assurance
that as long as their work is properly conducted it will be continued,
and that provision will be made for them when incapacitated for
active service. The field for scientific investigation is extensive, and
there are numbers of worthy projects that can not now be under-
taken because of lack of means—projects that could not properly be
carried on through Government appropriation, but which the
Smithsonian Institution could readily undertake were the means
available.

In this connection I would cail attention to the organization of a
Research Corporation in which the Institution is particularly in-
terested.

Research Corporation.—Dr. Frederick G. Cottrell, of the United
States Bureau of Mines, having generously offered to present to the
Smithsonian Institution a valuable set of patents relating to the elec-
trical precipitation of dust, smoke, and chemical fumes, it seemed to
the Regents advisable, for various reasons incident to the business
management of the patents, that there be organized a stock corpora-
tion which could take title to the patents and in which the Institu-
tion should be indirectly represented by the secretary as an indi-
vidual, and not in his capacity as secretary. The recommendation
of the Regents being acceptable to Dr. Cottrell, the Research Cor-
poration of New York was accordingly organized and incorporated
by certificate executed February 16, 1912, filed in the office of the
secretary of state of New York February 26, 1912, and in the office
of the clerk of the county of New York February 27, 1912.

The objects of the Research Corporation are explained in the fol-
lowing circular:
4 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912,

RESEARCH CORPORATION.

The Research Corporation has recently been organized under the laws of the
State of New York as a self-supporting means of furthering scientific and tech-
nical research. The corporation has two objects: First, to acquire inventions
and patents and to make them more available in the arts and industries, while
using them as a source of income; and, second, to apply all profits derived from
such use to the advancement of technical and scientific investigation and ex-
perimentation through the agency of the Smithsonian Institution and such
other scientific and educational institutions and societies as may be selected
by the directors.. For these purposes the corporation has been capitalized at
$20,000, divided into 200 shares, but the charter provides that no dividends shall
be paid and that the entire net profits shall be devoted to research; all the stock
being held under a stockholders’ agreement, which recites that the corporation
has been organized for the purpose of aiding and encouraging technical and
scientific research, and not for personal or individual profit.

At the present time many discoveries are constantly being made, which un-
doubtedly possess a greater or less potential value, but which are literally being
allowed to go to waste for lack of thorough development. This is due, in some
eases, to the fact that the inventors are men in the service of the Government,
or in the universities or technical schools, who are retarded either by ofiicial
positions, lack of means, or reluctance to engage in commercial enterprises; and
in other cases to the fact that a discovery made incidentally in the laboratory
of a manufacturing corporation does not lend itself to the particuar purpose
of such corporation. True conservation demands that such by-products as
these shall be developed and utilized to the fullest extent of which they are
capable. The Research Corporation aims to supply this demand; and, through
the cooperation of the Smithsonian Institution and the universities, to carry
forward the work of investigation already begun by others upon lines which
promise important results and to perfect such inventions as may prove to
possess commercial value, thus bringing scientific institutions into closer rela-
tions with industrial activities and furthering the improvements of industrial
processes. :

The establishment of the Research Corporation has been rendered immediately
possible by the acquisition, through the gift of Dr. F. G. Cottrell, of the United
States Bureau of Mines, and his associates, of a valuable set of patents relating
to the precipitation of dust, smoke, and chemical fumes by the use of electrical
currents. These devices have already been tested and are in operation in sey-
eral Western States, and are fully described in an article in ‘ Industrial and
Engineering Chemistry ”, for August, 1911. The ownership of these patents
and the exclusive control of them, except in six Western States, at once assures
a certain amount of business to the corporation, and it already has contracts
for preliminary installations in the Garfield Smelter of the American Smelter
& Refining Co., the New York Edison Co., and the Baltimore Copper Refinery.
Numerous inquiries have been received from other important plants.

Besides the patents which have already been transferred to the corporation, a
number of others in various fields of industry have been offered by officers of
the Government and scientific institutions, as well as by manufacturing cor-
porations holding patents not available for their own purposes. A similar offer
has also come from Germany, through Mr. Erwin Moller, who has developed
certain inventions in the same field as the Cottrell patents, and undoubtedly
there are many others who will be glad to have their inventions utilized for the
benefit of scientific research.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 5

The management of the corporation is in the hands of a board of directors
composed of business and professional men, many of whom have had experience
in large industrial and mining enterprises. Among them are Dr. Charles D.
Walcott, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution; Charles Kirchhoff, recently
president of the American Society of Mining Engineers; Arthur D. Little, presi-
dent of the American Chemical Society; Hennen Jennings, of Washington; Gen.
T. Coleman du Pont, of Wilmington; James J. Storrow, Charles A. Stone, and
Prof. Elihu Thomson, of Boston; Frederick A. Goetze, dean of the faculty of
applied science of Columbia University; Elon Huntington Hooker, president of
the Development and Funding Co.; Thomas C. Meadows, vice president of the
International Agricultural Corporation, and Benjamin B. Lawrence. and John
B. Pine, of New York. Lloyd N. Scott is the secretary and Linn Bradley the
engineer of the corporation.

The Research Corporation invites correspondence with industrial concerns
who are interested in perfecting their operations.

All communications should be addressed to “ Research Corporation, No. 63
Wall Street, New York City.”

The Cottrell patents cover processes used in the precipitation of
solid particles from gases and smoke produced in smelters and cement
plants. Considerable injury has been suffered by orchards and crops
in the neighborhood of the great cement plants in California. The
Cottrell processes have met with success in removing the particles of
cement from the smoke and gases of such plants and particles of lead
and other metals from the smoke of smelters, as well as the abatement
of smoke nuisances in general. It is expected by Prof. Cottrell that
there will be great economic advantage in saving the solids in the
gases and smoke.

FINANCES.

The permanent fund of the Institution and the sources from which

it was derived are as follows:

Deposited in the Treasury of the United States.

BCCHeS Ole SMOIGHSONs S46 = spe et eT ake Se $515, 169. 00
Residuanry:leracy, of Smithsons 186(a26 4 Sere: he be 26, 210. 63
IDeDOSIE Tromesavingsvor iméome: 1867. ==- fee ee 108, 620. 37
Bequest. of James Hamilton 1Sio2= 22 == == sae u ae see $1, 000. 00
Accumulated interest on Hamilton fund, 1895__________ 1, 000. 00
SS SSS 2, 000. 00
Bequest OL. Simeon HabelsiSS0. 22 as eee ee 500. 00
Deposit from proceeds of sale of bonds, 1881__--____________-____- 51, 500. 00
Gifttrom thomas Gi) Hodeking; Meson 85) Sie wae cs ey ea a tals 200, 000. 00
Part of residuary legacy of Thomas G. Hodgkins, 1894___________ 8, 000. 00
Deposit from savings, of.income; 1903.22. ==. ee 25, 000. 00
Residuary legacy of Thomas G. Hodgkins______________-______~- 7, 918. 69
Total amount of fund in the United States Treasury___--~~~- 944, 918. 69
Registered and guaranteed bonds of the West Shore R. R. Co. (par
value), part of legacy of Thomas G. Hodgkins__-___-____-___-_-__ 42, 000. 00
ROCA Perma Nem Gwin Ge) eee ee ye Se ee ee a 986, 918. 69

85360°—sm 1912——2
6 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

In additien to the above there are four pieces of real estate
bequeathed to the Institution by the late R. S. Avery, some of which
yield a nominal rental, and all are free from taxation.

That part of the fund deposited in the Treasury of the United
States bears interest at 6 per cent per annum, under the provisions
of the act organizing the Institution and an act of Congress approved
March 12, 1894. 'The rate of interest on the West Shore Railroad
bonds is 4 per cent per annum.

The income of the Institution during the year, amounting to
$107,168.31, was derived as follows: Interest on the permanent foun-
dation, $58,375.12; contributions from various sources for specific
purposes, $21,150; and from other miscellaneous sources, $27,645.19 ;
all of which was deposited in the Treasury of the United States to the
credit of the current account of the Institution.

With the balance of $32,425.66 on July 1, 1911, the total resources
for the fiscal year amounted to $139,593.97. The disbursements,
which are given in detail in the annual report of the executive com-
mittee, amounted to $106,533.88, leaving a balance of $33,060.09 on
deposit June 30, 1912, in the United States Treasury.

The Institution was charged by Congress with the disbursement of
the following appropriations for the year ending June 30, 1912:

EEN ETT GAT 1 OT: WAC AN OS se i ee eat ee $32, 000
Anerica ny Mt hmolog yes 2 oo) Se el ee ee 42, 000
Astrophysical Observatory =< <= eS) ee a Ee ae ee eee ee 18, 000
National Museum :
ATTN GUT AFL RTOS oe ee eee 175, 000
Heatingsand, Vigh tim gs Me see as is 2 ee 50, 000
Preservation: of collections: 46 5222 eee ee ee ee eee 300, 000
i Yoyo) [= Seen See a eer ee Ca es Me = Ae ha eho Pe Be SA 2, 000
Postage@ieu. 2p oe ee oe ee a A ee ee 500
Building repairs=—- sok See. a a ee ee 15, 000
National! Zoological “Pavrk==+ 2.2 ..-.2- 252 ee SS eee ee eee 100, 000
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature_-_-~--____+~-_--_-+___ 7, 500
MO GALS be erie ee Sh RT ae 742, 000

EXPLORATIONS AND RESEARCHES.

Scientific explorations and researches have been carried on during
the past year at the expense of the Institution as far as its limited
income and the generosity of its friends would permit. The Na-
tional Museum has participated in some of these enterprises by fur-
nishing equipment or supplies or by detailing members of its staff
to conduct investigations or to make collections that are subsequently
transferred to the Museum. Other researches made through the
Astrophysical Observatory and* the Bureau of American Ethnology
are referred to elsewhere in this report. The resources of the Insti-
tution not being sufficient to enable it to plan extensive investiga-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 7

tions in the field or to maintain a corps of collectors, it is compelled
to concentrate its efforts on special work of limited scope, but of
such a character that the results shall, as far as possible, have an
immediate bearing on the progress of science. In recent years, as
in the whole of its past history, the Institution has had the aid of
public-spirited citizens and the cooperation of other institutions
and of the several branches of the United States Government. It
has, in turn, cooperated with other organizations in the explora-
tions which they have conducted, being itself benefited thereby and
benefiting those with which it has been associated.

In recent years opportunities have been afforded for participating
in a number of exploring and hunting expeditions organized by
private enterprise, whereby scientific collections of great importance
have been obtained. These collections, with those from other sources,
are preserved in the National Museum for exhibition to the public
or for promoting scientific studies.

The field of these activities of the Institution has been world-wide,
but attention has been recently concentrated on Africa and the
Panama Canal Zone rather more than on other regions.

STUDIES IN CAMBRIAN GEOLOGY AND PALEONTOLOGY.

During the field season of the fiscal year 1911-12, or the spring and
summer of 1912, I continued the collecting of Cambrian fossils from
the famous fossil locality above Burgess Pass, north of Field, British
Columbia, on the main line of the Canadian Pacific Railway, for the
first two weeks of July and three weeks in September.

On the way to the Canadian Northwest I stopped off for a few days
to examine the locality on Steep Rock Lake, 140 miles west of Port
Arthur, where the oldest pre-Cambrian fossiliferous rocks occur. I
had made a small collection, when, by the swamping of the canoe in
which we were working in the rapids of the Seine River, a short dis-
tance from the lake, Dr. J. W. Truman, my guide and fellow geolo-
gist, of the Canadian Survey, was drowned, and the work thus most
unfortunately brought to a close.

Outfitting at Fitzhugh, on the Grand Trunk Pacific Railway, I
went with a well-equipped party over the Yellowhead Pass on the
Continental Divide, leaving the line of the railway at Moose River,
17 miles west of the Pass. The Moose River was followed up to its
head at Moose Pass, where we passed over into the drainage of the
Smoky River, making several camps en route. The final camp was
made at Robson Pass, between Berg and Adolphus Lakes. A recon-
naissance of the geological section from Moose Pass to the summit of
Mount Robson gave approximately 12,000 feet in thickness of the
Cambrian formations and 3,000 feet of Lower Ordovician strata.
Fossil beds were found at several localities in this section, and one
8 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

of them on the east side of Mural Glacier promises to give the finest
specimens from the Lower Cambrian rocks of the western side of the
continent.

Many photographs were taken both by myself and Mr. R. C. W.
Lett, of the Grand Trunk Pacific Railway, who accompanied the
party for two weeks.

The scenery about Mount Robson is probably the finest in the
Canadian Rockies, as far as now known. ‘The glaciers are on a grand
scale, and the geology presents many large problems for solution.
My object in visiting the Mount Robson region was to secure data
for comparison of the section of Cambrian rocks there with that on
the line of the Canadian Pacific Railway, 150 miles to the south.

RAINEY AFRICAN EXPEDITION.

The Smithsonian African expedition, under Col. Roosevelt, had
scarcely returned from the field when the Institution received invi-
tations to participate in two others, organized to explore the same
general region.

The first was Mr. Paul J. Rainey’s hunting trip to British East
Africa and southern Abyssinia, where Mr. Rainey especially planned
to hunt lions with a pack of American hounds. The natural-history
collections that might be secured were offered to the Smithsonian
Institution, provided an expert field naturalist be sent to accompany
him and prepare such of the game collected as was desired for ex-
hibition or scientific study. Mr. Edmund Heller, who had accom-
panied the Smithsonian African expedition in such a capacity, was
selected and departed with Mr. Rainey in February, 1911. The
collection made has been estimated to contain some 4,700 skins of
mammals, together with many birds, reptiles, and other animals,
making very valuable additions to the present African collection in
the Museum. Nearly all of the material is from localities not
covered by earlier expeditions, and some of it comes from points
never before visited by naturalists. The collection includes the
famous series of lions taken by Mr. Rainey with his American
hounds, as described in his well-known lectures. There are also
many specimens of different kinds of antelopes, including the harte-
beests, wildebeestes, and waterbucks, as well as buffaloes, zebras,
cheetahs, monkeys, and rodents. A few hippopotamus and rhinoceros
skins and one elephant were also collected.

A large number of birds were secured, including some of the rarest
species. Many are game birds, among them guinea fowls and fran-
colins (which resemble our partridges), and plantain eaters, crows,
bustards, vultures, vulturine guinea fowl, owls, hawks, kites, secre-
tary birds, hornbills, pigeons, parrots, sun birds, flycatchers, etc., are

represented. There are also four ostrich eggs.
.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 9

The party remained in the field nearly a year, having sailed from
New York for Mombasa on February 18, 1911, and dispersing about
February 15, 1912, at Nairobi.

The territory traversed was mostly to the north and east of that
covered by the Smithsonian expedition, and included the country
lying between the northern part of British East Africa and southern
Abyssinia.

FRICK AFRICAN EXPEDITION.

A further natural-history expedition to Africa was that of Mr.
Childs Frick, of New York, whose object was to secure a collection
of animals from the territory lying to the north of the regions visited
by Col. Roosevelt and Mr. Rainey, covering at the same time certain
parts of Abyssinia, northern British East Africa, and the country
lying about Lake Rudolf. As naturalist of this party, Dr. Edgar A.
Mearns, of the Smithsonian African expedition, was chosen. <A por-
tion of the collection of birds is to be donated to the Smithsonian
Institution by Mr. Frick, and already several hundred specimens
have been received.

BIOLOGICAL SURVEY OF THE PANAMA CANAL ZONE.

As mentioned in my last report, the Institution organized in 1910
a biological survey of the Panama Canal Zone, with the cooperation
of the Departments of State, Agriculture, Commerce and Labor, and
War. At first it was intended to confine the collections to the Canal
Zone proper, but as the faunal and floral areas extended to the north
and south of this region, it was decided to carry the work into the
Republic of Panama, a step which met with the hearty approval of
that Republic. The work accomplished has been very valuable to
science, including collections and observations of vertebrate animals,
land and fresh water mollusks, and plants, including flowering plants,
grasses, and ferns.

During the past year the botanists have continued their studies,
and collections have been made of fishes, reptiles, and amphibians,
birds, and mammals, and special studies and collections have been
made of the microscopic plant and animal life of the fresh waters of
the zone.

As can readily be imagined, the life areas on the zone will become
confused as soon as the canal is opened and the waters of the Pacific
and Atlantic watersheds are intermingled. It is particularly im-
portant on that account that the present geographical distribution
of animals and plants be recorded prior to that time, and this is

especially true as regards the life of the fresh waters and the sea-
coasts.
10 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

Pamphlets have been issued from time to time descriptive of some
of the new or specially interesting forms of animals and plants col-
lected by the survey, and as soon as the mass of material has been
worked up it is proposed to publish general accounts of all the vari-
ous collections, and also one or more volumes containing a summary
of the whole fauna and flora of the Canal Zone.

As an indication of the biological value of the survey of the zone
I may mention that of grasses alone about 150 species were collected,
being four to five times as many as were previously known from that
region. In the collections of birds and mammals there are likewise
many forms new to science.

SIBERIAN EXPEDITION.

Through the liberality of a friend, Mr. Theodore Lyman, of Cam-
bridge, Mass., the Institution has been enabled to participate in a
zoological expedition to the Altai Mountain region of the Siberia-
Mongolian border, Central Asia, an exceedingly interesting territory,
from which the National Museum at present has no collections. A
Museum naturalist was detailed to accompany him, the expenses of
the expedition being borne by Mr. Lyman, and the natural-history
collections obtained to be deposited in the National Museum. A\I-
though this expedition had not completed its work at the close of the
fiscal year, yet I may here anticipate some of its results by stating
that the Museum will probably be enriched by a large number of
interesting specimens of birds and mammals.

The scene of the survey and exploration, the Altai Mountain re-
gion, is a particularly wild country and quite unsettled, although it
is well stocked with game. These mountains are inhabited by the
largest of the wild sheep, which, with the ibex, will form the prin-
cipal big game animals sought by the party, but a general collection
of smaller mammals and of birds will also be made.

BORNEO EXPEDITION.

For more than 10 years past Dr. W. L. Abbott, of Philadelphia, has
been exploring the Malay Archipelago and has given all his natural-
history and ethnological collections to the Smithsonian Institution
for the United States National Museum. These collections, so far as
the vertebrates are concerned, are the most important ever received
by the Museum from any one person. Through iilness, Dr. Abbott
has been obliged to abandon his exploration, but his interest in the
Institution has not abated. He has engaged the services of a col-
lector and placed at the disposal of the Institution funds for
continuing the explorations he had begun in Borneo.

The field work will be carried on in eastern Dutch Borneo, the
natural history of which is practically unknown. Nothing relating
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. eh

to it has been published, and there are no collections from this region
in the United States, although the National Museum has some from
the west and south coasts of Borneo. The Institution is fortunate in
having this opportunity to study a country practically unknown to
zoologists. It is hoped to secure a quantity of interesting material,
including the characteristic mammals of the country, such as orangs,
deer, wild pigs, squirrels and smaller rodents, and possibly specimens
of the rhinoceros and tapir.

BIOLOGICAL SURVEY IN THE CANADIAN ROCKIES,

Through the courtesy of the Canadian Government and of Dr.
A. O. Wheeler, president of the Alpine Club of Canada, the Smith-
sonian Institution was enabled, in the summer of 1911, to send a
small party of naturalists to accompany Dr. Wheeler on his topo-
graphical survey of the British Columbia and Alberta boundary
line and the Mount Robson region. The party started in June and
returned in October, 1911. The expedition was very successful in
obtaining a collection covering practically all the birds and mammals
inhabiting this previously unworked territory, together with many
insects and botanical specimens. The land surveyed included the
territory lying about this mountain in the heart of the Canadian
Rockies, comprising the most rugged and broken country imaginable.
Amid this wonderful scenery Mount Robson rises in titanic outline,
the highest peak in Canada, probably between 14,500 and 15,000 feet
high, and surrounding it for a distance of 50 miles in all directions
lies the field of the survey. In this wild and unclaimed country the
party of naturalists remained nearly four months, protected by
special permits from the Canadian Government. The collection
includes some 900 specimens of birds and mammals, the latter being
of all kinds from tiny shrews to caribou and bears. One enormous
grizzly bear was obtained by a fortunate shot. Much fine material
for exhibition groups was secured, including a series of caribou,
mountain goats, mountain sheep, beavers, and many varieties of
smaller animals.

ANTHROPOLOGICAL RESEARCHES IN SIBERIA AND MONGOLIA.

Toward the close of the fiscal year arrangements were made, in
connection with the authorities of the Panama-California Exposi-
tion of San Diego, to carry on, by or under the direction of Dr.
Hrdli¢ka, certain researches in anthropology, among others, those
bearing on the origin of the American Indians. In accordance with
these plans Dr. Hrdlicka left for eastern Asia to search for and, if
found, to trace, at least in a preliminary way, any possible remnants
12 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

of the stock of people from which, probably in the distant past, the
rudiments of the American race branched off. This work touches
what is rapidly becoming the most important subject of research in
American anthropology. The first part of Dr. Hrdlicka’s visit was
to be devoted to the Yenisei region, in which, judging from the re-
ports of Russian observers, there exist remnants of very imperfectly
known tribes, whose physical type apparently bears a close resem-
blance to that of the American Indian. From the Yenisei his in-
tention is to pass through the Irkutsk Oblast and reach outer Mon-
golia, and then possibly Turkestan or China. Due to the immensity
of the territory and the limited time now at the disposal of Dr.
Hrdlitka, it is expected that the present journey will have to be
largely of the nature of anthropological reconnoissance and prepara-
tory for future investigations.

ANTIQUITY OF MAN IN EUROPE,

A grant was made to enable Dr. Hrdlitka to make personal studies
of the originals of all the well-authenticated skeletal remains of geo-
logically ancient man of Europe. The recent discoveries in this line
have been of such an importance that a direct investigation into the
subject by an experienced anthropologist was very desirable. The
results of Dr. Hrdlitka’s studies will be prepared for publication.

RESEARCHES UNDER THE HODGKINS FUND.

A limited grant has been made from the Hodgkins fund to enable
Mr. Anders Knutson Angstrém to make certain observations on noc-
turnal radiation from the earth at Bassour, Algeria, in connection
with observations to determine the variability of the sun, which have
been in progress there under Mr. Abbot, of the Smithsonian Astro-
physical Observatory. The results of Mr. Angstrém’s researches are
awaited with interest.

As mentioned in my last report, the Institution has arranged for
the distribution to various parts of the world of standard silver disk
pyrheliometers designed by Mr. Abbot, of the Astrophysical Observa-
tory, with a view of securing accurate data and more exact knowledge
of solar radiation and the influence of the terrestrial atmosphere
upon it.

A portion of the income of the fund is devoted to the increase and
diffusion of knowledge in regard to the nature and properties of at-
mospheric air in connection with the welfare of man. There was pub-
lished a few years ago a number of papers on “ Expired air,” “ Or-
ganic matter in air,” “The air of towns,” and other phases of this
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 13

general subject. There is now in preparation by Dr. Leonard Hill,
associated with Dr. Martin Flack and other investigators of the
London Hospital Medical College, a paper discussing the results of
experiments to determine the influence of the atmosphere upon our
health and comfort in confined and crowded places.

SMITHSONIAN TABLE AT NAPLES ZOOLOGICAL STATION.

For the past 19 years the Smithsonian Institution has maintained
a table for the use of American biologists at the Naples Zoological
Station. This table affords exceptional opportunities for the study
of marine life, and it is believed that through its use the cause of
biological science has been much advanced.

The appointment of Dr. Sergius Morgulis, a Parker Traveling
Fellow from Harvard, which was approved for the months of May,
June, and July, was continued until July 22, 1911.

Dr. Ch. Zeleny, of the University of Illinois, who was appointed
for one month, including part of June and July, continued his occu-
pancy until July 26, 1911. At the close of the fiscal year no report
had been received from Dr. Zeleny in regard to the work accom-
plished.

Dr. Fernandus Payne, assistant professor of zoology at the In-
diana University, carried on researches at Naples during the months
of April, May, and June, 1912. His studies included: (a) Selective
fertilization, (b) Cleavage factors, and (¢c) Some pressure experi-
ments. In a brief report on his work, Dr. Payne states that he has
(1) completed a paper on “The Chromosomes of Grylloptalpa
borealis,” (2) collected a large amount of material on Gryllotalpa
vulgaris, and expects to study the question of synapsis, ring forma-
tion, chondriosomes, and the sex chromosomes in this form.

When the same period is selected by more than one student the
earliest application is considered first, the approval of the later ones
becoming necessarily dependent on the ability of the station to pro-
vide for more than one Smithsonian appointee at the same time.
It should be added that the obliging courtesy shown in this connec-
tion to appointees of the Smithsonian Institution by the director of
the station often permits appointments to the seat which would other-
wise be impracticable.

The prompt and efficient aid of the advisory committee in examin-
ing and reporting on applications for the table is, as it has always
been, of great service to the Institution and is very gratefully appre-
ciated.

The Institution has renewed the lease of the table for another
period of three years.
14 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.
PUBLICATIONS.

One of the chief agencies of the Institution in promoting “ the
diffusion of knowledge among men ” is the publication and distribu-
tion throughout the world of the series of “ Smithsonian Contribu-
tions to Knowledge,” the “ Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections,”
and the Smithsonian Annual Report. These three series constitute
the publications of the Institution proper and, with the exception of
the annual report, are printed entirely at the expense of Smithsonian
funds. Other publications issued under the direction of the Insti-
tution, but at the expense of the Government, include the Proceedings,
Bulletin, and Annual Report of the United States National Museum ;
the Bulletin and Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnol-
ogy; and the Annals of the Astrophysical Observatory.

The “ Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge ” is a quarto series
begun in 1848, which now comprises 35 volumes of about 600 pages
each, including, up to the present time, 148 memoirs. The chief
characteristic of these memoirs is that they are discussions of exten-
sive original investigations, constituting important additions to
knowledge.

The “Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections” is an octavo series
containing papers of varying length, from two or three pages to an
entire volume, being special reports on particular subjects of bio-
logical or physical research, classified tabular compilations, tables of
natural constants, bibliographies, and other miscellaneous informa-
tion of value to the scientific worker or student. This series was
begun in 1862 and now numbers 60 volumes of about 800 pages each,
with an aggregate of several thousand articles.

Limited editions of each memoir in the “ Contributions” and of
articles in the “ Collections” are distributed to specialists in the
subjects treated, but the principal distribution of these series during
the last 60 years has been to about 1,100 large libraries and institu-
tions of learning in the United States and throughout the world.

The Annual Report of the Board of Regents, known as the Smith-
sonian Report, is printed under congressional appropriation and in
much larger editions than the other series. It is in great measure a
popular work, containing, besides the official report on the business
operations of the Institution, a general appendix made up of 30 or
more original or selected articles bearing on particular advances in
human knowledge and discoveries and showing the progress of
science in all its branches. It is a publication much sought after.

Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge—The Langley Memoir
on Mechanical Flight, which had been in preparation for several
years, was completed and published in August, 1911. It is a work
of 330 pages of text and 101 plates of illustrations. It is the third
memoir in volume 27 of the “Contributions,” following Secretary
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 15

Langley’s “Experiments in Aerodynamics,’ and “The Internal
Work of the Wind,” published in 1891 and 1893, respectively. The
present memoir was in preparation at the time of Mr. Langley’s
death in 1906, and the part recording experiments from 1887 to 1896
was written by him. The chapters discussing experiments from 1897
to 1903 were written by Mr. Charles M. Manly, who became chief
assistant to Mr. Langley in 1898.
In the preface to the Memoir, Mr. Manly says:

The present volume on Mechanical Flight consists, as the title-page indicates,
of two parts. The first, dealing with the long and notable series of early ex-
periments with small models, was written almost entirely by Secretary Langley,
with the assistance of Mr. E. C. Huffaker and Mr. G. L. Fowler, in 1897. Such
chapters as were not complete have been finished by the writer and are easily
noted, as they are written in the third person. It has been subjected only to
such revision as it would have received had Mr. Langley lived to supervise this
publication, and has therefore the highest value as an historical record. The
composition of the second part, dealing with the later experiments with the
original and also new models and the construction of the larger aerodrome, has
necessarily devolved upon me. This is in entire accordance with the plan
formed by Mr. Langley when I began to work with him in 1898, but it is to
me a matter of sincere regret that the manuscript in its final form has not had
the advantage of his criticism and suggestions. If the reader should feel that
any of the descriptions or statements in this part of the volume leave something
to be desired in fullness of detail, it is hoped that some allowance may be made
for the fact that it has been written in the scanty and scattered moments that
could be snatched from work in other lines which made heavy demands upon
the writer’s time and strength. It is believed, however, that sufficient data
are given to enable any competent engineer to understand thoroughly even the
most complicated phases of the work.

Persons who care only for the accomplished fact may be inclined to underrate
the interest and value of this record. But even they may be reminded that but
for such patient and unremitting devotion as is here enregistered the now
accomplished fact of mechanical flight would still remain the wild unrealized
dream which it was for so many centuries.

To such men as Mr. Langley an unsuccessful experiment is not a failure, but
a means of instruction, a necessary and often an invaluable stepping stone to
the desired end. The trials of the large aerodrome in the autumn of 1903, to
which the curiosity of the public and the sensationalism of the newspapers gave
a character of finality never desired by Mr. Langley, were to him merely mem-
bers of a long series of experiments, as much so as any trial of one of the small
aerodromes or even of one of the earliest rubber-driven models. Had _ his
health and strength been spared, he would have gone on with his experiments
undiscouraged by these accidents in launching and undeterred by criticism and
misunderstanding.

Moreover, it is to be borne in mind that Mr. Langley’s contribution to. the
solution of the problem is not to be measured solely by what he himself accom-
plished, important as that is. He began his investigations at a time when not
only the general public but even the most progressive men of science thought of
mechanical flight only as a subject for ridicule, and both by his epoch-making
investigations in aerodynamics and by his devotion to the subject of flight
itself he helped to transform into a field of scientific inquiry what had before
been almost entirely in the possession of visionaries.
16 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

The original plans for this publication provided for a third part, covering the
experimental data obtained in tests of curved surfaces and propellers. Owing
to the pressure of other matters on the writer, the preparation of this third
part is not yet complete and is reserved for later publication.

Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections ——In this series there were
published during the past year 35 papers forming parts of three
volumes and covering a wide range of topics. I may mention the

‘Hamilton lecture by Dr. Simon Flexner on “Infection and Recovery
from Infection,” three papers by your secretary on Cambrian Geology
and Paleontology, several papers descriptive of new genera and spe-
cies of birds, mammals, and other animals and plants from Smith-
sonian expeditions in the Panama Canal Zone, Africa, and Canada,
as enumerated in the editor’s report on another page, and an inter-
esting paper on “The Natives of the Kharga Oasis, Egypt,” by Dr.
Hrdlitka, who discusses the physical measurements and other obser-
vations made by him on these people dwelling in an oasis 130 miles
west of Luxor, the ancient Thebes. Dr. Hrdlitka says:

The type of the Kharga natives is radically distinct from that of the negro.
It is, according to all indications, fundamentally the same as that of the non-
negroid Valley Egyptians. It is in all probability a composite of closely related
northeastern African and southwestern Asiatic, or ‘ hamitic” and “ semitic”
ethnic elements, and is to be classed with these as part of the southern extension
of the Mediterranean subdivision of the white race.

Judging from the mummies of the Oasis inhabitants from the second to fifth
eenturies A. D., exhumed at El Baguat, the type of the present nonnegroid
Kharga natives is substantially the same as that of the population of the
Oasis during the first part of the Christian era. The nature of the population
of the Oasis in more ancient times can only be determined by skeletal material
from the ancient cemeteries.

Smithsonian report—The annual report for 1910, issued during
the past year, contained in the general appendix 34 interesting
papers of the usual high character, and of many of them it was neces-
sary to publish extra editions to meet the public demand. The re-
port for 1911 was all in type before the year closed, but unavoidable
delays prevented its publication.

Zoological nomenclature.—In continuation of the series of Opin-
ions Rendered by the International Commission on Zoological
Nomenclature, there were published two pamphlets containing Opin-
ions 30 to 87 and 38 to 51. The Institution cooperates with this
commission by providing clerical assistance for its secretary in
Washington and in the publication of its Opinions. In connection
with the summary of each opinion there is printed a statement of
the case and the discussion thereon by members of the commission.
The rules to be followed in submitting cases for opinion’ as laid
down by the commission are as follows:

1 Cases should be forwarded to the secretary of the commission, Dr. Ch. Wardell Stiles,

U. S. Hygienic Laboratory, Washington, D. C.
_
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. LZ

1. The commission does not undertake to act as a bibliographic or nomen-
clatural bureau, but rather as an adviser in connection with the more difficult
and disputed cases of nomenclature.

2. All cases submitted should be accompanied by (@) a concise statement
of the point at issue, (0) the full arguments on both sides in case a disputed
point is involved, and (c) complete and exact bibliographic references to every
book or article bearing on the point at issue.

The more complete the data when the case is submitted the more promptly
can it be acted upon.

3. Of necessity, cases submitted with incomplete bibliographic references
can not be studied and must be returned by the commission to the sender.

4, Cases upon which an opinion is desired may be sent to any member of
the commission, but—

5. In order that the work of the commission may be confined as much as
possible to the more difficult and the disputed cases, it is urged that zoologists
study the code and settle for themselves as many cases as possible.

Museum publications.—There were published during the year the
annual report of the assistant. secretary in charge of the National
Museum for 1911, 50 miscellaneous papers of the Proceedings, 3
Bulletins, and 5 parts of Contributions from the National Herbarium.

Ethnological publications—The Bureau of American Ethnology
published the Twenty-seventh Annual Report, containing a paper on
“The Omaha Tribe,” and Bulletin 47 on the Biloxi and Ofo
languages. —

Reports of historical and patriotic societies—In accordance with
the national charters of the American Historical Association and
the National Society of the Daughters of the American Revolution,
annual reports of those organizations were submitted to the Institu-
tion and communicated to Congress. _

Committee on printing and publication—The advisory committee
on printing and publication under the Smithsonian Institution has
continued to examine manuscripts proposed for publication by the
branches of the Institution and has considered various questions
concerning public printing and binding. Twenty-one meetings of
the committee were held during the year and 156 manuscripts were
passed upon. The personnel of the committee is as follows: Dr.
Frederick W. True, Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, chairman; Mr. C. G. Abbot, Director of the Astrophysical
Observatory; Mr. W. I. Adams, disbursing officer of the Smithsonian
Institution; Dr. Frank Baker, superintendent of the National
Zoological Park; Mr. A. Howard Clark, editor of the Smithsonian
Institution; Mr. F. W. Hodge, ethnologist in charge of the Bureau
of American Ethnology; Dr. George P. Merrill, "head curator of
geology, United States National Museum; and Dr. Leonhard
Stejneger, head curator of biology, United States National Museum.

Allotments for printing.—The allotments to the Institution and its
Lranches, under the head of “ Public printing and binding,” during
the past fiscal year, aggregating $72,900, were, as far as Pralctisables
18 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

expended prior to June 30. The allotments for the year ending
June 30, 1913, aggregating $74,900, are as follows:

For the Smithsonian Institution, for printing and binding annual re-
ports of the Board of Regents, with general appendixes____________ $10, 600
For the annual reports of the National Museum, with general appen-
dixes, and for printing labels and blanks, and for the bulletins and
proceedings of the National Museum, the editions of which shall not
exceed 4,000 copies, and binding, in half turkey or material not more
expensive, scientific books and pamphlets presented to or acquired

by..the, National’ ;Museum library) 22522 = eee fee eee 34, 000
For the annual reports and bulletins of the Bureau of American Hth-
nology, and for miscellaneous printing and binding for the bureau___ 21, 000
For miscellaneous printing and binding:
Intemational Eixchanses)as six ie bet eee eee See 200
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature _________________ 100
National ZOOl@ ei call aT eee ae eee 200

For miscellaneous printing and binding for the Astrophysical Observa-
tory, $400, and for 1,500 copies of volume 3 of the Annals of the

Astrophysical +Observatory, 252,0002S0 ei me eerie ee ee ee 2, 400
For the annual report of the American Historical Association_——_-____ 7, 000
SRO Ga TE et sed PEPER MSE EASY 2 OPS a ae Be eee Se eee eee eee 74, 900

Distribution of publications—There was under discussion before
committees of Congress at the close of the fiscal year, and later
enacted into law, certain proposed measures which particularly affect
the practice of the Institution and it branches in the distribution of
publications. As finally passed by Congress the law requires that
all Government publications must be mailed from the Government.
Printing Office, mailing lists or labels being forwarded to the Super-
intendent of Documents for that purpose.

At the Regents’ meeting in February last, the secretary called the
attention of the board to the proposed legislation and stated that the
publications of the Institution are not an incidental result of its
work but something planned for and systematically executed. The
Institution keeps in touch with all the principal scientific and art
establishments of the world, and with experts in science and art
who are promoting work in a line with its own, or who are in posi-
tions to help in securing collections, information, or advice. The
actual labor of wrapping, labeling, and handling the Smithsonian
report had been furnished by the Institution and not by the Govern-
ment, and it was feared that the transfer of the actual work of
distribution of the publications of the Institution and its branches
to another establishment would distinctly tend to defeat the well-
considered plans under which it has been conducted heretofore.

The law as enacted requires the transfer to the Public Printer by
October 1 of all publications on hand, and that distribution shall
thereafter be made from his office. This measure does not, however,
apply to the two series of publications published at the private

_
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 19

expense of the Institution. The question in the main seems to be one
affecting the promptness of distribution, which is of primary im-
portance in the case of scientific works, and it is hoped no serious
disadvantages may result by the adoption of the new law.

LIBRARY.

The library of the Smithsonian Institution is made up of several
constituent parts. The most important of these are the Smithsonian
deposit in the Library of Congress and the hbraries of the National
Museum and Bureau of American Ethnology. There was added to
the Smithsonian deposit during the past year a total of 21,863 pub-
lications, the equivalent of 14,560 volumes, consisting very largely
of works on the various branches of science and art.

To the Museum library there were added 1,791 books, 3,608 pam-
phlets, and 276 parts of volumes, making the present total in that
library about 42,000 volumes, 70,000 unbound papers, besides manu-
scripts, maps, charts, and other material. Arrangements are being
made to divide the Museum library into two principal parts by as-
sembling all books on zoology, paleontology, geology, ethnology, and
archeology in the new building.

LANGLEY MEMORIAL TABLET.

A design in plaster for the memorial tablet commemorative of the
aeronautical work of the late Secretary Langley was submitted at
the December meeting of the Regents by the sculptor, Mr. John
Flanagan, and accepted by the committee appointed by the board.
The tablet will be cast in bronze and erected.in the vestibule of the
Smithsonian building. The tablet, which is in relief, measures 4
feet 6 inches high by 2 feet 5 inches wide. It represents Mr. Langley
seated on a terrace where he has a clear view of the heavens, and in
a meditative mood is observing the flight of birds, while in his mind
he sees his aerodrome soaring above them.

The lettering upon the tablet is as follows:

SAMUEL PIERPONT LANGLEY
1884-1906
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution
1887-1906
Discovered the relations of speed and angle of inclination to the lifting power
of surfaces moving in air

“JT have brought to a close the portion of the work which seemed to be spe-
cially mine, the demonstration of the practicability of mechanical flight.

“The great universal highway overhead is now soon to be opened.’’—LANGLEY,
1901,
20 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.
HAMILTON LECTURE.

The third Hamilton fund lecture of the Smithsonian Institution
was delivered by Dr. Simon Flexner, of the Rockefeller Institute
for Medical Research, in the auditorium of the United States
National Museum, February 8, 1912.

The title of the lecture was “Infection and Recovery from Infec-
tion,” an investigation to which Dr. Flexner has given especial study
for several years.

In his treatment of this vital and interesting subject the speaker
covered a broad field of medical science, and at the same time ex-
pressed himself in such a manner as to be intelligible to laymen.
Dr. Flexner touched upon the following points:

The part played by bacteria, protozoa, and submicroscopic para-
sites in causing infection was described, and emphasis laid upon the
occurrence on the surface of the body of many kinds of disease-
producing germs. The manner in which they are excluded by skin
and mucous membranes was discussed, as well as their ability to
enter the body by these channels when they were imperfect. In this
way a variety of diseases is produced, including diphtheria, menin-
gitis, and probably infantile paralysis. The germs that enter the
body encounter a second and even more efficient set of defenses
in the blood with its devouring white corpuscles. When disease
appears, in spite of and because of inadequacy in the defensive
mechanisms, then the body, under the influence of the parasitic germs,
sets about creating new defensive principles through the process of
immunization. It is immunization that vaccination produces, which
is a protection to smallpox; and it is through purposive immunization
of animals that the curative serums are prepared, that by injection
bringing about an artificial and premature cessation of such diseases
as diphtheria and epidemic meningitis. The part played by insects
in transmitting malaria, yellow fever, typhus fever, and relapsing
fever was sketched, and the varying susceptibilities to disease of
different races, species, and individuals dwelt on and in part ex-
plained, on the basis of known facts of immunity to and virulence
of the germ causes of disease.

The above is the third of the series of Hamilton lectures. In 1871
James Hamilton, a retired lawyer of Carlisle, Pennsylvania,
bequeathed $1,000 to the Smithsonian Institution, the interest of
which was to be appropriated biennially by the secretary for some
contribution, paper, or lecture on any scientific or useful subject
which he might select. As the sum was somewhat limited to ade-
quately carry out the donor’s wishes, the interest was allowed to
accumulate until the amount was doubled, and the Institution then
created a series of lectures, known as the Hamilton Fund Lectures.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 21

The first, by Dr. Andrew D. White, on “The diplomatic service of
the United States, with some hints toward its reform,” was given
in 1905, and the second, by Dr. George E. Hale, on “ Some recent
contributions to our knowledge of the Sun,” was delivered in 1908.

INTERNATIONAL CONGRESSES AND CELEBRATIONS.

The Institution each year receives invitations to numerous scien-
tific congresses and celebrations in the United States and abroad, but
as funds are not available for the expenses of delegates few of these
invitations can be accepted. In some instances, however, it is pos-
sible to arrange for representation by collaborators of the Institution
who are visiting the localities on official or private business.

Congress of Americanists—Dr. AleS Hrdlitka was appointed
representative of the Institution and designated as delegate of the
United States to the Eighteenth International Congress of Ameri-
canists held in London May 27 to June 1, 1912. In addition to Dr.
Hrdli¢ka, the State Department also designated Miss Alice Fletcher,
Dr. George Grant MacCurdy, Dr. Edgar L. Hewett, Dr. G. B. Gor-
don, Rev. Charles W. Currier, Prof. Marshall H. Saville, and Dr.
Charles Peabody as delegates on the part of the United States at
that congress.

The Nineteenth International Congress of Americanists has been
invited to meet in Washington in 1914, and Mr. W. H. Holmes, Mr.
F. W. Hodge, and Dr. AleS Hrdlicka have been appointed an auxili-
ary committee to represent the Smithsonian Institution in connection
with the preliminary arrangement of details respecting the proposed
meeting.

Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia—The Academy of
Natural Sciences of Philadelphia held its centenary anniversary in
Philadelphia, March 19, 20, and 21, 1912. At this celebration the
Institution and its branches were represented by the secretary, Dr.
Charles D. Walcott; Dr. Richard Rathbun, assistant secretary in
charge of the United States National Museum; Dr. Frederick W.
True, assistant secretary in charge of Library and Exchanges; Mr.
Frederick W. Hodge, ethnologist in charge, Bureau of American
Ethnology; and Dr. Leonhard Stejneger, head curator of biology,
United States National Museum; and Dr. Theodore N. Gill, associate
in Zoology, United States National Museum. The secretary also
represented the American Philosophical Society on this occasion.

Archeological Congress—At the request of the Institution, the
State Department designated Prof. Arthur L. Frothingham and
Prof. George M. Whicher as delegates on the part of the United
States to the Third International Archeological Congress at Rome,
October 9 to 16, 1912.

85860°—sm 19123
22 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

Prehistoric Anthropology.—Dr. Alés Hrdlicka, Dr. Charles Pea-
body, and Dr. George Grant MacCurdy were appointed representa-
tives of the Smithsonian Institution to the Fourteenth International
Congress of Prehistoric Anthropology and Archeology at Geneva,
September 9 to 15, 1912.

Congress of Orientalists—Dr. Paul Haupt was appointed repre-
sentative of the Smithsonian Institution and designated as delegate
of the United States at the Fifteenh International Congress of
Orientalists, held at Athens, April 7 to 14, 1912. Additional dele-
gates on the part of the United States were Prof. E. Washburn Hop-
kins, Prof. A. V. W. Jackson, and Prof. Morris Jastrow, jr. (Un-
foreseen circumstances later prevented Prof. Jackson from attending.)

Congress on Hygiene and Demography.—The Fifteenth Inter-
national Congress on Hygiene and Demography was invited by the
Government, through the State Department, to meet in Washington,
September 23 to 28, 1912. I accepted the invitation of the depart-
ment to serve as a member of the committee on organization. Mr.
W. H. Holmes, head curator of anthropology in the National
Museum, has been appointed as representative of the Smithsonian
Institution on the interdepartmental committee to consider the
preparation of exhibits for the congress. At the close of the fiscal
vear, June 30, 1912, arrangements for the congress were well in hand.

Congress on Applied Chemistry.—in connection with the Eighth
International Congress of Applied Chemistry, to be opened in Wash-
ington September 4, 1912, and subsequent meetings closing in New
York City September 13, Prof. F. W. Clarke has been designated as
representative of the Institution, and I have accepted an invitation
to attend personally.

Royal Society—Dr. Arnold Hague, of the United States Geo-
logical Survey, was appointed a representative of the Smithsonian
Institution at the commemoration of the two hundred and fiftieth
anniversary of the foundation of the Royal Society of London, July
16 to 18, 1912.

GECRGE WASHINGTON MEMORIAL BUILDING.

There is now pending in the House of Representatives a bill
passed by the Senate, April 15, 1912, granting to the George Wash-
ington Memorial Association permission to erect on the Government
reservation known as Armory Square, a memorial building to cost
not less than $2,000,000, “ where large conventions or in which large
public functions can be held, or where the permanent headquarters
and records of national organizations can be administered.” By the
provisions of the bill the control and administration of the building
would be vested in the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, and the association is to provide “a permanent endowment
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 2S

fund of not less than $500,000, to be administered by the Board of
Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, the income from which shall,
as far as necessary, be used for the maintenance of said building.”
There is need in Washington of such a structure as here proposed.
It would be a fitting memorial to George Washington—the gathering-
place and headquarters for patriotic, scientific, medical, and other
organizations interested in promoting the welfare of the American
people, the development of the country in science, literature, and art.

NATIONAL MUSEUM.

The past year was marked by a new feature in the administration
of the National Museum—its opening to the public on Sundays.
This measure had long been advocated without effect, and even now
the practice must be for a time limited to the new building. Public
appreciation was evidenced on the first day of Sunday opening,
October 8, 1911, by the presence of 15,467 visitors. The average
number of visitors on Sundays up to the close of the year was 1,666,
as compared with 693 on week days.

There was added to the permanent collections of the Museum a
total of 238,000 specimens and objects, an increase of 10,000 over the ~
year preceding. Of these accessions about 168,000 were biological,
63,000 geological and paleontological, and 7,000 anthropological.
A large number of valuable temporary additions in the form of loans
were made to the National Gallery of Art, to the collection of art
textiles, and to those of the division of history. Among the acces-
sions that I may specially mention are the first aeroplane (Wright)
acquired by the Government; important memorials of Gens. Ganse-
voort and Custer, Rear Admirals Foote and Schley, Commanders
Maury and Hosley, and other eminent soldiers and sailors, and
mementos of the Washington, Ball, Cropper, McLane, Bradford,
and Bailey-Myers-Mason families; some interesting Polish coins
dating from 1386 to 1835; and a very large and unique series of post-
age stamps and other objects relating to the operation of the United
States Postal Service. There were also received about 4,000 mam-
mals, besides birds, reptiles, fishes, and invertebrates from the Paul J.
Rainey expedition to British East Africa; a large collection of Cam-
brian fossils; and an unrivaled collection of some 75,000 specimens
of fossil echnioderms deposited by Mr. Frank Springer. From the
Bureau of Fisheries were received extensive and important collec-
tions of fishes from Japan and the Philippines and over 27,000 speci-
mens of marine invertebrates. Other additions of importance are
noted by the assistant secretary in his report on another page.

About three-fourths of the exhibition space in the new building
has already been made accessible to the public, and before the close
24 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

of another year it is expected that the last of the halls will be
opened. The installations, however, are to a large extent provisional
and much work will still remain to be done to complete their per-
manent arrangement. ‘

By the transfer of the natural history and anthropological exhibits
to the new building, space has become available in the older buildings
for the better exhibition of the large collections of the department of
arts and industries. The very interesting series of objects commemo-
rative of eminent Americans and of important events in the history
of the United States; the collections illustrative of art textiles,
graphic arts, and ceramics, as well as firearms, electrical inventions,
and other technological material may now receive more attention
and be more adequately displayed than has heretofore been prac-
ticable.

The picture gallery in the new building, constituting the National
Gallery of Art, continues to grow in public interest and importance.
A special exhibition of part of the collection of American and
oriental art presented to the Nation by Mr. Charles L. Freer was held
from April 15 to June 15. The objects displayed included 38 paint-
ings by Whistler, Tryon, and others, 13 Japanese paintings, 36 Chi-
nese paintings, a number of Chinese bronzes, one dating back to
1766-1122 B. C., and examples of Chinese, Persian, and Mesopota-
mian pottery, ancient Egyptian glass, and Persian and Indo-Persian
illuminations. Mr. William T. Evans, of New York, has made 10
important additions to his collection of works of contemporary
American painters, now numbering 137 pieces by 98 artists.

A meeting in memory of Mr. Francis D. Millet, lost in the 77tanic
disaster, was held in the auditorium of the new building on the even-
ing of May 10, 1912, under the auspices of The American Federation
of Arts, when addresses were made by Senators Root and Lodge, and
others. On this occasion I called attention to the valuable services
rendered to the Smithsonian Institution by Mr. Millet as chairman
of the advisory committee of the National Gallery of Art.

Meetings of a number of scientific organizations were held as usual
in the auditorium, including the usual annual April meeting of the
National Academy of Sciences, the annual meeting of the American
Association for the Advancement of Science, the American Institute
of Architects, and the Red Cross conference.

On March 28 and 29 the Washington Academy of Sciences held a
conversazione and an exhibition of important recent apparatus,
methods, and results pertaining to the scientific investigations carried
on by the different Government bureaus and scientific institutions of
Washington.

Models and pictures of designs for the memorials to Abraham Lin-
coln and Commodore Perry were exhibited in several rooms of the
new building and attracted much public atténtion.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 25

The publications issued included the annual report for 1911,
numerous papers of the Proceedings, and several Bulletins, which
will be enumerated in detail in the usual volume devoted to the oper-
ations of the National Museum.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

The operations of the Bureau of American Ethnology during the
last year are stated in detail on another page by the ethnologist-in-
charge of that branch of the Institution’s activities. The systematic
researches bearing on the history, languages, manners, and customs
of the American Indians cover a wide range, and the results of these
studies are published as soon as completed. Since the organization
of the bureau under the Smithsonian Institution in 1879, 27 annual
reports in 32 royal octavo volumes have been issued, and more than
50 bulletins, the collection comprising a most valuable ethnological
library. The demand for the “ Handbook of American Indians,”
which is printed in two volumes, has so far exceeded the authorized
edition that a measure has been introduced and is now pending in
Congress for reprinting it.

The recent field work of the bureau includes:

(1) A visit to El Morro, New Mexico, where impressions of some
Spanish inscriptions dating from the year 1606 and having an impor-
tant bearing on the early history of the Pueblo tribes, were made; (2)
excavations in the Jemez Valley in a ruined pueblo on a mesa 1,800
feet high, the ruins bearing evidence of occupancy at two different
periods, and containing some interesting pottery, traces of textiles,
and other objects; (3) field work to determine the western limit of
the ancient Pueblo culture in Arizona; and many other lines of inves-
tigation, discussed by Mr. Hodge in an appendix to this report.

The construction of the Panama Canal has aroused so greatly
public interest in the aboriginal remains of the West Indies that the
bureau has arranged for more extended studies in West Indian
archeology. Researches thus far made indicate that the Tainan
culture of Porto Rico and the Dominican Republic was represented in
the Lesser Antilles by an agricultural people, probably Arawak, who
were conquered and absorbed by the marauding Carib. Types of
pottery found in some of the Lesser Antilles indicate their occupancy
by people superior in culture to the Carib and to those found there
at the time of the discovery by Columbus.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES.

There has been an increase of more than 10 per cent in the number
of packages handled by the Exchange Service during the past year
as compared with the preceding 12 months, the total number being
315,492. These packages weighed over 284 tons.
26 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

No change has been made in the amount ($32,200) granted by
Congress during the past four years for the support of this branch
of Government work carried on under the direction of the Institu-
tion, and the usual sum was collected from variotts Government and
State establishments for services in connection with the transporta-
tion of exchanges, the total available resources for meeting the ex-
penses of the system being $36,591.02.

The publications dispatched by the Exchange Service are classified
under four heads: First, the Congressional Record; second, “ Parla-
mentary documents”; third, “ Departmental documents”; fourth,
“‘ Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications.”

The term “ Parliamentary documents” as here used refers to
publications set aside by law for exchange with foreign Governments,
and includes not only copies of documents printed by order of either
House of Congress, but copies of each publication issued by any
department, bureau, commission, or officer of the Government. The
object in sending these publications abroad is to procure for the use
of the Congress of the United States a complete series of the publica-
tions of other Governments, and the returns are deposited in the
Congressional Library.

The term “ Departmental documents” embraces all the publica-
tions delivered at the Institution by the various Government depart-
ments, bureaus, or commissions for distribution to their correspond-
-ents abroad, from whom they desire to obtain similar publications
in exchange. The publications received in return are deposited in
the various departmental libraries. :

The ‘“ Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications” are
received chiefly from learned societies, universities, colleges, scientific
institutes, and museums in the United States and transmitted to simi-
lar institutions in all parts of the world.

At the request of the Secretary for the Interior of the Union of
South Africa the Institution discontinued the sending of full sets of
governmental documents to Cape Colony and the Transvaal and
partial sets to Natal and the Orange River Colony, substituting one
full set for the Government of the Union of South Africa. There
are therefore now sent through the Exchange Service to regular
foreign depositories only 54 full and 32 partial sets of official
documents.

No countries were added during the year to the list of those with
which the immediate exchange of official parliamentary journals is
carried on, the number of countries taking part in this exchange
being 29.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. o7

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK.

The accessions to the collections in the National Zoological Park
during the past year aggregated 510 animals, including 25 species
not already represented; 350 of these were obtained by purchase,
exchange, or as gifts, and 108 were born and hatched in the park.
The total collection on June 30 numbered 1,551 individual animals,
representing 381 species of mammals, birds, and reptiles, an increase
of 137 over the preceding year. The more important additions were
2 elephant seals and 4 northern fur seals, 8 white pelicans, and a pair
each of Brazilian tapirs, Patagonian cavies, and Chilean eagles.
The number of visitors was 542,738, or a daily average of 1,487.
The largest number in any one month was 95,485, in April, 1912.
That the educational value of the park is appreciated is indicated
by the fact that it was visited by 4,140 pupils, representing 142
schools and classes from the District of Columbia and neighboring
States, and from Vermont, Massachusetts, New York, and Tennessee.

Although each year some improvements are made as regards the
accommodation of the collections and the comfort of visitors, yet
much remains to be done before the park can be brought to a condi-
tion that would properly be expected in a zoological park maintained
by this great nation. The most important improvement of the year
was the construction of a fireproof building for a central heating
plant, in which are installed two pairs of boilers for alternate use as
repairs or cleaning become necessary. A yard and bathing pool was
also constructed for the use of the hippopotamus and the tapirs;
three small inclosures were built for semiaquatic animals; and various
other additional structures were built, as enumerated by the super-
intendent in his report on another page.

I have for several years called attention to the urgent need of a
suitable aviary for the fine series of birds in the collection. A suit-
able structure for this purpose is estimated to cost about $80,000.
Around this large aviary would be grouped the cages for the eagles,
vultures, condors, and owls, now scattered irregularly about the
grounds.

The superintendent in his report calls attention also to several other
desirable measures for the betterment of the park.

The Biological Survey of the Department of Agriculture, in coop-
eration with the Zoological Park, is carrying on some experiments
in breeding mink with a view to ascertaining the possibilities of rear-
ing them in captivity for commercial purposes. The main object in
view is to secure data relative to the best methods of rearing mink
for their fur, especially as to details of housing, feeding, mating, and
caring for them.
28 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY.

The principal research carried on by the Astrophysical Observa-
tory during the year has been on the variability of. the sun. Progress
has been made in the dissemination of standards of pyrheliometry
and on the absorption of radiation by atmospheric water vapor.

The first of these investigations was in continuation of observations
taken during several years past to definitely determine the laws goy-
erning the apparent variability of the ‘‘solar constant.’”’ The solving
of this problem, it is expected, will be of much value in the probable
forecast of climatic conditions from year to year. In this research
-it seemed important that simultaneous observations be made in
widely separated parts of the world. It was accordingly arranged to
make such observations at Mount Wilson, California, and at Bassour,
Algeria, The results of this work are discussed by Mr. Abbot in his
report on another page.

For several years the Institution has been sending to observatories,
widely separated throughout the world, standardized copies of the
standard silver-disk secondary pyrheliometer designed by the direc-
tor of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory. During the past
year about 10 such instruments have been prepared and sent out,
mostly to foreign governmental meteorological services. It is hoped
to thus secure not only uniformity of radiation measures, but also a
more exact knowledge of solar radiation and the influence of the
terrestrial atmosphere upon it.

In carrying forward the research on the absorption of radiation
by atmospheric water vapor, there has been recently devised at the
observatory a method for determining spectroscopically the total
quantity of water vapor between the observer and the sun. Atmos-
pheric water vapor absorption work during the year was confined
to the upper infra-red spectrum bands. It is expected by the use
of a vacuum bolometer now in preparation to make considerable gain
in the sensitiveness of the apparatus and greatly promote the value
of the work at great wave lengths.

INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC LITERA-
“obec Usa] ar

The cooperative enterprise known as the International Catalogue
of Scientific Literature is represented in the United States through
the Smithsonian Institution, an appropriation being made each year
by Congress to maintain a regional bureau in this country under
the auspices of the Secretary of the Institution.

This bureau, in cooperation with thirty-one other regional bureaus,
through a central bureau in London, publishes yearly 17 volumes,
which form an index to current scientific literature. Each country
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY, 29

supports its own bureau, in the majority of cases by means of direct
governmental grants. The London central bureau, which bears all
of the expense of editing and publishing the data prepared by the
regional bureaus, depends for its support entirely on funds received
from the subscribers to the work. In the beginning of the enter-
prise the subscription price was fixed at $85 per year for a full set
of 17 volumes, and it has been necessary to maintain this price, as
there are a limited number of libraries and scientific bodies whose
subscription to the work practically assures the sum necessary for
publication. The lack of any surplus, however, renders it impos-
sible to reduce the price of the work in order to meet the demands of
a large number of scientific investigators, who are practically excluded
as personal subscribers to this valuablo source of information, owing
to the present prices.

Had the central bureau a permanent and independent income,
derived from an endowment or otherwise, it would be possible to
adopt the course which would under similar circumstances be fol-
lowed by a commercial publishing house having a liberal working
capital; that is, to reduce the price of the publication and depend on
the certainty of increased sales to pay the relatively small expenses
of printing a larger edition of the work. An endowment of $100,000
properly invested would, it is believed, make it possible to carry out
this plan, and, for the end to be accomplished, it would be difficult to
find a better use for this comparatively small sum. A more detailed
statement of the condition of this interesting example of what may
be accomplished through international cooperation will be found in
the report of the bureau in the appendix.

Respectfully submitted.
CuHarLeEs D. Watcort, Secretary.
AppENnpIx 1.
REPORT ON THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Str: I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera-
tions of the United States National Museum for the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1912:

SUMMARY OF THE YEAR’S PROGRESS.

By the close of the year the natural history departments of the
Museum had been quite fully established in the new building, only a
small amount of exhibition material remaining to be transferred.
The laboratories had been occupied for some time, and the reserve
collections brought over from the older buildings had been mainly
arranged in the more ample and convenient quarters provided for
them. The work of classification had necessarily to be in large part
suspended during the period of moving, but the opportunity was
availed of to expedite the labeling and recording, and these collec-
tions are now, as a whole, in much better condition and far more
accessible for reference and study than at any previous time in the
history of the Museum. The task of moving was both arduous and
delicate, involving, as it did, the handling of several million speci-
mens of all sizes and all degrees of hardiness without injury and
without the loss or disarrangement of labels. That it was accom-
plished satisfactorily in such a remarkably short space of time is
especially gratifying, in view of the fact that the exigencies of the
current work were fully met and no cessation occurred in the receipt
of new material.

The installation of the exhibition collections, however, could not
be hastened in the same way. A much greater time is required for
the construction of the cases, which are more elaborate in character
than those intended for storage, and but few of the cases used in the
older buildings are adapted to the new building, though many have
been temporarity employed. It has also been necessary to reject a
large number of the older exhibition specimens as of inferior quality
for the purpose, and of those which are being utilized many require
to be thoroughly renevated if not entirely done over. The new ex-
hibitions, however, are intended to consist in great measure of fresh
materials, much of which has been recently acquired, and to represent

30 :
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. ou

the best skill of the museum preparator and taxidermist. During
the year this branch of the work was pressed to the fullest extent pos-
sible, and excellent progress was made.

Of the total floor area of about 465,000 square feet furnished by the
new building, the amount of space dedicated to the public, including
the floors and galleries of the south pavilion and rotunda, is slightly
in excess of 220,000 square feet. The permanent exhibitions now
planned are limited to the first and second stories of the wings and
ranges, which they will completely occupy and which contain about
186,000 square feet. Of this space about three-fourths has been
opened to the public, although it should be explained that the installa-
tions are still to a large extent provisional and subject to revision, a
work that is steadily going on. The end of another year, however,
should see all of the exhibition halls opened and in good though not
finished condition.

The exhibitions to which the public had gained access by the close
of the year comprised, besides the picture gallery in the middle hall,
ethnology, historic archeology, systematic and applied geology,
mineralogy, paleontology, the birds and fishes, small sections of the
mammals and invertebrates, a synoptic series of biology, and certain
special zoological collections illustrating anatomy and development,
albinism, melanism, hybridism, the domestic animals, and the local
fauna. ‘The principal branches that remained to be opened up were
the mammals, reptiles, marine invertebrates, and _ prehistoric
archeology.

The removal of the natural history collections from the older
buildings furnishes the opportunity for the more complete organiza-
tion of the department of the arts and industries as contemplated
in the original plan of the Board of Regents. Certain subjects
belonging to it have for a long time been illustrated to the extent
permitted by the crowded condition of the exhibition halls, among
them being land and water transportation, firearms, electrical inven-
tions, measuring devices, many kinds of machinery, the graphic arts,
and ceramics. There are several others, however, equally important
and interesting, of which the Museum has many and valuable illus-
trations. The material, obtained from various sources, but mainly
from the great international expositions, has, from lack of room,
been necessarily kept in storage, though before the crowding of the
older buildings began some parts of it were exhibited. The space
that has been released will afford accommodations for the installa-
tion of this material, so far as it has not deteriorated, and for such
additions as will be needed to round out the exhibits of the several
subjects in at least a modest way. With this accomplished, the
Museum will be confronted with the problem of the further develop-
32 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

ment of the department to make it comparable with those in the prin-
cipal European countries, and thus capable of exerting a direct and
beneficial influence on the higher industrial pursuits of the country.

Tt was not until after the middle of the year, however, that the
extension of the work in this direction could be taken up, and little
more was possible than to remove the material from storage, and
begin its unpacking and assorting. The installations will be made,
at least for the most part, in the old cases, which will have to be more
or less remodeled for the purpose, but it is not expected that the
public will be long delayed in gaining access to some parts of these
collections. The material relating to the graphic arts and to book-
making will be exhibited in the Smithsonian building, but the other
subjects will be mainly provided for in the older Museum building,
and comprise, besides those above mentioned, mineral technology,
textiles, woods, various animal and vegetable products, foods and
drugs, etc. The division of history will continue to occupy its pres-
ent position ‘in the older Museum building, as will the collection of
art textiles, but additional space will be required for the former,
whose growth and popularity have been exceptionally gratifying.

Several unoccupied rooms in the new building were used by the
Government for the competitive plans for the Lincoln and Perry
memorials, authorized by Congress and submitted during the year.
Opened to the inspection of the public, the models and pictures of
the designs for the Lincoln monument in Washington were still on
exhibition at the close of the year.

The Sunday opening of the Museum, so long and earnestly advo-
cated by the authorities of the Institution, was one of the most note-
worthy accomplishments of the year. This innovation is, in fact, to
be regarded as marking the beginning of a new period in the history
of the Museum, in which its privileges may be enjoyed with equal
freedom by all classes. Started on October 8, 1911, and restricted to
afternoon hours, it is for the present limited to the new building.

ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

The permanent additions to the collections numbered approxi-
mately 238,000 specimens and objects, of which about 168,000 were
biological, 63,000 geological and paleontological, and 7,000 anthropo-
logical. There were also many loans, some of great value.

The more important accessions in anthropology related to the
Indians of southern Alaska and Panama, and included an interesting
series of objects from the ruined pueblo of Kwasteyukwa, New
Mexico. To the exhibits in mechanical technology were added many
important articles, including the first aeroplane acquired and used
by the Government, a large number of firearms, both military and
sporting, and numerous examples of inventions. The division of
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. oo

American history was especially favored with both gifts and loans,
among the distinguished persons and families represented by the
memorials received being Gen. Peter Gansevoort, of Revolutionary
time, and his son and grandson; Rear Admirals Winfield Scott
Schley and Andrew H. Foote, United States Navy; Commanders
Matthew Fontaine Maury and. Harry H. Hosley, United States
Navy; Gen. George A. Custer, United States Army; the Marquis de
Lafayette; Prof. George Frederic Barker; Mr. and Mrs. Samuel
S. Cox; Julia Ward Howe; the Washington and Ball families; the
Cropper and McLane families; the Bradford family, of New Eng-
land; and the Bailey-Myers-Mason family. The collection of numis-
matics acquired two valuable series of several hundred pieces each,
one representing the Polish coinage from 1386 to 1835, the other
consisting of antique copper coins from Asia. Exceptionally im-
portant was the transfer to the National Museum of the museum
of the Post Office Department, so well known to visitors to Washing-
ton, comprising the large and unique series of United States postage
stamps, besides many objects relating to the operations of the postal
service.

The most conspicuous acquisition by the department of biology
consisted of the collection made by Mr. Paul J. Rainey on his expe-
dition to British East Africa, accompanied by Mr. Edmund Heller,
which was generously presented. It contains about 4,000 mammals,
besides many hundreds of birds, reptiles, fishes, and invertebrates,
and has already yielded a large number of new forms. Much mate-
rial was also received from several other natural history expeditions
beyond the United States conducted by the Institution and Museum
or under other auspices, the principal regions visited having been the
Aleutian Islands, British Columbia and Alberta, the Panama Canal
Zone, the Bahama Islands, Peru, Abyssinia and British East Africa,
the Altai Mountains on the borders of Siberia and Mongolia, Kash-
mir, and Borneo. Within the confines of the United States a number
of minor explorations were carried on by members of the staff.

The transfers made by the Bureau of Fisheries were extensive and
important, consisting mainly of collections that had been studied and
described and containing much type material. The fishes were from
Japan, the Philippine Islands, and various parts of the United
States, while the marine invertebrates, numbering over 27,000 speci-
mens of several groups, represented explorations by the steamer
Albatross in different parts of the Pacific Ocean. The increases in
the division of insects were chiefly from the Bureau of Entomology,
and in the herbarium from the Bureau of Plant Industry, though
many specimens were secured for the latter by exchange and as the
result of field work in New Mexico.
34 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

The collections of geology and mineralogy received important
additions, including types and recently described materials and many
fine examples of building and ornamental stones. The permanent
acquisitions in paleontology, amounting to over 60,000 specimens,
were mainly of Cambrian fossils from British Columbia and Alberta,
and from China; Ordovician fossils from the western United States,
New York, and Canada; Ordovician and Mississippian fossils from
the Mississippi Valley; and Tertiary fossils from the Isthmus of
Panama. It is gratifying to note the deposit in the Museum by Mr.
Frank Springer of his unrivaled collection of fossil echinoderms,
numbering some 75,000 specimens, which he has been many years in
assembling and on which no expense has been spared. ‘The material
has been installed and made accessible in one of the larger labora-
tory rooms, and it is the purpose of Mr. Springer to devote much of
his time to further research work in connection with it.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART.

A memorable event in the brief history of the Gallery was the
exhibition in one of the great halls of the new building of a selection
of objects from the collection of American and oriental art presented
to the Nation in 1906 by Mr. Charles L. Freer, of Detroit, Michigan,
but which is to remain in the possession of the donor during his life.
This special exhibition, which continued during two months, from
April 15 to June 15, and opened with an evening reception, was
made possible through the courtesy and generosity of Mr. Freer, by
whom the expenses of transportation were defrayed.

The selection, which numbered 175 pieces out of the more than
4,000 composing the Freer collection, was representative of its charac-
teristic features, and in variety, richness, and rarity of material con-
stituted in itself a remarkable exhibit for any place or time. The
American art side of the collection was illustrated by 38 paintings,
of which 24 were by James McNeill Whistler and the others by
Thomas W. Dewing, Dwight W. Tryon, Abbott H. Thayer, and
Winslow Homer. Of oriental productions there were 13 Japanese
paintings of the sixteenth to the nineteenth centuries; 36 Chinese
paintings, the earliest belonging to the Liang dynasty, and also 4
albums of Chinese paintings; 17 Chinese bronzes, one dating back
to the Shang dynasty, many centuries before the Christian era; 4
Chinese sculptures of the Wei and T’ang dynasties; 52 examples of
old Chinese, Corean, Japanese, Persian, and Mesopotamian pottery ;
7 specimens of ancient Egyptian glass; and 4 Persian and Indo-
Persian illuminations.

Mr. William T. Evans, of New York, whose generous benefactions
have extended through more than five years, made 10 important addi-
tions to his collection of the works of contemporary American
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 215)

painters, which, at the end of the year, numbered 187 pieces by 98
artists. One of the older paintings was also exchanged for another
and better example of the work of the same artist. This collection,
which occupies the greater part of the space now allotted to the
Gallery, is a most notable presentation of American art. The
painters represented in the contributions of the year are William
B. P. Closson, Wyatt Eaton, Albert L. Groll, Arthur T. Hill, William
M. Hunt, William §S. Robinson, Abbott H. Thayer, Elihu Vedder,
Edgar M. Ward, Frederick J. Waugh, and Irving R. Wiles. Mr.
Evans also added 34 proofs of American wood engravings to his
previous donation of 81 examples.

The collection of historical paintings in oil was increased by two
noteworthy gifts to the Nation. One of these consisted of portraits
of Mathias Ringmann, Martin Waldseemuller, and Vautrin Lud, the
geographers who, in 1507, first applied the name “ America” to the
new continent, and was received from the municipality of St.
Dié-des-Vosges, France. The other comprised a portrait of John
Ericsson and a painting illustrating the “Combat between the
Monitor and the Merrimac,” and was made by the Swedish American
Republican League of Illinois. The Gallery was also fortunate in
obtaining many loans, both of paintings and sculpture, and within
the restricted limits of its quarters has maintained an exhibition of
exceptional merit and attractiveness.

ART TEXTILES.

Interest in the collection of art textiles, under the patronage and
direction of Mrs. J. W. Pinchot, continued unabated, and of 68 addi-
tions received 15 were gifts. The laces have now become sufliciently
well represented to permit the arrangement of a synoptical series in
which all of the varieties are shown, and of a special exhibit consti-
tuting a résumé of the history of lace making.

PERIOD COSTUMES.

During the year a collection of costumes intended to illustrate the
changes in style of personal attire in America from the colonial
period to the present time, was undertaken. The material so far
gathered has consisted mainly of apparel actually worn at important
state and social functions, which gives it an historical interest, and
the collection should also very materially supplement that of art
textiles, offering useful suggestion in the field of design. The sub-
ject was taken up on the initiative of Mrs. Julian James, who is giv-
ing it her personal attention, and the contributions, ranging from
single objects to complete parts of costumes, comprised both loans
and gifts.
36 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.
MISCELLANEOUS.

Of duplicates separated from the collections in the course of the
work of classification about 8,000 specimens, chiefly minerals, ores,
fossils, and recent animals, were distributed to schools and colleges for
teaching purposes. About 16,000 duplicates were also used in making
exchanges, whereby material of similar value was obtained for
addition to the permanent collections. To specialists connected with
other scientific establishments some 11,500 specimens, mainly bio-
logical, were sent for study, principally in the interest of the Museum
and for the purpose of securing the identification of material which
could not be determined here.

The number of persons who visited the new building during the
year was 281,887, the older Museum building, 172,182, and the Smith-
sonian. building, 143,134, being equivalent to an average daily attend-
ance at each of the three buildings of 800, 550, and 457, respectively.
The total Sunday attendance at the new building, beginning October
8, amounted to 64,987, an average by Sundays of 1,666 persons, or
more than double the daily average for the same building.

The publications issued during the year comprised the annual
report for 1911, volumes 39, 40, and 41 of the Proceedings, and 3
Bulletins, besides 59 papers from the Proceedings, Bulletins, and Con-
tributions from the National Herbarium, printed separately. The
total number of copies of publications distributed was about 67,000.

The library received additions to the extent of 1,791 books, 3,608
pamphlets, and 276 parts of volumes, and at the end of the year was
estimated to contain a total of 42,002 books and 69,670 unbound
papers. With the completion of the arrangements in progress all of
the works on natural history will be transferred to the new building,
leaving the older quarters for those relating to the arts and industries
and history, and by this division the congested condition of the
library which has so long prevailed will be relieved.

The facilities offered by the new building were often availed of
during the year for congresses and meetings relating to science and
art. Among the more important bodies which met or were received
there were the American Association for the Advancement of Science
and afliliated societies, the National Academy of Sciences, the Ameri-
can Federation of Arts, the American Institute of Architects, and
the Red Cross Conference.

Respectfully submitted.

Ricuarp Rarusun,
Assistant Secretary in Charge U.S. National Museum.
Dr. Cuarues D, Watcort, 7
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution,
Ocroper 31, 1912.
APPENDIX 2.
REPORT ON THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

Str: I have the honor to submit the following report of the oper-
ations of the Bureau of American Ethnology during the fiscal year
ended June 30, 1912, conducted in accordance with the act of Con-
gress approved March 4, 1911, making appropriations for sundry
civil expenses of the Government, which act contains the following
item:

American ethnology: For continuing ethnological researches among the
American Indians and the natives of Hawaii, including the excavation and pres-
ervation of archxologic remains, under the direction of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, including salaries or compensation of all necessary employees and the

purchase of necessary books and periodicals, including payment in advance for
subscriptions, forty-two thousand dollars.

SYSTEMATIC RESEARCHES.

The systematic researches of the bureau were conducted by the
regular staff, consisting of eight ethnologists, and with the aid of
specialists not directly connected with the bureau, but the results of
whose studies were procured for publication. These operations may
be summarized as follows: ;

Mr. F. W: Hodge, ethnologist-in-charge, was occupied with admin-
istrative affairs during the greater part of the year, but from time to
time, as opportunity afforded, he was engaged in the preparation of
an annotated Bibliography of the Pueblo Indians, with the result
that almost 1,100 cards bearing titles, descriptions of contents, etc.,
of writings pertaining to the Pueblos were completed. Knowledge
of the Pueblo Indians commenced with the year 1539, and these
people have been the subject of so much attention by early Spanish
explorers and missionaries, as well as by ethnologists and others, in
recent years, that the literature has become voluminous and widely
scattered. The need of a guide to this array of material has been
greatly felt by students, and for this reason Mr. Hodge has prepared
notes on the subject for a number of years with the view of their final
elaboration in the form of a bibliography.

Late in August Mr. Hodge proceeded to New Mexico, and after a
brief visit to the archeological sites in the Rito de Los Frijoles,
northwest of Santa Fé, where excavations were conducted in con-
junction with the School of American Archeology in 1911, continued

85360°—sm 1912——4 37
38 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

to El Morro, or Inscription Rock, about 35 miles east of Zuni, for the
purpose of making facsimile reproductions, or squeezes, of the Span-
ish inscriptions there, which have such an important bearing on the
early history of the Pueblo tribes. El] Morro is a picturesque emi-
nence of sandstone rising from the sandy valley, and by reason of
the former existence of a spring at its base, which is now merely a
seep, it became an important camping place of the early Spaniards
on their journeys to and from the Rio Grande and the Zuni and Hopi
pueblos. The inscriptions of these early explorers were carved near
the base of the rock, chiefly on the northern and southern sides of
the highest portion of the mesa, and in the main consist of the names
of the visitors with.the dates of their visits, but in a number of cases
elaborated with a more or less full statement of the object of the
journey.

The earliest of the inscriptions is that of Juan de Ofate, the colo-
nizer of New Mexico and founder of the city of Santa Fé, who in-
scribed his name and the object of his visit in 1606, on his return
from a perilous journey to the Gulf of California. Others who
visited the rock and left a record are, in order of date: Gov. Fran-
cisco Manuel de Silva Nieto, who escorted the first missionaries to
Zuni in 1629; Juan Gonzales, probably a member of the small mili-
tary escort accompanying the same party, and bearing the same date
(1629) ; Lujan, who visited Zufi in 1632 to avenge the murder of

“Fray Francisco Letrado, one of the missionaries who accompanied
Silva Nieto; Juan de Archuleta, Diego Martin Barba, and Agustin
de Ynojos, 1636; Gov. Diego de Vargas, 1692, the conquerer of the
Pueblos after their rebellion in 1680 which led to their independ-
ence of Spanish authority during the succeeding 12 years; Juan
de Uribarri, 1701; Ramon Paez Hurtado, 1709; Ju. Garcia de la
Rivas, Feliz Martinez, and Fray Antonio Camargo, 1716; Joseph de
Payba Basconzelos, 1726; Juan Paez Hurtado and Joseph Truxillo,
1736; Martin de Elizacochea (bishop of Durango) and Juan Ignacio
de Arrasain, 1737; and others of the eighteenth century. These in-
scriptions were all carefully photographed by Mr. Jesse L. Nusbaum,
with whose aid Mr, Hodge made paper squeezes which were brought
to Washington and transferred to the National Museum, where Mr.
Nusbaum later made plaster casts of the paper negatives, insuring
the permanent preservation of the inscriptions in this manner. This
work was accomplished none too soon, since deterioration by weather-
ing’ is progressing in some parts of the cliff face bearing the inscrip-
tions, while vandalism is perhaps playing an even more serious part
in the destruction of these important historical records, notwithstand-
ing the fact that E] Morro has been created a national monument by
Executive order.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 39

Karly in September Mr. Hodge joined Dr. Edgar L. Hewett, direc-
tor of the School of American Archeology, and his assistants, in the
Jemez Valley, about 65 miles northwest of Albuquerque, for the pur-
pose of conducting excavations, under the joint auspices of the bureau
and the school, in an extensive ruined pueblo on a mesa 1,800 feet in
height, skirting the valley on the west. This village was occupied
within the historical period by the Jemez people, by whom it is
known as Kwasteyukwa. The ruins cover an area approximately
850 by 600 feet, and even on partial excavation exhibited distinct evi-
dence of occupancy at two different periods. The original pueblo was
considerably larger than the one later inhabited, although the latter
was built on the ruins of the older and of the same materials. The
walls were of tufa blocks, rudely shaped and set in adobe mortar;
the rooms were small, the masonry crude, and practically none of the
walls remain standing above ground. A large artificial reservoir in
a northwestern angle of the ruin furnished the water supply, and
various smaller depressions probably mark the sites of kivas. The
later inhabitants—those within the historical period, or about the
first half of the seventeenth century—buried their dead in and be-
neath the débris of the older part of the pueblo. The mortuary ac-
companiments were of the usual character, speaking in general
terms—pottery, traces of textiles, stone and bone implements and
other objects, and a few ornaments. The finding of glass beads with
the remains of a child, and an iron nail in another grave, bear testi-
mony of the comparatively recent occupancy of the village by the
Jemez Indians. It was the custom of the inhabitants to throw large
stones into the graves, resulting in the breaking of almost all the
pottery deposited with the dead. The fragments were carefully pre-
served, however, and will be repaired by the National Museum. A
noteworthy specimen of pottery bears in its decoration a feather
design almost identical with feather symbols found on ancient pot-
tery of the Hopi, and therefore tending to verify traditions of
the latter people that some of their ancestral clans came from the
Jemez. .

Dr. J. Walter Fewkes, ethnologist, was engaged in field work
from July to October, having especially in view the determination
of the western limits of the ancient Pueblo culture in Arizona. Out-
fitting at Jerome, in that State, he proceeded to certain large ruins
cn the upper Verde, on Oak Creek, and in Sycamore Canyon, where
some time was spent at each locality in photographing and in making
plans of these and adjacent remains, as well as in a study of the
formerly occupied caves near the mouth of Oak Creek. Crossing the
rough country separating the upper course of Oak Creek and the
great sandstone cliffs known as the Red Rocks, Dr. Fewkes revisited
and further studied the large cliff dwellings, known as Honanki and
40 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

Palatki, excavated by him in 1895. Several hitherto undescribed
ruins were added to the list of ancient remains in this general vicinity.
From the Red Rocks Dr. Fewkes returned to the Verde and fol-
lowed that stream upward to the Jordan ranch, where cliff houses of
an instructive character were photographed and studied. He also
investigated on the hills back of Cornville certain large stone struc-
tures of the type known to Spanish-speaking people as trincheras,
rude but massive fortifications that here begin to assume importance.
A number of ruins hitherto unrecorded belonging to the cave- or cliff-
dwelling type were observed in the walls of Sycamore Canyon, or
Dragoon Fork, and the outlines of stone houses were seen above the
river terrace near the junction of Sycamore Creek and Verde River.
A large aboriginal fort, with walls well preserved, was found on a
height overlooking the Verde, above the mouth of Granite Creek, and
others more nearly destroyed were seen at the Baker ranch and in
Hell Canyon, not far from Del Rio Station. Near the Baker ranch,
a mile or two down the Verde, are the remains of a cliff dwelling,
directly in the line of a projected railroad, which will probably be
destroyed when the road is constructed. Dr. Fewkes also visited the
ruins of several fragile-walled habitations, consisting of low mounds,
near Jerome Junction and Del Rio. Although many evidences of
such ancient dwellings are here seen, most of the foundation walls have
been carried away by settlers and used in their own house building.

A large fort, with well-preserved walls, occupies a low limestone
ridge east of Williamson Valley, above the trail from Del Rio west-
ward, and commanding a view of the valley west of Jerome. This
fort is typical of the trincheras that appear more and more frequently
as one proceeds westward from the upper Verde. Several incon-
spicuous ruins, hitherto undescribed, were found in Williamson Val-
ley, those situated on the hills belonging to the fortification type,
while those in the valleys consist merely of low mounds of stone and
other débris.

Proceeding westward from Chino Valley, many interesting ruins
were observed along the valley of Walnut Creek, referred to in Lieut.
A. W. Whipple’s report of 1853 as Pueblo Valley, once noted as the
site of old Camp Hualapai. This vale, from Aztec Pass to the point
where the creek is lost in the sands of Williamson Valley, was ex-
tensively tilled in prehistoric times, as is attested by the well-marked
remains of ancient irrigation ditches. Characteristic petroglyphs
were also found in Walnut Valley. :

As elsewhere in this region, two types of ruins were observed in
Walnut Valley, namely, (1) extensive stone fortifications with mas-
sive walls crowning the hilltops on both sides of the valley and com-
manding a wide view, and (2), on the low terraces bordering the
stream, clusters of small mounds constituting the remains of farm-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 4]

houses, upright posts supporting walls of wattling plastered with
mud like the jacales of the Mexicans and evidently identical in
their general character with the dwellings of certain Yuman tribes.
Among the best preserved of the forts, called “ pueblos ” by Whipple,
are those near Aztec Pass and at Drew’s ranch, Shook’s ranch, and
Peter Marx’s ranch, while others are found farther down Walnut
Creek. No trace of terraced pueblo dwellings were seen in this
region.

In order to shed further light on the relations of the two types of
ruins described, Dr. Fewkes made an examination of the ancient re-
mains along the Agua Fria and near Prescott. At both places the
ruins were found to be of the same dual character. In a few in-
‘stances, as at Frog Tanks, near the mouth of the Agua Fria, the
ruins suggest the great houses or compounds of the Salt and Gila
Valleys, but here also trincheras and fragile-walled houses are the
more common.

The observations made by Dr. Fewkes during this field season in-
dicate that the ruins in the region referred to are the remains of
buildings so different in architecture from that of true pueblos that
it is probable the culture of their occupants was also different. Dr.
Fewkes reached the conclusion that the ruins of the forts and small
dwellings referred to were constructed and used by a Yuman people
whose descendants, more or less mixed with Apache and other non-
related tribes, are represented to-day by the Hualapai, Yavapai, and
Havasupai Indians. Although the jacal domiciles of western Ari-
zona were probably structurally similar to certain ancient houses
in the Pueblo region of New Mexico, the river-terrace houses of
Walnut Valley were more like certain habitations of the lower Gila
River than they were the pueblos of the Rio Grande.

On returning to Washington Dr. Fewkes prepared a report on
his observations in this interesting archeological field, which, with
suitable illustrations, is now in press as one of the accompanying
papers of the twenty-eighth annual report.

Dr. Fewkes also gave considerable time to reading the proofs and
arranging the illustrations of his memoir on Casa Grande, which
likewise is to appear in the twenty-eighth annual report.

On the completion of the above work Dr. Fewkes commenced the
preparation of another paper, relating to “ Designs on Prehistoric
Hopi Pottery,” a subject to which he devoted much attention in con-
nection with his studies of the Hopi Indians for 20 years. This
memoir, which was well advanced toward completion at the close of
the fiscal year, accompanied by numerous plates and text figures, 1s
designed as a key to the interpretation of the decoration of ancient
Hopi earthenware. The great multiplicity of life designs appearing
on the pottery of ancient Silkyatki are treated in the paper, in which
42 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

modifications in decorative devices derived from feathers, birds, and
other animals, and conventional figures are likewise discussed. One
object of Dr. Fewkes’s treatise is to meet a growing desire of those
interested in primitive symbolism, and another is to define the pecul-
jiarities of one ceramic area of the Pueblos as a basis for comparison
with others, thus facilitating the study of Pueblo culture origins and
prehistoric migration routes.

As the construction of the Panama Canal has tended to stimulate
an interest in aboriginal remains in the West Indies, and as many
archeological specimens differing from those of the Antilles previ-
ously known are now being brought to light, the time for a scientific
study of them, as well as of the aboriginal sites of the West Indies,
has arrived. Much of the interest recently manifested in early In-
dian life in the West Indies may be ascribed to Dr. Fewkes’s memoir
on “The Aborigines of Porto Rico and Neighboring Islands,” which
appears in the twenty-fifth annual report. Since the publication of
this paper the new material has become so abundant that plans have
been made for Dr. Fewkes to resume his study of West Indian arche-
ology. The most noteworthy collection of aboriginal objects from
this area made in recent years is that of George G. Heye, Esq., of
New York, who courteously has placed his material at the disposal
of the bureau as an aid to these investigations. This collection has
been studied by Dr. Fewkes and the most important objects con-
tained therein are now being drawn for illustrative purposes.

Dr. Fewkes’s researches thus far indicate that the so-called Tainan
culture of Porto Rico and San Domingo was represented in the
Lesser Antilles by an agricultural people, probably Arawak, who
were conquered and absorbed by the marauding Carib. Study of the
collections above noted tend to show that several of the Lesser
Antilles were marked by characteristic types of pottery, indicating
their occupancy by a people superior in culture to the Carib and to
those found there at the time of the discovery by Columbus. New
light has been shed on the relations of these early Antillean people
and the Orinoco tribes, which, although generally called Carib, were
probably an antecedent people of higher culture.

Mr. James Mooney, ethnologist, spent the first three months of the
fiscal year in continuing investigations among the East Cherokee of
western North Carolina, and in locating and investigating mixed-
blood remnant bands in the eastern part of that State. The Cherokee
work consisted chiefly of a continuation and extension of the study of
the aboriginal sacred formulas of the priests and doctors of the tribe,
with the accompanying ceremonies and prescriptions. Although the
former dances and tribal gatherings have fallen into disuse, the
family rites and medical ceremonies still hold sway among the full

bloods.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 43

The so-called “Croatan Indians” of southeastern North Carolina
were found to be an important and prosperous community, number-
ing about 8,000, evidently of Indian stock with admixture of negro
and white blood, and closely resembling the Pamunkey Indian rem-
nant tribe in Virginia, but with no survival of Indian language or
custom and with almost no knowledge of their own history. After
years of effort they have secured definite State recognition as an
Indian people. There is no foundation in fact for the name “Croa-
tan Indians,” which they themselves now repudiate, and in all prob-
ability they represent the mixed-blood descendants of the aboriginal
tribes of the region which they now occupy. The existence was also
established, and the location ascertained, of several smaller bands of
similar mixed-blood stock, but without official recognition, in the
eastern section of the two Carolinas.

The remainder of the year was devoted by Mr. Mooney to the com-
pilation of material in connection with his pending study of Indian
population. By reason of the shifting, disintegration, and new com-
binations of tribes, no one section can be treated separately or finally
as apart from others. Considering the difficulties met in a study
of this kind, the work is making satisfactory progress.

Dr. John R. Swanton, ethnologist, devoted most of the year to field
researches among the Creek Indians in Oklahoma. These investi-
gations continued from the middle of September, 1911, to the middle
of May, 1912, during which period excursions were made into Texas
to visit the Albamu Indians and for the purpose of endeavoring to
trace remnants of other Texas tribes, and to the Caddo Indians of
southwestern Oklahoma. No remains of Texas tribes, of ethnologic
value, other than the Alibamu, were located, but a considerable mass
of material was obtained from the latter. Dr. Swanton’s visit to the
Caddo was with the view of learning how many of the old Caddo
dialects were still spoken, and some valuable documentary material
was obtained in Natchitoches, Louisiana. No words of Halish, sup-
posed to be quite distinct from the other Caddo dialects, could be
gathered, but evidence was obtained that it resembled Adai. In the
course of his Creek investigations Dr. Swanton visited and made
photographs of every busk ground of the Creeks and Seminole still
maintained, and information was gathered regarding the organiza-
tion of the “ big house ” in each, as well as in those that have been
abandoned. Dr. Swanton devoted July and August, 1911, mainly to
the study of the Hitchiti and Natchez languages, and the period sub-
sequent to his return to Washington in May, 1912, was occupied in
copying his field notes and in incidental work on the Timucua
language of ancient Florida, as preserved in Father Pareja’s writings.
with the view of determining whether Timucua bears any relation
to the languages of the Muskhogean stock.
44 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

On his way from Oklahoma to Washington, Dr. Swanton stopped
at Bloomington, Indiana, for the purpose of representing the bureau
at the fifth annual meeting of the Mississippi Valley Historical
Association, before which he read a paper on “ De Soto’s line of
march, from the point of view of an ethnologist.”

Mrs. M. ©. Stevenson, ethnologist, continued her field researches
of the Tewa tribes of New Mexico throughout the fiscal year, devoting
attention particularly to those of San Ildefonso and Santa Clara, and
incidentally to the Tewa of Nambe and San Juan. The pueblo of
Pojoaque is now practically extinct as an Indian settlement, only
about six Tewa remaining in that village. Special attention was
devoted to the religious, political, and social organizations of these
peoples, which, owing to their extreme conservatism, are difficult to
determine. The Tewa are divided not only into clans with patrilineal
descent, but each tribe consists of a Sun people and an Ice people,
each with its own kiva, or ceremonial chamber. At San Ildefonso the —
kiva for the Sun people is known as Po‘tée, “Squash kiva,” and that
of the Ice people is Kun’iyitée, “ Turquoise kiva.” The element ¢ée
signifies “round,” hence indicating that originally the Tewa kivas
were circular. <A third kiva of San Ildefonso is called Téepoa?’te,
meaning “ Round gathering or sitting place,” and symbolizes a lake.
Although from its trim condition this kiva appears to be modern, it
is in reality very old, and within the memory of the older men of
San Ildefonso it was used whenever the Sun and Ice people met to-
gether, because of its large size. Large councils are still held in the
Téepoa”’te, and it is used also as a dressing room fer the dancers par-
ticipating in ceremonies. The kivas are also the meeting places of
the sacred fraternities. The Squash, Summer Bear, and Fire organi-
zations of San Ildefonso hold their ceremonies in the kiva of the
Sun people. The Fire fraternity was adopted in the ancient past
from a people in the north who lived in skin tipis, wore clothing of
dressed deerskin, and spoke a strange tongue. This fraternity finally
became extinct, and, wishing to reestablish it, the San Ildefonso
people sent four men to the Sun people of Zufi (whose Fire fra-
ternity, according to tradition, had a similar origin), who initiated
them into their order, thus enabling them to revive the fraternity at
San Ildefonso. The Galaxy and Turquoise fraternities meet in the
Turquoise kiva. The members of the former organization have a
fraternity chamber adjoining this kiva, and at the great Buffalo
festival its members frequent the chamber as well as the kiva.

Kach fraternity at San Ildefonso has a tablet altar, which is
erected on the western side of the kiva, while the participants in the
ceremonies sit facing eastward. These people have interesting animal
fetishes and many human images of stone representing their anthropic
gods. They appeal to their zooic deities to heal diseases inflicted by
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 45

sorcery, and all ceremonies connected with these supplications are
dramatic in character, Anthropic gods, principally ancestral, are
invoked for rain and the fructification of the earth. The present
priest of the Sun people is director of the Summer Bear fraternity,
and he is also the keeper of the calendar. He must observe the daily
rising and setting of the sun and must watch the rising and setting
of the mcon. Elaborate solstice ceremonies are performed. Those
for the summer solstice are held in the kiva of the Sun people. The
Ice people jein the Sun people in the summer ceremonies, and the
Sun people join the Ice people in the ceremonies of winter. In each
kiva the two rain priests sit side by side, the priest of the Ice people
always at the right of the priest of the Sun people, while officers
associated with each priest sit in line with him. The prayers of the
priest of the Sun people are for the purpose of bringing rain, and in
order that they may be answered he must live an exemplary life.
The same beliefs control the functions of the priest of the Ice people,
who, through the ceremonies which he directs, is expected to induce
cold rains and snow that the earth may not become hot and destroy
the vegetation. All male children are initiated, either voluntarily or
involuntarily, into the kiva of the Sun or of the Ice people. When
a husband and his wife belong to different sides, the kiva to which
the child shall belong is selected by mutual agreement, and a repre-
sentative of that kiva is chosen as his ceremonial father immediately
after the birth of the child. From birth to death the lives of the
Tewa are almost a continuous ceremony. The ceremonial father ties
native cotton yarn around the wrists and ankles of the new-born
child, that its life may be made complete. The initiation ceremonies
of the young men are very elaborate, and many miles are traveled on
foot to the summit of a high mountain where the final ceremonies are
performed. Although the Tewa. are professed Christians, they ad-
here tenaciously to their native religion and rituals; and while the
church performs marriage and burial services, the Indians still cling
to their native marriage feasts and mortuary ceremonies.

The cosmogony of the Tewa is elaborate and complicated and bears
closer resemblance to that of the Taos Indians than to that of the
Zuni. The original sun and moon are believed always to have ex-
isted, but the present sun and moon were born of woman after the
world and all the people were destroyed by a great flood. The myth
associated with the creation of these deities and with their exploits
is of great interest.

_ The masks of the anthropic gods are never seen outside of the
kivas of San Ildefonso. There is a great variety of these masks,
many of them similar to those of the Zufii. They are held in great
secrecy.
46 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

Rattlesnakes, sacred to the fraternities, are captured when young
and are reared in rooms adjoining the kivas. A fluffy eagle feather
is attached to the head of the snake when caught, and the snake is
held captive with a string sufficiently long to allow it considerable
freedom until it becomes accustomed to its new surroundings, when
the string is removed. Small openings in the chamber allow the
snakes to pass in and out. In one ceremony, which takes place at
daylight, the snakes are handled outdoors, but on such occasions the
pueblo is so patrolled that spying by outsiders is impossible, although
Mexicans live almost in the heart of the village. The Santa Clara
people likewise make use of live snakes in certain ceremonies, and
they also have a large owl which they keep secreted as carefully as
are the snakes.

The government of the Tewa differs somewhat from that of the
Zuni. While the governor of the Zuni has to do with civic matters
only, a Tewa governor has absolute power over all matters concern-
ing his tribe except those controlled exclusively by the rain priests
and the war priests. Mrs. Stevenson’s studies of the natal rites of
the Tewa indicate that they are more like those of the Sia than of the
Zufi, while the religious ceremonies connected therewith more closely
resemble those observed by the Taos people. The child is baptized
in accordance with aboriginal customs before the baptismal rite of the
church is performed. At the present time the infant is usually
carried in the arms instead of on the back of the mother, but the
small, flat cradle, with top, and headrest with turquoise setting, is
made as it was centuries ago.

- The material culture of the Tewa is in many respects similar to
that of the Zufii. They were adept in the textile art in early days
when cotton, milkweed, yucca, and the hair of native animals were
employed in weaving, but this industry became lost after the intro-
duction of sheep by the Spaniards, for the Tewa, like the Taos peo-
ple, came to depend upon the Zufii and Hopi traders for woven gar-
ments, and also for textile paraphernalia for use in ceremonies. One
or two Tewa have revived the weaving industry to some extent—a
San Ildefonso man learned the process from Santo Domingo, and a
man of Santa Clara acquired it from the Navaho. The dainty baby
moccasins are now seldom seen, but the women still wear moccasins
with heavy leg wrappings during ceremonies, while at other times a
well-dressed sheepskin boot tied below the knee is worn, for deer-
skin has become rare. Native beads are now very seldom seen. Mrs.
Stevenson’s study of Tewa ceramics has convinced her that those who
decorate their pottery apply their designs, especially the conventional
patterns, with little understanding of their symbolism, the signifi-
eance of which has become extinct. When questioned the potters
always have a ready answer; hence students are often deceived. With
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 47

the exception of the black ware of Santa Clara, the pottery of the
Tewa has greatly deteriorated.

Mrs. Stevenson has been enabled to record the names of the sacred
mountains of the Tewa people, as well as the myths associated with
them. In their general beliefs and customs the Tewa are found to
be intermediate between the Taos and the Zuni.

The beginning of the fiscal year found Dr. Truman Michelson,
ethnologist, engaged in an investigation among the Fox Indians near
Tama, Iowa, with whom he remained until the middle of August,
when he proceeded to Oklahoma, where he initiated researches among
the Sauk Indians of that State. Dr. Michelson was very successful
in recording the myths and tales of the Foxes, which covered about
2,300 pages of texts. He obtained likewise some notes on the cere-
monial and social organization of that tribe, but these are neither
full nor complete, as the Foxes are, without exception, the most con-
servative of the Algonquian tribes within the United States. While
among the Sauk Dr. Michelson, with the aid of a native interpreter,
translated some of the Fox myths and tales collected in Iowa, but
his chief work in Oklahoma consisted of gaining an insight into the
Sauk ceremonial and social organization. He also translated, with
the assistance of a Sauk, the Kickapoo texts collected by the late Dr.
William Jones, subsequently correcting the version with a Kickapoo
informant. The dialectic differences between Sauk, Fox, and Kicka-
poo are not great, and as few of the Mexican Kickapoo now speak
any but broken English, a Sauk was employed in making the first
draft of the translation.

Among the Shawnee of Oklahoma Dr. Michelson’s work was pri-
marily linguistic. The results confirmed his opinion, gathered from
the late Dr. Gatschet’s notes and texts, that the Shawnee language is
most intimately connected with Sauk, Fox, and Kickapoo, on the one
hand, and with the Abnaki dialects on the other. He also gathered
some Shawnee myths, partly in texts, partly on the phonograph, and
a beginning was made on the Shawnee social organization. It was
found that, apparently, the larger divisions are not phratries, nor
are their clans exogamous, as already noted by Dr. Gatschet, despite
the ordinary view. The question of exogamy or endogamy among
the Shawnee is fixed merely by blood relationship.

Among the Mexican Kickapoo Dr. Michelson gathered some addi-
tional texts, corrected the translations of Dr. Jones’s Kickapoo texts,
as above noted, made observations on Kickapoo clan organization,
and gathered also linguistic data which shed further light on the
relations of the Sauk, Fox, and Kickapoo dialects.

Dr. Michelson returned to Washington about the middle of Decem-
ber and commenced the elaboration of his field notes. In January he
visited the Carlisle Industrial School, where he procured linguistic
48 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

data on Ottawa, Turtle Mountain Chippewa, Potawatomi, Abnaki,
Menominee, Sauk, and Arapaho. The most important result obtained
is the fact that the so-called Turtle Mountain Chippewa is really
Cree—at least such is the language of the pupils at Carlisle. Whether
the entire band is Cree is another question. Dr. Michelson’s opinion
that Arapaho is the most divergent Algonquian dialect was con-
firmed, and it was made more nearly certain that Menominee dis-
tinctly belongs with Cree, not with Chippewa. Dr. Michelson re-
turned from Carlisle in the following month, when he was compelled
to submit to an operation for trachoma, which apparently had been
contracted during his field researches of the previous summer. On
resuming his duties it was found advisable to incorporate the lin-
guistic notes obtained in the summer and fall of 1911 and the winter
of 1911-12, so far as practicable, in his memoir on the Linguistic
Classification of the Algonquian Tribes, then in galley proof prepar-
atory to publication in the twenty-eighth annual report. The value
and completeness of this paper were thereby greatly enhanced.

While in the office Dr. Michelson was frequently called on to fur-
nish data for answering letters of inquiry, and he also found oppor-
tunity to furnish notes of addenda and corrigenda for a future edi-
tion of the Handbook of American Indians.

Mr. J. N. B. Hewitt, ethnologist, was engaged throughout the year
in office work, continuing the editing and copying of the legends, tra-
ditions, and myths of the Seneca, collected by the late Jeremiah Cur-
tin in 1884-85. Of the original list of 120 items composing this manu-
script collection, 85 have been edited and typewritten, exclusive of
two items which were translated from inedited texts. While this
work is now practically complete, the apparent discrepancy in the
number of edited and typewritten items (about 35) is due to the fact
that the original list contained a number of texts of little ethnologi-
cal value, being merely narratives of local and personal adventures of
modern Indians with ghosts, and the lke, and tales about modern
witchcraft. The two items completely translated were difficult of ren-
dering, as they were partly illegible and had been left inedited. Two
or three texts of similar character remained to be translated, and on
these Mr. Hewitt was engaged at the close of the fiscal year. The
Seneca material collected by Mr. Curtin and placed in condition for
publication by Mr. Hewitt now comprises 1,350 pages.

In addition Mr. Hewitt undertook the work of translating a num-
ber of inedited and uncorrected manuscripts bearing on Seneca tradi-
tions and legendary lore recorded by himself in 1896. Thirteen of
these items were translated, aggregating 410 pages.

As in the past, Mr. Hewitt devoted considerable time to collecting
and preparing data for replies to correspondents on linguistic, his-
torical, sociological, and technical subjects, and served also as custo-
dian of manuscripts. :
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 49

Mr. Francis La Flesche, ethnologist, was engaged during the year
in the further study of the tribal rites of the Osage Indians in Okla-
homa. These rites are regarded by the Osage as mysterious, and,
being held in great awe by the tribe, are very difficult to obtain, even
by their own members. Instances are pointed out where, in the belief
of the Osage, persons in officiating at ceremonies made mistakes in
the form or in the recitation of the rituals and in the singing of the
songs, and have therefore become insane, or blind, or have met with
violent death. The murder of Saucy Calf, a man of high standing
in his tribe, and the burning of his house last winter are attributed
by his people to the fact that he gave away certain rituals and songs
of the sacred tribal ceremonies. From Saucy Calf Mr. La Flesche
had obtained the entire first degree of the No*ho"zhitga rites, and
while the two were together the old seer frequently expressed the fear
that some harm might come to him for parting with these religious
secrets. By reason of the superstitious awe in which these sacred
rites are held, Mr. La Flesche’s studies in this particular have been
necessarily slow, since it was essential for him first to gain the full
confidence of those versed therein. Notwithstanding this diffi-
culty, he has been fortunate enough to procure the full ritual of the
Hibernating of the Black Bear, which pertains to the origin of the
seven and six war honors of the tribe, and is recited by the men mem-
bers of the No*ho*zhi"ga of the Black Bear clan at the sacred-bundle
ceremony when the warrior chosen recounts his war honors and takes
up the seven and six willow saplings to count and the songs of this
part of the ceremony are being sung by the officiating priest. A re-
lated ritual, which tells of the rearing of a child to the completion of its
life, is recited when a widow is being initiated into the No*ho"zhi"ga
to take the place of her husband; but Mr. La Flesche has not yet been
able to record this, owing to the dread inspired by the death of Saucy
Calf. However, after considerable difficulty he succeeded in obtain-
ing six rituals from Waxrizhi, whose father, who died about a year
before, is said to have been the last of the No"ho"zhi"ga men thor-
oughly versed in the ancient rites.

Another ritual obtained is the Dream Ritual, with literal and free
translations. This is a narration of a No"ho"zhi"ga’s fast dream of
the sacred packs, a number of which have been procured and trans-
ferred to the National Museum.

Still another ritual, known as the Wi-gi-e Paho-gre, “ First of the
Rituals,” with literal and free translations, was recorded. This tells
of the coming of the Ho"ga of the Seven Fireplaces, or clans, to the
earth from the sky by permission of the Sun, Moon, and Morning
and Evening stars, and with the aid of the Winged Hoga, or
“Spotted Eagle”; of their finding the earth covered with water
when they descended; their having to rest on the tops of seven red-
oak trees, until, by his magic power, the Elk dispersed the waters
50 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

and made dry land appear; their meeting with the crawfish, which
brought from out of the earth clays of different colors to be used
by the people of the Hotga clan for symbolic purposes in their
No*ho"zhitga rites. The Noho"zhitga are said to be exceedingly
careful not to recite this ritual to anyone unless given large fees.

The ritual of the Birth of the Sacred Bird, also recorded and
translated by Mr. La Flesche, relates to the adoption of the hawk as
a war symbol and is in the form of a legend telling of the birth of
the bird, as of a human being, to the sister of four brothers who
attended the delivery of the child. The story begins with the birth,
gives the details of each stage of growth, and tells of the prediction
of the four brothers that their nephew was destined to become a great
warrior. The child becomes fretful and wails ceaselessly until the
skins of seven prey animals and a bow with a bit of scalp attached
are brought to it by its uncles. For this’reason no one can be initi-
ated into the order of the No"ho"zhiga unless he furnishes the skins
of these seven animals.

The ritual of the Symbolic Painting was likewise recorded. This
relates to the symbolic painting of the man who acts as the initiator
in the initiation of a new member of the No"ho"zhitga order. The
paint is symbolic of the dawn and the rising sun.

Another ritual, that of the Approach to the House of Initiation,
is recited by the officiating priest while he, the initiator, and the
votary ceremonially approach the place of meeting of the Notho-
zhitga for performing some of the ceremonies. It relates to the
Tsi’-wa-ko®-da-gi, or “ mysterious house,” of the Hotga clan.

The ritual of Feeding of the Fire relates to the ceremonial building
of the sacred fire at the place of gathering of the No*ho*zhi"ga to
perform one of the ceremonies. It is an appeal to the supernatural
for aid in obtaining deer for the sustenance of life and also for help
to overcome the tribes which menace the lives, the peace, and the
happiness of the people.

While these rituals are in themselves complete, each one forms a
part of the great Notho"zhitga rite, which Mr. La Flesche is en-
deavoring to record in its entirety.

Aside from the rituals and songs, Mr. La Flesche has procured
stories of the wako’ dagi, or medicine men, and of the strange animals
from which they obtained supernatural powers; he has also recorded
love stories, stories of those who had died and returned to life, war
stories, and myths. Some of these have been transcribed in final
form. In all, the text of these stories aggregates about 250 pages.
Mr. La Flesche, however, has given comparatively little attention to
legends and stories of this kind, having devoted his energies chiefly
to the secret rites that at one time meant so much to the Osage people,
and which are so rapidly disappearing.

eer eee
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 51

By agreement with Mr. Karl Moon, noted for his work in Indian
photography, the bureau is to receive a series of Osage photographs,
taken with the aid of Mr. La Flesche, who made the necessary ar-
rangements with the Indians to pose for them. Mr. La Flesche re-
ceived as a gift from Wano"shezhi*ga the sacred bundle of the Eagle
clan, to which he belongs. This fine specimen has been transferred
to the National Museum, where it is placed with the other Osage
bundles that he has been so fortunate as to obtain.

Dr. Paul Radin, ethnologist, was among the Winnebago Indians of
Wisconsin at the opening of the fiscal year, having resumed his in-
vestigations of this people in the preceding month. These were con-
tinued to completion, and in October, 1911, Dr. Radin returned to
Washington and continued the preparation of a monograph on the
ethnology of the Winnebago tribe, which was brought to completion
and submitted in the latter part of March, 1912. Although the
medium of publication of this memoir has not yet been determined,
it is probable that it will appear as the accompanying paper of the
twenty-ninth annual report.

Dr. Franz Boas, honorary philologist, continued the linguistic re-
searches outlined in previous reports, the immediate object of which
is the completion of part 2 of the Handbook of American Indian
Languages, which is to contain sketches of the native languages of
Oregon and Washington, with some additional material on the ex-
treme northwestern part of the continent. An account of the devel-
opment of the plan and object of this Handbook was set forth in my
last annual report.

The printing of the sketch of the Takelma grammar, by Dr. Ed-
ward Sapir, for this Handbook, has been completed, and the separates
thereof have been issued. The work of Dr. Leo J. Frachtenberg un-
fortunately suffered delay owing to protracted illness. His revision
of the Coos grammar, however, has been almost completed, and it
is expected that the manuscript of the Siuslaw grammar will be in
the hands of Dr. Boas, as editor of the Handbook, by August of this
year. The necessary final revision of the subject matter of both
sketches was made by Dr. Frachtenberg at Siletz, Oregon.

Dr. Boas rewrote a grammar of the Chukchee language, with com-
parative notes on the Koryak and Kamchadal, by Mr. Waldemar
Bogoras, and added references to the published Russian and English
series of Chukchee texts, which had been published previously by
Mr. Bogoras. In the course of the year this manuscript was also type-
written and prepared for the printer. In the summer of 1912 Dr.
Boas met Mr. Bogoras in Berlin and discussed with him the revised
form of the grammar. At the close of the year the results of these
discussions were being incorporated in the grammar, and it is ex-
pected that the manuscript will be ready for the printer early in the
autumn,
52 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

Dr. Boas has followed out the policy of printing texts illustrating
the grammatical sketches in a series which according to the original
plan were to have been published as bulletins of the bureau, but this
plan was abandoned for administrative reasons. During the present
year the series of Tsimshian texts, illustrating the Tsimshian dialect,
was published as Volume III of the Publications of the American
Ethnological Society, and the series of Maidu texts as Volume IV
of the same series. These illustrate languages contained in part 1
of the Handbook, so that now texts for all the languages therein
treated are available to students.

The printing of the Coos texts, by Dr. Frachtenberg, which are to
appear as Volume I of the Columbia University Contributions to
Anthropology, has almost been completed, and the printed matter
has been utilized to illustrate the sketch of the language.

The research in Indian music by Miss Frances Densmore was
characterized by the completion of her studies among the Chippewa
and the beginning of investigations along similar lines among the
Sioux. Miss Densmore’s field work comprised one month with the
Sioux on the Sisseton Reservation in South Dakota, about two
months on Standing Rock Reservation in North Dakota, and a few
days on the White Earth Reservation in Minnesota for the final
revision of some descriptions and translations in her Chippewa
manuscripts. The finished results submitted during the year com-
prised material on both Chippewa and Sioux music. Two papers on
Chippewa studies were presented, one entitled “ Further Analyses
of Chippewa Songs,” the other bearing the title ‘“‘ Deductions from the
Analysis of Chippewa Music.” In addition Miss Densmore finished
about 100 pages that included additional references to the bibliography
of the subject, a more complete explanation of minor points, some
linguistic analyses, and slight changes in the analysis of individual
songs to conform with present methods—all this was complete for
publication when submitted. Her paper on “ The Sun Dance of the
Teton Sioux,” including 33 songs, could be published in its present
form, but it is deemed desirable to add a structural analysis of the
songs similar to that accompanying the Chippewa material.

Additional illustrations for the Chippewa studies have been sub-
mitted during the year, also adequate illustrations for the paper on
the Sun dance of the Sioux. With few exceptions these illustrations
are photographs taken especially for the work, many being pictures
of old ceremonial articles used in the Sun dance. Considerable atten-
tion also has been given to the collecting of specimens having an
interest in connection with the work.

Mr. W. H. Holmes, head curator of the department of anthropology
of the United States National Museum, has continued, as oppor-
tunity afforded, the preparation of the Handbook of Archeology
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 5a

commenced by him while chief of the bureau. The main body of the
research work in connection with this Handbook has been completed,
but much remains in the way of literary investigation and in the
preparation of illustrations. While no time can yet be fixed for the
completion of the work, Mr. Holmes hopes to finish the manuscript
and the illustrations for the first volume before the summer of 1913.

Good progress has been made in transcribing the manuscript
French-Miami dictionary, by an unknown author but attributed to
Pére Joseph Ignatius Le Boulanger, in the John Carter Brown
Library at Providence, Rhode Island. The copying has been made
possible through the courtesy of Mr. George Parker Winship, libra-
rian, who not only has placed this valuable manuscript at the dis-
posal of the bureau for this purpose, but has kindly pérmitted his
assistant, Miss Margaret Bingham Stillwell, to prepare the tran-
script, and personally has supervised the making of photostat copies
of part of the manuscript, especially that devoted to the text portion.
During the year Miss Stillwell finished and submitted the transcript
of 295 pages, representing pages 20 to 77 of the original.

Prof. Howard M. Ballou, of the College of Hawaii, has continued
the search for titles for the proposed List of Works Relating to
Hawaii, especially those of works published locally in the native
language, many of which are very rare. In this work Prof. Ballou
has had the generous assistance of the Rev. Mr. Westervelt. This
bibliography has now reached a stage where steps should soon be
taken toward finally arranging the material for publication.

There has long been need of a revision of the Catalogue of Pre-
historic Works East of the Rocky Mountains, prepared by the late
Dr. Cyrus Thomas and published as a bulletin of the bureau in 1891,
but which passed out of print several years ago. In the fall of 1911
steps were taken toward undertaking this revision, and the bureau
was fortunate at the outset in engaging the services of Mr. D. I.
Bushnell, jr., of University, Virginia, as compiler of the work. Cir-
cular letters were dispatched to county clerks east of the Mississippi,
who not only supplied direct information respecting aboriginal sites,
but furnished the names of hundreds of collectors and others having
personal knowledge of the subject, and to these special letters were
addressed. By this means so much information of a local character
was received in regard to the location of mounds, village and camp
sites, shell heaps, quarries and workshops, pictographs, etc., in addi-
tion to that recorded in the Catalogue of Dr. Thomas, that the revised
work gives promise of being a fairly complete Handbook of Aborig-
inal Remains East of the Mississippi. Besides finishing the collation
of this material and of other data already in possession of the bureau,
Mr. Bushnell has made good progress in extracting the information
contained in various publications devoted to American archeology,

85360°—sM 1912 ——5
54 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

notably those by Mr. Clarence B. Moore on the mounds of the South,
In this compilation the bureau has had the generous cooperation of
Mr. Arthur C. Parker, State archeologist of New York, and of Mr.
Warren K. Moorehead, curator of the department of archeology of
Phillips Academy, Andover, Massachusetts, while others have kindly
offered their aid. No date for the publication can yet be given.

PUBLICATIONS.

The editorial work of the bureau has been conducted under the
immediate charge of Mr. J. G. Gurley, editor. The proof reading
of the twenty-seventh annual report, the accompanying paper of
which is a monograph entitled “'The Omaha Tribe,” by Alice C.
Fletcher and Francis La Flesche, was completed and the report
published.

The manuscript of the twenty-eighth annual report was edited and
transmitted to the Public Printer. At the close of the year about
one-third of this report was in page form, and the remainder was in
process of paging. This report includes the following papers: Casa
Grande, Arizona, by Dr. J. Walter Fewkes; Antiquities of the Upper
Verde River and Walnut Creek Valley, Arizona, also by Dr. Fewkes,
and Preliminary Report on the Linguistic Classification of Algon-
quian Tribes, by Dr. Truman Michelson.

The series of bulletins was increased by the addition of Bulletin 47,
A Dictionary of the Biloxi and Ofo Languages, Accompanied by
Thirty-one Biloxi Texts and Numerous Biloxi Phrases, by James
Owen Dorsey and John R. Swanton.

Bulletin 49, List of Publications of the Bureau, was issued in a
third impression.

Bulletin 40, Handbook of American Indian Languages, Part 2, was
carried toward completion under the editorship of Dr. Franz Boas,
as elsewhere stated, with the result that two sections, comprising 418
pages, dealing with the Takelma and Coos languages, are in substan-
tially final form.

Toward the close of the year steps were taken to advance the work
on Bulletin 46, Byington’s Choctaw Dictionary, edited by Dr. John
R. Swanton.

Considerable time was given to the editing and proof reading of
Bulletin 52, Early Man in South America, by Ale’ Hrdli¢ka, in col-
laboration with W. H. Holmes, Bailey Willis, Fred. Eugene Wright,
and Clarence N. Fenner. At the close of June the work was nearly
through press.

The last bulletin to receive attention was No. 53—Chippewa
Music—II, by Frances Densmore. Substantial progress on the prep-
aration of the author’s material for the press had been made at the
close of the fiscal year.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 55

The demand for the publications of the bureau continues to increase,
and their distribution, numbering 15,003 copies during the year, neces-
sitated extended correspondence. The distribution of the bureau
publications has been under the immediate care of Miss Helen Munroe
and Mr. E. L. Springer, of the Smithsonian Institution.

A concurrent resolution authorizing the reprinting of the Hand-
book of American Indians was introduced in the Senate and passed
on May 11, 1912, and subsequently was favorably reported by the
Committee on Printing of the House of Representatives, but it had
not been passed at the close of the fiscal year.

ILLUSTRATIONS.

The preparation of the illustrations for the publications of the
bureau and the photographing of the members of visiting delega-
tions of Indians were conducted under the charge of Mr. De Lancey
Gill, illustrator. In connection with this work 90 photographic
negatives of Indians and 123 of ethnologic subjects were prepared;
196 films exposed by members of the bureau in the field were devel-
oped; 1,322 prints were made for publication and for exchange or
distribution; and 110 pen and brush drawings were prepared. At
the request of Mr. Wilberforce Eames, of the New York Public
Library, a collection of 118 photographs of representative Indians,
covering 55 tribes, was furnished by the bureau as a part of a loan
exhibition opened at that hbrary in May and was still on view at
the close of the fiscal year.

Mr. Gill had the usual assistance of Henry Walther until February -
16, 1912, when his services in behalf of the bureau for many years
eame to a close with his death. Mr. Walther has been succeeded by
Walter A. Stenhouse.

LIBRARY.

Under the supervision of Miss Ella Leary the work of the library
has made satisfactory progress. During the year 720 volumes (103
by purchase) and 300 pamphlets were received; in addition 620
periodical publications, of which 606 were acquired by exchange and
the remainder by subscription, were accessioned. The recataloging
of certain serial publications in the library has been continued, and
attention given to the preparation of a subject catalogue of the large
collection of pamphlets, many of which had been stored and there-
fore were inaccessible for three or four years. Successful effort has
been made to complete the sets of certain publications of scientific
societies and other learned institutions. For the use of the members
of the staff the librarian has prepared and posted copies of a monthly
bulletin of the library’s principal accessions; and in order that the
56 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

large number of scientific serials received might also be made readily
accessible, the current issues have been displayed on a table provided
for that purpose.
Notwithstanding the increasing value of the bureau’s library, it
vas found necessary, from time to time, to make requisition on the
Library of Congress for the loan of books, the volumes thus received
for temporary use numbering about 250. The volumes bound during
the year numbered 492. At the close of the year the library con-
tained approximately 17,970 volumes, about 12,500 pamphlets, and
several thousand periodicals. Although-maintained primarily as a
reference library for the bureau’s staff, it is constantly consulted by
students not connected with the Smithsonian Institution and by offi-
cials of the executive departments and the Library of Congress.

COLLECTIONS.

The following collections were made by members of the staff of
the bureau during their field researches: -

By Mr. F. W. Hodge: Twenty-two paper squeezes of early and
recent Spanish inscriptions on El Morro, or Inscription Rock, in
New Mexico. Objects of stone, bone, clay, etc., from the cemetery of
the ancient ruined pueblo of Kwasteyukwa on the mesa above the
Jemez Hot Springs, New Mexico. Ten barrels of pottery and human
skeletal remains from the same locality. These collections were made
under a joint expedition conducted by the bureau and the School of
American Archeology.

By Dr. John R. Swanton: Two ball sticks, one ball, one breech-
cloth and belt, one tiger tail, from the Creek Indians at Coweta, Okla-
homa.

By Mr. James Mooney: Four dance masks, two pairs of ball sticks,
two toy baskets, two wooden spoons, one ox muzzle, one stone ax, one
small celt, three arrowheads, from the Cherokee Indians of North
Carolina.

By Mr. Francis La Flesche: Two sacred packs of the Osage
Indians.

PROPERTY.

The most valuable part of the property of the bureau consists of
its library, manuscripts (chiefly linguistic), and photographic nega-
tives. The bureau possesses also cameras, photographic machines,
and other ordinary apparatus and equipment for field work; sta-
tionery and office supplies; necessary office furniture; typewriters,
ete., and the undistributed stock of its publications. The amount of
$342.27 was expended for office furniture during the year, while the
cost of necessary books and periodicals was $396.42.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 57

As in the past, the manuscripts have been under the custodianship
of Mr. J. N. B. Hewitt. Those withdrawn by collaborators of the
bureau during the year numbered 234 items. The new manuscripts
acquired are those hitherto mentioned in this report as having been
prepared by members of the staff or by collaborators and designed
for eventual publication. Negotiations have been entered into with
the heirs of the late Senor Andomaro Molina, of Merida, Yucatan,
for the return of Henderson’s Maya Dictionary, a manuscript of six
volumes lent to Sehor Molina a number of years ago for use in con-
nection with certain linguistic studies then contemplated in behalf

of the bureau.
RECOMMENDATIONS.

T desire to repeat the recommendations submitted in my last annual
report, respecting the extension of the researches of the bureau and
for other purposes, and urging the appropriation of the necessary
funds for conducting them. These include the following projects:

The exploration and preservation of antiquities in the arid region.

The extension of ethnologic researches in Alaska and among the
tribes of the Mississippi Valley.

The preparation of a completely revised edition of the Handbook
of American Indians.

Additional editorial assistance in preparing the publications of
the bureau for the press.

A small sum to meet the expense of supplying photographs of In-
dian subjects to schools and colleges, and for other educational pur-
poses, and for systematically making photographs in the field to
illustrate the daily life and the ceremonies of the Indians.

In addition it is recommended that the systematic excavation and
study of certain archeological sites in the South and West be con-
ducted in order that archeological research may go hand in hand with
the ethnological studies now being pursued in the same fields.

The reasons for extending the work of the bureau in the directions
indicated are set forth more fully in the estimates of appropriations
for the year 1914, in connection with which the sums regarded as
necessary to the work are given.

Respectfully submitted.

F. W. Hopes,
Lthnologist in Charge.
Dr. Cuartes D. Watcort,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 3.
REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES.

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera-
tions of the International Exchange Service during the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1912:

The congressional appropriation for the support of the service
during the year, including the allotment for printing and binding,
was $32,200 (the same amount as granted for the past four years),
and the repayments for services rendered were $4,391.02, making the
total available resources for carrying on the system of international
exchanges $36,591.02.

The total number of packages handled during the year was
315,492—an increase over the number for the preceding year of
29,794. The weight of these packages was 568,712 pounds—a gain
of 7,904 pounds. The increase in the volume of business, which has
been continuous since the establishment of the service, is shown in
the diagram on page 59.

The publications dispatched by the Exchange Service are classified
under four heads: First, the Congressional Record; second, “ Parlia-
mentary documents”; third, ‘“ Departmental documents”; fourth,
“ Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications.”

The term “ Parliamentary documents,” as here used, refers to pub-
lications set aside by law for exchange with foreign Governments,
and includes not only copies of documents printed by order of either
House of Congress, but copies of each publication issued by any
department, bureau, commission, or officer of the Government. The
object in sending these publications abroad is to procure for the use
of the Congress of the United States a complete series of the publi-
cations of other Governments, and the returns are deposited in the
Congressional Library.

The term “ Departmental documents” embraces all the publica-
tions delivered at the Institution by the various Government depart-
ments, bureaus, or commissions, for distribution to their correspond-
ents abroad from whom they desire to obtain similar publications in
exchange. The publications received in return are deposited in the
various departmental libraries.

The “ Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications” are re-
ceived chiefly from learned societies, universities, colleges, scientific

58

A a tn at tia ih ee a aaa Ni we

it i er i
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 59

institutes, and museums in the United States, and transmitted to sim-
ilar institutions in all parts of the world.

eS
Hn
cS

algleles
rt
ia

3\a
3o|o

ena
aa
N
ect t
SE
ERRRBARHE

‘ y

Go| bp] P| alan
Hl olnlala
So1S/SO/S/o
wal e

Bie

EEE
MT
GEE
BESS
EEEEN
FERRE
EREGG
E

el

Diagram showing increase of exchange transmissions, in tons of 2,000 pounds, from 1850
to 1912, divided into periods of five years each.
For purposes of comparison, the number and weight of packages
of different classes are indicated in the following table:

Packages. Weight.
Sent. |Received.| Sent. |Received.
Pounds. | Pounds.
United States parliamentary documents sent abroad .........-- REY (720) [a ae ae 128, 253 | set.
Publications received in return for parliamentary documents.../........-.- 2420. ieee ees 17,794
United States departmental documents sent abroad..........-.- CP AES ae Bete oes 180}9905|2:22. 2255
Publications received in return for departmental docunrents....|.....-..--- 9, 452) pate cet ie 19, 113
Miscellaneous, scientific, and literary publications sent abroad..| 56,110 |........-- 1G Sa bs cee
Miscellaneous, scientific, and literary publications received from

abroad for distribution in the United States.................-|.--------- 38,045) |e ccemton ae 108, 969
Motels Sette. sete tas eee ohare pea dessiemer es teres 265, 270 50,222 | 422,836 145, 876

Grand totais toch 1G shes eee ee Sle ee te 315, 492 568,712

60 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

The disparity indicated by the foregoing statistics between the
number of packages sent and those received in behalf of the Govern-
ment is accounted for, in part, by the fact that packages sent abroad
contain, as a rule, only one publication, while those received in re-
turn often comprise many volumes, in some instances, especially in
the case of publications received in return for parliamentary docu-
ments, the term “ package ” being applied to large boxes containing
100 or more separate publications, of which no lists are made in
Washington, as the boxes are forwarded to their destinations un-
opened. Furthermore, many returns for publications sent abroad
reach their destinations direct by mail and not through the Exchange
Service.

Proper allowance being made for these circumstances, it is, never-
theless, apparently true that the publications of the United States
Government sent to foreign countries greatly exceed in number those
received by the Library of Congress and the several executive de-
partments, bureaus, and independent offices. This in turn appears
to be due mainly to the fact that most foreign Governments publish
less extensively on scientific and other subjects than our own, The
fiscal relations between the Government and scientific and other in-
stitutions are more complex in many countries than is the case in the
United States, and the distinction between public documents and
other publications is not so clear, especially where the printing for
the Government is not centralized in one office or is not done by the
Government itself.

While several of the departments and bureaus of our own Govern-
ment have expressed themselves satisfied with the returns received
through the Exchange Service, it is proposed to make a further in-
vestigation of this subject for the purpose of ascertaining whether
some important publications and series of publications have not been
overlooked, and also what proportion the number of the publications
issued by certain European Governments in a given year bears to
the number received by the departments and bureaus of the United
States Government, and to the number sent to the former. It will
be obvious that a debit and credit account is out of the question in a
case of this kind. While a scientific or literary institution issues
publications for the benefit of the whole world, a Government issues
reports and other documents mainly for purposes of record and for
the information of its own officers and its own citizens. The more
largely the people are directly concerned in the Government, and the
more extended its interests and activities, the greater will be the out-
put of reports and other publications. Such a Government will have
much more to offer than it can expect to receive in return from a
smaller country.

As regards the exchange of miscellaneous scientific and literary
publications, it will be noted that the weight in pounds of those

—
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 61

received into the United States through the Exchange Service during
the fiscal year 1911 more than doubled the weight of those sent abroad,
while the weight of those received during the fiscal year 1912, cov-
ered by this report, almost equalled that of those sent abroad. There
is every reason, therefore, to believe that this important branch of
the work yields adequate returns.

By referring to the foregoing table it will be noted that 70 per
cent of the work of the office has been conducted in behalf of United
States governmental establishments.

Of the 2,895 boxes used in forwarding exchanges to foreign bu-
reaus and agencies for distribution (an increase of 15 boxes over
1911), 328 boxes contained full sets of United States official docu-
ments for authorized depositories and 2,067 were filled with depart-
mental and other publications for depositories of partial sets and
for miscellaneous correspondents. The number of boxes sent to each
foreign country and the dates of transmission are shown in the fol-
lowing table:

Consiguinents of exchanges to foreign countries.

Country. ee | Date of transmission.
—— a

Areenting.<2¢s. 222.5% | 36 | July 15, Aug. 16, Sept. 20, Oct. 18, Nov. 23, Dec. 27, 1911; Jan. 20, Feb.
20, Mar. 22, Apr. 22, May 23, June 22, 1912.

ATISURIS sc saa o we ones 83 | July 12, Aug. 3, Sept. 7, Oct. 6, Nov. 14, Dec. 6, 1911; Jan. 10, Feb. 7,
Mar. 6, Apr. 3, May 8, June 5, 1912.

Barbadoss= = .st2s2:2 2 2 | Mar. 27, June 27, 1912.

BO piss es ee se cen 62 | July 8, 29, Aug. 12, 29, Sept. 23, Oct. 14, Nov. 4, 25, Dec. 16, 1911; Jan.
6, 27, Feb. 17, Mar. 16, 30, Apr. 27, May 18, June 8, 1912.

Bermuda: ----- 62. 22 1| Feb. 15, 1912.

BOM VIaS on ce a= ert atee 2 12 | Aug. 29, Sept. 28, Nov. 13, 1911; Jan. 30, Feb. 24, Mar. 22, May 23,
June 22, 1912. Bp

135 q: VALE pees eee ey Shae eae 31 | July 15, Aug. 16, Sept. 20, Oct. 18, Nov. 25, Dec. 27, 1911; Jan. 20,
Feb. 20, Mar. 22, Apr. 22, May 23, June 22, 1912.

British Colonies... .... 12 | July 3, Aug. 12, 21, Sept. 2, Oct. 30, Nov. 4, 1911; Jan. 6, 20, 27, Apr.
27, June 8, 1912.

British Guiana......-.. 2 | Jan. 30, June 29, 1912.

British Honduras... ... 1 | Jan. 30, 1912.

Hlgaria + sss 255 fee 3 | July 28, Sept. 29, Nov. 7, 1911.

Canmadai so 25m 6 | Aug. 10, Nov. 10, 1911; Jan. 10, Apr. 1, 25, June 1, 1912.

Cape Colony..........: 12 | Aug. 5, Nov. 7, 1911; Jan. 25, Apr. 15, May 31, June 27, 1912.

Chilornss eek 22 eee 22 | July 15, Aug. 16, Sept. 20, Oct. 18, Nov. 23, Dec. 27, 1911; Jan. 20, Feb.
20, Mar. 22, Apr. 22, May 24, June 22, 1912.

Chink sosshs eth 23 | July 21, Aug. 26, Sept. 29, Nov. 4, Dec. 29, 1911; Jan. 31, Feb. 28, Mar.
27, Apr. 30, May 31, June 27, 1912.

Colomibia. =-6 Bases AE: 14} Aug. 21, Sept. 28, Nov. 23, 1911; Jan. 20, Feb. 20, Apr. 22, May 23, 1912.

Gosta WiCas oa5 4 as es 17 | July 27, Aug. 21, Sept. 28, Oct. 27, Nov. 23, 1911; Jan. 20, Feb. 24, Apr.
22, May 23, June 22, 1912.

Cttaaes ANY sas Fae 6 | Aug. 10, Nov. 10, 1911; Jan. 10, Apr. 1, 25, June 1, 1912.

Wenmank se Lo aoe 31 | July 19, Aug. 24, Sept. 27, Oct. 19, Nov. 16, Dec. 19, 1911; Jan. 20, Feb.
20, Mar. 15, Apr. 15, May 20, June 20, 1912.

GHACOD-macceaseraass. 7! Aug. 29, Sept. 28, Nov. 13, 1911; Jan. 30, Feb. 24, Apr. 30, June 22,

1912.
62

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

Consignments of exchanges to foreign countries—Continued.

Country. Nember Date of transmission.

Ey pbs ee Sassen 13 | July 22, Aug. 25, Sept. 26, Oct. 28, Nov. 25, 1911; Jan. 13, Feb. 3, Mar.
9, Apr. 6, May 4, June 8, 1912.

PTANCA seo 2c ee eet 207 | July 6, 26, Aug. 10, 24, Sept. 15, 28, Oct. 12, Nov. 1, 23, Dec. 8, 21, 1911;
Jan. 4, 25, Feb. 8, 29, Mar. 14, 28, Apr. 4, 25, May 9, June 6, 27, 1912.

Germany? 2542. ee ee 410 | July 6, 11, 18, 25, Aug. 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, Sept. 2, 12, 19, 26, Oct. 3, 10, 17,
31, Nov. 7, 14, 21, 28, Dec. 5, 12, 19, 1911; Jan. 3, 9, 16, 23, 30, Feb. 6,
13, 20, 27, Mar. 5, 12, 19, 26, Apr. 2, 9, 16, 28, 30, May 7, 15, 21, 28, June
4,11, *8, 25, 1912.

Great Britain and Ire- 423 | July 3, 8, 15, 22,29, Aug. 5, 12,19, 26, Sept. 2, 11, 18, 23, 30, Oct. 7, 14, 23,

land. 30, Nov. 4, 11, 18, 25, Dec. 2, 9,16, 27,1911; Jan. 6, 13, 20, 27, Feb. 3, 10,

17, 24, Mar. 2,9, 16, 23, 30, Apr. 6, 13, 20, 27, May 4, 11, 18, 25, June 1, 8,
15, 22, 29, 1912.

Greetevsss) Socket set 19 | July 28, Aug. 29, Sept. 27, Nov. 7, Dec. 28, 1911; Jan. 25, Feb. 26, Mar.
27, Apr. 25, May 25, June 27, 1912.

Guatemalan ows cessece 8 | July 27, Aug. 29, Sept. 28, Nov. 13, 1911; Jan. 30, Feb. 24, Apr. 30, June
22, 1912.

LSI til se RIS cp sce 6 | Aug. 10, Nov. 10,1911; Jan. 10, Apr. 1,25, June 1, 1912.

FFONGULAS: Sess asenee = oe 7 | July 27, Sept. 28, Nov. 13, 1911; Jan. 30, Feb. 24, Apr. 30, June 22, 1912.

Un Panyen- «ceca eee 39 | July 12, Aug. 3, Sept. 7, Oct. 6, Nov. 14, Dec. 6, 1911; Jan. 10, Feb. 7,
Mar. 6, Apr. 3, May 8, June 5, 1912.

Wnidiat 2 ssssaesecne ces 38 | July 3,29, Aug. 5,12, Sept. 2, 18,23, Oct. 14, 23, 30, Nov. 4, 18, 25, 1911;
Jan. 6, 20, 30, Feb. 17,24, Mar. 9, 16, 23, 30, Apr. 13, 27, May 4, 18,
June 8, 15, 22,1912.

Ataly ance .a2-s5 se sce eee 96 | July 24, Aug. 5, Sept. 2, 25, Oct. 16, Nov. 11, 25, 1911; Jan. 13, Feb. 3,
Mar. 9, Apr. 6, May 4,18, June 8, 29, 1912.

Jamaica yvivce i. sey ae 8 | July 27, Aug. 31, Sept. 29, Nov. 29, 1911; Jan. 30, Feb. 26, Apr. 30, June
27, 1912.

Japa ce cece ees Seer 62 | July 21, Aug. 26, Sept. 27, Oct. 20, Nov. 20, Dee. 28, 1911; Jan. 23, Feb.
21, Mar. 20, Apr. 20, May 20, June 20,1912.

AES (2 a SR EE 4 | Sept. 29, 1911; Feb. 26, Mar. 27, June 27, 1912.

PiDCrIa-eo ee ceeee 5 | July 27, Sept. 29, Nov. 13, 1911; Feb. 26, June 27, 1912.

Lourenco Marquez..... 2 | Nov. 13, 1911; June 22, 1912.

Manitobaene.tohc2 once 6 | Aug. 10, Nov. 10, 1911; Jan. 10, Apr. 1, 25, June 1, 1912.

MexiCO: 227523945 ~ isa 6 | Aug. 10, Nov. 10, 1911; Jan. 10, Apr. 1, 25, June 1, 1912.

Montenegro........-..- 3 | Nov. 18, 1911; Feb. 24, June 22, 1912.

Natali: ge-+ nith ices 2 | Sept. 2, 1911; Feb. 24, 1912.

Netherlands............ 60 | July 11, 29, Aug. 29, Sept. 19, Oct. 17, Nov. 14, 28, Dec. 12, 1911; Jan. 9.
30, Feb. 27, Mar. 12, 26, Apr. 9, 23, May 7, June 4, 25, 1912.

Newfoundland......... 2 | Jan. 16, Apr. 11, 1912.

New South Wales... --- 33 | July 20, Aug. 22, Sept. 21, Oct. 28, Nov. 25, Dec. 21, 1911; Jan. 24,
Feb. 15, Mar. 20, Apr. 20, May 20, June 20, 1912.

New Zealand..........- 28 | July 20, Aug. 22, Sept. 21, Oct. 28, Nov. 25, Dec. 21, 1911; Jan. 24, Feb.
15, Mar. 20, Apr. 20, May 20, June 20, 1912.

Nicaragua... a= -2-sc\scbe 5 | Aug. 29, Sept. 28, 1911; Jan. 30, Feb. 24, June 22, 1912.

NORWAY <'ss7-ach seats 28 | July 19, Aug. 24, Sept. 27, Oct. 19, Nov. 16, Dec. 19, 1911; Jan. 20,
Feb. 20, Mar. 15, Apr. 15, May 20, June 20, 1912.

Ontario. oe scaes cee kee 6 | Aug. 10, Nov. 10, 1911; Jan. 10, Apr. 1, 25, June 1, 1912.

Panama: est ones aecice oie 3 | Nov. 18, 1911; Feb. 24, June 22, 1912.

Palestine: «53. oon set 4] Aug. 31, Nov. 29, 1911; June 27, 1912.

POLS =o 3 Seaecbee 18 | July 15, Aug. 16, Sept. 20, Oct. 18, Nov. 23, Dec. 27, 1911; Jan. 20, Feb.
20, Mar. 22, Apr. 22, May 23, June 22, 1912.

Partugals:..se3c% st 19 | July 19, Aug. 24, Sept. 27, Oct. 19, Nov. 16, Dec. 19, 1911; Jan. 20, Feb.
20, Mar. 15, Apr. 16, May 20, June 20, 1912.

Quebees hao. hs ecei eel 6 | Aug. 10, Noy. 10, 1911; Jan. 10, Apr. 1, 25, June 1, 1912.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 63

Consigninenis of exchanges to foreign countries—Continued. :
Country. Teaaper Date of transmission.
Queensland ......... set 21 | July 20, Aug. 22, Sept. 21, Oct. 28, Nov. 25, Dec. 21, 1911; Jan. 28, Feb.
15, Mar. 20, Apr. 20, May 20, June 20, 1912.

Roumania... =F 2... ft: 10 | July 28, Sept. 29, Nov. 7, 1911; Apr. 10, May 31, June 27, 1912.
IUUSSIacen. ose eS 81 | July 13, Aug. 4, Sept. 7, Oct. 6, Nov. 11, Dec. 7, 1911; Jan. 11, Feb. 8,
Mar. 7, Apr. 4, May 9, 29, 1912.

Salvador-fi:.if5e2 $2242 7 | Aug. 29, Sept. 28, Nov. 29, 1911; Jan. 30, Feb. 24, Apr. 30, June 22, 1912.

Santo Domingo.....-... 1] Sept. 29, 1911.

Senvidiosc ..iticces sss: 12 | Aug. 29, Nov. 7, 1911; Jan. 24, May 7, June 27, 1912.

lam ste. 3364. soo 10 | July 28, Oct. 10, Nov. 4, Dec. 29, 1911; Jan. 31, Feb. 26, Mar. 28, Apr. 30,
May 31, June 29, 1912.

South Australia........ 19 | July 20, Aug. 22, Sept. 21, Oct. 28, Nov. 25, Dec. 21, 1911; Jan. 24, Feb.
15, Mar. 20, Apr. 20, May 20, June 20, 1912.

Spain 52 .2tAu! boaseatl 30 | July 22, Aug. 25, Sept. 26, Oct. 28, Nov. 25, 1911; Jan. 13, Feb, 3, Mar.
9, Apr. 6, May 4, June 8, 29, 1912.

DWOdSISe me ce eeieeces ee 54 | July 13, Aug. 4, Sept. 7, Oct. 6, Nov. 11, Dec. 7, 1911; Jan. 11, Feb. 8,
Mar. 7, Apr. 4, May 6, June 6, 1912.

Switzerland........-..-. 53 | July 8, 29, Aug. 10, 29, Sept. 23, Oct. 14, Nov. 4, 25, Dec. 16, 1911;
Jan. 6, 27, Feb. 16, Mar. 16, 30, Apr. 27, May 18, June 8, 1912.

[Shige eee eee 4] Nov. 2, 1911; Feb. 5, 1912.

Tasmania: 7.2. 204951 10 | Oct. 30, Nov. 4, 1911; Jan. 6, Apr. 27, 1912.

Wransvadls 2.2425 ch5.05 19 | July 27, Aug. 29, Sept. 28, Nov. 7, 1911; Jan. 25, Feb. 24, Mar. 27, Apr.
26, May 22, June 22, 1912.

Mrinidadmass 6 oc. .2 <=. 4| Aug. 31, 1911; Jan. 30, Mar. 27, June 27, 1912.

MALkeyiss a. 2% ents FS. 15 | Aug. 30, Nov. 2, 1911; Jan. 31, Feb. 28, Mar. 28, Apr. 30, May 31, 1912.

WT Suayes.. Ss cestescs 19 | July 15, Aug. 21, Sept. 20, Oct. 27, Nov. 23, Dec. 27, 1911; Jan. 20, Feb.
20, Mar. 22, Apr. 22, May 23, June 22, 1912.

Wenezuela: ict itn. Sos 14 | Aug. 21, Sept. 28, Nov. 23, 1911; Jan. 20, Feb. 20, Apr. 22, May 23, June
23, 1912.

WiICTONIR= = « aassspins sos 33 | July 20, Aug. 22, Sept. 21, Oct. 28, Nov. 25, Dec. 21, 1911; Jan. 24, Feb.
17, Mar. 20, Apr. 20, May 20, June 20, 1912.

Western Australia... ..- 20 | July 22, 29, Aug. 5, 26, Sept. 2, 23, Oct. 7, 28, 30, Dec. 16, 1911; Jan. 6,
27, Mar. 16, Apr. 27, May 18, 1912.

For some years the Institution has been sending full sets of gov-
ernmental documents to Cape Colony and the Transvaal and partial
sets to Natal and the Orange River Colony. In May, 1912, a com-
munication was received from the Secretary for the Interior of the
Union of South Africa stating that since these Governments have
now become Provinces of the Union, only one set of the publications
would in future be required. In accordance with this request, the
forwarding of official documents to the above-mentioned Provinces
was discontinued, and one full series, beginning with box 183, is
now transmitted to the Union of South Africa, addressed to the
Secretary for the Interior, care of the Government Printer, Pretoria.

Packages containing scientific and literary publications received
from individuals and establishments in the United States for trans-
mission through the Exchange Service to miscellaneous addresses
in the various Provinces of the Union of South Africa are now for-
64 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

warded to certain governmental establishments in those Provinces
for distribution. The department of the interior of that country
has been asked to undertake the distribution and also to forward
to the United States such books as may be sent in return—the de-
partment acting in the same capacity for the Union of South Africa
as this Exchange Service does for the United States.

Through the wrecking of the steamship Papanui, the Institution
lost cases 117 and 158, containing exchanges for distribution in West-
ern Australia by the Public Library at Perth. A number of pack-
ages sent in care of the director general of stores, India Office, Lon-
don, were also lost at sea during the year, owing to the stranding
of the steamer by which they were being transmitted to India. It is
gratifying to state that the Institution has succeeded in procuring
from the senders copies of most of the lost publications, which have
been duly transmitted to their various destinations.

FOREIGN DEPOSITORIES OF UNITED STATES GOVERNMENTAL
DOCUMENTS.

The number of sets of United States official publications regularly
forwarded to foreign countries in accordance with treaty stipulations
and under the authority of the congressional resolutions of March 2,
1867, and March 2, 1901, has been reduced from 89 to 86—one set
instead of four now being forwarded to the Union of South Africa,
to which reference is made above. This reduction in the number of
sets transmitted abroad will be only temporary, as negotiations are
now under way looking to the establishment of new exchanges.

The recipients of the 54 full and 32 partial sets are as follows:

DEPOSITORIES OF FULL SETS:

Argentina: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Buenos Aires.

Argentina: Biblioteca de la Universidad Nacional de La Plata.

Australia: Library of the Commonwealth Parliament, Melbourne.

Austria: K. K. Statistische Central-Commission, Vienna.

Baden: Universitiits-Bibliothek, Freiburg.

Bavaria: K6nigliche Hof- und Staats-Bibliothek, Munich.

Belgium: Bibliothéque Royale, Brussels.

Brazil: Bibliotheca Nacional, Rio de Janeiro.

Canada: Parliamentary Library, Ottawa.

Chile: Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Santiago.

China: American-Chinese Publication Exchange Department, Shanghai Bureau
of Foreign Affairs, Shanghai.

Colombia: Biblioteca Nacional, Bogota.

Costa Rica: Oficina de Depdésito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, San
José.

Cuba: Secretaria de Hstado (Asuntos Generales y Canje Internacional),
Habana.

Denmark: Kongelige Bibliotheket, Copenhagen.

ee
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 65

England: British Museum, London.

England: London School of Economics and Political Science, London.

France: Bibliothéque Nationale, Paris.

France: Préfecture de la Seine, Paris.

Germany: Deutsche Reichstags-Bibliothek, Berlin.

Greece: Bibliothéque Nationale, Athens.

Haiti: Secrétairerie d’Etat des Relations Extérieures, Port au Prince.

Hungary: Hungarian House of Delegates, Budapest.

India: Department of Education (Books), Government of India, Caleutta.

Ireland: National Library of Ireland, Dublin.

Italy: Biblioteca Nazionale Vittorio’ Emanuele, Rome.

Japan: Imperial Library of Japan, Tokyo.

Manitoba: Provincial Library, Winnipeg.

Mexico: Instituto Bibliograéfico, Biblioteca Nacional, Mexico.

Netherlands: Library of the States General, The Hague.

New South Wales: Board for International Exchanges, Sydney.

New Zealand: General Assembly Library, Wellington.

Norway: Storthingets Bibliothek, Christiania.

Ontario: Legisiative Library, Toronto.

Peru: Biblioteca Nacional, Lima.

Portugal: Bibliotheca Nacional, Lisbon.

Prussia: K6nigliche Bibliothek, Berlin.

Quebec: Legislative Library, Quebec.

Queensland: Parliamentary Library, Brisbane.

Russia: Imperial Public Library, St. Petersburg.

Saxony: Konigliche Ceffentliche Bibliothek, Dresden.

Servia: Section Administrative du Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Belgrade.

South Australia: Parliamentary Library, Adelaide.

Spain: Servicio del Cambio Internacional de Publicaciones, Cuerpo Facultativo
de Archiveros, Bibliotecarios y Arquedlogos, Madrid.

Sweden: Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm.

Switzerland: Bibliotheque Iédérale, Berne.

Tasmania: Parliamentary Library, Hobart.

Turkey: Department of Public Instruction, Constantinople.

Union of South Africa: Department of the Interior, Pretoria, Transvaal.

Uruguay: Oficina de Canje Jnternacional de Publicaciones, Montevideo.

Venezuela: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas,

Victoria: Public Library, Melbourne.

Western Australia: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.

Wiirttemberg: 6nigliche Landesbibliothek, Stuttgart.

DEPOSITORIES OF PARTIAL SETS.

Alberta: Legislative Library, Edmonton.

Alsace-Lorraine: IK. Ministerium fiir Elsass-Lothringen, Strassburg.
Bolivia: Ministerio de Colonizaci6n y Agricultura, La Paz.

Bremen: Senatskommission fiir Reichs- und Auswirtige Angelegenheiten.
British Columbia: Legislative Library, Victoria.

Bulgaria: Minister of Foreign Affairs, Sofia.

Ceylon: United States Consul, Colombo.

Ecuador: Biblioteca Nacional, Quito.

Egypt: Bibliothéque Khédiviale, Cairo.

Guatemala: Secretary of the Government, Guatemala.
66 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

Hamburg: Senatskommission fiir die Reichs- und Auswirtigen Angelegenheiten.

Hesse: Grossherzogliche Hof-Bibliothek, Darmstadt.

Honduras: Secretary of the Government, Tegucigalpa.

Jamaica: Colonial Secretary, Kingston.

Liberia: Department of State, Monrovia.

Lourenco Marquez: Government Library, Lourenco Marquez. :

Malta: Lieutenant Governor, Valetta.

Montenegro: Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Cetinje.

New Brunswick: Legislative Library, Fredericton.

Newfoundland: Colonial Secretary, St. John’s.

Nicaragua: Superintendente de Archivos Nacionales, Managua.

Northwest Territories: Government Library, Regina.

Nova Scotia: Provincial Secretary of Nova Scotia, Halifax.

Panama: Secretaria de Relaciones Exteriores, Panama.

Paraguay: Oficina General de Inmigracion, Asuncion.

Prince Edward Island: Legislative Library, Charlottetown.

Roumania: Academia Romana, Bucarest.

Salvador: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador.

Siam: Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok.

Straits Settlements: Colonial Secretary, Singapore.

United Provinces of Agra and Oudh: Under Secretary to Government, Alla-
habad.

Vienna: Biirgermeister der Haupt- und Residenz-Stadt.

No countries were added during the year to the list of those with
which the immediate exchange of official parliamentary journals is
carried on. While the number of countries at present taking part
in this exchange with the United States is 29, the total number of
copies of the Congressional Record transmitted is 34—2 copies being
sent to some of the countries, 1 to the upper and 1 to the lower House
of Parliament.

The Records are received from the Government Printing Office on
the morning following the date of their issue. They are at once
placed in envelopes and forwarded to their destinations by mail.

A complete list of countries to which the Congressional Record is
now sent is given below:

Argentine Republic. Great Britain. Roumania.

Australia. Greece. Russia.

Austria. Guatemala. Servia.

Baden. Honduras. Spain.

Belgium. Hungary. Switzerland.

Brazil. Italy. Transvaal.

Canada. New South Wales. Union of South Africa.
Cuba. New Zealand. Uruguay.

Denmark. Portugal. Western Australia.

Trance, Prussia.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 67

LIST OF BUREAUS OR AGENCIES THROUGH WHICH EXCHANGES ARE TRANSMITTED.

The fellowing is a list of bureaus or agencies through which the distribution
of exchanges is effected. Those in the larger and many in the smaller countries
forward to the Smithsonian Institution, in return, contributions for distribution
in the United States:

Algeria, via France.
Angola, via Portugal.
Argentina: Comision Protectora de Bibliotecas Populares, Reconquista 538,

Buenos Aires.

Austria: K. K. Statistische Central-Commission, Vienna.

Azores, via Portugal.

Belgium: Service Belge des Kehanges Internationaux, Rue. du Musée 5, Brus-
sels.

Bolivia: Oficina Nacional de Estadistica, La Paz

Brazil: Servico de Permutacdes Internacionaes, Bibliotheca Nacional, Rio de
Janeiro.

British Colonies: Crown Agents for the Colonies, London."

British Guiana: Royal Agricultural and Commercial Society, Georgetown.

British Honduras: Colonial Secretary, Belize.

Bulgaria: Institutions Scientifiques de S. M. le Roi de Bulgarie, Sofia.

Canary Islands, via Spain.

Cape Colony: Government Stationery Department, Cape Town.

Chile: Servicio de Canjes Internacionales, Biblioteca Nacional, Santiago.

China: Zi-ka-wei Observatory, Shanghai.

Colombia: Oficina de Canjes Internacionales y Reparto, Biblioteca Nacional,

Bogota.

Costa Rica: Oficina de Depdésito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, San

José.

Denmark: Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes Selskab, Copenhagen.

Dutch Guiana: Surinaamsche Koloniale Bibliotheek, Paramaribo.

Ecuador: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Quito.

Egypt: Director-General, Survey Department, Giza (Mnudiria).

France: Service Francais des Echanges Internationaux, 110 Rue de Grenelle,

Paris.

Germany: Amerika-Institut, Berlin, N. W. 7.
Great Britain and Ireland: Messrs. William Wesley & Son, 28 Essex Street,

Strand, London. -

Greece: Bibliothéque Nationale, Athens.

Greenland, via Denmark.

Guadeloupe, via France.

Guatemala: Instituto Nacional de Varones, Guatemala.

Guinea, via Portugal.

Haiti: Secrétaire d’Etat des Relations Extérieures, Port au Prince.

Honduras: Biblioteca Nacional, Tegucigalpa. )

Hungary: Dr. Julius Pikler, Municipal Office of Statistics, City Hall, Budapest.

Iceland, via Denmark.

India: India Store Department, India Office, London.

Italy: Ufficio degli Scambi Internazionali, Biblioteca Nazionale Vittorio Eman-
uele, Rome.

1This method is employed for communicating with several of the British colonies with
which no medium is available for forwarding exchanges direct.
68 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

Jamaica: Institute of Jamaica, Kingston.

Japan: Imperial Library of Japan, Tokyo.

Java, via Netherlands.

Korea: His Imperial Japanese Majesty's Residency-General, Seoul.

Liberia: Department of State, Monrovia.

Lourenco Marquez: Government Library, Lourengco Marquez. :

Luxemburg, via Germany.

Madagascar, via France.

Madeira, via Portugal.

Montenegro: Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Cetinje.

Mozambique, via Portugal.

Natal: High Commissioner for the Union of South Africa, London.

Netherlands: Bureau Scientifique Central Néerlandais, Bibliotheque de VUni-
versité, Leyden.

New Guinea, via Netherlands.

New South Wales: Board for International Exchanges, Public Library, Sydney.

New Zealand: Dominion Museum, Wellington.

Nicaragua: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Managua.

Norway: Kongelige Norske Frederiks Universitet Bibliotheket, Christiania.

Panama: Secretaria de Relaciones Exteriores, Panama.

Paraguay: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Asuncion.

Persia: Board of Foreign Missions of the Presbyterian Church, New York City.

Peru: Oficina de Reparto, Depésito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones,
Ministerio de I'omento, Lima.

Portugal: Servico de Permutacdes Internacionaes, Bibliotheca Nacional, Lisbon.

Queensland: Chief Secretary’s Office, Brisbane.

Russia: Commission Russe des HEchanges Internationaux, Bibliotheque Im-
périale Publique, St. Petersburg.

Salvador: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador.

Servia: Section Administrative du Ministére des Affaires Htrangéres, Belgrade.

Siam: Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok.

South Australia: Public Library of South Australia, Adelaide.

Spain: Servicio del Cambio Internacional de Publicaciones, Cuerpo Facultativo
de Archiveros, Biblioteearios y Arquedlogos, Madrid.

Sumatra, via Netherlands.

Sweden: Kongliga Svenska Vetenskaps Akademien, Stockholm.

Switzerland: Service des Hchanges Internationaux, Bibliotheque Fédérale Cen-
trale, Bern.

Syria: Board of Foreign Missions of the Presbyterian Church, New York.

Tasmania: Royal Society of Tasmania, Hobart.

Transvaal: Government Library, Pretoria.

Trinidad: Victoria Institute, Port of Spain.

Tunis, via France.

Turkey: American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, Boston.

Uruguay: Oficina de Canje Internacional, Montevideo.

Venezuela: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.

Victoria : Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.

Western Australia: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.

Windward and Leeward Islands: Imperial Department of Agriculture, Bridge-
town, Barbados.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

69

Table showing the number of institutions and individuals in foreign countries
to which packages were transmitted through the International Haechange
Service during the first six months of the fiscal year 1912.

Organi- | Individ-
zations. uals.
Africa:
WAN SOLER Se wicistslcicid Sajoseiae ete 13 25
ANIZOIR a slerctaistsiciss o sis- se) - Die eee
PAZOL OS oe ae Noise te ose e = 4 1
Canary dslands= <2 --.5<<<2 Di aaa ctewatat
Cape Colony...-...-...-.- 38 30
East Africa and Uganda |
Protectorates........... 4 | 7
MPV Piste s eget eee 21 15
German East Africa. ..... 3 2
Gold Coast sj sc scs5¢ 24 o: 1 1
APS Sec in:s'¢ ae Sesh ee Soci 1 1
WUIDONIG Se sais tee ss see 5 7
Lourengo Marquez....-.-.. 2 1
Madagascar: -i20.-)<ei-- = BiPaseeeseeas
Madeira ts, csenicctateic.cccice 1 1
Maliritivses.cictic- =: ~.c25- 7 3
MOroCCO ms. Ss hs Wai sectee sh otsiecwesee i}
INSTAL ciebioscknegicieais sci 17 14
Orange Free State......-. 3 8
Reunions 2.0. ste 35-8 4 2
Rhodesia. 22-24 2.34. 5-225 2 ab
StHelenak. 3.2<<.25-ch 5. L atseenccse
Sierra Leone 5: sie<0----- 3 2
EDTANSVAGI soc osinoe os Sc ee ce 22 31
EDTIPOUW co macscmsecm ston ste| seco sae ccc =
DUNS Salcesesee see cece one 4 6.
WANTIDGLS sols s cee scenes te Dy Sous eos
America (North):
Canada mes sea se sees 131 323
Central America—
British Honduras..... 6 6
CostarRicas. 2.525. 11 10
Guatemala........... 10 6
Hondurasoc.a2c< sc. - 6 6
Wiearaguasc.222..2..- 10
PANAMA Sjssein soe che 1 10
Salvadori. a... 2252: 1 10
(Creenlande > cocewics tc sciiex id bdacereorc
IMEXICOS somes sacincc ae anes 48 70
Newfoundland........... i 3
West Indies—
SATITIETIA tao \aneisittelsiaeige< 3 1
Bahamas. cccss2 cess: 4 1
IBarbads. cise. 7 9
Bermudas. jotosc. 252-2 2 6
Cuba sesaacesiccsassede- 20 11
Dominicass.- se i25cs20es Tilt eee 3:
Grenada oe eueeee5-5- <5 Ll Sectee oun’ ee
Site. Sta dsace see ccos Ds | eoecrararclete:s
JAMAICA S tia552 25 S5 eels 10 9
St. Christopher......... i Paseee coe

85360°—sm 1912——6

America (North)—Contd.

West Indies—Contd.
STAN CIA ease cee

San Domingo..........-.
Mrimidad © o<,sejec—ee ae os

America (South):

ATSON TING cece ctecisinaoe nee
BOMVIAS esac cseees nee oe

Asia:

French East Indies.......
Hongkong! 22. 2.522 eee

Malasia—
JBN Bice acics sicene ae
Philippine Islands... .
Sarawak....... Leper

Straits Settlements.....-..

Australasia:

New South Wales........
New Zealand.............
Queensland ss 3.5 scenes
South Australia. .........

Europe:

Austria-Hungary -....-.-.-

Organi-
zations.

Individ-
uals.

eee cccccoe
70 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

Table showing the number of institutions and individuals in foreign countries
to which packages were transmiited through the International Hachange
Service during the first six months of the fiscal year 1912—Continued.

Organi- | Individ- Organi- | Individ-
zations. uals, ~zations. uals.
Europe—Continued. Europe—Continued.
DWenmiarkeesssasss eee 51 48 Rassias anes es aseece se ae 217 256
MANGO. eee e cee 682 702 SerVvigee-Galssecqoocs cesses 10 2
Germany is2 o-oo e525 957 1, 233 Spaiwkisa2 ea sseton ssc as 75 62
Great Britain; jo-5.2. 35-2 1,012 1, 794 SWedeneeee er ccse i Soceees 91 127
Greece Sw .25 scent se seee 18 17 Switzerland ..-J52-22-2:-- 48 154
Teoland? se Vi aces selse 7 5 MunlkcO ve saclicstoee eect 20 2
Walycte ceo e eoteacemecicee 350 312 || Polynesia:
VAUXCMIPULEs see oee eee Hil et Paar SS Mijimslands se seem sccsee 1 1
Maltatse.icsscn-n cere eee 6 1 New Hebrides. .-.-2.-.-.- VS lSse nose se
Montenegro....-.-./..-.-- alesse eetas —--
Netherlands <5 22 -e 104 139 Total correspondents,
INOPWAYe it eeeecoe ee eee 62 61 July 1, 1911, to Jan. 1,
POrtugalss-a eee 36 14 DO 2eieamisteciete em eer | 5, 535 | 7,073
Roumanias Ach cee meee: 24 9

Respectfully submitted.
BSAV cee,
Assistant Secretary in charge
of Library and Huchanges.
Dr. Cuar.tes D. Watcort,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

Ocroser 7, 1912.
APPENDIX 4.
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK,

Sir: I have the honor to submit herewith a report of the opera-
tions of the National Zoological Park for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1912.

The general appropriation made by Congress for the improvement
and maintenance of the park during that year was $100,000. The
cost of maintenance was $86,132, being materially increased over
that of the previous year mainly because of the advance in prices
of forage and other food supplies, the expenditure for which
amounted to $21,175. A few small increases were made in the com-
pensation of employees, but nothing to correspond with the great
increase in the cost of living which has occurred during recent years.

ACCESSIONS.

Among these the most important were 2 elephant seals and 4 north-
ern fur seals from the United States Bureau of Fisheries, 8 white
pelicans from Lieut. Col. L. M. Brett, acting superintendent of the
Yellowstone National Park, and a pair of American tapirs, which,
with certain other animals, were received in exchange, as noted below.
The accessions included about 25 species not already represented in
the collection. Mammals and birds born and hatched numbered 108,
and included American tapir, yak, American bison, harnessed ante-
lope, Barasingha deer, liama, mona monkey, hairy armadillo, wild
turkey, and Florida cormorant.

i}

EXCHANGES.

The most important accession from this source was a shipment re-
ceived in November, 1911, from the Municipal Zoological Garden at
Buenos Aires, Argentine Republic, which comprised 23 animals and
included a pair each of Brazilian tapirs, Patagonian cavies, and
Chilean eagles, with other interesting mammals and birds. A sambar
deer was received from the New York Zoological Park, and a con-
siderable number of specimens from dealers.

71
ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

ANIMALS IN THE COLLECTION JUNE 30, 1912.

MAMMALS.

Grivet monkey (Cercopithecus sabeus) — 1 | African palm civet (Viverra civetta) —_
Green monkey (Cercopitherus  calli- Common genet (Genetta genetta) ~_--~

TACHUS): oe ee ee tone 1 Suda HOME (HeClES MLE) es et eee
Mona monkey (Cercopithecus mona) —~ 3 | Kilimanjaro lion (Felis leo sabakien-
Diana monkey (Cercopithecus diana) ~~ 2 SUS ee a I et RE eae
Sooty mangabey (Cercocebus fuligino- Piger "CHEUS WiGTts) pa eae

SUS) eee Sa Se en ee es 2 | Cougar (felis oregonensis hippolestes) —
Bonnet monkey (Macacus sinicus)—~~-~ L\) Jaguar (heus onea) eee
Macaque monkey (Macacus cynomol- Mexican jaguar (Felis onca goldmani) —

Gus) 22S Se Ae Sse ks 4 | Leopard (Felis pardus) 22 .--1-_==
Pig-tailed monkey (Macacus nemestri- Black leopard (Felis pardus)—-----_-~

MURS) = oa te ah ee 45): Serval UCHeis Serval) a= Su = ee ee
Rhesus monkey (Macacus rhesus) —~--- av |*Ocelot: (Felis pardatis)~—_ ===
Brown macaque (Macacus arctoides) ~~ 3 | Canada lynx (Lynx canadensis) —-----
Japanese monkey (Macacus fuscatus) — 3 | Bay lynx: (Lyne rufus) 2-2 ee
Formosan rock-macaque (Macacus cy- Spotted lynx (Lyne#x rufus texensis) ~~~

ChONIS) ee So. ae SES See ee 1 | Morida lynx (Lynx rufus floridanus) —
Chacma (Papio porcarius)———~—_-_---— 1 | Steller’s sea lion (Humetopias stelleri) —
Mandrill (Papio maimon)——~--~------~ 4 | California sea lion (Zalophus californi-
White-throated capuchin monkey (Ce- ANUS) SEE WTS Oe Pees se een eae

OUS DRY POLCUCUS)) = 2 a eae 1 | Northern fur seal (Callotaria alascana) —
Brown monkey (Cebus fatwellus) ~~~ 1 | Harbor seal (Phoca vitulina) ------~-_-
Marmoset (Hapale jacchus) —~~--~~~-~-~- 1 | Fox squirrel (Sciurus niger) ~------~--
Ruffed lemur (Lemur varius) —-~----- 2 | Western fox squirrel (Sciurus ludo-
Ring-tailed lemur (Lemur catta)—---~ 1 DECTONUE pete eae ae 0 al ee ate aE
Polar bear (Thalarctos maritimus) ——~ 3 | Gray squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis) ~~
European brown bear (Ursus arctos) —- 2 | Black squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis) —
Kadiak bear (Ursus middendorffi) ~~~ 1 | Albino squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis) —
Yakutat bear (Ursus dalli) ________~- te Panama ssquirrel ==> Se
Alaskan brown bear (Ursus gyas)—-~~- 3 | Prairie dog (Cyomys ludovicianus) —__
Hybrid bear (Ursus gyas-arctos) —~--~-~ 1 | Woodchuck (Arctomys monaa)-—~~-~~-
Kidder’s bear (Ursus kidderi) ~----~=-- 2 | Albino woodchuck (Arctomys monazx) —
Himalayan bear (Ursus thibetanus)---~ 1 | Black woodchuck (Arctomys mona) —~
Grizzly bear (Ursus horribilis) ._--__ 4 | Alpine marmot (Arctomys marmotta) —
Black bear (Ursus americanus) ——-~~- 9 | American beaver (Castor canadensis) —
Cinnamon bear (Ursus americanus) ——~ 3 | Coypu (Myocastor coypus)—---------
Sloth bear (Melursus ursinus)—~~~~~- 1 | Hutia-conga (Capromys pilorides) ~~~
Kinkajou (Cercoleptes caudivolvulus) — 1 | Indian porcupine (Hystriz leucura) —-~
Cacomistle (Bassariscus astuta) —~~~--~ 1 | Mexican agouti (Dasyprocta mezi-
Gray coatimundi (Nasua narica) ~~~ 3 Cand) eis SE Tee Be ieee
Raccoon (Procyon ltotor) ~_----__-_—- 17 | Azara’s agouti (Dasyprocta azar@) ~~~
American badger (T'azvidea americana) — 3 | Crested agouti (Dasyprocta cristata) _—
Common skunk (Mephitis mephitica). 1 | Hairy-rumped agouti (Dasyprocta
American marten (Mustelaamericana). 3 Prymnolopnag)..4-— 228-22 SS
Fisher (Mustela pennantii) _-__-_--~- 1 | Paca (Celogenys paca)——_--__-_____
Mink (Putorius vison) 2-2-2 5 | Guinea pig (Cavia cutleri) _-_------~-
Common ferret (Putorius putorius) ——— 1 | Patagonian ecavy (Dolichotis pata-
Black-footed ferret (Putorius nigri- Genicd) so S22) 3 eee ee eee

PCS) wa ete ee ee eee 2 | Domestic rabbit (Lepus cuniculus) —-~
North American otter (Lutra canaden- Cape hyrax (Procavia capensis) —~~---

G5) (POST s CE oh Se A ee ee ERS 5 | Indian elephant (Hlephas maximus) ~~
Eskimo dog (Canis fanviliaris) ~~ ---_~ 2 | Brazilian tapir (Tapirus americanus) —
Dingo (Gants dingo) == ===— Se 2 | Grevy’s zebra (Hquus grevyi) --------
Gray wolf (Canis occidentalis) ~_____ 4 | Zebra-donkey hybrid (Hquus grevyi-
Black wolf (Canis occidentalis) —~~~__ 1 GSINWS) BS ee ee ee ee
Coyote (Canis latrans)=—--_---—_=—= 4 | Grant’s zebra (ELquus burchelli granti)—
Woodhouse’s coyote (Canis frustror)—— 38 | Collared peceary (Dicotyles angu-
Crab-eating dog (Canis cancrivorus) ~~ tel latus)) 23 22S sent Se
Red fox (Vulpes pennsylvanicus) ——--- 4°| Wild -boarv (Sus ‘seroja) = 2 ee
Swift fox (Vulpes velox) ------------ 2 | Northern wart hog (Phacocherus afri-
Arctic fox (Vulpes lagopus) —-_--_-~~ 2 CONUS) See oe Se ee eee
Gray fox (Urocyon cinereo-argenteus) — 5 Hippopotamus (Hippopotamus am-
Striped hyena (Hyena striata) -----~ 1 phiviws) 22-252} eee

>

onwnwtd a OS ed bbe

he

bo
WNONNWWRRrFAN ORF RF OO®M

Nowe

to HO

- a er
Mad Dale

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Animals in the collection June 30, 1912—Continued.

MAMMALS—Continued.

Guanaco (Lama huenachus)—~-~~~~----
lamas. (Lama.glama) 2. ee ==
Alpaca: (Lomaupacos) =. 22oa- a=
Vicugna (Lama vicugna) ——_-_-_----++--
Bactrian camel (Camelus bactrianus )—
Muntjae (Cervulus muntjac)—----~---
Sambar deer (Cervus aristotelis) ~~~
Philippine deer (Cervus philippinus) —-
Hog deer (Cervus porcimis) ——-------
Barasingha deer (Cervus duvaucelii) ——
Axis deer (Cervus avis) .-~---~--+---
Japanese deer (Cervus sika)—~--------
Red deer (Cervus elaphus)—~---~------
American elk (Cervus canadensis) —~~~~
Fallow deer (Cervus dama)—---------
Reindeer (Rangifer tarandus) ~----~---
Virginia deer (Odocoileus virginianus) —
Mule deer (Odocoileus heinionus) ~~~
Columbian black-tailed deer (Odocot-

leus columbianus) ~_~--_--_----=—--
Cuban deer (Odocoileus sp.) ---------
Prong-horn antelope (Antilocapra

americana)
Coke’s hartebeest (Bubalis cokei)—----
Bontebok (Damaliscus pygargus) —~~-~-~-~
Blessbok (Damaliscus albifrons)—------
White-tailed gnu (Connochetes gnu) -_-
Defassa water buck (Cobus defassa) —~

European blackbird (Merula merula) ~~
Brown thrasher (Toxostoma rufwm) ——
Japanese robin (Liothrir luteus) —~~~~
White-cheeked bulbul (Pycnonotus leu-

cogenys )
Black bulbul (Pycnonotus pyge@us) ——~
Laughing thrush (Garrulax — leuco

EO DTS, Vpn hae ee
Bishop finch (Tanagra episcopus) ~~~
Orange-checked waxbill (2strelda mei-

poda)
Amaduvade finch (2strelda amandava) —
Cordon-bleu (Hstreida phenicotis) —~__~
Magpie finch (Spermestes fringilloides) —
Cut-throat finch (Amadina fasciata) __
Zebra finch (Amadina castanotis)_——_~
Black-headed finch (Munia airicapilia) —
Three-colored finch (Munia malacca) __
White-headed finch (Munia maja)--_-~
Nutmeg finch (Munia punctularia) —_~
Java sparrow (Munia oryzivora) ~~~
White Java sparrow (Munia cryzivora) —
Chestnut-breasted finch  (Donacola

CAsTaneothoraa). ——-—=-——~-~—_
Parson finch (Poéphila cincia) ------_--
Lady Gould’s finch (Poéphila gouldie) —
Bearded finch (Spermophila sp.) —------
Napoleon weaver (Pyromelana afra)-—-~
Madagascar weaver (Foudia madagas-

CUPCHStS aa ee ae ee
Red-billed weaver (Quelea quelea)_——_~
Whydah weaver (Vidua paradisea) ~~
Painted bunting (Passerina ciris) ~~~

3 | Indian antelope (Antilope cervicapra) -
8 | Nilgai (Boselaphus tragocamelus) —~-~~
2 } Congo harnessed antelope (Tragelaphus
2 OP CUIS) Woe ee ee eS eee
- Hast African eland (Oreas canna pat-
1 LOTSOTAQNUS) tee oe
2 | Chamois (Rupicapra tragus)---------
1 | Tahr (Hemitragus jemlaicus)—~~---~~~
6 | Common goat (Capra hircus) —~------~--
10: | Angora goat (Capra hircus) —~~~-~----
6 | Barbary sheep (Ovis tragelaphus) —~~~
10 | Barbados sheep (Ovis  aries-tragela-
6 MTVUG yy hes ah Boe ere,
7 | Anoa (Anoa depressicornis) ___------~
6 | East African buffalo (Buffelus neu-
1 MON) See Se 2 ee Ae SS
9 | Zebu. (Bibos: indicus) =22——--—~-2-.2.-%
1.) Yak. (Poephagus grunniens) 22-2
American bison (Bison americanus) ~~
1 | Uairy armadillo (Dasypus villosus) ~~~
1 | Wallaroo (Macropus robustus)—---~-~-
Bennett’s wallaby (Macropus ruficollis
1 OCNNCET1) ere a ee en el
2 {| Virginia opossum (Didelphys marsu-
ut DUG VES ie es A GL Wy et
1 | Common wombat (Phascolomys mitch-
1 Cll) pone So eee ee ee
1
BIRDS.
1 | Red-crested cardinal (Paroaria cucul-
al CUED) gee ett hee
12 | Common eardinal (Cardinalis cardi-
NECHULS)) asa hae te 1 eee 8
5 | Siskin (Spinus-spinus)=---.2{--__=—__
3 | European goldfinch (Carduelis elegans) —
Yellow hammer (Himberiza citrinella)_—
2 | Common canary (Serinus canarius) ~~~
4 | Linnet (Linota cannabina) -----------
Bullfinch (Pyrrhula europer) ———~-~~~-
6 | Hooded oriole (Jeterus cucullatus) ~~~
4 | Cowbird (Molothrus ater) —-----------
8 | Glossy starling (Lamprotornis cau-
10 LOT AGS) ese ee Se a
11 | European raven (Corvus corar)—----~
4] American raven (Corvus corar sinua-
11 TALS) ne ees
7 | Common crow (Corvus brachyrhyn-
9 COS i ee ae re ee es Ree
6 wreen jay (Xanthoura lWwruosa)——-~-~-
14 | White-throated jay (Garrulus leucotis) —
15 | Blue jay (Cyanocitta cristata) ---__-_-_-
American magpie (Pica pica  hud-
10 BO NAC ra eee
1 | Red-billed magpie (Urocissa  occipi-
ak LUGS) pee ee ee a
2 | Piping crow (Gymnorhina tibicen) ~~~
4 | Yellow tyrant (Pitangus derbianus) ~~
Giant kingfisher (Dacelo gigas)---~~-~
8 | Yellow-breasted toucan (Ramphastos
8 CORUIUEUS) aa awe ee ee
16 | Sulphur-crested cockatoo (Cacatua gal-
1 OFLC) nn er te ee ee

73

bo

wRaOaNhW ke

="

=
i)

— col
RPwoO OR UF WOOF
74

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

Animals in the collection June 30, 1912—Continued.

BIRDS—Continued.

White cockatoo (Cacatua alba) ——~~----
Leadbeater’s cockatoo (Cacatua lead-

OEQECT 2) SRR Ee © ageilaes Faas eh
Bare-eyed cockatoo(Cacatua gyimnopis) —

Roseate cockatoo (Cacatua roseica-
Pilla) SSeS ee Lees
Gang-gang cockatoo (Callocephalon
galeatum)\ 252 eee plana Ra UN sa 2

Yellow and blue macaw (Ara ararau-
nea)
Red and yellow and blue macaw (Ara
macao )
Red and blue macaw
tera)
Great green macaw (Ara militaris) ~~~
Kea (Nestor notabilis)—~-~-—- 22>
Mexican conure (Conurus holochlorus) —
Carolina paroquet (Conwropsis caro-
linensis)
Cuban parrot (Amazona leucocephala) —
Orange-winged amazon (Amazona ama-
zonica)
Porto Rican amazon
tata)
Yellow-shouldered amazon
ochroptera)
Yellow-fronted amazon (Amazona och-

(Ara chlorop-

(Amazona

POCEDILGUG) oes eee ee ee ee
Yellow-headed amazon (Amazona levail-
LON) SOE 2 OWS ns Se eee
Blue-fronted amazon (Amazona_ @s-
GHIA H) RS a A NA eB Sy Sg BS

Lesser vasa parrot (Coracopsis nigra) —
Banded parrakeet (Paleornis fasciata) —
Rosella parrakeet (Platycercus exim-

ius)
Love bird (Agapornis pullaria) —_-_--~
Green parrakeet (Loriculus sp.)-—-~----~
Shell parrakeet (Melopsittacus undu-

tatus)
Great horned owl (Bubo virginianus) —
Arctic horned owl (Bubo virginianus

subarcticus)
Screech owl (Otuws asio) ——-_--_-______—
3arred owl (Strin varia) ———-= == —
Sparrow hawk (falco sparverius)——~-~
Bald eagle (Haliwetus leucocephalus) —
Alaskan bald eagle (Haliwetus leuco-

COpnGUS alascanws))| 2-2-2 "=~ 2 sees
Golden eagle (Aquila chrysaétos) ~-~-_~
Short-tailed eagle (YVerathopius ecau-

datus)
Harpy eagle (Thrasaétus harpyia) —---
Chilian eagle (Geranoaétus melanoleu-

CUS) = a eee
Crowned hawk eagle (Spizaétus coro-

NOUS) See ee eee
Red-tailed hawk (Buteo borealis) —--__
Broad-winged hawk (Buteo platypte-

AUS) rs ea ee
Venezuelan hawkeo===oss22= == se
Caracara (Polyborus cheriway)—-----~
Lammergeyer (Gypaétus barbatus) ——~--~

6

Noe

too bo os bo me he

e2nNnnbhdoe

He

bt Ce

South American condor (Sarcorham-

DUS: OVYDNUS) — 2 eee ee
California condor (Gymmnogyps califor-

nNianus )
Griffon vulture (Gyps fulvus)—~------
Cinereous vulture (Vultur monachus) —
Egyptian vulture (Neophron percnop-

terus)
Turkey vulture (Cathartes aura) --~-~-~
Black vulture (Catharista urwbi) ~~~
King vulture (Gypagus papa) —~~-~---~
Ring dove (Columba palumbus)—--~-~
Snow pigeon (Columba leuconota) ~~~
Red-billed pigeon (Columba flaviros-

tris)
Mourning dove (Zenaidwra macroura) ~~
Peaceful dove (Geopelia tranquilla) ——~
Cape dove (Gna capensis) <2" 5-22 "=
Blood-breasted pigeon (Phloganes lu-

RONG A) eis ee URL AS INE eae eee
Victoria crowned pigeon (Goura vic-

Purplish guan (Penelope purpuras-

CONS) re ea eee ee eae
Crested curassow (Crax alector) ~~~
Mexican curassow (Cra globicera) ~--
Chapman’s curassow (Crax chapmani) —
Daubenton’s curassow (OCraz dauben-

CON) ee ee eee
Wild turkey (Meleagris gallopavo sil-

VESTTIS a oo a et ser
Peatfowl (Pavo cristata) ————_—— =
Jungle fowl (Gallus bankiva)—-------
Reeves’s pheasant (Phasianus recvesi) —
Golden pheasant (Thauwmalea picta) —~
Silver pheasant (HZuplocamus nycthem-

erus )
European quail (Coturniz communis) —
Hungarian partridge (Perdiz perdiz) —-
Bobwhite (Colinus virginanus) —~------
Mountain quail (Oreortyx picta)—-_-~
Scaled quail (Callipepla squamata) —--~
California quail (Lophortyz californica)
Massena quail (Cyrtonyx montezume@) —
Purple gallinule (Porphyrio cerulea) —~
Black-backed gallinule (Porphyrio mel-

ONOCUS wa ee ee eee ae ees
Martinique gallinule (Jonornis mar-

TUNICUS) ee eee
American coot (Fulica americana) ~~~
Flightless rail (Ocydromus australis) —
Common ecariama (Cariama cristata) ~~
Demoiselle crane (Anthropoides virgo) —
Crowned crane (Balearica pavonind) —-
Sandhill crane (Grus mewvicana) ~-----
Australian crane (Grus australasiana) —
European crane (Grus cinerea) —----—-
Sarus crane (Grus antigone)---------
Indian white crane (Grus lewcogeranus ) —
Thick-knee (@dicnemus grallarius) ——-
Ruff (Machetes pugnagv)._______-____—_
Black-crowned night heron (Nycticorar

nycticorar NeviUs)) 5652 eee

Rr OR He oe bo bo Ole Nh w

»

eNhe _

ary

=
RPOrRrR NW OOH YE

to

PRIN h RE WON ORR Rr RB
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Animals in the collection June 30, 1912—Continued.

BIRDS—Continued.

Little blue heron (Florida cerulea) —-- 1
Reddish egret (Dichromanassa rufes-

Lesser snow goose (Chen hyperboreus) —
Greater snow goose (Chen hyperboreus

GENS) 222% Stat SONS ee eee 3 PEUCLUUS See en ree ee os
Snowy egret (Hgretia candidissima) —- 4 | American white-fronted goose (Anser
Great white heron (Herodias egretta)— i albifrons -gambeu) 222222 tLe
Great blue heron (Ardea herodias) —--~- 8 | Chinese goose (Anser cygnoides)——~~~~
Great black-crowned heron (Ardea Red-headed duck (Mavrila americana) —

GOCOt) pas we ee ee a ee 1 | Wood duck (Aig sponsa)________----
Boat-bill (Cancroma cochlearia) ——----- 2 | Mandarin duck (Dendronessa galeri-
Bittern (Botawrus lentiginosus) ~----- 1 CUlLaTO) Zr Datei Yo abe ek
Black stork (Ciconia nigra) __-------- 1 |: Pintail> (Dafileacuta) n= 222. —-2-- ==
White stork (Ciconia ciconia) __-----~ 1 Shoveler duck (Spatula clypeata)—---~
Marabou stork (Leptoptilus dubius)_~ 1 | Black’duck (Anas rubripes) ——~--------
Wood ibis (Mycteria americana) ~~~ 2 | Mallard (Anas platyrhynchos)——~~-_--
Sacred ibis (Ibis wthiopica) _-_------- 4 | American white pelican (Pelecanus
Whitevibis (@uara. alba) 2—---_-_=_--=- 22 erythrorhynchos) 2. --...-_-----+--
Roseate spoonbill (Ajaja ajaja) ------ 1 | European white pelican (Pelecanus
European flamingo (Phenicopterus ONOCLOIGULS) 22s ee oe

ANMGUOTUNY ee = a eee ee 5 | Roseate pelican (Pelecanus roseus) ~~~
Crested screamer (Chauna cristata) —— 3 | Brown pelican (Pelecanus  occiden-
Trumpeter swan (Olor buccinator)—_- al COS) ie ow ae cet ie en a
Whistling swan (Olor columbianus) —~ 3 | Black-backed gull (Larus marinus) —~~
Mute swan (Cygnus gibbus)—--------- 2 | Herring gull (Larus argentatus)—---_-
Black swan (Chenopis atrata)_------- 2 | American herring gull (Larus argenta-
Muscovy duck (Cairina moschata)—-~~- 1 tus smithsonianus)—._-____--_----
White muscovy duck (Catrina mos- Laughing gull (Larus atricilla) ~~ ~~~

CROC) ae eh ee a ee OS es 2 | Florida cormorant (Phalacrocoraz auri-
Wandering °tree-duck (Dendrocygna CUS SHOTIGONUS i= Ba ee

ON CUGLE) fee Ee eee Ee 7 | Mexican cormorant (Phalacrocorar
Fulvous tree-duck (Dendrocygna  bdi- PAGUE "TLELICUNUS) a1 Some eer 8

COUGT) Le 2S Ss A RIS tet 2 Cees ee 2 | Water turkey (Anhinga anhinga)—--~-~
Egyptian goose (Chenaloper wegyptia- Somali ostrich (Struthio molybdo-

CALS) pe op Pe eee ee Digs 2 ee i! DRONE) ee eee oe ea
Brant (Branta bernicla giaucogastra) — 1 | Common cassowary (Casuarius gale-
Canada goose (Branta canadensis) ~~~ 8 (CHLALS)) eRe eee FS OE I es BNE es
Hutchin’s goose (Branta canadensis Common rhea (Rhea americana) —~—~~~

Rusehimsit) sss eS aK 3 | Emu (Dromeus nove hollandie)——~-~-~

REPTILES.
Alligator (Alligator mississippiensis)__ 18 | Black snake (Zamenis constrictor) ~~~
Painted turtle (Cirysemys picta) ~~~ 4 | Coach-whip snake (Zamenis flagellum) —
Diamond-back terrapin (Jalacoclemys Corn snake (Coluber guttatus)—-~--___-
POET ep Ve ee Oe RR I Se ee ae 1 | Common chicken snake (Colubar quad-

Three-toed box-tortoise (Cistudo triun-
ED) SS Se een ae 6
Painted box-tortoise (Cistudo ornata) — 4
Gopher turtle (Xerobates polyphemus) — 1
Dunean Island tortoise (Testudo ephip-
SUTTON = ne ae ee RES RSE ee
Albemarle Island tortoise (Testudo
EEUU ES es ee 1
Alligator lizard (Sceloporus undulatus) — 1
Horned lizard (Phrynosoma cornutum) — al
Gila monster (Heloderia suspectum) — 5
aL
2
1
1

bo

Glass snake (Ophisaurus ventralis) ~~~
Anaconda (Hunectes murinus)—-----~~
Common boa (Boa constrictor) _-_----~
Antillean boa (Boa diviniloqua) —~~-~-~-~

Cuban tree-boa (Hpicrates angulifer) ~~ 3
Spreading adder (Heterodon platyrhi-
CY ee a ye 1

WVOALC US) 34 ee
Gopher snake (Compsosoma_ corais
COMmMeTIA): 22 be Se ee BE eh
Pine snake (Pityophis melanoleucus) ~~
Bull snake (Pityophis sayi)--------~-
Texas chicken snake (Ophibolus calli-
aster) — 5+ 2t2s). 8 2 a Se
King snake (Ophibolus getulus)—~~-~-~~
Common garter snake (Hutenia sirta-

Texas water snake (Hutenia provima) —
Water moccasin (Anecistrodon  pisci-

(CONLUR) rene ree oe ee
Copperhead (Ancistrodon contortri«) —
Diamond rattlesnake (Crotalus ada-

MONTCUS) ato be eae SS ee ae EE
Banded rattlesnake (Crotalus horri-

75

ae
76 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

GIFTS.

The following persons presented animals to the park during the
year:

Miss Frances Gage Allison, New Bedford, Mass., a Diana monkey.

Mrs. J. B. Ames, Winchester, Va., an albino squirrel.

Mr. D. R. Anthony, jr., Washington, D. C., an alligator.

Mr. Oscar E. Baynard, Washington, D. C., a black vulture.

Mr. August Busck, Washington, D. C., a Panama squirrel.

Maj. H. W. Carpenter, U. S. M. C., ret., Berryville, Va., two Cuban parrots.

Mr. J. R. Eddy, Lamedeer, Mont., a western porcupine.

Dr. Chas. W. Ely, Frederick, Md., a barred owl.

Mr. W. H. Emery, jr., Washington, D. C., an alligator.

Mr. Victor J. Evans, Washington, D. C., two marmosettes.

Mr. Wallace Evans, Oak Park, Ill., a mink.

Mr. Gale, Washington, D. C., a horned lizard.

Mr. W. S. S. Groh, Ashburn, Va., a common raccoon.

Mr. John B. Henderson, jr., Washington, D. C., two common canaries.

Mr. Holmes, Washington, D. C., a common opossum.

Mrs. Kenrolde, Washington, D. C., a woodchuck.

Mr. W. P. Mattoon, Washington, D. C., a “ glass snake.”

Mr. F. A. Milligan, Washington, D. C., a common canary.

Mr. Russell H. Millward, New York City, a paca.

Mr. J. L. Narvell, Port Deposit, Md., two copperhead snakes.

Mr. O. Schneider, Washington, D. C., two alligators.

Messrs. D. A. Smith & L. E. Deaton, Walhalla, S. C., a bittern.

Mr. 8S. Stansberg, Baltimore, Md., an alligator.

Mr. F. B. Travis, Washington, D. C., a common rabbit.

Master Horace Wadsworth, Washington, D. C., a love bird.

Mrs. L. P. Wadsworth, Washington, D. C., two alligators.

Mr. George A. Wise, Washington, D. C., a woodchuck.

Mr. Thomas Zipp, Baltimore, Md., seven copperhead snakes.

United States Bureau of Fisheries, two elephant seals and four northern fur
seals.

The Janitor, Balfour Apt., Washington, D. C., a sparrow hawk.

Unknown donors, a barn owl and two alligators.

LOSSES OF ANIMALS.

The most important losses were a lion, wolverine, reindeer, and
two northern fur seals from enteritis; a pair of elephant seals
and a fur seal from pneumonia; four prong-horn antelopes from
malignant catarrh of nose and throat, and an Alaskan brown
bear and a springbok from tuberculosis. A female tiger was killed
because of abnormal development of its shoulder. Quail disease
was introduced through a shipment of birds from the West, but was
isolated so that very little loss was occasioned. Dead animals to the
number of 199 specimens were transferred to the National Museum.
Autopsies were made as formerly by the Pathological Division of
the Bureau of Animal Industry, Department of Agriculture.*

1 The causes of death were reported to be as follows: Enteritis, 24; gastritis, 4;
gastro-enteritis, 9; enteritis from round worms, 4; intestinal coccidiosis, 4; quail disease,
*SOLLY SOUONA “UdpaRey [VVIlLso[Oo0Z7 pedroran yy oy. Ulody PoAtaoy

“YVd TWOIDO1O0OZ IWNOILVN SHL NI YldV i NVOIMSWY

= EEE B fal Fa "Hoday §,Aiv}eI99G—'Z 161 “HOday weiuosy}wWs
"MYVd IWOIDO1IOOZ IWNOILVN SHL NI dOHS ANIHOVIN GNV 3SNOH YaTIOG ANOLS MAN

‘co ALV1d ‘podey s Arejainas—'"zZ16| ‘Hoday ueluosy}iWS
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. rhe

STATEMENT OF THE COLLECTION.

ACCESSIONS DURING THE YEAR,

LEYAESVEN TY REV A a 9 SL a a Ee a 50
Received: from Yellowstone) National! Parke? lot 2) C22 ie) eae 8
IRGEPiVieds ing Oxcla Neer yas a ae ee ES ee Bee ey ee 7)
TEST tee AS Ig lS SS A ae peg Co SR) se a ai
VER ire el ae SENG [Se A Se a SI I RI a a a ee 234
Botn, and hatched in) National Zoological Park_=~—. 2 2.=------—__~-__-... ._ 108
WERE pees. PRE U EMR CES te 55 OC Bre De oa Ee ae os Tae eo eae eee Ee 510
SUMMARY.
ATA IS OnmHam i wUlyel, POTS et Say oe ee ee eee 1, 414
NCCOSSIOM SM GUIEITI Sete my OO hae Sek SE ee es St 510
ER) feo meee are marta a mane Open ee Mee RC Seen, SSL SNS Os ee Eee ee 1, 924
Deduct loss (by exchange, death, and returning of animals)----________ ota
OTT OEE OOM ees chee Seis i ie a he at ee A, Dol
Class. Species. eee
(MINIS 2 See ORS ec eeapge ss aan tek njempick otek ds dees sa cetebs eee Vo ceweswtasacksions 150 591
SALSA De EE RE ENS OR lca Ma che QE wicks, stele ciel @ oiSiseidlnta’e vicSe Sls S Stine see Soo | 199 876
ERCP TOSS terre ieee ae eps ean ore Bs eR imate a ieycle Sep anctetgnisinic wee Mi ciaarejeis.c wtelers lore Sfare = | 32 84
SSE A A ga eee, er a PR Seis a PoE eae fe a | 381 1,551
VISITORS.

The number of visitors to the park during the year is estimated
at 542,738, being a daily average of 1,487. The largest number in
any one month was 95,485, in April, 1912, an average per day of 3,183.

During the year there visited the park 142 schools and classes, a
total of 4,140 pupils, being a monthly average of 345. Besides those
from the District of Columbia and neighboring States there were
classes from Vermont, Massachusetts, New York, and Tennessee.

IMPROVEMENTS.

The amount remaining from the appropriation after providing for
maintenance, was used mainly for improvements of a permanent
character. The most important of these, and one urgently needed,

4; congestion of lungs, 19; pneumonia, 18; tuberculosis, 13; pulmonary edema, 2;
purulent inflammation of lungs, 1; aspergillosis, 2; abscess, 5; malignant catarrh of
nose and throat, 4; catarrh of nostrils, 1; congestion of liver, 5; necrosis of liver, 2;
eancer of the liver, 1; osteomalacia, 2; necrosis of tail, 1; pericarditis, 1; peritonitis, 1
septicemia, 1; pyemic absorption, 1; hypertrophy of spleen, 1; impaction of intestine, 1;
tympanitie colic, 1; rupture of egg in oviduct, 1; stomach worms, 1; subcutaneous para-
sitis, 1; rabies, 1; congelation, 2; starvation (snakes), 6; no cause found, 6; accident
(fighting, killed by wild animals, etc.), 19.
78 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

was a fireproof building for the central heating plant. From this
plant the animal houses and the workshop are heated, and as long
as the boilers were housed in a flimsy, woden shed, part of which was
used as a woodworking shop, there was serious risk of a, disastrous
fire. The new building is 46 feet by 56 feet, with walls of stone and
concrete, and a roof of slate on concrete slabs, supported by steel
roof framing. Two additional boilers were purchased and installed
so that by using the boilers in alternation they may be cleaned and
repaired whenever necessary without. interrupting the operation of
the plant. The storage vault for coal was enlarged, and a large con-
crete storage tank built for supplying warmed water to the tanks for
the hippopotamus, tapirs, and alligators. The cost of the house,
boilers, and other improvements connected with them, was $5,850.

The series of yards on the west side of the antelope house was en-
larged during the year. Light steel bars replaced the wire of the
former fence, and wherever sufficient space was available, a double
fence of the same character was used instead of solid partitions.

Adjoining the indoor quarters of the hippopotamus and the tapirs
a yard 34 feet by 60 feet was constructed, in which was provided a
good-sized bathing pool 6 feet deep.

Outdoor cages were installed along the east side of the small
mammal house, completing the cage equipment of that building.

A number of inclosures for cattle, deer, and other animals were
rebuilt during the year, and a substantial new shelter constructed for
the zebus, vicugnas, and alpacas.

Three small inclosures for semiaquatic animals were built near the
otter and beaver yards, and a permanent walk constructed from that
point to connect with the main walk to the west entrance.

The machines in the workshops of the park have heretofore been
operated by steam power. As electric power can now be had, ar-
rangement is being made to equip for its use as rapidly as is prac-
ticable. Two motors were purchased near the close of the year, also
a circular saw with combination bench. Considerable economy in
labor will be effected by these changes. Work was also begun on a
small house for the storage and preparation of food.

The cost of these improvements was as follows:

Housentor central heating plants = 222 3 Mee ee eee ae ee ee $5, 850
Yardsion ‘wesit!side: of antelope house. 2). 412 Uti eee eee 1, 500
Yard. tor hippopotamus and tiapirss == Ss" t.0 eee 950
Completing outdoor cages at small mammal house___~---~~-----~~-~-~~~ 525
Inclosures and shelters’ for’cattle deer, ete 22222 ee ee eee oe 800
Small inclosures “and” walk In beiver villey =) 22S ee 450
EXquipment)tor | wOrkshGWs 24-5) =) a ee eee 613
Beginning’ construction: of food House L245 U2 t  eeee 565

PRN Sy] ch TURES. eta ade Ooh Had AMO) COT TCO a ey ED, oe eee IM 2S
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 79
IMPORTANT NEEDS.

New bridge.—The log bridge that crosses the creek on the main
driveway in the lower part of the park has for some time shown signs
of weakness. A careful examination, by the engineer of bridges of
the District of Columbia, showed that several of the logs were in an
advanced stage of decay and that the whole structure would soon be
unsafe. It was therefore recommended to Congress that an appro-
priation of $20,000 be made for a permanent structure. At the time
of writing it is known that such an appropriation was made. The
construction of the new bridge will therefore be part of the work
for the coming year.

Aviary.—tIn spite of all efforts the fine collection of birds in the
park is very far from adequately housed. The wooden building in
which the larger number are kept is too small, too low, insanitary,
and really unworthy of a national institution. It was built in the
cheapest manner to meet an emergency and although considerable
sums have been spent on it for repairs it is far from satisfactory. It
is desired to build a suitable aviary in the western part of the park
and to group about this the cages for the eagles, vultures, condors,
and owls now scattered somewhat irregularly about the grounds. It
is believed that a suitable structure can be built for about $80,000.

fHospital—tThe statistics given above show that the animals are
not exempt from diseases. Infective disorders are sometimes brought
in by animals that have been kept in insanitary conditions on ship-
board or in the collections of dealers. Even with the utmost care
pathological conditions are likely to arise due to changes of habit
due to captivity. Animals brought to the park from any place not
known to be sanitary and free from disease should be properly
quarantined. Sick animals should also be isolated, both on their
own account and to prevent the spread of disease. This has been
done imperfectly, in the only way possible, by keeping them in ex-
posed cages back of the stable and excluding the public. A small
building to serve as quarantine and hospital is urgently needed.

Public comfort house—There is at present no satisfactory pro-
vision for the comfort of visitors who come to spend some time in
viewing the collection. The park is located at a long distance from
any available restaurant, there is no suitable place where women or
children can rest, or be quiet if fatigued, or taken suddenly ill. This
offers an unpleasant contrast to the arrangements usually seen in
other zoological gardens. It is desired to construct a permanent
building in a central locality to serve as a rest house and refectory.

New paddocks.—The deer and other ruminant animals confined
near the western entrance to the park have worn the ground so much
by the constant attrition of their hoofs that their paddocks are almost
80 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

wholly bare of vegetation and the soil is washing away under the
influence of rains. These animals must soon be removed to a new
location.

Alterations of area~—Very soon after the inception of the park
endeavors were made to have its boundaries changed to conform to
the plan of the city. It must be remembered that this plan was not
developed when the park was laid out. Consequently there are
regions where the boundary does not reach existing streets and
narrow strips of ground are left which, if occupied, make the rear of
houses abut upon the park, presenting an unsightly appearance.
This has gone on until on the eastern side private houses have been
built that seem to be about to slide down a steep cliff into the park.
The value of the adjoining property has materially enhanced.

The western side is greatly in need of improvement. The ideal
plan would be to extend the park to Connecticut Avenue, which is a
fine, broad street, and make the principal entrance there, with gate-
ways befitting a national institution. If this be found to involve
too great an expenditure, the area should at least be made to reach
to some contiguous road, either now existing or to be hereafter
established.

Petaining wall_—The extension of a street a short distance from
the southern boundary of the park has made necessary an extensive
fill of earth across the ravine where Ontario Road reaches the park
boundary. This fill is encroaching more and more upon the park,
and after every heavy rain tons of earth are precipitated down this
ravine and into the creek. There seems to be no remedy for this
but the construction of a suitable retaining wall or walls forming a
series of terraces.

Riprapping banks of Rock Creek—The heavy volume of water
that rushes down the creek at every storm erodes the banks, under-
mines large trees, and in some places threatens the roadways. It is
desirable to avoid this by riprapping with stones of sufficient size to
withstand the action of the water. Such work can be effectually
concealed by planting twigs and small plants in the interstices.

Footbridge below lower ford—As the city is rapidly increasing to
the westward of the park, more and more people enter from Cathe-
dral Avenue. There is a well-made road from this entrance to the
ford through the creek, practicable during low water for carriages.
Foot passengers are, however, placed at a disadvantage, as in order
to reach the animal houses they are obliged to scramble along a pre-
cipitous pathway, used at present mainly by workmen, before they
can get to the properly improved roads. At a slight expense a foot-
bridge could be made below the lower ford which would enable vis-
itors to reach at once the main roads of the park.

Additions to the collection —Without attempting to exhibit those
animals that are valuable merely because of their variety, it would

Se ee
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 81

seem that a national collection should at least show those that are
common objects of interest, such as the giraffe, the dromedary, the
rhinoceros, the African elephant, the various mountain goats, includ-
ing the indigenous species and others. The high price of these ani-
mals has made their acquisition prohibitive in the past, but it is
hoped their purchase may be made possible in the future.

Respectfully submitted.

Frank Baker, Superintendent.
Dr. Cuartes D. Watcortt,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 5.

REPORT ON THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVA®ORY.

Sir: I have the honor to present the following report on the oper-
ations of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory for the year
ending June 30, 1912:

EQUIPMENT.

The equipment of the observatory is as follows:

(a) At Washington there is an inclosure of about 16,000 square
feet, containing five small frame buildings used for observing and
computing purposes, three movable frame shelters covering several
out-of-door pieces of apparatus, and also one small brick buiiding
containing a storage battery and electrical distribution apparatus.

(6) At Mount Wilson, California, upon a leased plat of ground
100 feet square in horizontal projection are located a one-story
cement observing structure, designed especially for solar-constant
measurements, and also a little frame cottage, 21 feet by 25 feet, for
observer’s quarters.

There were no important additions to the instrument equipment
of the observatory during the year.

In 1909 the Smithsonian Institution, at the expense of the Hodg-
kins fund, erected on the summit of Mount Whitney, California
(height 14,502 feet), a stone and steel house to shelter observers
who might apply to the Institution for the use of the house to pro-
mote investigations in any branch of science. While this structure
is not the actual property of the Astrophysical Observatory, it
affords an excellent opportunity for observations in connection with
those taken on Mount Wilson.

WORK OF THE YHAR.
1. ON THE VARIABILITY OF THE SUN.

Congress having provided funds, an expedition under the im-
mediate charge of the Director proceeded in July to Bassour, Algeria,
to make there a long series of solar-constant observations simultane-
ously with similar observations made by Assistant Aldrich on Mount
Wilson. The Algerian expedition included Mr. and Mrs. Abbot and
Prof. F. P. Brackett, of Pomona College, California. The apparatus
carried was the same used by Mr. Abbot on Mount Whitney in 1909

82

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 83

and 1910. Station was reached on July 31, 1911, but owing to a most
unfortunate miscarriage of a box of apparatus, observations could
not be commenced until August 26, and several more days were re-
quired to get the whole outfit working satisfactorily. The weather
of August was excellent at both Mount Wilson and Bassour, but in
the subsequent months the good days at one station frequently coin-
cided with bad ones at the other. Hence, although 44 days of solar-
constant observations were secured at Bassour up to November 17,
when the camp was broken up, and a still greater number were
secured at Mount Wilson, only 29 of these coincided.

In spite of the loss of August and the unfavorable weather of sub-
sequent months, the results thus far reduced strongly confirm the
supposed variability of the sun. For example, the first half of
September yielded the following results:

Solar-constant values.

Aug. 29.) Aug. 30.| Aug. 31.| Sept. 1.) Sept. 2.)Sept. 3.) Sept. 4.| Sept. 5.| Sept. 6./ Sept. 7.
Mount Wilson... --. 1.913 1890): | AS O82 Hicerre ses) acre oder: 1.894 1.872} 1.866 |- 1.935 1. 904
PSASSOUL se otis oe chains 1.976 1. 952 1.945 1.9380 1. 933 1. 966 1 tt) ail eas Sd ips ea 1.916
BW hate eye ate: - 063 - 062 00 i a ee 2 Ree 072 . 033

Sept. 8. | Sept. 9. | Sept. 10.) Sept. i1| Sept. 12.) Sept. 13.) Sept. 14, Sept. 15.) Sept. 16.

Mount Wilson...... 1.960 1.945 1.872 1.835 E8655 | sont eect 1.885 1.867 1.890
IBESSOUD Sa tty Sotetcs | Teeee aoe 2.015 LESG0s|Coesess se 1.905 HASO Hr [een eas ete t= a ec

BI Was trate ews th ED et ee 3 040432422252 Lael ad ame (0) 6: ee

From these results appear:

(A) The solar-constant results obtained at Bassour are on the
average 2 per cent higher than those obtained for the same days on
Mount Wilson. Referring to former reports, the solar-constant re-
sults obtained at Washington and at Mount Whitney were also con-
sistently higher than those obtained at Mount Wilson, and by about
the same amount as just given. Hence, we seem justified in consider-
ing that there is a condition tending to low results prevailing at
Mount Wilson. This may very probably be the increase of haziness
there at high sun, due to increased humidity. In view of the uniform
testimony of the three other stations, it seetns proper to conclude that
Mount Wilson solar constant values are generally too small.

(B) High solar constant values at Bassour correspond with high
solar constant values at Mount Wilson, and vice versa. This relation
is shown in both the accompanying diagrams. Figure 1 is a plot of
the successive solar-constant values at the two stations for the days
mentioned. Figure 2 shows the same values plotted in a manner to
84 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

better exhibit the comparison. The vertical scale (fig. 2) represents
Mount Wilson values and the horizontal scale Bassour values of the
solar constant for each day when satisfactory observations were se-
cured at both stations. If the values observed were without error,
it is obvious that for each day they would have been identical at the
two stations. Hence, if the solar radiation had values of 1.90, 1.95,
and 2 calories on three different days, they should have been repre-
sented by points at the lower left corner, the center, and the upper
right corner of our diagram, if observed at both stations without

=
co

beth ill
C SEPTEMBER
eae Se a re 8

(See

Fic. 1,—Suecessive solar constant values, Bassour and Mount Wilson.

a
¢

ETRE | HRY PRT I RR a

error. In general all values of the solar constant would fall on the
line A B of the figure if the measurements were without error. But
we have found the Mount Wilson values consistently lower by 2 per
cent. If we admit a constant systematic error of this magnitude,
but still deny all accidental error of measurement, then all observa-
tions should fall on the line C D of our diagram. They must all lie
at a single point of C D if the solar radiation is constant, but may
fall anywhere upon that line if the solar radiation is variable. In
practice it is of course never possible to avoid accidental errors of
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 85

measurement. Hence, we must expect that all values shall cluster
about a point on C D if the sun is constant, but shall cluster about
C D as an ais if the sun is variable. The latter condition is evi-
dently the fact. Assuming the mean point of C D as a center, the
average deviation from it is proportional to 8. Assuming the line
C D as an axis, the average deviation from it is proportional to 3.
Thus the observations are represented 8/3 times better by assuming
that the sun’s radiation is variable than by assuming it constant.

Bassour

2.00

72

ie)

”

=F

5

19o >

9

=
%
=
er
9
=~
o
2S
8S

I A (Y 19O CALORIES PEE 20°

Fic. 2.—Simultaneous solar constant determinations. Bassour and Mount Wilson.

The average deviation of the values from the hne C D is 0.021
calories. Hence we may conclude that simultaneous solar-constant
measurements at Bassour and at Mount Wilson, while differing by a
constant factor of 2 per cent, exhibit accidental errors of only 1.2 per
cent due to variability of the sky, errors of observing, and the like.
Dividing by the square root of 2, we find that the average accidental
error of a single solar-constant determination at one station is 0.9 per
cent. When one considers the multiplicity of the sources of error in
this complex investigation, and that the result just announced de-
pends on the uniformity of the sky during several hours, as well as

85360°—sm 1912——7
86 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

on the ordinary vicissitudes of all experimental work, the smallness
of this accidental error seems remarkable.

Expeditions of 1912——While the simultaneous observations made
in 1911 at Bassour and Mount Wilson seemed justly interpretable as
confirming the variability of the sun, yet it was felt that a result of
such uncommon interest ought to be put beyond the smallest war-
rantable doubt. Accordingly, in May, 1912, Mr. and Mrs. Abbot
again returned to Bassour, where they were joined on May 20 by Mr.
Anders Knutson Angstrém, as temporary assistant. Observations
were begun on June 2. Observations on Mount Wilson had already
been begun by Mr. Fowle in April. June yielded 17 days of meas-
urement at Bassour and 25 days on Mount Wilson. It is expected
that the two expeditions will continue observing until about Septem-
ber 10,1912. There can hardly be any question that this work, com-
bined with that of 1911, will thoroughly prove or disprove the exist-
ence of the suspected short-period variations of the sun.

2. ON THE DISSEMINATION OF STANDARDS OF PYRHELIOMETRY.

The Smithsonian Institution having undertaken to furnish silver
disk pyrheliometers at cost when useful solar researches seemed likely
to be promoted thereby, the assembling of the completed instruments,
their standardization, and their packing for shipment have been done
at the Astrophysical Observatory. During the past year about 10
such instruments have been prepared and sent out, mostly to foreign
governmental meteorological services. When returning from AI-
geria Mr. Abbot compared silver disk pyrheliometer A. P. O. No.
1X at Naples and Potsdam with similar instruments furnished by
the Institution. In neither case was there found any change of read-
ings of the instruments compared. It was hoped to make compari-
sons also at London and Paris, but the weather prevented.

3. ON THE ABSORPTION OF RADIATION BY ATMOSPHERIC WATER VAPOR.

Mr. Fowle has continued the research on the absorption of radia-

tion by water vapor, and has devised and published? a method for
determining spectroscopically the total quantity of water vapor in-
cluded between the observer and the sun. 'The method is based on
spectrobolometric observations made with the long absorption tube
mentioned in the last two reports, and is applicable to all bolometric
observations of the sun’s infra-red spectrum. It seems probably to
be accurate to within 1 or 2 per cent. Heretofore there has been no
method of estimating atmospheric water vapor excepting from ob-
servations of the humidity prevailing at the surface of the earth
or near kites, balloons, and mountains. From such psychrometric

1Astrophysical Journal, vol. 35, 1912, p. 149.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 87

observations made at different levels general formule for the aver-
age humidity of the atmosphere have been derived. Mr. Fowle finds,
however, that these formule, while representing average conditions,
are often widely astray on individual days. He is preparing further
data from Washington, Mount Wilson, Mount Whitney, and Bassour
spectrobolometric work, to promote a more complete study of atmos-
pheric humidity.

This investigation has yielded a valuable application for solar-
constant work, for Mr. Fowle has found a way to very greatly
shorten the work of correcting for water-vapor absorption in reduc-
ing the bolographic observations. This will diminish by about one-
fifth the labor of reducing the solar-constant work, and at the same
time will yield results of slightly greater accuracy than before.

Atmospheric water-vapor absorption work has been confined to
the upper infra-red spectrum bands this year. A vacuum bolometer
is in preparation, by means of which a considerable gain in sensi-
tiveness of the apparatus is hoped for. This will greatly promote
the value of the work at very great wave lengths, and accordingly
this part of the work has been allowed to await the ftroduction of
the vacuum bolometer.

PERSONNEL.

Prof. F. P. Brackett served as temporary bolometric assistant to
the Algerian expedition of 1911.

Mr. Anders Knutson Angstrém served as temporary bolometric
assistant to the Algerian expedition of 1912.

Miss F. E. Frisby was appointed temporary computer, February
13, 1912.

Minor Clerk M. Segal resigned March 1, 1912.

I’. R. Carrington was appointed messenger boy on March 25, 1912.

SUMMARY.

The year has been notable for expeditions to Algeria and Cali-
fornia to test the supposed variability of the sun by making simul-
taneously at these two widely separated stations spectrobolometric
determinations of the solar constant of radiation. The measure-
ments in Algeria agree with earlier ones at Washington and Mount
Whitney and indicate that Mount Wilson values are systematically
a little low. Apart from this systematic error the average acci-
dental differences between Algerian and Mount Wilson determina-
tions were only 1.2 per cent, indicating an average accidental error of
a single solar-constant determination at one station of only 0.9 per cent.
So far as yet reduced, high solar-constant values obtained in Algeria
coincide with high values at Mount Wilson and vice versa. A solar
88 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

variation of 4 per cent was indicated at both stations in the first
half of September, 1911. Many values remain to be computed, but
it can now hardly be doubted that the outcome will prove conclu-
sively the irregular short-period variability of the sun.

Numerous copies of the silver disk pyrheliometer have been stand-
ardized and sent out, mainly to foreign governmental meteorological
services.

Valuable results have been secured in the research on the trans-
mission of radiation through atmospheric water vapor. An accurate
method of estimating the total water-vapor contents of the atmos-
phere between the observer and the sun has been devised by Mr.
Fowle.

Respectfully submitted.

C. G. AxBgor,
Director, Astrophysical Observatory.
Dr. C. D. Waxcort, ;
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

APPENDIX 6.

REPORT ON THE LIBRARY.

Sir: I have the honor to present the following report on the work
of the Library of the Smithsonian Institution during the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1912:

As no general account of the hbrary has appeared in the publica-
tions of the Institution for the last 16 years, it seems desirable to
give a brief summary of its history in this place.

The formation of a library was included among the objects of the
Institution in the act of Congress approved August 6, 1846, by which
it was established. The character of this library was specified in the
program of organization presented to the Board of Regents by Sec-
retary Henry on December 8, 1847, and approved by them, in the
following terms:

To carry out the plan before described, a library will be required, first, of a
complete collection of the transactions and proceedings of all the learned socie-
ties in the world; second, of the more important current periodical publications
and other works necessary in preparing the periodical reports.

With reference to the collection of books other than those mentioned above,
catalogues of all the different libraries in the United States should be pro-
cured, in order that the valuable books first purchased may be such as are not
to be found in the United States.

Also catalogues of memoirs, and of books in foreign libraries, and other
materials should be collected for rendering the Institution a center of biblio-
graphical knowledge, whence the student may be directed to any work which he
may require.

Tn 1847 Prof. Charles C. Jewett was appointed librarian, and after
some little delay began collecting books in accordance with the plan
just cited. As a result of his activities the Smithsonian Library in
1852 comprised 32,000 volumes. <A portion of them was obtained by
purchase and others by the exchange of the publications of the
Institution for those of learned societies and similar organizations
in the United States and in Europe.

The expense of maintaining the library soon became a serious
drain on the limited resources of the Institution, and in 1864 the
. Board of Regents, on the recommendation of Secretary Henry, re-
quested Congress to authorize its deposit in the Library of Congress.
An act to this effect was passed in 1866, and, in accordance with its
provisions, the Smithsonian library was transferred the same year to
the new fireproof rooms in the Capitol which had been prepared at

89
90 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

that time for the better accommodation of the Library of Congress.
The Smithsonian Library then contained about 40,000 volumes. Its
transfer from the Smithsonian building in nowise checked its growth.
It increased in extent with every succeeding year, and in 1895 the
record entries had reached 314,500, including books, pamphlets, peri-
odicals and parts of periodicals, and maps, exclusive of certain small
special collections not incorporated in the “ Smithsonian deposit.”
The Institution at that time currently received more than 3,045 sepa-
rate publications of learned societies, periodicals, and magazines, of
which 1,565 related to pure science, 704 to applied science, and 776
to art, literature, trade, and a variety of other subjects. The small
special collections mentioned above, known as the secretary’s library,
the office library, the library of the Astrophysical Observatory, the
library of the National Zoological Park, the employees’ library, the
Exchange Service collection, and the law reference library aggre-
gated about 10,000 publications in 1896.

In 1897 the Smithsonian library was transferred with the Library
of Congress to the new building provided for the latter and placed
in the east stack and in a large room adjoining the same. It was
subsequently transferred to another room, which was specially
equipped with metal bookcases.

Tt is not possible to ascertain the exact number of books, pamphlets,
and other publications contained in the Smithsonian library at the
present time without making an actual enumeration of them, an
operation which would be attended by many difficulties. It may be
said, however, that at the close of the fiscal year 1912 the accession
entries had reached a total for the contents of the library of 508,788,
including books, pamphlets, periodicals and parts of periodicals, and
maps and charts, exclusive of the small special collections already
mentioned.

While the Institution has acquired by donation or otherwise many
rare and valuable books and collections of books relating to other
subjects than the sciences, the original program laid down by Secre-
tary Henry has been closely followed, and the Smithsonian library
deposited in the Library of Congress consists mainly of scientific
periodicals and the transactions and proceedings of learned societies.
With possibly one exception, it contains the most important collec-
tion of these classes of publications to be found anywhere in the
world. |

The increase in the activities of the National Museum which fol-
lowed the great influx of collections from the United States Fish
Commission and from the Centennial Exhibition of 1876 and the
erection of a separate Museum building made it imperative that
large numbers of books on natural history, the arts, museum admin-
istration, and other subjects should be permanently available for the
scientific and administrative staff, for use im identifying and classi-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 91

fying collections and as a source of information regarding museum
methods. This resulted in the establishment of the National Museum
Library, which had as its nucleus the collection presented by Secre-
tary Baird. By small annual expenditures for the purchase of books,
and by the exchange of the Museum publications, by donations, and
otherwise, this library has accumulated about 42,000 volumes, 70,000
unbound papers, and a number of maps, charts, and manuscripts.

A similar need in the Bureau of American Ethnology has led to the
formation of a library relating to ethnology and archeology, and es-
pecially to the North American Indians, which comprises about
21,000 volumes.

While the Library of Congress has the custody of the “ Smithso-
nian deposit,” the title of the library remains in the Institution. It
continues to have free use of its books, and also enjoys the use of
the books belonging to the Library of Congress. Under the pro-
visions of the act of Congress through which the Smithsonian Library
was transferred to the Library of Congress, the Institution may with-
draw the books upon reimbursement to the Treasury for the ex-
penses incurred in binding and caring for them.

As foreseen by Secretary Henry, this arrangement has both its
advantages and its disadvantages. The Institution is relieved from
the expense of maintaining a large library, and its books are safe-
guarded and housed with other similar collections, whereby the wants
of students and investigators in many lines of intellectual work are
provided for in one place.

On the other hand, the Institution has little within its own walls
to show for its early expenditures for books, or for the great system
of exchanges which has been carried on for more than half a cen-
tury. Furthermore, with the growth of the National Museum and
other scientific branches, under the direction of the Institution, the
desirability of having a large body of books immediately at hand
becomes every year more apparent. This is especially true as regards
books on natural sciences, and on the industrial and fine arts, a large
number of which are constantly needed by the staff of the National
Museum, as well as by the other scientific bureaus of the Government
and by representatives of the great body of scientific students and
investigators throughout the country who are attracted to Washing-
ton by the collections of the Museum.

Tn order that this need might be met as far as possible without im-
pairing the arrangement with the Library of Congress, the Museum
has, as already mentioned, assembled a considerable library of its own.
but it has been found desirable also to keep certain series belonging
to the Smithsonian deposit at the Institution for longer periods than
would be required for ordinary reference. The library of the Bureau
of American Ethnology is also housed in the Smithsonian Building,
92 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

and, in addition, the various small collections of books mentioned
above, except that of the Zoological Park, which is kept in the park
offices. .

To provide fireproof quarters for these and also for a portion of
the National Museum Library, it was proposed last year to erect
metal bookstacks in the main hall of the Smithsonian Building where
they could all be brought together and economically administered.
It is to be hoped that Congress will soon provide the means for
carrying this plan into effect.

As regards the service of the library, the most unsatisfactory fea-
ture at present is the delay in obtaining books, which frequently
occurs, owing to the fact that, in accordance with the established
routine, books are received from the Library of Congress only twice
a day. It is not always possible for those who use the library to cite
the exact date or serial number of volumes wanted for reference, and
hence, through the fault of no one, wrong books are sometimes re-
ceived. This causes additional delay and dissatisfaction.

As is well known, the plan has recently been canvassed by the Gov-
ernment of connecting the several departments and bureaus by an
underground pneumatie carrier large enough to take books of at least
the usual sizes. A connection of this kind between the buildings of
the Library of Congress, the Smithsonian Institution, and the Na-
tional Museum would be of great utility in the service of the hbrary
and would remove the difficulties now existing as regards the delivery
of books.

The greatest defect in the Smithsonian Library, and one which
has existed for many years, if not from the beginning, is the lack
of completeness of numerous sets of scientific serials. While this
condition is not at all peculiar to this library, it is a source of much
yexation to those who use the books. Secretary Langley, when in
charge of the library, devised a plan by which many gaps were filled,
but others still remain. The Institution has never possessed funds
sufficient to enable it to remedy the defects by purchase. Odd vol-
umes of a series are not often obtainable, and to purchase the whole,
or the greater part of a series, in order to obtain a particular volume,
is an expensive procedure. Although a great deal of thought has
been expended in attempts to devise a plan to overcome this difli-
culty, it has not led to any practical result so far as the Institution
is concerned. Recently, however, the Library of Congress, through
its greater resources, has succeeded in procuring many of the desired
volumes, and they have been placed in the gaps in the Smithsonian
series. This liberal action in the interest of scientific study seems
to constitute the only possible solution of the problem at present,
although it would naturally be a source of greater satisfaction to the
Institution if all the volumes in the various series bore the Smith-
sonian stamp. :
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 93

ACCESSIONS.

During the fiscal year covered by this report, 29,147 packages of
publications were received by mail and 2,759 packages through the
International Exchange Service, making a total of 31,906 packages.
Some of these packages contained as many as 20 separate parts of
periodicals or other serial publications. About 4,737 acknowledg-
ments were made on the regular forms in addition to the letters
which were written in acknowledgment of publications received in
response to the requests of the Institution for exchange.

The accessions for the Smithsonian deposit in the Library of Con-
egress recorded during the year numbered 3,540 volumes, 1,951 parts
of volumes, 15,826 pamphlets, and 366 charts, making a total of
21,683 publications. The accession numbers ran from 504,150 to
508,788, the parts of serial publications entered on the card catalogue
numbered 19,012, and 1,225 slips were made for completed volumes,
and 171 cards for new periodicals. These various publications com-
prised in all 52,548 separate pieces, including parts of periodicals,
pamphlets, and volumes. They were sufficient to fill 364 boxes,
which together contained approximately the equivalent of 14,560
volumes. In addition, 2,058 parts of serial publications secured by
the Institution in exchange, to complete sets, were also sent to the
Library of Congress.

The practice of sending foreign public documents presented to the
Institution to the Library of Congress without stamping or entering
was continued during the year, about 4,589 publications not included
in any of the foregoing statistics having been sent in that manner.

The office library received as accessions 347 volumes, 42 parts of
volumes, and 31 pamphlets; the Astrophysical Observatory, 114 vol-
umes, 388 parts of volumes, and 86 pamphlets; and the National
Zoological Park 10 volumes and 9 pamphlets, making a total of 677
publications.

EXCHANGES.

Efforts to establish new exchanges and to secure missing parts to
complete sets of publications in the Smithsonian Library involved
the writing of 3,000 letters, and resulted in the addition of about 171
new periodicals and the receipt of about 2,058 missing parts to
complete volumes in the Smithsonian sets.

New exchanges for the annual reports of the American Historical
Association from the allotment set aside by agreement for that pur-
pose resulted in the acquisition of a number of publications of
historical societies throughout the world. These were added to the
Smithsonian deposit in the Library of Congress.
94 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

GENERAL WORK ON THE LIBRARY.

As an aid in determining the actual deficiencies in various sets in
the Smithsonian deposit in the Library of Congress, a special search
was made through the Library of the National Museum for volumes
and parts of volumes belonging to the deposit, and it is expected that
before the Museum Library is moved into the new building prac-
tically all that have lodged there will have been found and sent to the
Library of Congress to be entered in the proper records. In add1-
tion, requests have been made upon institutions and societies to
secure lacking parts, with the result that many sets have been com-
pleted. Revised want lists of French and English publications,
prepared at the Library of Congress, were examined, and in many
cases the publications were supplied by the institutions and societies.

The author catalogue for the general series of publications received
was continued, and the results were all that could be desired. Cata-
logue cards made for the author-donor catalogue numbered 10,012.
Publications catalogued comprised 11,194 volumes, 171 new peri-
odicals, and 383 charts. Of the volumes, 1,712 were recatalogued.

During the year 3,731 parts of scientific periodicals and popular
magazines and 250 bound volumes were lent to readers, making a
total of 3,981.

CATALOGUE OF §MITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS.

An analytical card catalogue of the publications of the Institution
to include both author and subject entries has been begun. Some time
will yet be required to complete the task, as the cards under present
conditions can be prepared only during intervals in the regular work
at the cataloguing and accession ‘nee Much thought was given to
plans for the preparation of a catalogue of Smithsonian publications
to be printed in book form, which is greatly needed at the present
time, but on account of the limited funds available for printing it was
deemed by the secretary inadvisable to undertake the work this year.

READING AND REFERENCE ROOMS.

A rearrangement of the reading rooms, to make more space for
readers, is in progress. The accession books are to be placed in a case
erected on the west side of the room, the table in the middle of the
room is to be reduced in size, one cataloguer’s desk is to be transferred
to another room, and a table with bins for Saldateatitah is to be placed
under the north windows.

The publications in the reference room and those in the reading
room are now in charge of one person.

ART ROOM.

The contents of this room were rearranged during the year and pub-
lications not directly relating to the fine arts placed in the sectional

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 95

libraries of the Museum. <A number of books on art belonging to the
Marsh collection were placed at the main entrance to the Smithsonian
building in conjunction with the newly installed exhibition series
illustrating the various activities of the Institution.

EMPLOYEES’ LIBRARY.

The total number of loans from this collection made during the
year amounted to 1,800. Two hundred and twelve volumes of peri-
odicals were bound and made available for circulation. A number of
books, especially selected for the purpose, were sent to the National
Zoological Park, as in previous years. Only one book was pur-
chased and one received as a donation.

At the time at which this collection of books was established the
facilities for obtaining reading matter of general interest were quite
limited, but with the opening of the Washington Public Library they
were very greatly increased. In view of the large number of books
in all branches of literature which are now available for readers, it
does not appear necessary to expend money in extending this special
collection.

LIBRARIES OF THE GOVERNMENT BRANCHES.

United States National Museum.—In previous reports reference
has been made to the congested condition of the library of the Na-
tional Museum. This was partly relieved in 1911 by separating out
duplicates, for which work temporary assistants were employed for
several months. The library still remained somewhat in confusion,
however, owing to the necessity of moving various sections from
time to time to make room for new accessions. These accessions
arrived more rapidly than they could be disposed of, and aceumu-
lated in unassorted piles. The library also suffered greatly from
dust. ‘

Owing to the necessity of exercising rigid economy in the adminis-
tration of the Museum library, the present force is scarcely able to do
more than keep pace with the current routine work, which consists
of registering accessions, entering current numbers of periodicals
and transactions of scientific societies in the card-catalogue, classify-
ing new accessions in accordance with the Dewey decimal system,
attending to the wants of the readers and those entitled to borrow
books, keeping the records of loans, and conducting the necessary
correspondence. The very important task of placing books returned
by borrowers, or new accessions, on the shelves is performed by the
messenger, the classifier, or others, as they have opportunity. The
preparation of books for binding, which requires special care, is
attended to by the assistant librarian of the Museum in the intervals
of other business.
96 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

As the time for removing a portion of the lbrary to the new
Museum building was approaching, and there seemed no possibility
of diverting the regular force to the task of putting the book-
stacks in order, the assistant secretary in charge of the Museum, at
my suggestion, employed three temporary assistants who overhauled

the entire contents of the stacks, thoroughly dusted the shelves and -

books, gave particular attention to arranging the volumes of the
serials in exact order, and to restoring any books that were out of
place to their proper locations. At the same time the floors were
cleaned and painted to keep down dust, a few new lights were added
where needed, and various minor repairs were made to windows,
ventilators, ete.

As a result of these activities, the Museum library at the close
of the year, though much crowded, presented a clean and orderly

appearance throughout, and everything was in train for the trans-

fer of a portion of the books to the new building without confusion
or serious interruption of the regular work.

As will be learned from the report of the assistant secretary in
charge of the National Museum, a readjustment of exhibits, labora-
tories, offices, etc., follows from the completion of the new Museum
building, and it is the intention to rearrange the library to suit
these new conditions. It is proposed to assemble all books on
zoology, paleontology, geology, ethnology, and archeology in the
new building. Books on the arts and industries, technology, and
allied subjects will be assembled in the present brary quarters in
the old building. Books on botany and those whose contents relate
to a number of different subjects will probably also remain for some
time in the present quarters, though, as already mentioned, it is
hoped that Congress will soon make provision for these and certain
Smithsonian books, together with the library of the Bureau of Amer-
ican Ethnology, in the main hall of the Smithsonian building.

At the request of the assistant secretary of the Museum, the assist-
ant librarian of the Institution and myself prepared definite plans
for the installation of the portion of the library already mentioned
in the new Museum building, in well-adapted rooms on the ground
floor at the northeast corner. Contracts were made for the metal
stacks and other fittings, in accordance with these plans, and at
the close of the year they were nearly ready for delivery. It is
expected that when this equipment is finished the Museum will have
a compact, economical, commodious, well-lighted, and well-arranged
library, installed in accordance with the latest and most improved
methods.

Many important donations of books were received by this library
during the year, and the following officers and associates also pre-
sented publications: Dr. Charles D. Walcott, Dr. Theo. N. Gill,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 9

Dr. Edgar A. Mearns, Dr. William H. Dall, Mr. R. Ridgway, Dr.
C. W. Richmond, Mr. J. C. Crawford, Dr. 0. P. Hay; Dr. A. C.
Peale, Mr. W. R. Maxon, and Mr. F. D. Millet.

The Museum library, according to the best statistics available,
now contains about 42,000 volumes, 70,000 unbound papers, and 122
manuscripts, besides maps, charts, etc. The accessions during the
year consisted of 1,791 books, 3,608 pamphlets, and 276 parts of
volumes. During the same period 824 books, 960 complete volumes
of periodicals, and 3,622 pamphlets were catalogued.

Attention was given as in previous years to the preparation of
volumes for binding. In all 548 books were sent to the Government
bindery during the year. The binding is, however, still much in
arrears, and it is hoped that more money can be devoted to this
purpose in the future. Large numbers of pamphlets need card-
board covers to protect them from injury. Though the covers them-
selves are available, it is impossible with the present force to bring
them into use to the extent required.

During the year 24,815 books, periodicals, and pamphlets were
borrowed from the library, among them 5,515 obtained from the
Library of Congress and other libraries, and 4,560 were assigned
to the sectional libraries of the Museum. The majority of these sec-
tional libraries contain publications that are constantly needed by the
several curators and other officers in identifying and classifying
material, working up collections for publication, writing exhibition
labels, etc., and the books are kept together as long as required,
though any of them may be recalled temporarily to the general
library for the use of readers. Similar collections of books on
museum administration, museum methods, etc., are kept in the offices
of the assistant secretary in charge of the Museum, the administra-
tive assistant, the editor, and the superintendent. In all, 31 such
sectional libraries are now in existence, one relating to textiles having
been added during the year.

The records of the Museum library consist of accession book and
an author catalogue, a periodical record, and a lending record in
eard form. ‘The lending record includes books borrowed from the
Library of Congress and from other libraries for the use of the
Museum staff.

Correspondence relative to new exchanges and missing parts of
serial publications already in the Museum library was carried on as
in previous years. A number of new titles were added by this means.

Bureau of American Ethnology.—The report on this library will
be made by the ethnologist in charge and incorporated in his general
report on the operations of the bureau.

Astrophysical Observatory—Owing to lack of room in the office
of the observatory, a part of the books belonging to this library have
98 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

been kept in the Smithsonian building. During the year this latter
portion was transferred from one of the tower rooms where it was
difficult of access to the southwest gallery in the main hall of the
building. Additions, comprising 114 volumes, 88 parts of volumes,
and 86 pamphlets, were received during the year.

National Zoological Park—To this small reference library of
zoological publications relating to the work of the park 10 volumes
and 9 pamphlets were added during the year.

Summary of accessions—The following statement summarizes all
the accessions for the year, except the Bureau of American Eth-
nology, which is administered separately :

Smithsonian deposit in the Library of Congress__-%__________________- 21, 683

Smithsonian office, Astrophysical Observatory, National Zoological Park,
and: International: Pwehange Services)4. owas bs owt set se ete sre es 677
United: States National «Museu mse os Se es Se eee 5, 675
MO Gale a ET ORES a RTE SERGE Ls Ped BA a 8 Oe

Very respectfully,
iW. eur,
Assistant Secretary, in charge
of Library and Exchanges.
Dr. Cuartes D. Watcort,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

Ocroser 9, 1912.

——
APPENDIX 7.
REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE.

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the oper-
ations of the United States Bureau of the International Catalogue
of Scientific Literature for the year ending June 30, 1912:

The International Catalogue of Scientific Literature is an organi-
zation consisting of 32 regional bureaus representing the principal
countries of the world. Control over the entire enterprise is vested
in an international convention which meets at regular stated inter-
vals. The regional bureaus supply to a central bureau in London
classified index citations to the scientific literature published within
their several regions.

The duties of the central bureau consist in editing and publishing
the citations thus forwarded. The published catalogue comprises
17 annual volumes, one for each of the following-named subjects:
Mathematics, mechanics, physics, chemistry, astronomy, meteorology,
mineralogy, geology, geography, paleontology, general biology, bot-
any, zoology, anatomy, anthropology, physiology, and bacteriology.
Each country cooperating supports its own regional bureau, this sup-
port in most cases being in the form of direct governmental grants.
The maintenance of the central bureau, which bears the cost of editing
and publishing the catalogue, is dependent on the funds received
from the sale of the published volumes.

The Royal Society of London has stood financial sponsor for the
enterprise since the beginning of the undertaking in 1901, and it has
been through the generous financial assistance of this body that the
publication of the work has been possible.

The organization has now been at work over 10 years, and the
published results have met the exacting requirements of a classified
index to the vast scientific activities of the day; but the price of the
work to subscribers, although below the cost of publication, is so
large that its usefulness is greatly limited. For this reason a perma-
nent endowment is urgently needed in order that the central bureau
may have a fixed income independent of the sum derived from the
sale of the published volumes. It is believed that if such an endow-
ment could be obtained the cost of the catalogue could be reduced
possibly to one-half its present subscription price, which is $85 per
year. This reduction in price would undoubtedly largely increase

99
100 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

the sales, and as a larger edition of the work would cost compar-
atively little more than the present limited edition any increase in
the demand would approximately be clear profit to the central
bureau.

This result is not only desirable from a financial standpoint but
also because it is believed that this international index to scientific
literature, whose scope is now limited to pure science, is but a begin-
ning to what will eventually be an international index to not only
the pure but also to the applied sciences. This will mean that the
organization will ultimately furnish classified citations to the origi-
nal literature of many of the professions, arts, and trades whose
practices and methods are now much interwoven with, and dependent
on the advance of pure science.

The appropriation made by Congress for the maintenance of the
regional bureau for the United States during the year was $7,500,
this being the same sum that was appropriated for the previous year.
Five persons are regularly employed in this bureau in collecting, in-
dexing, and classifying the scientific literature published in the
United States.

The practice of having the more technical scientific papers referred
for analysis and classification to specialists in the subjects treated
has been found very satisfactory and is now carried on to the. ex-
clusion of the former practice of corresponding with the authors of
the papers, for it was found that to correspond and advise with
authors necessitated much clerical labor and often caused long delays
in obtaining the information sought.

During the year 27,201 cards were sent from this bureau to the
London central bureau as follows:

Literature of—

TQOS EES Se ee eS AEA aN Ree ae eee 4
NOOO ALE Ae U Ee BAD OG BAY Os AOA Ee SE 243
WOO S35 Vee ae ee es epee Es Bre a dhl seh a span opeepen aay 386
HOG a ss RT SN eee as 562
DON sas aa ee ae 1, 480
ES seamen dA) TS ee MAS lee AEN AR 1, 949
TOO GREE EABE So etl tne preter eee 3, 812
NOLO SLE oe Oy a Ee EN ES OES ELE 5, 281
AGI de ee, Fes SE ee Bod odes see ia ee aes 13, 974

Ota a ee ees a A ae ee ee , 200

Since the bureau was established in 1901, 262,335 cards have been
forwarded to the central bureau.

The following table shows the number of cards sent each year as
well as the number of cards representing the literature of each year
from 1901 to 1911, inclusive.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 101

Literature of.. 1905 | 1906 | 1907 | 1908 | 1909 | 1910 } 1911 eee

Year ending

June 30—
1902....... Or rgd Aid Dried EAC! ge a9 FC oe ee eS 6,990
1908.2 3: CaS 1 fe CR Uae S| SR aes Rm (Ae Pass Wa trcdtg Wetec 14, 480
1004.0 -ce EM aie OY UO Ce eae ead i Be ee (LEE Pe ae et is dO 2 21,213
1905.....0. TGIG 2 TRON TS | S- GAO stent Tod cas secfetecons 24,182
1906....... 301 | 622 | 3,538 Brown fese le eet chee [Lb 25,601
1907.......| 384| 512 GiOg2a1> BIS ee set | kal op Se ch See alcmawes 28, 629
1908.02. 408 | 523 BGO S07 13400 be cee es es [elec 28, 528
1909... 133 | 235 1, 656 | 47410'1'8, 509 18, 784 |1.co. Pe 34, 409
1910....... 72| 173 1,163 | 1,502 | 3,160 | 6,305 {11,994 |.......[....... 25,082
py gee 3| 26 129| 374] 423] 1,301 | 8,836 |14, 682 |....... 26, 020
TOTae. see (ee tee Ac 386 | 562 | 1,480 | 1,949 | 3,372 | 5,231 |13,974 | 27,201

Total. . .|19,104 |22, 624 |25, 307 26,986 |26, 643 |27,001 |28,339 /24, 202 |19, 913 113,974 | 262, 335

During this time the London central bureau had received from all
of the 32 bureaus cooperating in the production of the International
Catalogue a total of 2,059,036 cards, and as 262,335 of these repre-
sented the cards received from the United States, it will be seen that
about 13 per cent of the work has been done by the regional bureau
for the United States. All of the first eight annual issues of the
catalogue, consisting of 17 volumes each, have been published, together
with 15 volumes of the ninth annual issue and 4 volumes of the tenth
annual issue, making a total of 155 volumes of the regular catalogue.

Following an established policy to consolidate the catalogue when-
ever possible with similar enterprises, an agreement has been made
with the International Seismological Association whereby the yearly
International Catalogue volume on geology will be enlarged and the
section “ Internal dynamics,” containing an index to seismology, be
published not only as a regular part of the International Catalogue,
but also separately for the use of the International Seismological
Association.

It is a matter of regret that this bureau is not yet able to afford the
expense of issuing cards, in advance of the regular published vol-
‘umes, for the immediate use of persons desiring prompt notice of
papers appearing on any of the subjects embraced within the scope of
the work. Plans having this object in view have been under con-
sideration for some time, but as yet the necessary funds are not
available for the purpose. It is not intended to issue cards in place
of annual volumes, but to distribute classified index cards as soon as
a paper is published, for the immediate information of those interested
in the advance of science.

Very respectfully, yours,
Lronarp C. GUNNELL,
Assistant in Charge,
Dr. Cuartes D. Watcorr,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution,
&5360°—sm 1912——8
APPENDIX 8.

REPORT ON THE PUBLICATIONS.

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the pub-
lications of the Smithsonian Institution and its branches during the
fiscal year ending June 30, 1912:

The Institution has published one memoir of the “ Smithsonian
Contributions to Knowledge,” 35 papers of the “ Smithsonian Mis-
cellaneous Collections,” and one annual report. There were also
issued by the Bureau of Ethnology 1 annual report and 2 bulletins,
and by the United States National Museum 53 miscellaneous papers
of the Proceedings, 3 bulletins, and 5 parts of volumes pertaining to
the National Herbarium.

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO KNOWLEDGE.
QUARTO.

1948. Langley memoir on mechanical flight. Part I, 1887 to 1896, by Samuel
Pierpont Langley, edited by Charles M. Manly. Part II, 1897 to 1908, by
Charles M. Manly. Published August 18, 1911. Pages i to x, 820, with 101
plates. Vol. 27, No. 3.

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS.
OCTAVO.

In the series of Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections there were
published (1) 17 papers, cover and preliminary pages for volume
56; (2) 4 papers of volume 57; and (38) 14 papers of volume 59, as
follows:

2014. Cambrian geology and paleontology. II. No. 5: Middle Cambrian An-
nelids. By Charles D. Walcott. Published September 4, 1911. Pages 109 to
144" Plates 18 to 23. “Vol! 57, No. 5.

2015. Description of a new genus and species of hummingbird from Panama.
By E. W. Nelson. Published July 8, 1911. Pages 2. Vol. 56, No. 21.

2051. Cambrian geology. and paleontology. II. No. 6: Middle Cambrian
Branchiopoda, Malacostraca, Trilobita, and Merostomata. By Charles D.
Waleott. Published March 18, 1912. Pages 145 to 228, with unpaged index.
Plates 24 to 34. Vol. 57, No. 6.

2053. Two new subspecies of birds from Panama. By E. W. Nelson. Pub-
lished September 7, 1911. One page. Vol. 56, No. 22.

2054. On Psomiocarpa, a neglected genus of ferns. By Dr. H. Christ, Basel.
Published November 21, 1911. Pages 4. Plate 1. Vol. 56, No. 23.

2055. A remarkable new fern from Panama. By William R. Maxon. Pub-
lished November 22, 1911. Pages 5. Plates 8. Vol. 56, No. 24.

102
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 103

2056. Descriptions of seven new African grass-warblers of the genus Cisticola.
By Edgar A. Mearns. Published November 23, 1911. Pages 6. Vol. 56,
No. 25.

2058. A new kingfisher from Panama. By E. A. Goldman. Published Decem-
ber 1,1911. Pages 2. Vol. 56, No. 27.

2059. Description of a new species of sunbird, Helionympha raineyi, from
British East Africa. By Edgar A. Mearns. Published November 28, 1911.
One page. Vol. 56, No. 28.

2062. Four new mammals from the Canadian Rockies. By N. Hollister.
Published December 5, 1911. Pages 4. Vol. 56, No. 26.

2064. Three new club mosses from Panama. By William R. Maxon. Pub-

lished January 6, 1912. Pages 4. Plates 4. Vol. 56, No. 29.

2066. A new subspecies of Ptarmigan from the Aleutian Islands. By A. C.
Bent. Published January 6, 1912. Pages 2. Vol. 56, No. 30.

2067. Report on an investigation of the geological structure of the Alps. By
Bailey Willis. Published February 7, 1912. Pages 13. Vol. 56, No. 81.

2068. Notes on birds observed during a brief visit to the Aleutian Islands and
Bering Sea in 1911. By A. C. Bent. Published February 12, 1912. Pages
29. Vol: 56, No. 32.

2069. Three new plants from Alberta. By Paul C. Standley. Published Feb-
ruary 7, 1912. Pages 3. Vol. 56, No. 38.

2070. A new leather flower from Illinois. By Paul ©. Standley. Published
February 7, 1912. Pages 3. Plate 1. Vol. 56, No. 34.

2071. The natives of Kharga Oasis, Egypt. By AleS Hrdli¢ka. Published April
15, 1912. Pages 118. Plates 38. Vol. 59, No. 1.

2072. New mammals from Canada, Alaska, and Kamchatka. By N. Hollister.
Published February 7, 1912. Pages 8. Plates 3. Vol. 56, No. 365.

2073. Descriptions of twelve new species and subspecies of mammals from
Panama. By. BH. A. Goldman. Published February 19, 1912. Pages 11.
Vol. 56, No. 36.

2074. Descriptions of two new species of nun birds from Panama. By E. W.
Nelson. Published February 16, 1912. Pages 2. Vol. 56, No. 37.

- 2075. Cambrian geology and paleontology. II. No. 7: Cambro-Ordovician
boundary in British Columbia, with description of fossils. By Charles D.
Walcott. Published March 8, 1912. Pages 229 to 2387. Plate 35. Vol.
Dt, NOL.

2076. Cambrian geology and paleontology. II. No. 8: The Sardinian Cambrian
genus Olenopsis in America. Published March 8, 1912. Pages 289 to 249.
Plate’ 36: “Vol- 57; No.8:

2077. New species of fossil shells from Panama and Costa Rica. Collected by
D. F. MacDonald. By William Healey Dall. Published March 2, 1912.
Pages 10. Vol. 59, No. 2.

2078. Description of a new subspecies of monkey from British East Africa.
By N. Hollister. Published March 2, 1912. Pages 2. Vol. 59, No. 3.

2079. Descriptions of new genera and species of microlepidoptera from Panama,
By August Busck. Published March 9, 1912. Pages 10. Plate-1. Vol.
59, No. 4.

2080. New genus and species of hymenoptera of the family Braconide from
Panama. By H. L. Viereck. Published March 9, 1912. Pages 2. Vol.
59, No. 5.

2081. The genera of fossil whalebone whales allied to Balenoptera. By Fred-
erick W. True. Published April 3, 1912. Pages 8. Vol. 59, No. 6.
104 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

2082. Observations on the habits of the crustacean Emerita analoga. By Frank
Walter Weymouth and Charles Howard Richardson, jr. Published May 10,
1912. Pages 13. Plate 1. Vol. 59, No. 7.

2088. Hamilton lecture. Infection and recovery from infection. By Simon
Flexner, M D. Published May 29,1912. Pages 14. Plates 5. Vol. 59, No. 8.

2085. National Zoological Park. Notes on animals now, or recently, living in
the National Zoological Park. By A. B. Baker. Published May 17, 1912.
Pages 3. Plate 1. Vol. 59, No. 9.

2086. National Zoological Park. Iurther notes on the breeding of the American
black bear in captivity. By A. B. Baker. Published May 17, 1912. Pages 4.
Vol. 59, No. 10.

2088. Sawflies from Panama, with descriptions of new genera and species. By
S. A. Rohwer. Published May 18, 1912. Pages 6. Vol. 59, No. 12.

2090. New decapod crustaceans from Panama. By Mary J. Rathbun. Published
May 20, 1912. Pages 3. Vol. 59, No. 18.

2091. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Cover and preliminary pages for
volume 56. Pages i to vii.

2092. Report on landshells collected in Peru in 1911 by the Yale expedition
under Prof. Hiram Bingham, with descriptions of a new subgenus, a new
species, and new varieties. By William Healey Dall. Published June 8,
1912. Pages 12. Vol. 59, No. 14.

2093. Names of the large wolves of northern and western North America. By
Gerrit S. Miller, jr. Published June 8, 1912. Pages 5. Vol. 59, No. 15.

The following papers of the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collec-
tions were in press at the close of the year:

1987. Bibliography of the geology and mineralogy of tin. By Frank L. and
Eva Hess. Pages ito vy, 408. Vol. 58, No. 2.

2087. Expeditions organized or participated in by the Smithsonian Institution
in 1910 and 1911. Pages 51. Plate 1. Figs. 56. Vol. 59, No. 11.

2094. New rodents from British Hast Africa. By Eidmund Heller. Pages 20.
Vol. 59, No. 16.

2133. New diptera from Panama. By J. R. Malloch. Pages 8. Vol. 59, No. 17.

2134. New species of landshells from the Panama Canal Zone. By William H.
Dall. Pages 3. Plates 2. Vol. 59, No. 18.

SMITHSONIAN ANNUAL REPORTS.

The Annual Report of the Board of Regents for 1910 was published
in January, 1912.

2050. Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution,
showing operations, expenditures, and conditions of the Institution for the
year ending June 30, 1910. Octavo. Pages i to vii, 688. Plates 129 and 1
map. Containing publications 2001, 2002, and 2016-2049.

Small editions of the following papers, forming the general ap-
pendix of the Annual Report of the Board of Regents for 1910, were
issued in pamphlet form:

2016. Melville Weston Fuller, 1833-1910, by Charles D. Walcott. Pages 113-123,
with 1 plate.

2017. Ornamentation of rugs and carpets, by Alan 8S. Cole. Pages 125-144, with
6 plates.

lat
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 105

2018. Recent progress in aviation, by Octave Chanute. Pages 145-167, with
19 plates.

2019. Progress in reclamation of arid lands in the western United Stites, by
I. H. Newell. Pages 169-198, with 12 plates. :

2020. Electric power from the Mississippi River, by Chester M. Clark. Pages
199-210, with 8 plates.

2021. Safety provisions in the United States Steel Corporation, by David S.
Beyer. Pages 211-229, with 11 plates.

2022. The insolation of an ion, a precision measurement of its charge, and the
correction of Stokes’s Law, by R. A. Millikan. Pages 231-356.

2023. The telegraphy of photographs, wireless and by wire, by T. Thorne Baker.
Pages 357-274, with 2 plates.

2024. Modern ideas on the constitution of matter, by Jean Becquerel. Pages
275-290.

2025. Some modern developments in methods of testing explosives, by Charles E.
Munroe. Pages 291-3806, with 12 plates.

2026. Sir William Huggins, by W. W. Campbell. Pages 307-317, with 1 plate.

2027. The solar constant of radiation, by C. G. Abbot. Pages 319-328.

2028. Astronomical problems of the Southern Hemisphere, by Heber D. Curtis.
Pages 829-340. -

2029. The progressive disclosure of the entire atmosphere of the sun, by Dr. H.
Deslandres. Pages 341-356, with 4 plates.

2030. Recent progress in astrophysics in the United States, by J. Bosler. Pages
357-370, with 8 plates.

2051. The future habitability of the earth, by Thomas Chrowder Chamberlin.
Pages 371-3889.

2032. What is terra firma’? <A review of current research in isostasy, by Bailey
Willis. Pages 391-406, with 3 plates.

2033. Transpiration and the ascent of sap, by Henry H. Dixon. Pages 407-425.

2084. The sacred ear-flower of the Aztecs, by William Edwin Safford. Pages
427-431, with 1 plate.

2035. Forest preservation, by Henry S. Graves. Pages 483-445, with 7 plates.

2036. Alexander Agassiz, 1885-1910, by Alfred Goldsborough Mayer. Pages
447-472, with 1 plate.

2087. Recent work on the determination of sex, by Leonard Doncaster. Pages
473-AS5.

2088. The significance of the pulse rate in vertebrate animals, by Florence
Buchanan. Pages 487-505.

2039. The natural history of the solitary wasps of the genus Synagris, by EH.
toubaud. Pages 507-525, with 4 plates.

2040. A contribution to the ecology of the adult Hoatzin, by C. William Beebe.
Pages 527-5438, with 7 plates.

2041. Migration of the Pacific plover to and from the Hawaiian Islands, by
Henry W. Henshaw. Pages 545-559.

2042. The plumages of the ostrich, by Prof. J. E. Duerdev. Pages 561-571, with
8 plates.

2043. Manifested life of tissues outside of the organism, by Alexis Carrel and
Montrose T. Burrows. Pages 573-582.

2044. The origin of Druidism, by Julius Pokorny. Pages 583-597.

2045. Geographical and statistical view of the contemporary Slay peoples, by
Lubor Niederle. Pages 599-612, with colored map.

2046. The cave dwellings of the Old and New Worlds, by J. Walter Fewkes.
Pages 6138-634, with 11 plates.
106 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

2047. The origin of West African crossbows, by Henry Balfour. Pages 635-650,
with 1 plate.

2048. Sanitation on farms, by Allen W. Freeman. Pages 651-657.

2049. Epidemiology of tuberculosis, by Robert Koch. Pages 659-674.

The report of the executive committee and Proceedings of the
Board of Regents of the Institution, as well as the report of the
secretary, for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1911, both forming part
of the annual report of the Board of Regents to Congress, were pub-
lished in pamphlet form in December, 1911, as follows:

2061. Report of the executive committee and Proceedings of the Board of
Regents for the year ending June 30, 1911. Pages 19.

2065. Report of the secretary of the Smithsonian Institution for the year end-
ing June 30, 1911. Pages 91.

The general appendix to the Smithsonian Report for 1911 was in
type, but actual presswork could not be completed before the close
of the fiscal year. In the general appendix are the following papers:

The gyrostatic compass, by H. Marchand. 2

Radiotelegraphy, by G. Marconi.

Multiplex telephony and telegraphy by means of electric waves guided by wires,
by George O. Squier.

Recent experiments with invisible light, by R. W. Wood.

What electrochemistry is accomplishing, by Joseph W. Richards.

Ancient and modern views regarding the chemicad elements, by William
Ramsay.

The fundamental properties of the elements, by Theodore William Richards.

The production and identification of artificial precious stones, by Noel Heaton.

The sterilization of drinking water by ultra-violet radiations, by Jules Cour-
mont.

The legal time in various countries, by M. Philippot.

Some recent interesting developments in astronomy, by J. S. Plaskett.

The age of the earth, by J. Joly.

International air map and aeronautical marks, by Ch. Lallemand.

Geologie work of ants in tropical America, by J. C. Branner.

On the value of the fossil floras of the arctic regions as evidence of geological
climates, by A. G. Nathorst.

Recent advances in our knowledge of the production of light by living organ-
isms, by F. Alex. McDermott.

Organic evolution; Darwinian and de Vriesian, by N. C. Macnamara.

Magnalia naturie: or the greater problems of biology, by D’Arey Wentworth
Thompson.

A history of certain great horned owls, by Charles R. Keyes.

The passenger pigeon, by Pehr Kalm (1759), and John James Audubon (18381).

Note on the iridescent colors of birds and insects, by A. Mallock.

On the positions assumed by birds in flight, by Bentley Beetham.

The garden of serpents, Butantan, Brazil, by S. Pozzi.

Some useful native plants from New Mexico, by Paul C. Standley.

The tree ferns of North America, by William R. Maxon.

The value of ancient Mexican manuscripts in the study of the general develop-
ment of writing, by Alfred M. Tozzer.

te tates ee

ee
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 107

The discoverers of the art of iron manufacture, by W. Belck.

The Kabyles of north Africa, by A. Lissauer.

Chinese architecture and its relation to Chinese culture, by Ernst Boerschmann.,

The Lolos of Kientchang, western China, by A. F. Legendre.

The physiology of sleep, by R. Legendre.

Profitable and fruitless lines of endeavor in public health work, by Edwin O.
Jordan.

Factory sanitation and efficiency, by C.-E. A. Winslow.

The physiological influence of ozone, by Leonard Hill and Martin Flack.

Traveling at high speeds on the surface of the earth and above it, by H. S.
Hele-Shaw.

Robert Koch, 1848-1910, by C. J. M.

Sir Joseph Dalton Hooker, 1817-1911, by Lieut. Col. D. Prain.

SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS.

The following special publications were issued in octavo form, dur-

ing the year:

2018. Opinions rendered by the International Commission on Zoological Nomen-
clature. Opinions 80-87. Published July, 1911. Pages 69-88.

2060. Opinions rendered by the International Commission on Zoological Nomen-
clature. Opinions 88-51. Published February, 1912. Pages 89-117.

2052. Classified list of Smithsonian Publications available for distribution,
January, 1912. Published January, 1912. Pages vi, 29.

2084. Publications of the Smithsonian Institution issued between January 1,
and April 1, 1912. One page.

A single folder, containing map showing Smithsonian and National Museum
buildings, and information pertaining thereto.

There were no special publications in press at the close of the year.
PUBLICATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM.

The publications of the National Museum are: (a) The annual
report to Congress; (b) the proceedings of the United States Na-
tional Museum, and (c) the Bulletin of the United States National
Museum, which includes the contributions .from the United States
National Herbarium. The editorship of these publications is vested
in Dr. Marcus Benjamin.

The publications issued by the National Museum during the year
comprised the annual report for 1911; papers 1848, 1853, 1856 to
1879 of volume 41, Proceedings; papers 1880 to 1906 of volume 42,
Proceedings; three bulletins and five parts of Contributions from
the National Herbarium.

The bulletins were as follows:

No. 50, Part 5. Birds of North and Middle America, by Robert Ridgway.

No. 77. The early Paleozoic Bryozoa of the Baltic Provinces, by Ray S. Bassler.

No. 78. Catalogue of a selection of art objects from the Freer Collection ex-
hibited in the new building of the National Museum.
108 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

In the series of Contributions from the National Herbarium (oc-

tavo) there appeared:

Vol. 18, Part 11. The Allioniaceew of Mexico and Central America, by Paul
Standley.

Vol. 13, Part 12. New or noteworthy plants from Columbia and Central America,
by Henry Pittier.

Vol. 14, Part 3. The Grama grasses: Bouteloua and related genera, by David
Griffiths.

Vol. 16, Part 1. Miscellaneous papers, by William R. Maxon, J. N. Rose, Paul
Standley, and R. S. Williams.

Vol. 16, Part 2. Studies of Tropical American Ferns, by William R. Maxon.
There were also published in completed form volumes 39, 40, and 41

of Proceedings, and a new edition of Bulletin 39, Part N.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

The publications of the bureau are discussed elsewhere in the Sec-
retary’s report. The editorial work is in the charge of Mr. J. G.
Gurley.

One annual report and two bulletins were issued during the year,
as follows:

Twenty-seventh Annual Report, comprising the administrative report for the
year ending June 380, 1906, and a paper entitled “ The Omaha Tribe,” by Alice
C. Fletcher and Francis La Flesche. Published 1911. Royal octavo. Pages
1 to 672, with 65 plates and 182 figures.

Bulletin 47. A dictionary of the Biloxi and Ofo Languages, with thirty-one
Biloxi texts and numerous Biloxi phrases, by James Owen Dorsey and John
R. Swanton. Published 1912. Octavo. Pages i to v, 340.

Bulletin 49. List of publications of the Bureau of American Ethnology. Pub-
lished 1911. Octavo. Pages 1 to 34.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVA-
TORY.

There were no new publications issued by the Astrophysical Ob-
servatory during the year.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION.

The annual reports of the American Historical Association are
transmitted by the association to the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution, and are communicated to Congress under the provisions
of the act of incorporation of the association.

Volume 2 of the annual report for 1908, sent to the printer April
26, 1910, was published during the past fiscal year. On account of the
size of the work it was issued in two parts, pages 1 to 807, and 808 to
1617, and comprised Parts II and III of Texas Diplomatic Corre-
spondence, edited by the late Prof. George P. Garrison.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 109

There was also published the annual report for 1909, with the fol-
lowing contents:

1. Report of the proceedings of the twenty-fifth annual meeting of the Ameri-
can Historical Association, by Waldo G. Leland, secretary.
2. Twenty-fifth anniversary celebration: Proceedings of the Carnegie Hall
meeting.
3. Report of the proceedings of the sixth annual meeting of the Pacific coast
branch, by Jacob N. Bowman, secretary of the branch.
4. Western Asia in the reign of Sennacherib of Assyria (705-689), by Albert
T. Olmstead.
5. The teaching of mediwval archeology, by Camille Enlart.
§. Paradoxes of Gladstone’s popularity, by Edward Porritt.
7. Bismarck as historiographer, by Guy Stanton Ford.
8. Some aspects of postal extension into the West, by Julian P. Bretz.
9. Side lights on the Missouri compromise, by Frank Heywood Hodder.
10. Two studies in the history of the Pacific Northwest, by Edmond 8S. Meany:
1. The towns of the Pacific Northwest were not founded on the fur
trade. ‘
2. Morton Matthew McCarver, frontier city builder.
11. The place of the German element in American history, by Julius Goebel.
12. The Dutch element in American history, by H. T. Colenbrander.
18. The Dutch element in the United States, by Ruth Putnam.
14. Report of the conference on the contribution of the Romance nations to
the history of America, by William R. Shepherd.
15. Historical societies in Great Britain, by George W. Prothero.
16. The work of Dutch historical societies, by H. T. Colenbrander.
17. The historical societies of France, by Camille Enlart.
18. The work of historical societies in Spain, by Rafael Altamira.
19. Proceedings of the sixth annual conference of historical societies, by Waldo
G. Leland.
20. Tenth annual report of the public archives commission.
Appendix A. Proceedings of the first annual conference of archivists.
Appendix B. Report on the archives of the State of Illinois, by C. W.
Alvord and T. C. Pease.
Appendix C. Report on the archives of New Mexico, by J. H. Vaughan.
21. Writings on American history, 1909, by Grace G. Griffin.

The manuscript of volume 1 of the annual report for 1910 was sent
to the printer June 2, 1911.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF THE DAUGHTERS OF THE
AMERICAN REVOLUTION.
The manuscript of the Fourteenth Annual Report of the National
Society of the Daughters of the American Revolution, for the year

ending October 11, 1911, was communicated to Congress February
26, 1912.

THE SMITHSONIAN ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PRINTING AND PUB-
LICATION.

The editor has continued to serve as secretary of the Smithsonian
advisory committee on printing and publication. To this committee
110 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912,

have been referred the manuscripts proposed for publication by the
various branches of the Institution, as well as those offered for print-
ing in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. The committee
also considered forms of routine blanks and various matters per-
taining to printing and publication, including the qualities of paper
suitable for text and plates. Twenty-one meetings were held and
156 manuscripts were acted upon.

Respectfully submitted.

A. Howarp Crark, Hditor.
Dr. Cuarues D. Watcort,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF
REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR
ENDING JUNE 30, 1912.

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

Your executive committee respectfully submits the following re-
port in relation to the funds, receipts, and disbursements of the
Institution, and a statement of the appropriations by Congress for
the National Museum, the International Exchanges, the Bureau of
American Ethnology, the National Zoological Park, the Astrophysi-
cal Observatory, and the International Catalogue of Scientific Lit-
erature for the year ending June 30, 1912, together with balances of
previous appropriations.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.
Condition of the fund July 1, 1912.

The permanent fund of the Institution and the sources from which
it has been derived are as follows:

DEPOSITED IN THE TREASURY OF THE UNITED STATES.

Bequest of ‘Smithson: 1846-022 = ee ee $515, 169. 00
Residuary legacy‘of- Smithson; 1867. .-__-__ 2-2-2 --+se 2. 26, 210. 63
Deposit: from-savings:of income, 1867_.2----.---_ ++ =-- 22s 108, 620. 37
Bequest of James Hamilton, 1875__--______-_---_--___- $1, 000. 00
Accumulated interest on Hamilton fund, 1895__________ 1, 000. 00
wa 2, 000. 00
Beauest ‘of Simeon Habel 880. t= oes lie Sl 500. 00
Deposits from proceeds of sale of bonds, 1881_-_--------_-______- 51, 500. 00
Gitt or ThomashG. Hodgkins, ASO. = — a ae 200, 000. 00
Part of residuary legacy of Thomas G. Hodgkins, 1894--____-_____ 8, 000. 00
Deposit fromsavines: or income; 19032 3 -.- = Se 25, 000. OO
Residuary legacy of Thomas G. Hodgkins___-_-_--_-_-__- bs/eh ek eee ae 7, 918. 69
Total amount of fund in the United States Treasury.__---.. 944, 918. 69

OTHER RESOURCES.

Registered and guaranteed bonds of the West Shore Railroad Co.,
part of legacy of Thomas G. Hodgkins (par value) --------_---_ 42, 000. 00

Total ~ermanent fund = 2-528) 5 2 Both os _ zat = 986. 918. 69

Also four small pieces of real estate bequeathed by Robert Stanton Avery, of

Washington, D. C.
dil
112 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

That part of the fund deposited in the Treasury of the United
States bears interest at 6 per cent per annum, under the provisions of
the act of Congress of August 10, 1846, organizing the Institution,
and the act approved March 12, 1894. The rate of interest on the
West Shore Railroad bonds is 4 per cent per annum. The real estate
received from Robert Stanton Avery is exempt from taxation and
yields only a nominal revenue from rentals.

Statement of receipts and disbursements from July 1, 1911, to June 30, 1912.

RECEIPTS.
Cashion Gepost lily ele UO Med ae ee eee ee een ee $32, 425. 66
Interest on fund deposited in United States Treasury
duev July ays Sts cand) Jams VODs Bess eas a $56, 695. 12
Interest on West Shore R. R. bonds due July 1, 1911,
C2106 ll ez 0, 6) lene [2 1 ener CNN 6 UN Sree PSNR gel pe ed J eS 1, 686. 00
Repayments, rentals, publications, ete_________________ 27, 643.19

Contributions from various sources for specific purposes_ 21, 150. 00
——_—_——— 107, 168. 31

139, 593. 97

DISBURSEMENTS.
TES OUUCG bh alked elects ye Marslh aV6 hus 2) OYSW Usaha alge eau aoe AE ahs Valin SiN SN ne $5, 460. 36
UE TTC G LING: OA CU GS os a ae ee eee ae 999. 16
General expenses:
CSIC ei 2s fare ee a ae seek erect anal se amin Lanes Ween as eke $18, 159. 22
dU Ske) Bi OK 2g i ee alae op lshane sal, tia  sDy gee igh Sy Mimee te ae Lal 225.09
Stationery, 202 Wes soe ee ee Os Se ol ee oe ee 702. 85
Postage, telegraph, and telephone_________________ 675. 58
BI) 23 2 0 wpe I a ag th eh a Aaa tig cms Ds os ly 86. 55
Tf oten sen a) re WS ese oie ee ae de oa ee ee eee ere Le 1,.763:,52
Ganges nee Pe Tee aU Dees ee = ee aa 2, 322. 90
elvan deh Gye se ee ee ee 87. 25
——_————_ 24, 028. 62
ibrary 2. tS ee ee ye a ee 2, 045. 93
Publications and their distribution:
Miscellaneous: collections) 4. 24 es Se ae 4,014. 72
AVODOTUS 22a a eh ee ee as 284. 61
Special publications2.-5 =). = ee ae 497.11
Publication: supplies.) Sabie eke een te 423.13
WHlaBlesn2 = Bh Se ae ek ene 6, 681. 16
11, 900. 73
Explorations, researches: and ‘collections=2=— 2 ==" ses eee 19, 191. 37
Hodgkins specific fund, researches and publications________________ 5, 666. 76
International. Dxchanges)=5-2 25 woe ee ee eee 6, 121. 32
Gallery: of Arta .4 00's hee ee eS ee 252. 63
Advances: for field’ expenses, 'etes 222) it so ebay Dae eiEs ees see 30, 872. 00
106, 5338. 88
Balance, June 30, 1912, deposited with the Treasurer of the United
States in set taste et Pure cya syd id 9 eae) Pe De perekiee ey aire 38, 060. 09
139, 593. 97

i
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 113

By authority, your executive committee again employed Mr. Wil-
liam L. Yaeger, a public accountant of this city, to audit the receipts
and disbursements of the Smithsonian Institution during the period
covered by this report. The following certificate of examination
supports the foregoing statement, and is hereby approved:

WASHINGTON, D. C., August 5, 1912.
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE, BOARD OF REGENTS,

Smithsonian Institution.

Sirs: I have examined the accounts and vouchers of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution for the fiscal year ending June 380, 1912, and certify the following to bea
correct statement:

Motalerecei ptswtes = Ss = oe Se ee ge ee $107, 168. 31
aL Obl G1 SDUESCMMeN TS 22s2 2 SAS eee Se ee ee eee 106, 583. 88

Excess of receipts over disbursements___-__-_________ eRe! 634. 43
Amounteiromr ds why 25. LOU soe ee ee Se eee ca ates 82, 425. 66

Balancevonvhand June 30) 1912. 2s ee eee 8 aya 83, 069. 09
Balance shown by Treasury statement June 30, 1912____________- 36, 738. 54
Less outstanding checks___--_-__- PE EAA away Reever ste 3 AEE eet rope Pepe tks 3, 678. 45
Ss Trueubalance-gune: oO: LOW 28 We ee ee a ee 33, 060. 09

The vouchers representing payments from the Smithsonian income during the
year, each of which bears the approval of the secretary, or, in his absence, of
the acting secretary, and a certificate that the materials and services charged
were applied to the purposes of the Institution, have been examined in connec-
tion with the books of the Institution and agree with them.

(Signed ) WILLIAM L. YAEGER,
Public Accountant and Auditor.

All moneys received by the Smithsonian Institution from interest,
sales, refunding of moneys temporarily advanced, or otherwise, are
deposited with the Treasurer of the United States to the credit of the
Institution, and all payments are made by checks signed by the secre-
tary.

The expenditures made by the disbursing agent of the Institution
and audited by the Auditor for the State and Other Departments are
reported in detail to Congress and will be found in the printed
document.
114 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

Your committee also presents the following summary of appropria-
tions for the fiscal year 1912 intrusted by Congress to the care of the
Smithsonian Institution, balances of previous appropriations at the
beginning of the fiscal year, and amounts unexpended on June 30,
1912:

Available

Balance
after July 1
1911. ” [June 30, 1912.

Appropriations committed by Congress to the care of the Institution:

International Exchanges, 1910. $11.47 130.47
International Exchanges, 1911. a 2,323. 68 5.02
International Exchanges; 19125.) 024 nes 2 S35: Ue ede See ea pee 32, 000. 00 2,973.13
Amorican Ethnology id 910i eos ssn, oe oe aoe ee ee Say ee SEE 237.06 1229. 66
American; Ethnology OU ke su ote Bae ee eat ne akc e eee See ae 2, 644. 60 580. 64
AM onicanUB GOMOlO Ry ON eet sere oie etaiee ieee astern eee eee ieee 42, 000. 00 2, 576. 64
‘Astrophysical:O bservatory, 1910.22. eb tc eees sh Goeeete ecceenseoee eae 119. 42 1119.42
Astrophysical Observatory, 1911..... Ag a Reta alco erat Abeta Pe pee 1, 063. 22 213.83
Astrophysical: Observavory,, LOVZ ey Ase e ssa eta Saree ee aenee 18, 000. 00 3, 802.73
Intemational: Catalogue; TOLOs es oe. soos ee oe a cissieciaeice eae 1.71 Ya iA |
international'Catalopuend Oi vce cep ose caine eee es ee eee eee mee 437.12 4.50
International (Catalogue, 19122 5-2. 22.42. Slates cee ek - gehen gee 7, 500. 00 682. 04
HIG VALOrs Smithsonian wil in oa sc see es ei nee eae eee eee 946. 06 946. 06
National Museum—
Pumiturcand fixtures) 1910s soe ceeee ec siem semen onan Mee emenels 60. 20 160.20
Kurniture and fxtumess (OU eee oe. oon secs eteiace eee seenee ae eee 34, 166.16 287.04
Murmiture and fixtures 1912s ee ose oe. Bee aoe eee ee 175, 000. 00 37, 359. 32
Heahnrand lighting Ol Os tecnica eceaceceeossceaseenen cece eeeee 3, 592. 42 13, 592, 42
Heatinviand lighting OMCs. ek wes boiskees seem cetejts hace sees 9,658. 11 » 4,153.20
Freatingiand lighting, 1912s eee eee eee ie ee rp eae eo 50, 000. 00 4, 036. 43
Preservation or collections: 1910 32ers vec at sani eee eee een emeeer 8, 461. 84 16, 786. 11
‘Preservationof collections) 191d ee ee ue alae eee one 20, 623. 80 7,030. 94
‘Preservation of collections 1 9U2 ee sae ete ee eae soe eee crete 300, 000. 00 8, 932.37
TBS OOS HEU (sok feysicd Sica esata ety Tar ee rare eee a ete ae eee tees 19. 56 18,22
BOOKS MOT ean soseiemwls sole naten oe ootkeien Co meCe se Sel are eee enn eee 608. 05 42.76
BOOKS 1912s mo oo chk oe = see ra Noe Be a oa ee 2,000. 00 690. 30
POSTAL O GIN cae ee te a ape eran et atthe, ares ee Gaeta ar HOOLOO Nese see nemeeee
Building nepairs 191 Osis: oe ee cee er area coe ata 8 20. 30 1 20.30
Ruuding repairs, VOLS cen. sons 2 tes ere eeectone Sees Coe entree aes 3, 513. 87 108.19
Building repairs, 1912 HF este 2s ee. Sse eee aoe, Set cee 15, 000. 00 4, 751.95
BiullGine Nationa) Museum. eee seen sae ce cece eee eee oe 22, 902. 78 1,675.65
National’Zoological Park 1910.2 32 Soh). hens ee ee a eee 4.56 4.56
National’ ZoologicaliPanks O11 205.2 os koe Bh yea sae i ee Oe 6, 589. 53 10. 74
National ZoologicaliPark, 1912 ren uence ec fee eae ne mee ee nee 100, 006. 00 4,970.35

1 Carried to credit of surplus fund.

Statement of estimated income from the Smithsonian fund and from other
sources, accrued and prospective, available during the fiscal year ending
June 80, 1913.

Balance June. 30, 1Oiouety te eae tb cit Be ae te TO a Fee $33, 060. 09
Interest on fund deposited in United States Treasury,
Cue Ulyads sLOUe rama as ces G pe eee ee $56, 695. 00
Interest on West Shore R. R. bonds, due July 1, 1912,
£5 0 We so Pao He (C2 A es pnt ea, a cpl aa aE ae th ag 1, 680. 00
Exchange repayments, sale of publications, rentals, ete__ 8, 500. 00
Deposits: for’ specifie purposes ss 2e Bess eee ae 12, 000. 00
78, 875. 00
Total available for year ending June 30, 1913_____-_________ 111, 935. 09

Respectfully submitted.
A. O. Bacon,

ALEXANDER GRAHAM BELL,
JoHN DauwzeELL,

Executive Committee.
Wasuineton, D. C., November 25, 1912. *

_—
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITHSON-
JAN INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 380, 1912.

At a meeting of the Board of Regents, held December 14, 1909,
the following resolution was adopted:

Resolved, That hereafter the Board of Regents cf the Smithsonian Institu-
tion shall hold their annual meeting on the secend Thursday in December, and
a supplementary meeting on the second Thursday in February.

In acordance with this resolution the board met at 10 o’clock a. m.,
on December 14, 1911, and on February 8, 1912.

ANNUAL MEETING, DECEMBER 14, 1911.

Present: Hon. James 8. Sherman, Vice President of the United
States, chancellor, in the chair; Hon. Edward Douglass White, Chief
Justice of the United States; Senator 8. M. Cullom; Senator Henry
Cabot Lodge; Senator A. O. Bacon; Representative John Dalzell;
Representative James R. Mann; Mr. William M. Howard; Dr.
Andrew D. White; Dr. Alexander Graham Bell; Mr. Charles F.
Choate, Jr.; Mr. John B. Henderson, Jr.; and the secretary, Mr.
Charles D. Walcott.

APPOINTMENT OF REGENTS.

The secretary announced the appointment of the following Re-
gents: By the President of the Senate—Senator Henry Cabot Lodge,
for his senatorial term of six years; by the Speaker of the House—
Representatives John Dalzell, Scott Ferris, and Irvin 8. Pepper, to
serve until December 24, 1913; by joint resolution of Congress, ap-
proved by the President March 1, 1911—Mr. John B. Henderson, jr.,
for six years, to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of Hon.
John B. Henderson.

RESOLUTION RELATIVE TO INCOME AND EXPENDITURE.

Senator Bacon, chairman of the executive committee, presented the
following resolution, which was adopted:

Resolved, That the income of the Institution for the fiseal year ending June
30, 1913, be appropriated for the service of the Institution, to be expended by the
secretary, with the advice of the executive committee, with full discretion on
the part of the secretary as to items.

115
116 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

Senator Bacon submitted the report of the executive committee for
the fiscal year ending June 30, 1911, stating that the members of the
board had been supplied with copies in printed form.

On motion, the report was adopted.

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE PERMANENT COMMITTEE.

The secretary, on behalf of the permanent committee, presented the
following report to the board:

“ Cottrell patents—Announcement was made at the meeting of
February 9, 1911, of a proposed gift to the Institution, made through
Prof. F. G. Cottrell, of royalty-bearing patents. The board, after
discussion, adopted a resolution referring the matter of the suggested
donation to the permanent committee.

“Your committee has carefully considered the proposition and is
of the opinion, strengthened by the opinions of Judge Gray and Mr.
Charles F. Choate, jr., Regents of the Institution, that it is inad-
visable for the Institution to accept the direct ownership of such
patent rights, but that there might be no objection to receiving the
net profits of such a gift. The committee respectfully presents the
following draft of resolutions to the board for such action as it may
deem proper:

‘* Resolved, That the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution do not
deem it expedient for the Institution to become the direct owner of the proposed
gift of royalty-bearing patents;

“ Resolved further, That the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution
decide that the Institution may properly accept a declaration of trust from the
owners of the patents to hold and operate the same in the interest of the Insti-
tution, and to pay over to the said Institution the net profits therefrom.”

[The secretary described the nature of the patents, covering the
processes used in the precipitation of solid particles from gases and
smoke produced in smelters and cement plants. He stated that con-
siderable injury had been suffered by orchards and crops in the neigh-
borhood of the great cement plants in California, and that the com-
panies had been subject to damage suits. The precipitation process
had removed the particles of cement from the smoke and gases. Fur-
thermore, the smoke in some smelters had been found to contain lead
and other metals which could be removed by this process and thus
save what otherwise would be lost. It was desired to form a com-
pany of business men and experts who could manage the patents and
turn over the profits to the Institution. The work of the members
of this company would be largely altruistic. They would give their
attention to its affairs very much in the same manner as the Regents
conduct the affairs of the Institution. They would employ a capable
manager and assistants, who would look after the management and

:

‘
4
‘
r
i
"

PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. ELT

commercial development of the patents. In this connection it would
seem desirable that the company should have the support of the
Institution to the extent that the secretary and the permanent com-
mittee, if desired, could take up with the members of the company
the question of the appointment of the members of the board of di-
rectors, that they might be of such experience and ability that the
best results would be secured from the patents. Without such co-
operative support, it was doubtful whether the men best fitted to
guide the affairs of the company would be willing to serve on the
board of directors. This would not involve the management of the
business by the Smithsonian Institution, but would strengthen the
board of directors by the feeling that they had the opportunity of
consulting with the secretary.

The secretary remarked further that the offer had come through
Prof. F. G. Cottrell, professor of chemistry in the University of
California. He represented a company which had been organized
for the purpose of developing and carrying on the process. They
desired to present the patents to a learned institution as a foundation
for a research fund, and had decided to offer them to the Smithsonian
Institution. ]

After discussion, on motion, the resolutions were adopted.

[ At this point Prof. Cottrell was introduced to the board and made
a brief statement showing the development of the “ Precipitation
process ” work, and assuring the board that it was proposed to give
to the Institution the very fullest freedom in the use of the fund, he
and his associates not wishing to be represented in the least degree,
though desiring to assist in any manner possible.

Prof. Cottrell gave several instances of the establishment of plants
ranging from a cost of $2,000 for the first one to a cost of about
$125,000 for one soon to be erected, and explained that their work
covered the abating of smoke nuisances, as well as the economic object
of saving the solids in the gases and smoke. In this way it was esti-
mated that one company would save from $50,000 to $100,000 a year
by the precipitation of lead from the smoke passing out of its stacks,
and others had been saved damage suits by the precipitation of mat-
ter contained in the gases and smoke passing into the air, which had
formerly done great injury to crops. |

“The George W. Poore bequest—The committee also took under
consideration the matter of the George W. Poore bequest. The board
will remember that at the last meeting it was announced that Mr.
Poore had made the Institution the residual legatee of his estate,
which was estimated to be worth about $40,000, under the condition
that the income from this sum should be added to the principal until
a total of $250,000 should be reached. Mr. Choate has been very
kindly looking after the interests of the Institution and has recom-

85360°—sMm 1912—-9
118 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

mended that the executor be authorized to sell at the best prices ob-
tainable the several lots of real estate included in Mr. Poore’s hold-
ings. The executor submitted his appraisal of these properties, and
an independent appraisal has also been made by a real estate broker
of Lowell. These differed so widely that your committee has thought
it best to request Mr. Choate to direct that a third appraisal be made
by a totally disinterested party. Mr. Choate has consented to see
that this is done at the earliest possible moment.

“The Langley Monument fund—Mr. J. D. Lyon, of Pittsburgh,
Pa., has requested the Smithsonian Institution to receive contribu-
tions for the purpose of erecting a monument to the late Secretary
Langley, in commemoration of his work in the science of aviation.
Mr. Lyon inclosed his personal check for $200 as a beginning of the
fund. Your committee sees no objection to the Institution acting as
the custodian of such a fund, nor to the secretary taking the matter
up informally with the Aero Club of Washington.

“The Hodgkins and Avery funds.—These funds remain in the
same condition as last reported.”

[The secretary said that in connection with the Langley Monument
fund he desired to add to the report that he had heard from the sec-
retary of the Aero Club, who assured him that the matter in question
would be placed before the officers and members of the club. |

On motion, the report of the permanent committee was accepted.

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

The secretary presented his report of the operations of the Insti-
tution for the year ending June 30, 1911, stating that it was already
before the Regents in printed form.

In this connection the secretary pointed out to the Regents the pub-
lications that the Institution had issued during the year, which had
been arranged on top of a bookcase, and said that since the last annual
meeting in December, 1910, the Institution and its branches had
printed a total of 173 publications, aggregating about 9,000 pages of
text and 600 plates of illustrations. Included in this aggregate were
62 volumes and pamphlets (1,640 pages and 151 plates) published by
the Institution proper; 105 volumes and pamphlets (4,123 pages and
319 plates) by the National Museum; and 12 volumes and pamphlets
(8,300 pages and 120 plates) by the Bureau of American Ethnology.

During the year the Institution and its branches had distributed
about 200,000 copies of their various publications. The publications
issued by the Institution proper comprised the Langley Memoir on
Mechanical Flight, a new edition of the Smithsonian Physical Tables,
a series of papers descriptive of some of the results of the African
expedition and of the biological survey of the Panama Canal Zone,

PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 119

and of biological and geological work in the Canadian Rockies and
anthropological work in Peru. The annual report of the Institution
for 1910 was also issued as a complete volume and in small editions
of the 34 papers in the Appendix on the usual wide range of topics.
There were also in press a Bibliography of Tin, a report on the geo-
logical structure of the Alps, a physical study of the natives of the
Kharga Oasis in Egypt, and several zoological and botanical papers.

The secretary added that the Museum publications were devoted
almost entirely to biological topics, and that those of the Bureau of
American Ethnology related chiefly to researches on the history,
languages, and habits and customs of the American Indians.

On motion, the report was accepted.

: THE LANGLEY MEMORIAL TABLET.

Senator’ Lodge, chairman of the committee on the Langley memo-
rial tablet, presented the following report on behalf of the committee:

“Since the report of your committee at the last annual meeting of
the board, on December 8, 1910, Mr. John Flanagan has presented a
plaster cast of the model of the tablet for consideration.

“As the result of its deliberations your committee suggests the fol-
lowing resolution for such action as the board may see fit:

Resolved, That the tablet as presented to-day be accepted; and that in addi-
tion to the sum of $3800 for the model the sculptor be paid the sum of $1,000 for

casting in bronze and chasing and delivering the finished tablet ready for erec-
tion in the Institution building, the tablet to contain the following wording:

SAMUEL PIERPONT LANGLEY
1834-1906
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution
1887-1906
Discovered the relations of speed and angle of inclination to the lifting power
of surfaces moving in air

“T have brought to a close the portion of the work which seemed to be specially
mine, the demonstration of the practicability of mechanical flight ”
“The great universal nighway overhead is now soon to be opened ”’—LANGLEY,
1901.

On motion, the resolution was adopted.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS.
The secretary read the following letter from the Hon. John B.
Henderson, whose resignation as a Regent took effect March 1, 1911:

Marcu 30, 1911.
Dear Mr. Watcotr: I am much gratified and pleased by the receipt of the
beautifully engrossed resolutions and of your very kind and appreciative letter.
120 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

My association with the Institution was always delightful, and I need hardly
say that I shall continue as long as I live to take the keenest interest in the
progress and welfare of the Smithsonian. With many thanks, I am,
Very sincerely, yours,
J. B. HENDERSON.

The secretary also read the following extract from a letter in rela-
tion to the resolutions adopted by the board on the death of Chief
Justice Fuller: ;

These resolutions are a fitting and appropriate tribute to the late chancellor
of the Institution, a man of such amiable and attractive character that I can

not doubt his associates on the board sincerely mourned their loss in his death.
I beg to express my appreciation of the action of the board in this matter.

THE FULLER MEMORIAL.

The secretary stated that at the meeting of the board held Feb-
ruary 9, 1911, the following resolution was adopted:

Resolved, That the secretary be requested to prepare a suitable memorial of
the life and work of the late Chief Justice Melville Weston Fuller, chancellor
of the Smithsonian Institution from 1888 to 1910, which memorial is hereby
declared approved for inclusion in the next annual report of the Board of
Regents.

The secretary desired to report that in accordance with the require-
ments of the resolution he had prepared the memorial, which would
be found in the annual report just issued.

SUNDAY OPENING OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM.

The secretary said that at the meeting of February 10, 1910, the
board adopted a resolution directing the secretary to provide for the
opening on Sunday “ for a period not longer than five hours of such
portions of the National Museum as he may deem expedient.”

He desired to report that the requirements of the resolution had
been fulfilled and that the new building had been opened to the
public on Sunday afternoons, beginning October 8. Nearly two-
thirds of the exhibition space had been made accessible by introduc-
ing temporary installations where the permanent arrangements were
not completed. That this innovation, which had been urged for many
years, would greatly increase the usefulness and popularity of the
Museum was indicated by the large attendance, which reached a total
of 15,467 persons on the first day. This unusual number, largely in-
duced by curiosity, was not repeated, but since then the daily Sunday
average had been between 3,000 and 4,000, which is not greatly below
the weekly average previously. é

While the new building was structurally finished in June last,
certain minor details remained to be completed, such as the painting
of the interior of the rotunda and the final part of the work of grad-
ing and road building, all of which had been since completed.

—_——
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 727

The best efforts of the staff were being directed toward expediting
the installations in the exhibition halls. This work was advancing
as rapidly as possible, but the preparation and mounting of speci-
mens and the building of cases was requiring much more time than
had been expected.

The secretary then presented the following statements relating
to explorations conducted, or participated in, by the Institution:

BIOLOGICAL SURVEY OF THE PANAMA CANAL ZONE.

“The secretary’s report contained a statement of what had been
accomplished in connection with this survey up to the end of June.
It seemed desirable that the work should be continued for another
year, and the secretary requested the Secretaries of the Departments
of Agriculture and of Commerce and Labor to renew the details of
specialists for the purposes of the survey. The requests have already
received favorable consideration.

“Special attention will be given during the coming season to ver-
tebrate animals, insects, crustaceans, rotifers and other minute fresh-
water animals, and also to the microscopic plants known as diatoms.

THE PAUL J. RAINEY AFRICAN EXPEDITION.

“Announcement was made at the meeting of the board on Feb-
ruary 9, 1911, that Mr. Paul J. Rainey, of New York City, had in
contemplation an expedition in Africa for the purpose of collecting
natural history specimens which he desired to present to the Smith-
sonian Institution. At his request, Mr. Edmund Heller, one of the
naturalists who went with Col. Roosevelt on a previous expedition,
was designated to accompany Mr. Rainey. Mr. Heller left Wash-
ington on February 17 with the expectation of remaining abroad
about a year.

“'The regions in which these explorations have been made lie
mostly to the north of the territory covered by the Smithsonian
African expedition, though short trips were made to the southward,
nearly to the border of German East Africa. Several isolated moun-
tains not hitherto visited by naturalists were carefully explored and
the scientific results can not fail to be of great importance.

“At the date of his last report, November 3, 1911, Mr. Heller had
secured about 700 large mammals, 3,000 small mammals, and 250
birds. Thanks to Mr. Rainey, this magnificent collection has cost
the Government only its transportation from Africa and Mr. Heller’s
salary and outfit. In the field Mr. Heller has been supplied wholly
at Mr. Rainey’s expense with a corps of from 20 to 30 assistants and
with every facility that money could procure. This unique oppor-
tunity has been utilized to the fullest extent by Mr. Heller, and the
12 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

Institution may regard itself as fortunate in having the cooperation
of two such men.

“ Mr. Rainey has intimated that he will probably conduct an ex-
pedition in India next year, and that he will wish to have Mr. Heller
with him on that occasion also.

THE CHILDS FRICK EXPEDITION.

“ Mr. Childs Frick, of New York City, has organized and financed
an expedition into Abyssinia under his own leadership for the pur-
pose of hunting and making natural history collections. The party
includes Lieut. Col. Edgar A. Mearns, United States Army, retired,
who, as the board will remember, accompanied Col. Roosevelt on ae
Smithsonian African expedition. Col. Mearns will collect and pre-
pare birds which will be presented by Mr. Frick to the Smithsonian
Institution for the National Museum collections.

“Col. Mearns sailed in November, expecting to meet the other
members of the party in London, whence they were all to proceed to
Aden, from which point they will cross the Gulf of Aden and go
directly into the wilderness. It is expected that the expedition will
be in the field about seven months.

HAMILTON LECTURES.

“The board is aware that in 1874 Mr. James Hamilton made a
donation of $1,000 to the Institution, the income of which was to be
used for the purpose of providing lectures on scientific or useful
subjects. The interest on this fund was allowed to accumulate until
it had reached the sum of $1,000 which was added to the original
bequest. Under this augmented fund, lectures have been delivered
by Dr. Andrew D. White and Prof. George E. Hale. The third
lecture will be delivered by Dr. Simon Flexner, director of the Rocke-
feller Institute for Medical Research, on the evening of February 8,
1912, which, being the second Thursday in February, will be the date
of the board’s spring meeting.”

There being no further business, on motion the board adjourned.

REGULAR MEETING, FEBRUARY 8, 1912.

Present: Hon. James 8S. Sherman, Vice President of the United
States, chancellor, in the chair; Hon. Edward Douglass White, Chief
Justice of the United States; Senator A. O. Bacon; Representative
Scott Ferris; Representative Irvin S. Pepper; Hon. George Gray;
Dr. Alexander Graham Bell; and the secretary, Mr. Charles D.
Walcott.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 123

RESIGNATION OF DR. JAMES B. ANGELL.
The secretary read the following letter:

ANN ARBOR, Micu., January 15, 1912.
Dr. C. D. Watcortt,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

Dear Sir: Allow me to tender my resignation as a Regent of the Institution.
I do so reluctantly, as I have enjoyed my relations to the board and to yourself
and to your predecessor.

But I am sure it will be wiser to appoint in my place some one who can
attend the meetings more regularly than in all probability I shall be able to
do in the future.

With best wishes for the prosperity of the Institution, I am,

Yours, very truly,
JAMES B. ANGELL.

The secretary said that Dr. Angell had been first appointed as
Regent on January 19, 1887, and had therefore served in that capac-
ity for over 25 years, being in fact the dean of the “ citizen” class of
Regents.

Dr. Bell offered the following resolution, which was adopted:

Whereas the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution having learned
that Dr. James Burrill Angell has tendered his resignation as a Regent, after
an honorable service in that capacity for over 25 years:

Resolved, That the Regents desire here to record their sincere regret at the
withdrawal from their body of so distinguished a colleague, their appreciation
of the value of his services to the Institution, and their assurances that in thus
lessening the burdens of a long and useful career he has their earnest wishes
that the years remaining to him may be replete with health and happiness.

The chancellor announced the adoption of the resolution, with the
suggestion that, as customary, an engrossed copy be sent to Dr. Angell.

.

COTTRELL PATENTS.

The secretary briefly sketched the action of the board at the last
meeting in adopting resolutions declaring that while the Institution
could not accept the direct ownership of these patents, it would accept
the net profits resulting therefrom; and stated that he had seen Prof.
Cottrell several times since then in relation to the formation of the
Research Corporation suggested for the purpose of handling the
business in connection with the matter. He then read the draft of a
proposed charter for the corporation referred to, and said that the
names mentioned were those of business men of wide experience—
men of affairs—who would be capable of administering a trust of
the nature described.

He further said that a suggestion had been made that he, as an
individual, entirely apart from his capacity as secretary of the Insti-
tution, should be in the corporation, to which the Regents consented.
124 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.
WORK UNDER THE HARRIMAN TRUST FUND.

The secretary said that the board had been informed of the trust
fund established by Mrs. Edward H. Harriman, to be administered
under the direction of the Institution, for the purpose of an exhaust-
ive study of the life of North American mammals by Dr. C. Hart
Merriam, an eminent biologist, who is thus occupying a position
which has been previously designated as a Smithsonian research asso-
ciateship.

He stated that Dr. Merriam was engaged in the preparation of a
comprehensive work and was also continuing field studies on the dis-
tribution of animals and plants, particularly on the Pacific coast;
that during the past year he had gone over his voluminous notes and
manuscript accumulations of a lifetime and brought them together
in convenient form for ready reference.

He had been informed by Dr. Merriam that the first volume of his
work on the mammals of North America, treating of the bears, was
nearly ready for publication, and would probably go to press in a
short time; that the second volume, treating of the wolves, coyotes,
and foxes, was well in hand and would follow as early as practicable.
The secretary said that in this connection it was gratifying to note
that Dr. Merriam was receiving the cordial support of naturalists
and museums throughout the United States and Canada, so that prac-
tically all the museum material known to exist in American collec-
tions had been placed at his disposal.

It was further remarked that Dr. Merriam was also conducting cer-
tain ethnological investigations among the little known and rapidly
disappearing Indian tribes of California and Nevada; that from
these he had already collected a large fund of original material, relat-
ing chiefly to distribution, languages, and mythology, and had, in ad-
vanced preparation, a book of creation stories and other tales, ar-
ranged on the plan adopted in his volume on the myths of the Mewan
Tribes of California, already published.

REPORT ON EXPEDITIONS.

The secretary then made the following statement regarding expe-
ditions and other matters of general interest:

“The Smithsonian African expedition under Col. Roosevelt un-
doubtedly created a wide interest among the friends of the Institu-
tion, and opportunities have occurred to benefit by similar expedi-
tions undertaken by private initiative.”

“ Biological survey of the Panama Canal Zone.—Mention has been
made to the board and in the secretary’s reports of the biological sur-
vey of the Canal Zone. The work has been under way about a year
and is not expected to be concluded until about the middle of the com-
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 125

ing summer. Data of much importance have been secured, and the
results of the expedition will be certain to justify its organization.
Many courtesies have been received from the Departments of Agri-
culture, War, and Commerce and Labor in the assignment of special-
ists for the work, and from the Panama Steamship & Railway Co. in
providing for their transportation, and due acknowledgment has
been made by the Institution.

“The Paul J. Rainey expedition.—The board was informed at the
meeting on February 9, 1911, of the intention of Mr. Rainey to make
an expedition into British East Africa for the collection of birds and
mammals, and of his invitation to the Institution to send a naturalist
with him, who would prepare these collections which would be pre- -
sented to the Institution. Mr. Edmund Heller, who accompanied
the Smithsonian African expedition, was designated for this duty,
and left Washington on February 17 last. A brief report of the
work was made to the board at the December meeting. The expedition
is now completed, with results most satisfactory to Mr. Heller, who
is at present in London studying types of mammals. He will shortly
return to Washington to put the collection in order, and a report on
the expedition will be made later.

“The Childs Frick expedition—No information has been received
from this expedition later than that presented to the board at the
December meeting.

“ Borneo expedition—During the past 10 or 12 years Dr. W. L.
Abbott, of Philadelphia, has been exploring the Malay Archipelago
and has given all of his collections of vertebrates and ethnological
material to the Institution for the United States National Museum.
These contributions, so far as vertebrates are concerned, are undoubt-
erly the most important ever received by the Museum from any one
person. Iliness has recently put an end to Dr. Abbott’s personal
work, but his interest in the Institution does not seem to have abated.
He has recently offered to pay the salary and expenses of a suitable
man to continue the exploration of eastern Borneo, with the inten-
tion of further adding to his generous gifts to the Institution. Upon
acceptance of the offer he engaged the services of Mr. Harry C.
Raven, of New York, and placed at the disposal of the Institution
the sum of $3,000 for the purpose of beginning the work. A very
recent letter from Dr. Abbott, who is now in England, contains the
information that he will transmit to the Institution a further sum of
$2,000 in order to meet a total expenditure of $5,000 if necessary in
the conduct of the expedition. The outfitting for the trip is now
under way.

“ Scberian expedition.—Dr. Theodore Lyman, of Cambridge, Mass.,
has recently invited the cooperation of the Institution in an expedi-
tion to the Altai Mountains, Siberia, during the coming summer.
126 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

He offers to pay all expenses, except salary, of a representative of the
Tnstitution, who will make natural-history collections, the mammals
to be deposited in the National Museum. Dr. Lyman is in corre-
spondence with the American embassy at St. Petersburg as to the
probable safety of such a journey, and will start at an early date if
indications are favorable. It is expected that Mr. Ned Hollister, a
Museum naturalist, will be designated to accompany Dr. Lyman.

_ “Smithsonian Algerian expedition —FKor several years, as has been
stated in the secretary’s reports, the Astrophysical Observatory of the
Institution has been engaged in a study of the solar constant of
radiation. The work has been conducted under the immediate super-
vision of Mr. Charles G. Abbot, director of the Observatory, whose
studies at Washington, D. C., and Mount Wilson and Mount Whit-
ney, Cal., indicated that the sun was probably a variable star, its
radiations fluctuating from 2 per cent to 5 per cent during irregular
periods of from 5 to 10 days’ duration. This lack of constancy was
so important that it seemed necessary to test it further by means of
simultaneous observations held at Mount Wilson and some other high-
altitude station remote from that point where an equally cloudless
atmosphere existed.

“Mr. Akbot selected Algeria for these additional observations, and
in July last established a station at Bassour, where until November
he carried on the work with the assistance of Prof. Frank P. Brackett,
of Pomona College, California. Similar observations were made at
the same time by Mr. L. B. Aldrich at the station on Mount Wilson,
which is separated from Bassour by a distance equal to about one-
third of the earth’s circumference.

“Mr. Abbot, though hampered by some unexpectedly cloudy
weather, made successful observations on about thirty days, and while
much computing and comparing remains to be done before the final
results can be stated, a strong hope is entertained that they will go
a long ways toward definitely solving the question as to the varia-
bility of the sun.

“The practical bearing of this work is important. Weather fore-
casting is not as yet an exact science, being in fact, except in the
matter of pronounced storms and hot and cold waves, but little more
than refined guesswork. If radiation proves to be a strongly con-
trolling factor, forecasting would be much simplified.

NATIONAL MUSEUM.

“Freer collection—Preparations are now in progress looking to
the temporary exhibition, beginning in April, 1912, of a selection of
objects from the Charles L. Freer collection of American and oriental
art. One of the large halls in the new Museum building will be
used for the purpose, and during a period of about two months the
bo

PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 127
public will be given the opportunity of judging of the importance
and varied character of this notable gift to the Nation.

MARKET SHEDS.

“A bill has been introduced in the House of Representatives at
this session (H. R. 19127) which provides for the erection of steel
shelter sheds for market purposes in the vacant squares, known as
Haymarket Square, directly opposite the north front of the new
building for the Museum. While these sheds might tend to make
the square more tidy and presentable than it is now, the placing of
such structures there would point to an intended long occupancy for
market purposes, which is much to be regretted. A sketch plan of
the square was shown.

INDIAN MEMORIAL BUILDING.

“ Tdentical bills providing for an American Indian memorial and
museum building and the assembling of a collection of objects re-
lating to the Indians of North America were introduced in the Sen-
ate and House at the beginning of this session, They are numbered
S. 3953 and H. R. 16318.

“The National Museum is the legal custodian of the ethnological
and archeological collections belonging to the Government, and these
are now assembled and their public exhibition amply provided for
in a monumental building which has cost $3,500,000. It is not im-
probable, however, that the movement instituted by the Order of Red
Men of the United States might result in bringing to Washington a
very large additional amount of Indian material which would be of
value; but, should the measure receive favorable action by Congress,
the memorial should be placed under the supervision and control of
the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution instead of the Secretary
of the Interior. Only by such an arrangement could the proposed
new collections be properly correlated with those belonging to the
national collections; and, furthermore, such relationship with the
Institution would insure greater economy of management, as the
Institution already has an experienced administrative staff in the
National Museum. A representative of the Improved Order of Red
Men has given assurance that such a relationship to the Institution
would be entirely agreeable to the order, and, accordingly, when
requested by the chairman of the House Committee on Public Build-
ings and Grounds to indicate the Institution’s view of the bill, the
following letter was sent:

JANUARY 22, 1912.

Dear Sir: I beg to acknowledge the receipt of your communication of the

13th instant, inclosing a copy of H. R. 16318, being a bill “ Providing for the
erection of an American Indian memorial and museum building in the city of
128 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

Washington, District of Columbia,’ and requesting such data relating thereto
as I may be able to assemble.

I would first note that the matter was origiaally brought to the attention of
the Sixty-first Congress, third session, in identical bills submitted to the Senate
and House of Representatives, in which, while the erection of such a museum
building was provided for, the precise object of the memorial was not stated.
The present bill expressly defines the object of the museum, namely, to house
such relics relating presumably to the American Indians as may be contributed
for the purpose from private sources, one of which, a patriotic organization, is
specifically mentioned. While it is not so stated, it is assumed that the contri-
butions are intended to be of the nature of gifts to the Government and there-
fore to become its absolute property, though the offer of loan exhibits is to be
expected and their acceptance is to be considered a proper museum function.

The National Museum, constituted, by act of Congress of August 10, 1846, a
part of the organization of the Smithsonian Institution, is the depository for
all Government collections, in which the subject of the American Indians is
one of the most prominent and most extensively represented. These collections
have resulted from Government surveys and expeditions and from contributions
from many private sources. In the new building recently completed for the
National Museum at a cost to the Government of $3,500,000 and containing some
10 acres of floor space, about one-third of the area is devoted to the subject of
ethnology and archeology, illustrative mainly of the North American Indians.

With reference to the memorial and museum provided for in H. R. 163138, I
have, besides the facts recited in the biil, only certain general information
obtained informally, but I have been given to understand that if the proposed
measure is carried out the influences back of it are sufficiently wide and
potent to cause to be brought to Washington a large amount of material relat-
ing to the Indians of the country, which would otherwise remain scattered and
unavailable for study. If this be the case, it would seem that much good
might result from the movement. ;

There is one matter covered by the bill, however, to which I would invite
special attention. It is proposed that the memorial be under the supervision
and control of the Secretary of the Interior. I am not informed as to the posi-
tion or wishes of the Department of the Interior in the matter, but I respect-
fully suggest that, in case the bill be considered favorably, the question of
placing the memorial and museum under the custody of the Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution be given serious thought, since with an experienced
administration already established it would appear that the affairs of the pro-
posed museum might be conducted more economically under the Institution
than otherwise. The opportunity would also thus be afforded for coordinating
the collections with those in the National Museum in such manner as to secure
the best results for. the public.

The copy of the bill which you forwarded is returned herewith, as requested.

Very truly, yours,
CHARLES D. WatLcorTtT, Secretary.

The honorable Morris SHEPPARD,

Chairman, Committee on Public Buildings and Grounds,
United States House of Representatives, Washington, D. C.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS, 129

DISTRIBUTION OF GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS ISSUED UNDER
THE INSTITUTION.

“In a message to Congress, dated February 5, 1912, the President
transmits three reports from the Commission on Economy and Effi-
ciency, one of which relates to ‘ The centralization of the distribution
of Government publications.’ On this subject the President remarks
as follows:

The first report recommends that the work of distributing documents be cen-
tralized in the office of Superintendent of Public Documents in the Government
Printing Office as a substitute for the present method of distribution by each
of the departments, offices, and bureaus issuing documents. The plan does not
contemplate any change in the authority which determines the persons to whom
documents shall be sent, but only that the physical work of wrapping, address-
ing, and mailing the documents shall be done at one place, and that the place
of manufacture.

Documents are now printed and bound at the Printing Office and conveyed to
the several departments and bureaus, where they are wrapped and addressed and
sent to the post office, and afterwards from the post office to the railroad station,
which is near the Printing Office. One result of the proposed plan will be to
eliminate this unnecessary transportation of the large number of documents
annually issued by the departments. Departments will be relieved of the
trouble and expense of handling, storing, and accounting for documents; a bet-
ter control can be exercised over the number of copies of a document to be
printed at one time, or, when printed, the number to be bound from time to
time; and the accumulation of undistributed copies of the same documents in
several offices will be avoided.

The centralization of the work of wrapping and addressing documents wili
permit the use of the most improved mechanical devices and a saving of labor
that is not possible when the work is done in many offices.

I approve this recommendation of the commission and commend it to the
favorable consideration of the Congress.

“ Tt is considered that the Institution is itself better prepared to at-
tend directly to the distribution of its publications in the interest of
the trusts confided to the Regents than through any outside agency.
The publications of the Institution are not an incidental result of its
work, but something planned for and systematically executed. The
Institution keeps in touch with all the principal scientific and art
establishments of the world, and with ali experts in science and art
who are promoting work in a line with its own, or who are in posi-
tions to help in securing collections, information, or advice. With the
exception of certain public libraries, its mailing lists are, therefore,
undergoing constant changes. The publications constitute an im-
portant asset, and through their judicious distribution have brought
returns which could not have been obtained in any other way.

“ Furthermore, a large proportion of the publications bear a date
of issuance and must be mailed by or on that date to retain their
value. They are received from the Printing Office from two to three
130 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

days in advance of the date, and it is inconceivable that any outside
agency could be relied upon to insure their distribution with the
promptness demanded. It is, consequently, felt that the control of
this distribution should remain where it is.

“Reports on this subject were made to the President and to the
Commission on Economy and Efficiency under dates of September
27 and November 8, last, and in these it was shown that the distri-
butions were made on an exceedingly low basis of cost. In fact,
all publications except those of the Museum are stored in and dis-
tributed from the Smithsonian building, which the Government is
using without cost. The actual labor of wrapping, labeling, and
handling the Smithsonian reports is furnished by the Institution
and not by the Government. And from all points of view the trans-
fer of the actual work of distribution to another establishment would
distinctly tend to reduce the scientific value of the Smithsonian
publications and to curtail the benefits which the Institution is de-
riving from them.”

SMITHSON RELICS.

“For many years the Smithson relics, those personal belongings
that were a close and intimate part of the life of the founder, have
been cared for in one of the south tower rooms known here as the
old Regents’ room, because of its former use by the Regents for their
meetings. This room is quite inaccessible, so it was decided to
arrange the relics, temporarily at least, for exhibition in the central
portion of the main hall of the Smithsonian building. They are in
special cases under constant supervision, and have aroused a deep
interest among those who are acquainted with the history of the
Institution. Among the relics may be seen:

Copy of the matriculation register of Oxford University, showing the name
by which Smithson was known in 1782—James Lewis Macie.

Several portraits of the founder.

A portrait of his father, Hugh Smithson, Duke of Northumberland.

Visiting cards.

Dinner cards.

His library.

Printed copies of papers on chemical subjects, written by Mr. Smithson.

Collection of autographs of scientific men, on notes written to Mr. Smithson.

His will, showing the wording that made the Smithsonian Institution possible.

[Incidentally, the secretary spoke of the collection of photographic
portraits of Regents being made for permanent preservation, and
which was on exhibition in the main hall. ]

ADJOURNMENT.

There being no further business, on motion, the board adjourned.
GENERAL APPENDIX

TO THE

SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR [912

131
Aa
‘a >
‘ey* 7 Nees *
p 2

©

HELE

i moe agp it re Vi. ¥.
qo Sb ~ aterm vies pe gs ~)

1

Pa
Haegite, oO
BOE.

; |e
tt a

ADVERTISEMENT.

The object of the GENERAL APPENDIX to the Annual Report of the
Smithsonian Institution is to furnish brief accounts of scientific dis-
covery in particular directions; reports of investigations made by
collaborators of the Institution; and memoirs of a general character
or on special topics that are of interest or value to the numerous
correspondents of the Institution.

It has been a prominent object of the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution, from a very early date, to enrich the annual
report required of them by law with memoirs illustrating the more
remarkable and important developments in physical and biological
discovery, as well as showing the general character of the operations
of the Institution; and this purpose has, during the greater part of
its history, been carried out largely by the publication of such papers
as would possess an interest to all attracted by scientific progress.

In 1880 the secretary, induced in part by the discontinuance of an
annual summary of progress which for 30 years previous had been
issued by well-known private publishing firms, had prepared by com-
petent collaborators a series of abstracts, showing concisely the prom-
inent features of recent scientific progress in astronomy, geology,
meteorology, physics, chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zoology, and
anthropology. This latter plan was continued, though not altogether
satisfactorily, down to and including the year 1888.

In the report for 1889 a return was made to the earlier method of
presenting a miscellaneous selection of papers (some of them original)
embracing a considerable range of scientific investigation and dis-
cussion. This method has been continued in the present report for
1912.

85360°—sMm 1912 10 133

oy ott 403 Asie ott
bree } pgeinoedh Toe

it teneig

io herinoet. soqnt a
alla Aue Git 9 | *

ade Re ieig a8
eC UY pit ib bow. peed is

Aoi

dt-yd aii uO ‘boities, art ‘used

PLAT IC
etogried B to x yeh
ey Art aos tet FEB AGT:. te reel ta

‘

rats HA TOREN % cobain haven ee piesa “esnia

. ahh
Od 2Ry Mts

Bee a TH! ts tal

elie : to veieneae ee rie ne
ine YO aGtinr® oldarabiaras gt
rites mad dad boittont ai

THE YEAR’S PROGRESS IN ASTRONOMY:!

By P. Purseux,

Member of the Academy of Sciences, Professor at the Sorbonne, Astronomer at the Paris
Observatory.

i.

It is an illogical peculiarity of the human mind that while it can
not comprehend an infinite material universe it readily refuses to
limit it. Those celestial objects which hide themselves from our
curiosity by their almost inconceivable distances are to the astron-
omer the most attractive of all. He dislikes to realize the invariable
appearance of the nebule, or that he can not measure their distances
with any approach of accuracy. Because he can find no better mode
of inquiry he improvises one based upon a reasonable evolutionary
theory. These impalpable phantoms he puts to the tests of his
laws of mechanics, of physics, to the reactions of chemistry, a legiti-
mate procedure, since it suggests consequences the verification of
which he may attempt.

The spiral nebule, with their sharply defined structure and a
spectrum which is a weakened replica not too much altered of the
sun, takes us into a region relatively well known. But when we
consider the gaseousnebule, those pale, undefined flakes so constituted
that they have defied the power of time, how can we establish any
connection between them and our daily experiences? Their spec-
trum brings us little help. It shows in the most favorable circum-
stances four bright enigmatic lines with a few others which can be
identified as due to hydrogen or helium,

We can not borrow any of the substance of the nebule for analysis
in our laboratory. To look upon each unknown line as an indication
of a new element would be easy but futile. It might be useful, on
the other hand, to invent some molecular structure for some one
single element (which we will call nebulium) capable of producing all
the lines of unknown origin. That is just what J. W. Nicholson ? has
done, who applied the theory of Johnstone Stoney and Ritz regarding

1 Translated by permission from Revue générale des Sciences pures et appliquées, Paris, June 30, 1912,
pp. 474-478.
2 Session of the Royal Astronomical Society, Nov. 10, 1911,

135
136 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

the origin of spectrum limes. With four negative electrons revolving
about a positivecentral body, 12 of the mysterious lines were explained,
and with these several others which were attributed with no great
certainty to hydrogen and helium.

This demonstration, of course, leaves much to be desired. But
it is evident in what direction we must proceed to complete it. It is
very probable that hydrogen and helium, because of their complex
spectra, are not simple elements. What glory it would be if by
some well-chosen process we could decompose either of them and
make the complete spectrum of nebulium appear in our laboratory!
Astronomers could then hand over to the chemists a conquest even
more precious than was the discovery of helium.

While waiting for the realization of this bold synthesis we con-
tinue to proceed by analysis and classification. All the conclusions
formerly held about nebule demand revision because of the amount
and value of the recently obtained photographic evidence. Re-
cently A. R. Hinks ' has devoted himself to such an analysis. With
his wonted precision he has defined the characteristics which distin-
guish the various classes of nebule and star clusters and has found
for each class its law of distribution in the heavens. We must dis-
card the convenient and very simple law which stated the frequency
of the occurrence of nebule and clusters as a function of the galactic
latitude only.

There is a clearly marked distinction between the stellar and plane-
tary nebule as well as between the annular and spiral ones. This
fact gave Stratton ? a strong argument against the theory of T. J. J.
See, who attributed a common origin to the last two kinds. The
cosmogony of See, far outrunning the possibility of experimental
evidence, creates other difficulties, and it seems to us that it has
made no progress since its appearance toward being accepted. The
same thing can be said of the mutual collisions of stars. Bickerton *
has come forward as an advocate of them, and they should, accord-
ing to him, give birth to double stars as well as to planetary systems.
A hazardous theory may prove useful because of the verifications it
necessitates. For instance, Monk‘ showed that we ought to keep tab
on the displacements of the spectrum lines so as to know in advance
of imminent collisions, and Forbes > demonstrated that by a similar
process we could obtain evidence concerning the rotation of certain
stars about their centers. An attempt with encouraging results has
already been made as to the latter problem at the Allegheny Obsery-
atory.

1 Monthly Notices, May, 1911.

2 The Observatory, September, 1911.

3 Session of the Royal Astronomical Society, Jan. 25, 1911.
4 The Observatory, vol. 24, p. 202.

6 Monthly Notices, vol. 72, p. 378.
PROGRESS IN ASTRONOMY—PUISEUX. 137

The probability of a collision sometime in the globular clusters
seems especially great. They are considered, with good reason,
among the most curious objects in the heavens. If we suppose that
the closeness of the stars in these clusters depends on the distances
of the stars from the centers of the clusters, then we may get their
real distances from their apparent distances. H. C. Plummer ' did
so for M 13 ? and found groupings which would have been predicted
by the theory of gases in convective and isothermal equilibrium.
This is one more fact to make us believe that in clusters as well as in
the nebule the force of gravitation is absent or held in check by some
repulsive force.

We indeed go yet further and ask whether the law of Newton is
always applicable among the stars relatively near for which we have
been able to measure the parallaxes and proper motions. We possess
decided evidence in favor of the affirmative from binary stars, in
the fact that their proper motions follow directions more often par-
allel to the galaxy than perpendicular. But there are also motives
for doubt.

W. W. Campbell, by means of his valuable catalogue of the radial
velocities of stars, has shown that the Orion spectrum type is always
associated with small velocities. This suggestion, resulting from no
preconceived idea, quickly underwent broader developments. It
has consequently become of philosophical interest. We seem to have
gained now in the old system of classifying the stars, which was
founded upon increasing complexity in their spectra, at the same
time an ascending scale for their velocities and a descending one for
their masses and distances from the sun. Of course there are often
individual exceptions, and the above rules apply only when the
stars are averaged in groups.

The consequences of these generalizations have been skilfully
followed out by J. Halm.* It was an advance to be able to use as
criteria for a classification the masses and velocities, rather than
the ages, temperatures, or spectrum types. The first two properties
are more fundamental and more apt to enter into our formule. The
existence of a correlation between the masses and the velocities is
even more worthy of remark. It makes us wonder whether there
is an equipartition of energy between the groups of stars just as
there is between the molecules of a gas in equilibrium. Such a state
would not have resulted under the influence of a Newtonian field of
force including all the stars. Such movements are rather the final
consequence of an initial velocity varying widely between neighboring
stars. [urther, the predominance of yellow stars near our sun and
of white stars farther away, the existence of an ellipsoidal distribution
of the trajectories in the central part of our universe, establishes

iMonthly Notices, vol.71,p.460. 2 Monthly Notices, vol.72,p.378. 3 Monthly Notices, vol. 71, p. 610.

138 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

between the milky way and the great spiral nebule a singularly
closer analogy than we had felt warranted in supposing until quite
recently.

The new star discovered December 30, 1910, in the constellation
of the Lizard, has followed its predicted career, fading rather slowly.
It becomes more and more certain that temporary stars, even when
they show the ruddy aspect of certain periodic variables, show less
difference between the visual and photographic magnitudes.

The polar star often used as a standard for photometric compari-
sons because it remains constantly at practically the same altitude,
seems to have abdicated that réle and passed into the ranks of the
variable stars. In order to show its variability, Hertzsprung'
went through the discussion of 418 photographs, each having four
exposures. The variation amounts to 0.2 of a magnitude and takes
place in less than four days.

if

The step from variable stars to the sun is very easy. It is espe-
cially so because of the recent work of C. G. Abbot.?, Measures upon
the intensity of the solar radiation made simultaneously on Mount
Wilson (1,800 meters altitude) and on Mount Whitney (4,420 meters)
gave very concordant results and the parallel march of the numbers
places beyond doubt a very decided variability of the sun which may
amount to a tenth of the total radiation within a few days.

The work of Abbot tends also to show that the precision with which
we may state the temperature of the sun has been exaggerated. There
are in the sun sources of heat from 5,000° up to some 7,000°. How-
ever, the higher temperatures predominate. The infra-red radiation
comes from the deeper layers.

Some years ago the researches of Halm appeared to indicate that
the rate of rotation of the sun, varying as we knew with the solar
latitude, varies also synchronously with the sun-spot cycle. The
investigation of this matter remains upon the program of the Edin-
burgh Observatory. But between the results obtained by Storey and
those by Adams at Mount Wilson there is a systematic difference. It
might be suspected that with one or the other the distance of the slit
of the spectroscope from the edge of the sun was not correctly deter-
mined. Or the cause of the discrepancy may lie in the telluric oxygen
lines used for comparisons.

The established but not absolutely regular correlation which exists
between magnetic disturbances and the appearance of sun spots seems
to have been made decidedly clearer by the researches of Bosler, of the

—

1 Astronomische Nachrichten, No. 4518.
2 Report of the Astrophysical Observatory of the Smithsonian Institution.
PROGRESS IN ASTRONOMY—PUISEUX. 139

observatory at Meudon. Bosler has succeeded in proving that in
each locality there is a definite direction not only for the earth cur-
rent but also for the disturbed magnetic field and this takes place as
if due to the direct action of a current upon a magnetized needle.
Another result of the same research was to show yet more clearly that
the years when the sun spots have been the most numerous have
been those when Encke’s comet has been the most brilliant.

The total solar eclipse of April 28, 1911, was observed by several
expeditions sent for that purpose to Vavau of the Tonga Islands.
The weather was unfavorable. We must mention in passing one new
result, the photograph taken by Father Cortie of the extreme red end
of the bright line spectrum.

The army of minor planets continues to grow. The most inter-
esting without doubt was that observed on October 3 and 4 atVienna
and Copenhagen and designated by the letters MT. Its motion deter-
mined at that time indicated that its distance was as small as that of
Eros. But it could not be found again on subsequent days. We are
forced to believe that its brightness varies rapidly and that it was
visible on the earlier dates because of an exceptional temporary
brightness.

Birkland, while trying to reproduce the solar corona by means of
the luminous phenomena about an electrified sphere, got a very close
representation of the ring system of Saturn. He was thus led to pro-
pose a new theory of those singular objects. Particles of radiant
matter, emitted from Saturn, reach a certain distance, make their
revolutions according to the third law of Kepler, and serve as absorb-
ers and resonators for the luminous energy coming from the sun.

The flattening of the planet Mars and the orientation in space of its
axis of rotation rested until recently upon very discordant data from
the micrometer. H. Struve, in a communication to the Berlin Acad-
emy of Sciences (Nov. 30, 1911), showed that by a very laborious but
surer process depending on the variations in the orbits of its satellites,
he had reached much better values. The best series was furnished
by the powerful instruments of the Lick and the Yerkes Observa-
tories. A very useful series of photographs of the satellites was ob-
tained at the observatory at Pulkova by Kostinsky. The figure 190.4
for the reciprocal of the flattening and 202.7 for the ratio of the force
of gravity to the centrifugal force at the equator will doubtless receive
only insignificant changes.

The topography of the moon will now have a more solid basis as the
result of the catalogue of 2,885 objects published by Saunder and
based upon measures of plates taken at the Paris and the Yerkes
Observatories. It is already in use at the Paris Observatory in a
study of the libration of the moon. The uncertainty of a position
derived from three plates appears to be less than 0.15’’.. On our own
140 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

globe there are many extended regions which have no points so accu-
rately determined.

The year 1911 saw published the tables of the moon based upon the
theory of Delaunay and forming volume 7 of the Annales du Bureau
des Longitudes. An eer Gciaen of 112 pages, where not a line is
superfluous, allows us to form an idea of the mangitude of the task.
Delaunay, Tisserand, and R. Radau have successively given to the
task the last years of their lives and were assisted by Schulhof. An
analogous undertaking was carried out in America by Prof. E. Brown;
the French astronomers by finishing first have honorably maintained
the tradition established by Laplace and Le Verrier. All the errors,
although very small, known in the works of Hansen and Delaunay,
have been corrected. But it was impossible to break away from all
empiricism and there remains an inequality of long period (273 years)
discovered by Newcomb. Newcomb gave up trying to find an expla-
nation. More optimistic, R. Radau believes the cause can be found
in cosmic dust and the infra-mercurial planets.

A new determination of the parallax of the moon, due to the collabo-
ration of the Cape and the Greenwich Observatories has been carried
out after six years of work.1. The value generally used was confirmed.

III.

The result, at first sight rather small, of a considerable effort, is not
to be understood as minimizing the desire often expressed of substi-
tuting for the classic method of charting the sky more rapid and more
accurate methods. What is aimed at everywhere is the suppression
of the measures of moderately large angles by the readings of divided
circles. More confidence is placed in measures of time intervals and
the extension of such a method is to be expected.

W. E. Cooke proposed, for the determination of right ascensions,
not to use a meridian circle but rather a telescope whose optic axis
when rotated about a vertical axis intersects in the heavens a small
circle parallel to the horizon. We could by such means divide the
celestial equator, or any parallel circle with an accuracy comparable
with the precision of our best clocks. The declination of the stars
would be determined from the times when they reached a determined
altitude. The axis of the telescope must therefore be maintained at
a constant altitude. At various times the realization of this condi-
tion has been attempted with telescopes on floating mounts. Cooke
places faith in a vertical axis and level.

Among the disadvantages of the meridian instrument is the neces-
sity that each celestial point has to be separately determined and that
great intervals can not be measured as accurately as small ones.

1 Session of the Royal Astronomical Society, May 12, 1911.
>
PROGRESS IN ASTRONOMY—PUISEUX. eel

That photography can deal with small intervals with rapidity and
great accuracy has been repeatedly shown. But it is desired to
free the photographic plate from any dependency upon the merid-
ian circle. H. H. Turner? has devised a very complete scheme.
He proposes to’ gather, on the same plate, images of very distant
portions of the sky, and believes he can register with the necessary
precision the beginning of each exposure. The plan of Turner in-
cludes the use of two photographic telescopes mounted at right
angles to each other in the equator and adjusted with a prismatic
mirror. The project has received the approbation of the Astronom-
ical and Astrophysical Society of America.?

But these methods have not received such emphatic approval
everywhere. Before the Royal Astronomical Society Sir David Gill,
Sir William Christie, and A. E. Conrady showed numerous reasons
for fearing errors in the use of the new methods. According to them,
the status of the meridian circle in fundamental astronomy is not
yet in any way undermined.

In the past rival processes, even when recommended by illustrious
names, have not realized the hopes of their promotors. Such was the
case with the zenith telescope, or the alt-azimuth as introduced at
Greenwich by Airy and the floating telescope in the hands of Chandler,
Sampson, and Bryan Cookson. But it is true that photography
introduces a new element into the problem and the experiments now
in progress at Oxford deserve attention.

The resources of the photographic method will be yet greater when
it is possible to utilize a greater field upon a single plate without the
deformation of the images near the edges. Theoretically, curved
plates could be employed which would comport better with the focal
surfaces of the objectives. Such an attempt was made some 20 years
ago at the beginning of the Celestial Chart project. It was not con-
tinued in use because such curved plates were not adapted to the
micrometrical measuring machines. The difficulty has been over-
come as the result of recent experiments at the Harvard College
Observatory. The sensitive plate serves as the cover of a metallic
box, from which the air may be removed. The atmospheric pressure
upon the plate produces the desired curvature. When the air has
been reintroduced, after the exposure, the plate losses its curvature
and is developed and measured without difficulty.

A conference was held in Paris in October, 1911, by the representa-
tives of all the great nations which publish official ephemerides
(France, Germany, the United Kingdom, the United States of Amer-
ica). The resolutions unanimously adopted after very amicable dis-
cussions will introduce important economies in efforts, which up to

} Monthly Notices, vol. 71, pp. 422, 427. 2 The Observatory, vol. 34, p. 233.
142 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

the present time have been duplicated. The positions of the planets
will be determined only by two independent systems of tables.
Greenwich time will be universally used for the ephemerides and
unity will be observed for the more important constants (solar paral-
lax, precession, nutation, aberration). The campaign actively pushed
during recent years for carrying the aberration constant from 20.47’’
up to 20.53’” can be considered as having failed. The latter figure
is irreconcilable with the solar parallax obtained from the general
discussion of the Eros observations.
THE SPIRAL NEBULA. !

By P. Pursrux,

Member of the Academy of Sciences, Professor at the Sorbonne, Astronomer at the Paris
Observatory.

The people whom we claim as our direct intellectual ancestors
wished to find nothing in the sky but spherical forms and circular
movements. The Greeks, lovers of an exact geometry, the Latins,
enamored of order and logic, took pleasure in simple combinations.
They would not willingly admit into the celestial throng clouds of
indefinite and complicated form. Such indefinite forms must belong
to the sublunar world. Comets, with their hairy aspect, passed
as meteors, taking their birth and vanishing within our atmosphere.
In the Milky Way some saw an accidental derogation of the uni-
versal order or the trace of an imperfect joining of the two halves
of the celestial sphere. Others guessed it to be a mass of number-
less stars, too small and too distant to be separately seen. There
was no need, indeed no possibilty, of searching further. To those
whom the idea of something beyond troubled, the existence of an
empyrean was conceded, a luminous region situated beyond the
stars, to which only those had access whose souls had become freed
from the bonds of flesh.

But astronomy, no more than the other physical sciences, has
kept within the bonds with which she was fettered in the name of
philosophy. No sooner was the telescope invented than several
observers used it to explore the sky. Then, as had been foreseen,
the Milky Way was resolved almost entirely into separate luminous
points. But, it is true, there were found a few refractory places,
where the diffused whiteness persisted in filling the field of the tele-
scope. Even outside the limits of the Milky Way, several such
masses, more or less perceptible to the naked eye, refused to be
decomposed. Simon Marius, in 1612, noted the great nebula of
Andromeda, which suggested to him the comparison, somewhat
trivial yet suggestive, of the flame of a candle seen through horn.
This pale glow, watched for many years, seems to rest absolutely

1 Address delivered before the Société des Amis de ? Universté, Feb. 1, 1912. Translated by permis-
sion from Revue Scientifique, Paris, Apr. 6, 1912, pp. 417-422.
143
144 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

unchanged when compared with the adjacent stars. It is therefore
neither a planet nor a meteor. It belongs to our sun no more than
to the earth. Accordingly, if we admit the Copernican theory, we
must attribute to this nebula colossal dimensions, far exceeding the
distance which separates the earth from the sun.

Nor is the nebula of Andromeda an isolated case. Christian Huy-
gens made a drawing in 1656 of a nebula in the constellation of Orion,
a more brilliant and more extended object the outlines of which he
found very difficult to trace. On one side only was it sharply de-
fined against the adjacent sky. Elsewhere it faded into indistinguish-
able nebulosity. Does it not seem, mused Huygens, as if here we are
looking upon a new world, perhaps upon the legendary empyrean ?
This feeble veil scarcely alters the aspect of the stars which shine
through it or are projected upon it.

This somewhat summary sketch of Huygens was only vaguely con-
firmed by those of Picard and of Legentil who came several years later.
The only common trait, indeed, was the dark gulf which hollows out,
the central part. No part of it seemed sufficiently definite for the
detection of possible changes.

During the eighteenth century the number of known nebule in-
creased slowly. Several, upon closer examination, proved to be clus-
ters of small stars. Those whose aspect remained flocculent, despite
al] efforts to resolve them, often deceived the comet seekers, who,
after verification, saw their cherished hope of making the discovery
of a new planetoid disappear. Messier, more than once thus caught,
undertook to remove this cause of trouble and in 1784 published
a catalogue of these objects, containing nearly all the nebule easily
seen above the horizon at the latitude of Paris.

At the same time a great advance was made in England in the means
of observation. The musician, W. Herschel, succeeded during his
leisure hours in figuring and mounting telescope mirrors much greater
and much more perfect than had ever been made before. In the field
of these instruments nebule appeared in an absolutely unexpected
profusion. Thus there arose a new branch of astronomy to be de-
veloped. Herschel set to work, aided by his sister Caroline, and with
remarkable perseverence, at the same time pursuing other researches,
catalogued, from 1786 to 1802, some 2,500 nebule. Many of these,
upon closer examination, were resolved into stars. W. Herschel
was led to believe that all could be so resolved and that any one of
these scarcely visible flocculent specks would, to an observer properly
situated, appear like a stellar universe as rich as that which surrounds
us and which is evident to our eyes through the milky way.

The work of W. Herschel was completed for the Southern Hemi-
sphere by his son John, who transported in 1834 to the Cape of Good
Hope one of the best telescopes constructed at Slough by his father.
SPIRAL NEBULA—PUISEUX. 145

Under a sky more transparent than that of England the barvest was
yet richer and the general summary published in 1864 gave the
positions of 5,079 of these objects. Very few nebule found later
worthy of interest escaped the eyes of the Herschels.

No thought was taken at that time as to what could be the origin
of these curious objects. Their vague aspect gave little faith in their
permanency. At one time the hope was held that they might rapidly
change before our eyes. Laplace, after meditating upon the spheri-
cal or flattened figures of the planets, upon the existence of the ring
system of Saturn, upon the close coincidence of the planes of the
equators and the orbits of the planets, became convinced that the
sun and the planets must have once been parts of the same large,
very diffuse cloud. We might then expect the history of the solar
system to repeat itself among the many other nebulous clouds in the
realms of space. What would be more natural than to see among the
nebule successive stages in this evolution from such clouds, the
material of suns and planets of the future. And, accordingly, he
devised that celebrated hypothesis which has since been the cause of
so many polemics.

For the convenience of reasoning, Laplace gave to his primitive
cloud a figure of revolution, a general rotation about an axis and a
density decreasing regularly from the center outward. Upon all
these points the great mathematician showed no spirit of intolerance,
and would have willingly consented to improvements. But it was
much later that objections were raised.

The assiduous observers of nebule found that these objects were
mostly of a much less simple structure. This was shown first by the
principal nebula of Orion, which was selected because of its extent
and brightness. Within the same limits where Huygens drew a
uniformly bright surface, astronomers provided with better telescopes
found strong contrasts of light and shade, filaments and entangled
jets, indications of physical connection between this cosmic cloud and
numerous stars. All these points are revealed in the beautiful draw-
ings left by J. Herschel, De Vico, W. Bond, Lassell, G. Bond, and
Lord Rosse. The divergencies, often striking, may be interpreted
through the marvellous plates taken by Prof. Ritchey at the Yerkes
Observatory and at Mount Wilson. The same features are not shown
by the various artists and by the chemical processes. Even photo-
graphic plates have their “personalities” as well as artists. How-
ever, we have the right to hope that the plates are more impartial in
the features which they reproduce. The long exposures employed
often destroy the details easily recognized by the eye in the central
and brighter parts. But for the reproduction of the faint and more
extended portions the superiority of the plates is unquestioned.
146 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

To sum up, the great nebula of Orion is a very complicated object,
very rebellious against graphical representation by which means we
had hoped to show by a comparison of drawings what changes may
have taken place during the course of a century. The early drawings
have in this respect very little value and the elaborate discussion
which Holden based upon the sketches of Bond has not in general
been found convincing.

This nebula departs too far from a globular form or rather from a
figure of rotation to be taken as giving support to the Laplacian
pubes No one could trace in it a prelude to the formation of a
narrow and regular ring surrounding a larger central body. Several
annular nebule were noted by W. Herschel, but among them not one
had a nucleus of any importance.

If we must find in the sidereal universe a picture of what took place
in our system, then we would have greater hope of finding it among
the planetary nebule. In the smaller telescopes they appear as
small round, somewhat brilliant, diffused spots, but in stronger
instruments like bright stars embedded in dense atmospheres. But
such systems were too small and too distant to tell us much of
the details of their structure before spectroscopic methods were
developed.

Such was the condition of affairs when Lord Rosse, in 1850, showed.
the existence of a distinct series of nebule, having besides ie cen-
tral nucleus several successive envelopes. But these envelopes,
instead of being separate and concentric, as the advocates of Laplace’s
hypothesis would have expected, were spiral in form. They showed
streamers, growing progressively larger, at first in the direction of
the radius, then curved around all in the same sense. No theory
had predicted such an appearance.

The instrument used by Lord Rosse and made under his direction
was a gigantic telescope, 6 feet in aperture, a size not since surpassed
despite many courageous attempts. Judging from drawings, it could
have been used only near the meridian. Nor was sufficient protec-
tion provided against the weather, either for the observer or the
mirror. The necessary access to the upper part of the tube was
possible only by the use of heavy and complicated machinery.
Such a piece of apparatus required the assiduous and careful maneu-
vering of several assistants. Official astronomers, with strict limita-
tions and limited means, could obtain such cooperation only with
great trouble and for very little time. Is it necessary to seek further
for the reason why the great instruments of Lord Rosse and the
Herschels, despite their great services, had such a short career and
were used only by their makers ?
SPIRAL NEBULH—PUISEUX. 147

The object which first seemed to offer to Lord Rosse an unusual
character is numbered 51 in Messier’s catalogue. It is to-day con-
sidered the most typical and the most curious of the spiral nebule.
If we examine how Lord Rosse drew it in 1850, we will find that the
rays do not come out from the nucleus in all directions but normally
and only from two diametrically opposite regions. The curvature,
pronounced at the start, decreases later but irregularly. One of the
spirals departing further from the center terminates in a secondary
bright nucleus. The principal spiral continues its path undisturbed
and completes at least a turn and a half before fading away. The
appearance of these structures, so fine, so geometrical, so prolonged,
gives the impression of a rapid whirling movement.

Long afterwards, in 1878, Lord Rosse returned to this same object.
The general appearance remained the same, but the number of fila-
ments, their fineness and regularity of curvature seemed much
decreased. After mature examination, it appeared that the early
appearance had been judged too geometrical just as seems to be the
case with the canals of Mars. It looked as if now the principal spiral
expands into the secondary nucleus.

Again, looking at the same object as photographed by Keeler at the
Lick Observatory, it is evident that the second drawing of Lord Rosse
is the more faithful. But other important details are brought to
light. The junction of the two principal spirals with the main
nucleus is no longer radial but tangential. By their evident discon-
tinuity we are led to strongly doubt that they can be considered as
trajectories. Various points of the two spirals are the origin of inde-
pendent rays, each curved in the same sense as the main spiral but
with entirely different initial directions. At the starting points of the
secondary rays we always find astar, or if we look closer, a group of
stars. Upon a plate of the same nebula, taken by Dr. Isaac Roberts,
180 condensations were counted on the lines of the spirals.

It is evidently well in the presence of such immensely vast objects,
so different from any that we have at hand for experiments, to build
as much as possible on firm structural groundwork, neglecting no
evidence concerning their form, their structure, or distribution in
space. Thus armed, we may approach with less danger their life
history and seek to know how these strange organisms are born and
how they grow.

First, what can be stated as to the distribution of the spiral nebule,
for instance with regard to that most natural plane of reference, the
mean plane of the milky way ?

If we consider nebule irrespective of class, we can state on this
score a well-defined law. These objects show, as to their direction
148 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

from the earth, and doubtless also as to their absolute position in
space, a marked antipathy to the plane of the milky way, the galactic
plane.

This fact was noticed long ago by the philosopher and sociologist,
Herbert Spencer. It is shown by the often-published figure con-
structed by Proctor. The principal catalogued nebule are indicated
by so many points. The white spot near the south pole corresponds
to the Magellanic Clouds, a small region where nebule and clusters
abound. A place of similar nature, though less important, lies in the
northern hemisphere close to the milky way. Apart from these two
exceptions, the milky way traverses, throughout nearly all its whole
extent, regions poor in nebule which cluster chiefly near the north
pole of the milky way.

But is this law of distribution the same for the spiral nebule ?
For some years it was generally admitted that it was not, that the
spirals were irregularly distributed as regards the milky way. We
might therefore treat them as strangers and keeping in mind their
circumvolutions, bifurcations, gaps and the fact that they inclose so
many stars and clusters of stars, consider each one as an independent
milky way.

To-day that conclusion does not seem so assured since Keeler has
pointed out that many of the faint nebulez, showing to the naked eye
no trace of a central nucleus or spiral structure, reveal on long-
exposure photographs both these characteristics. Now we are begin-
ning to ask whether the greater number of nebule are not spiral and
whether statistics, including all of them, would not show that the
great majority of these objects are related to the milky way. A pho-
tographic exploration of the entire sky with a powerful instrument is
necessary to solve this problem.

Apart from their structure, which too often escapes us, is there no
other easily determinable characteristic which may serve to classify
the nebule? Could we not, for example, group them, as we have the
stars, according to the richness of their spectra in absorption lines ?

Huggens, trying to do this, noted that they readily fall into two
classes. One shows a spectrum composed of bright lines like that of
a gas made luminous electrically. These are often called the green
nebule because the greater part of their light is concentrated in a
bright green line in their spectrum which has never been identified
with any known terrestrial element. Provisionally it is considered
as an indication of an unknown element which has been named
nebulium. Of the four lines to which the spectrum of a nebula of
this class is usually limited, the third in order of intensity is the only
one upon whose origin we are agreed. It belongs to the spectrum of
hydrogen.
SPIRAL NEBULE—PUISEUX. 149

A moderate dispersion may be used with this class without weaken-
ing the lines of the spectrum too much. Keeler showed that the
brightest line does not occupy exactly the same position in all the
green nebule. Naturally, these small differences are interpreted as a
sign of radial velocities. The 14 nebule for which satisfactory results
have been obtained give for the radial component figures ranging from
18 to —64 kilometers per second. There is a predominance of nega-
tive values, evidently not because the green nebule show a tendency
to approach us, but because the greater part of them which may be
easily observed are situated nearer the constellation Hercules toward
which our sun is moving, carrying us along with him. Contrary to
what is true of the nebulz in general, the majority of the green nebuleze
lie in the milky way. The existence of these gaseous bodies, owing
their light to a more or less extended mass of gas, has been considered
as furnishing the experimental basis formerly lacking for the Lapla-
cian hypothesis.

Interesting as these results are, we will not dwell upon them as they
take us away from our subject. Indeed, of all the nebule whose
spiral structure is beyond doubt, not one belongs in the class just
described. Not one is adapted to the determination of its radial
velocity. All of them, as well as the great majority of the faint
nebulze without definite form, shine with a white light which the
prism transforms into an apparently continuous spectrum. This
spectrum is too faint for the detection of absorption bands. However,
there is some justice in calling it purely stellar. The white nebule
owe the greater part of their ight to the stars which are clustered
within them. As to the great nebula of Andromeda, which is the
brightest of the spiral nebule, we may add that the majority of the
stars of its central portion are of the solar type.

The contribution of the spectroscope to the study of the spiral
nebulee is on the whole somewhat restricted. The services rendered
by photography are, on the other hand, inestimable. The great
part taken by this method of study dates from the invention of the
sensitive bromo-gelatin plates. The green or gaseous nebule,
whose light more strongly affects the photographic plate, brought
the first success. The photographs of Paul and Prosper Henry, of
Isaac Roberts, and of Keeler early showed evidence of a physical
relationship between the stars and the nebule, even in the case of
the gaseous nebule. This connection is yet closer in the spiral
nebulee, of which we will now speak exclusively.

About the year 1900 they were looked upon as rare and scattered
objects. Keeler undertook to form a collection of the most remark-
able nebulous objects and was led to the two following unexpected
conclusions: First, many nebule formerly classed as globular, annular,

85360°—sm 1912——11
150 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

or fusiform show the spiral form on plates taken with special care;
second, all exposures sufficiently long to photograph one of these
objects lead to the discovery of many other similar objects. The
number of spirals is much greater than had been supposed, and they
may include the majority of the nebule. These results were obtained
on Mount Hamilton, Cal., where a rich American, James Lick, has
founded the observatory which bears his name. No astronomer can
visit this model observatory without envy and admiration.

The order in which we take up the objects in the rich collection of
Keeler may evidently be open to criticism until an accord is established
upon a definite theory. Noone, surely, would suppose that the nebule
have always existed just as they are or that they have acquired a
finalshape. We must look upon them as still in the process of change.
The question we will for the moment consider is whether they are in
the process of condensation or expansion; whether the spirals are
flowing out from or into the center.

Before forming a too hasty decision, let us first examine the larger,
more massive nebule, where the spirals are small and unimportant
in comparison with the central nucleus. Afterwards we will con-
sider the more dilated ones, where the greater part of the matter
seems dispersed into the spirals. Then we will consider in which
direction it is easier to suppose the transition.

In each class we shall place in the first rank those which have the
most nearly circular appearance; that is, those whose plane is normal
to our line of sight and which will enable us to interpret better the
other nebule seen at less favorable angles or even edgewise.

Having completed that task, we needs must ask of what are the
spiral nebule formed; in what way are they changing? Could we
answer these two questions, then we would ask two others still more
ambitious. How were the spiral nebule formed, and what will be
their end? But such questions may for a long while yet be prema-
ture, and I believe I thus voice the opinion of our master, Poincaré,
if I rightly interpret the conclusion$ stated in his recent book on
cosmic hypotheses.

It seems to me that the elements of the spiral nebule can be nought
else than collections of groups of stars, whence comes the abundance
of the luminous points scattered in the outer portions of the spirals
where they can be separately seen. A cosmic cloud formed of sub-
tler elements could never show such sharp outlines, nor reveal such
clear-cut divisions. The continuous spectra must lead us to sup-
pose that even in the central portions stars predominate, enveloped,
if you will, in a common atmosphere which diffuses their light.

Some might argue that if the spirals are formed of stars they would
be brighter. I do not see that necessity. The distance of the

.
.
SPIRAL NEBULE—PUISEUX. 151

spirals is immense, much greater than that of the mean distance of
the naked-eye stars, because all the visible stars inclosed in the spirals
are telescopic. The light of such stars reaches us weakened by their
enormous distances and doubtless by an intersteller absorbing
medium.

When we consider the great number of the stars embedded in a
nebula like that of Ursa Major (M101), or that of Andromeda, it
seems as if we rather minimize their importance either in using these
nebulz to construct a solar system or by regarding them as the result
of some very improbable accidental collision. A single nebula is,
in my opinion, capable of giving birth to many stars, indeed, to many
clusters. By the range in their development, the variety of their
structure, the great spirals are comparable Pe exaggerations to
the llc way nicelE:

I believe that we should not derive from our latest studies the
theories of Chamberlain and Moulton or of Prof. Arrhenius, all three
of whom interpret the spirals as due to a collision of two stars. Mr.
T. J. J. See has raised very strong objections against such theories
in his recent work, ‘‘The Evolution of Stellar Systems,” a book full of
erudition and ingenious views, but one whose uncompromising dog-
matism must arouse opposition. According to Mr. See, we must
not present an explanation to our learned public as possible, but as
absolutely necessary. Is the stellar cosmogony of Mr. See, for he
has one of his own, truly one of those to which we must subscribe
without discussion and hold as definitive? He makes a spiral have
its birth in the meeting of two clouds of very elongated form which
move through space with different velocities and become deformed
before uniting under the influence of their mutual attraction. Each
spiral marks the influx toward the common center of one of the
original clouds.

I fear that such an explanation would be satisfactory only to
readers but little acquainted with the objects themselves. It is not
merely two concurrent spirals which we must explain, but often
four or five. And when we consider the parsimonious scattering of
matter through space, it is truly difficult to admit that upon the path
of the deflecting current there will appear first isolated stars, then
clusters of stars more and more numerous and more and more dense
as we approach the place of conjunction. I do not see whence will
be gathered the matter for these suns if there is no central condensa-
tion, which, according to See, would not yet have been formed. To
me the movement in spirals must be centrifugal and dispersive. The
central mass shoots out intermittently groups of stars, giving them a
great initial velocity, but the impulsive force acts only for a short dis-
tance. The final movement of the liberated stars is governed by the
152 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

general attraction, except in the neighborhood of certain points of
the spirals which have in turn become centers of disturbances.

The spirals, essentially irregular in their sections and projections,
are neither currents nor trajectories. The axis of each one is a
synchronous curve of the places which at any given instant are occu-
pied by the products of a prolonged and intermittent eruption. The
latter are continually evolved in the same central mass which slowly
turns upon itself. The spirals therefore tend to become, with increas-
ing distances, normal to the radius. The general motions of the
matter in this class of nebule thus conform to the stellar currents
of our own milky way if we adopt the views expressed by Schwarz-
schild.
THE RADIATION OF THE SUN.

By C. G. Assor,!
Director of the Astrophysical Observatory of the Smithsonian Institution.

[With 4 plates.]

The sun presents many interesting aspects. Although controller
of the solar system, an object rich with beautiful and curious features,
the nearest of the fixed stars, and typical of a large class among them,
the sun also has a still greater claim on human interest as the foun-
tain of heat, light, and life upon the earth. It is this latter aspect
which we shall consider mainly, still further confining our attention
almost wholly to work done under the auspices of the Smithsonian
Institution.

When James Smithson died in Genoa in 1829 he left his estate,
subject to certain conditions, ‘‘to the United States of America, to
found at Washington, under the name of the Smithsonian Institution,
an Establishment for the increase & diffusion of knowledge among
men.”’ On May 9, 1838, by decree of the English Court of Chancery,
the Smithson bequest, amounting to about $500,000, was adjudged
to the United States. By the act of establishment in 1846 the con-
trol of the Smithsonian Institution is vested by Congress in a Board
of Regents, comprising the Vice President and the Chief Justice of the
United States, three Senators, three Representatives, and six private
citizens. In the years that have elapsed the Smithsonian private
funds have increased by gifts and economy to nearly $1,000,000.
For many years the institution has administered the annual con-
gressional appropriations for the support of the National Museum,
National Zoological Park, Bureau of American Ethnology, Astro-
physical Observatory, Bureau of International Exchanges, and
‘International Catalogue of Scientific Literature. The immediate
administration is in the hands of the secretary of the Board of
Regents, at present Dr. C. D. Walcott, the fourth of the secretaries.

Dr. S. P. Langley, the third secretary, a distinguished American
astronomer, founded in 1890 the Astrophysical Observatory of the

1 Reprinted with revision and addition from Science Conspectus, Boston, vol. 2, No. 5, April, 1912.
Tllustrations in part from ‘‘The Sun,” by permission of D. Appleton & Co. ‘
15
154 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

Smithsonian Institution, and was its director until his death in 1906.
His own principal investigations, and those of the Astrophysical
Observatory begun under his direction and still continued, have lain
in the field of measuring the quantity and quality of the sun’s radia-
tion, the effect of the earth’s atmosphere thereon, and the dependence
of terrestrial temperatures and plant life on solar radiation. This
is a utilitarian branch of astronomy, whose applications to terrestrial
concerns may be expected to increase in future years and result in
the promotion of the arts of meteorology and agriculture. But the
interest of such studies for the promotion of pure knowledge is also
very high. Let us imagine that the Greek philosophers, the Ara-
bians, and the astronomers of Galileo’s time, had all possessed the
means to measure accurately the quantity and quality of solar radia-
tion. How interesting it would be now to compare thei measure-
ments with our own, and determine thereby what, if any, appreciable
changes have occurred in 2,500 years in that energy which supports
heat and life upon the earth! The astronomer of the future will
have, we hope, trustworthy measurements of our own time to compare
with his own. Referring to another branch of the measurements
which I am to bring before you, our knowledge of the approximate
temperatures prevailing in the sun, and our conclusions as to the
sun’s nature rest on such work as is being done at the Smithsonian
Astrophysical Observatory.

By the term solar radiation, I propose to your minds not only the
solar rays which affect our eyes as light, but the extensions of the
spectrum beyond the violet and beyond the red, where the eye is
notsensitive. All these rays, whether visible or not, may be absorbed
by blackened surfaces and will thus produce their just and propor-
tional effects as heat. For the measurement of solar radiation,
Langley, about 1880, invented the delicate electrical thermometer
shown in plate 2, which he called the bolometer; figure 8 of plate 2
shows its most important part. This is a pair of tapes of platinum,
each about 1 centimeter long, 0.01 centimeter broad, and 0.002
centimeter thick. These tapes are blackened with camphor smoke
or by a deposit of platinum black. One is exposed in the path of
the rays to be measured, and the other is hidden. Hence one tape
is warmed with respect to the other. Thereby a minute electrical
current is caused to flow through the delicate galvanometer con-
nected with the Wheatstone’s bridge, of which the tapes form two
arms. In this way a change of temperature, which may be as small
as one-millionth degree Centigrade, may be detected in ordinary
practice. By special devices the sensitiveness may be increased
beyond this one-hundred fold. But though so sensitive the bolo-
meter is far behind the eye in its capacity to detect faint yellow
light. It is used in preference to the eye because it can detect and
“NOILNLILSN| NVINOSHLINS AHL JO AYOLVAYSSEO TVOISAHdOHLSY

"| alvid

‘y0qqY—'ZIlé6L OSY}ILUS

‘SUOTPIOUMOD [ROLIQDOTO JO
werserq 6 ‘dodoad roJOUIO[Og JILL, "8 “SUOTPOOMUOD PUL TUSTUBToUT SULVULTRA JOS[IBIIT “L “Y °C ‘F "MOIA PU “E “UOTPNOS SSO) *Z “MOTA [RIOUF) “T

"SLONOArAY SL] GNV YSLSWO10g SHL

= = +4 ——
C =
ss
See ye
ae as oo | /e
ee re
Baers ib

=o
‘2

aa

rm
(a

311

ty

AQT

hI

“GS aLV1d yOqGY—'Z161 wiod YY URLUOSU}ILUS
155

RADIATION OF THE SUN—ABBOT.

“SoAIN 0} ISoy a[qviINs oatZ 07 poonporjur wuseiyderp suvoy | “MON PIPLI JO O19Z VATF 0} posodiajzUy J0}{NYS suv %
*WSIUd SSVID-LNITZ .09 V JO WAULOAdS UAVIOS AHL IO SHAUND ADAANG OINAVADOTIO—'T “OT

01 21 ; “ATVOS ALISNALNI
ay Seger ey ae Fy és eee aE SOIC aes os ERIE, 000 te 6 int 3

* ds * .

156 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

correctly measure the relative intensities of rays of all wave lengths,
whether visible or not.

The indications of the bolometer may be automatically observed
by photography, and thereby the solar spectrum may be exhibited,
as in figure 1, as a sinuous line whose elevation above the base
line of zero radiation gives the relative intensity of the different
colored or invisible rays. The two curves shown are taken independ-
ently about an hour apart, for the purpose of studying the increase
of intensity of the sun’s rays of different wave lengths as their
path in air diminishes in length in consequence of the approach of

Fig. 2.— VERTICAL ATMOSPHERIC TRANSMISSION FOR DIFFERENT WAVE LENGTHS.
Upper curve for Mount Wilson; lower curve for Washington.

the sun to the meridian. From such studies the results shown in
figure 2 are found. The upper curve represents the percentage
transmission of a vertical column of air above Mount Wilson (ele-
vation 1,750 meters), while the lower curve shows the less transmis-
sion for vertical rays at Washington (30 meters). The wave lengths
are indicated as abscisse. From this we see how much more loss the
violet rays of wave length 0.40» suffer than do the red rays of wave
length 0.70” in traversing the air.

In order to determine the quantity of the solar radiation, we
must fix our conditions independent of the variable losses in the
RADIATION OF THE SUN—ABBOT.

atmosphere. We attempt, there-
fore, to make the observations in
such a manner as to permit a
correct’ estimate of the atmos-
pheric losses, so that the result
can be expressed as if the meas-
urements were made in free space
beyond the atmosphere. But of
course our actual work must be
done at the earth’s surface.

We express solar radiation in
heat units called calories. As the
bolometer (pl. 2) is not of itself
capable of giving true calories we
have devised an instrument shown
in figure 3, a standard pyrheli-
ometer, so called. A is a cham-
ber of nearly the dimensions of a
large test tube, whose walls are hol-
low and adapted for the circulation
of astream of water. The stream
enters at E, bathes the walls and
rear of the chamber and the cone-
shaped receiver of rays H, and
passes out at F, carrying the heat
developed by solar rays which
enter the chamber by the meas-
ured orifice C. At D, and D, are
platinum coils adapted to measure
the rise of temperature of the wa-
ter due to solar heating. Know-
ing the weight of water flowing per
minute, the rise of temperature
and the area of the opening C for
solar rays, their intensity is deter-
mined. As a check, heat may be
produced electrically in the cham-
ber, and the proof of the accuracy
of the instrument consists in find-
ing the known quantity of elec-
trically introduced heat correctly
measured. Another simpler in-
strument for everyday use is the
silver disk pyrheliometer shown in

Jel
7
G

—

Beeasao
LT eS SS RT A Dat BET DP EP EE IP OP EP POE PP OF OO PT EO OP FF OPP OT

Ii:
e2e2=2

see

oe a ee a

} Tf

FN
LZ

Zn

SOs

fx] A

Tia. 3.—STANDARD WATER-FLOW PYRHELIOMETER.
158 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

figure 4, which may be standardized against the water-flow instru-
ment and in which the measurement is made by reading a thermom-
eter at stated intervals.

In measuring the intensity of solar radiation ag it would be outside
the earth’s atmosphere at mean solar distance (generally called the

solar constant of radiation) it is important to select a station
where variability of atmospheric conditions is slight, and where
the quantity of air traversed bythe solar rays is small.
Owing to smoke and clouds, Washington is a poor locality
for the purpose, and so in 1905 an expedition in my
charge was sent by invitation of Director Hale, of the
Mount Wilson Solar Observatory, to take station
on Mount Wilson. Plate 3, figure 1, shows some
of the gigantic apparatus erected by Director
Hale at that fine site. With this remarkable
outfit the work done by the Mount Wilson
Solar Observatory staff has been wonder-
fully productive. The Smithsonian Ob-
servatory on Mount Wilson, a little
affair comparatively, is shown in
plate 3, figure 2. It was built in
1908 on a small plot of ground
leased from the Solar Ob-
servatory. A cottage has
since been built close by for
observers’ quarters.

In order to test more
thoroughly whether we can
indeed truly estimate the
losses of solar rays In our
atmosphere, work was done
in 1909 and 1910 under my
charge at Mount Whitney
(4,420 meters), the highest
mountain in the United
ec States. To further
the work of this and
other scientific expe-
ditions the Institu-
tionerectedon Mount
Whitney in 1909 the stone and steel shelter shown in plate 4, figure 1.
My apparatus is shown in plate 4, figure 2. With Mr. Marsh, of Lone
Pine, I remained two weeks on the summit in 1909 and again in 1910,
and made measurements of the solar constant of radiation there, while
my colleagues made similar measurements at Mount Wilson.

bit

Fic. 4.—THE SILVER-DISK PYRHELIOMETER.
Smithsonian Report, 1912.—A t PLATE 3.

MOUNT WILSON EQUIPMENT.

.1.—The solar observatory of the Carnegie Institution.
Fig. 2.—The solar observatory of the Smithsonian Institution.

onian Report, 1912.—Abbot PLATE 4.

Fia. 2.

OBSERVING STATION ON MOUNT WHITNEY.

Fig. 1.—Pack train near observers’ quarters.
Fig. 2.—Smithsonian outfit of 1910.
RADIATION OF THE SUN—ABBOT. 159

-

The differences between the results obtained simultaneously at the
two stations were between 1 and 2 per cent. But considering that
the optical apparatus used on Mount Wilson comprised a silvered
glass mirror coelostat, an ultra-violet crown glass prism, and two sil-
vered glass mirrors, while that on Mount Whitney comprised only a
quartz prism and two magnalium mirrors, and, furthermore, that the
pyrheliometers employed at the two stations were read at very differ-
ent temperatures, it is probable that the slight difference found
between the results may be due mainly to experimental differences
and implies no discrepancy due to the difference of altitude between
the two stations.

This conclusion seems worth emphasizing. We have now made
simultaneously solar-constant determinations at sea level (Washing-
ton), and at over a mile altitude (Mount Wilson); and again at Mount
Wilson, and at nearly 3 miles altitude (Mount Whitney). Although
both the quantity and the quality of the solar radiation found at
these stations differ very much, neither the “solar constant” nor
the distribution of the solar energy in the spectrum outside the
atmosphere, as fixed by the wholly independent measurements at
these three stations, differs more than would be expected in view of
the unavoidable small errors of observation. We seem justified in
concluding that we do, in fact, eliminate the effects of atmospheric
losses and actually determine the true quantity and quality of the
sun’s radiation outside the atmosphere as we might do if we could
observe in free space with no atmosphere at all to hinder.

Expeditions to Mount Wilson have now been made in 1905, 1906,
1908, 1909, 1910, 1911, and 1912, continuing from May until Novem-
ber. In the earlier years the observations were not made daily, but in
1908, 1909, 1910, and 1911 daily determinations of the solar constant
were made when possible. I give below a summary of this work up
to the end of 1911, and withit also the results obtained at Washington,
1902-1907.

Wash- sa)
ington. Mount Wilson.
1902-1907 | 1905 1906 1908 1909 1910 | 1911
Times ODSCEVEd <...:...<sisie <ain05 37 45 61 114 95 113 109
Mean"value sis 2. ores esecsese 1. 968 1.956 1. 942 1.936 1.916 1.921 1.923

Other days of observation not yet ready. General mean, 1.932 calories (15° C.) per square centimeter
per minute. Number of determinations, 696.

We draw the conclusion that, for the epoch 1902 to 1911, an object
in outer space, at the earth’s mean solar distance, would have received
radiation on surfaces at right angles to the solar beam at the mean
160 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

rate of 1.93 calories per square centimeter per minute. What a prize
would be given to one who could bring us similar measurements
dating, let us say, from the time of Archimedes!

Before considering the possible variability of the sun we may pause
to note some of the by-products of the solar-constant measurements.
Referring again to figure 1, we see before us the distribution of

CET EE ity
ele Lt all | dal Led te
UNCLE TTT
HACE
PSN GRRRERRRERREEE
HBA RRREREERREEEE
‘HEN\ CHEEREERHEGE
CONNECT EEE EE ee
ECE NEETELE bre
MARAE = SERRRERE
SUSUSRENNDGU0s=""

Fig. 5.—SOLAR SPECTRUM ENERGY CURVES OUTSIDE THE EARTH’S ATMOSPHERE.

‘CAll.”’—Radiation from the whole solar disk.
“Center.’’—Radiation from center of sun’s disk. “
55, 82.5, and 95.—Radiation from points at these percentages of radius from center of sun’s disk.

energy in the sun’s spectrum observed at a particular time on Mount
Wilson with certain apparatus. Knowing from other observations
of the same day the losses suffered by the rays in the air, and being
able to measure also the losses suffered in their passage of the optical
apparatus, it is possible to compute the form which the solar energy
spectrum would assume if observed outside our atmosphere, with

—— EE ee
RADIATION OF THE SUN—ABBOT. 161

perfectly transparent apparatus capable of forming a normal spec-
trum. Such a curve is that marked “ All” in figure 5. It is marked
“All” because it represents the mixture of rays from all parts of the
sun’s disk, just as we ordinarily get them.

Figure 6 shows a number of curves of distribution of rays along a
diameter of the sun. From these we sce that the sun’s disk is not
of equal brightness from edge through center to edge, and that the

See — AR RADIUS BBs
AQ 20 40 55 65° 75 83 9297
= om

95 875
9792 82575 65 55

i ey ae

(oasie
ae at Ey

tee ai
ERT +
ae ER Ee

sess

ied ne
ESS

Fig. 6.—DISTRIBUTION OF BRIGHTNESS ALONG THE DIAMETER OF THE SOLAR DISK FOR RAYS OF DIFFERENT
WAVE LENGTHS.

contrast of brightness is far greater the shorter the wave length con-
sidered. In other words, the sun’s edge is much dimmer compared
to its center for the ordinary photographic plate than for the eye
because the plate is most sensitive for violet and ultra-violet rays,
while the eye is most sensitive in the yellow.

Returning again to figure 5, the other curves show the relative
intensities of solar energy of all wave lengths taken from points
162 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

distant zero 55, 82.5, and 95 per cent, respectively, from the center
of the sun’s disk. The intensities, as you see, diminish as we go
out toward the sun’s edge in all wave lengths, but most rapidly for
the shorter wave-length rays. Hence not only does the height of the
energy curve alter, but its form changes, so that the place of maximum
intensity shifts toward the red as we approach the sun’s edge. This
is a peculiarity of spectra of heated bodies at successively lower tem-
peratures. It is quite reasonable to conclude that the light we see
near the edge of the sun comes from regions of lower temperature than
that which we get from the center of the disk. This is probably
because our view is cut off before it penetrates very deeply, at the
edge, because we are there looking very obliquely. Thus we see only

—ofest}—
a

san NS as
TEI TT Veal Shear TTA
RC CPEB eer
= oer il YPN Ss
Rae ed a
Per NE Sa
Je Ie
BESSe eae Sain eR cveai acl
A Oe We Os
SOP 2aea eee See
el oe Soe
oe 2 aT
5 OE cP
8 1880 2 6 8 1890 2 s 6 8

Fig. 7.—SUN-SPOTS AND THE EARTH’S TEMPERATURE AND MAGNETISM.

I. Temperature departures for the United States.
TI. Sun-spot numbers ( Wolfer).
III. Magnetic declination {sti diurnal range, r\.
IV. Magnetic horizontal force \ Ellis, Chree.

superficial layers at the edge, and much deeper and hotter ones at the
center. But all these temperatures are very much higher than any
we know on the earth. The electric arc, for instance, is said to be at
a temperature of about 3,800° absolute Centigrade. From the form
of the solar energy curve, the value of the solar constant, and other
data we estimate that the solar temperatures range from about 6,000°
absolute Centigrade upward.

As the temperature of the earth depends almost directly on the
quantity of solar radiation, we are immediately interested to inquire
if the sun, like so many others of the stars, is variable, and if so, what
corresponding variations are produced in the temperature, cloudiness,
and rainfall of the earth. It has been known for over half a century
that the sun has a slight variability of an average period of about 11

—
RADIATION OF THE SUN—ABBOT. 163

years, corresponding with the fluctuations of the number of sun spots,
the changes in form of the solar corona, and other solar phenomena,
and inducing changes in the prevalence of the aurora borealis, the
magnetic force and declination, and other terrestrial phenomena.
Figure 7 shows in its first curve the variation from normal of the tem-
perature of the United States, second the variation of sun-spot num-
bers, third and fourth the fluctuations in terrestrial magnetic elements
for the period 1878 to 1900. It would be of great interest if we had
accurate solar-constant measurements to compare with these changes
for a long period of time. Unfortunately we have none such earlier
than 1903 and only scattering measurements until 1905.

In figure 8 the results of solar-constant measurements on Mount
Wilson, 1905 to 1909, are given. On their face they indicate a fluctua_

LS? GI A 00 |_|

AN A TL
lB, Ss MAMI a A coe
pase ile SVR Ti

=|
ert | fel |

es
:

they itt
ESPACE PS Ty

Fic. 8.— INTENSITY OF SOLAR RADIATION OUTSIDE THE EARTH’S ATMOSPHERE AS MEASURED AT MOUNT
WILSON IN THE YEARS 1905 TO 1909.

Values given in calories per square centimeter per minute.

tion of the intensity of solar radiation. The fluctuation extends over
a total range of nearly 10 per cent. In the later years the measure-
ments were made almost daily, and seem to bring out with certainty
that the changes are not haphazard in their character. Successive
days of observation indicate a gradual march of the solar constant
values from a high to a low, and back. Had the variations been due
merely to accidental errors we should not have expected this regu-
larity. Hence we conclude that the changes observed are either
really solar or are due to some obscure source of error in estimating
the losses in our atmosphere. The latter supposition is not very
reasonable, because as already shown, we get practically identical solar
constant values whether we observe at sea level (Washington), 1 mile
(Mount Wilson), or 3 miles elevation (Mount Whitney). Hence it
164 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

seems most probable that we have found a real variation of the sun,
irregular in amount and period, but of an average period of 7 to 10
days, and an average magnitude of 3 to 5 per cent. This would be
‘Gmportant if true.”

Note added January 13, 1913:
[In part from Annual Report of Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution for year
ending June 30, 1912.]

Congress having provided funds, an expedition under my charge
proceeded in July, 1911, to Bassour, Algeria, to make there a long
series of solar-constant observations simultaneously with similar
observations made by Assistant Aldrich on Mount Wilson. The
Algerian expedition included Mr. and Mrs. Abbot and Prof. F. P.
Brackett, of Pomona College, California. The apparatus carried
was the same which I had used on Mount Whitney in 1909 and 1910.
Station was reached on July 31, 1911, but owing to a most unfortu-
nate miscarriage of a box of apparatus, observations could not be
commenced until August 26, and several more days were required
to get the whole outfit working satisfactorily. The weather of
August was excellent at both Mount Wilson and Bassour, but in the
subsequent months the good days at one station frequently coim-
cided with bad ones at the other. Hence, although 44 days of solar-
constant observations were secured at Bassour up to November 17,
when the camp was broken up, and a still greater number were
secured at Mount Wilson, only 29 of these coincided and 20 were good
at both stations.

In spite of the loss of August and the unfavorable weather of sub-
sequent months, the results strongly confirm the supposed variability
of the sun.

Expeditions of 1912.—While the simultaneous observations made
in 1911 at Bassour and Mount Wilson seemed justly interpretable as
confirming the variability of the sun, yet it was felt that a result of
such uncommon interest ought to be put beyond the smallest war-
rantable doubt. Accordingly, in May, 1912, Mr. and Mrs. Abbot
again returned to Bassour, where they were joined on May 20 by Mr.
Anders Knutson Angstrém, as temporary assistant. Observations
were begun on June 2. Observations on Mount Wilson had already
been begun by Mr. Fowle in April.

Between June 1 and September 9 nearly 50 days of observations
common to both stations were secured. This work is fully conclusive
in proving the variability of the sun. High solar-constant values at
Bassour correspond with high solar-constant values at Mount Wilson,
and vice versa.

In the meantime it has been found that some measurements of the
kind illustrated in figure 6, which were made in 1908 at Washington

a °
RADIATION OF THE SUN—ABBOT. 165

and compared. with solar-constant values from Mount Wilson, seem
to show that there is a sight but distinct change of distribution of
the radiation along the diameter of the sun’s disk depending on the
value of the solar constant. This change is such that when the
intensity of solar radiation outside the atmosphere is high as observed
at Mount Wilson, the contrast in brightness between the center and
the edge of the sun’s disk is great, and vice versa. This change in
contrast holds true for all wave lengths observed at Washington.

Thus we have two independent proofs that the sun is an irregularly
variable star of a short irregular periodicity of 7 to 10 days and mag-
nitude of fluctuation reaching often 3 per cent but rarely 8 per cent.
Besides this newly discovered irregularity there is of course also the
long period variability of 11 years indicated by sun spots. Curiously
enough the solar radiation proves to be above normal when the sun
spots are at a maximum; although, as shown in figure 7, the tempera-
ture of the earth is then below the normal. It is not unlikely that
other solar changes of great interest may be brought to light in
future years by the methods above described. Nothing has yet been
done to see how far the newly discovered short period solar changes
affect the earth’s climate, but evidently a most interesting field is
opening there.

85360°—sm 1912 12

E pattyey it.

¥
ME Te E saa wa hed arian on ae bi me
PERC. CEE ee | ; ate cay ie a :

be

fs Rae
;  pranens oe
: bas pestis P<) Pree

ae we toot )

4

ay

eles iv ¥ »

MOLECULAR THEORIES AND MATHEMATICS.!

By Emmet Boret,

Professeur a la Faculté des Sciences de V Université de Paris, Sous-Directeur de l’ Ecole
Normale Supérieure.

I.

The relations between the mathematical sciences and the physical
sciences are as old as the sciences themselves. It is the study of
natural phenomena which leads man to set for himself the first
problems from which, through abstraction and generalization, has
gone forth the superb complexity of the science of numbers and of
space. Conversely, through a sort of preestablished harmony, it
has often happened that certain mathematica] theories, after being
developed apparently far from the real, have been found to furnish
the key to phenomena concerning which the creators of these theories
had no thought at all. The most celebrated instance of this fact is
the theory of conic sections, an object of pure speculation among the
Greek geometers, but whose researches enabled Kepler, 20 centuries
later, to announce with precision the laws of the motions of the plan-
ets. In the same way, in the first half of the nineteenth century, it
was due to the theory of the imaginary exponentials that the study
of vibratory motions was rendered more profound, the importance of
which has been revealed on so large a scale in physics and even in
industrial art; it is to this study that we owe wireless telegraphy
and the transmission of energy by polyphase currents. More
recently still, we know what the utility of the abstract theory of
groups has been in the study of the ideas so profound and novel
whereby one has tried to explain the results of the capital experi-
ments on relativity made by your illustrious compatriot Michelson.

But these illustrations, whatever may be their importance, are
special and relate to particular theories. How much more striking
is the universal usage of the forms imposed on scientific thought by

1 Address delivered at Houston (Tex.) on the occasion of the inauguration of the Rice Institute (Oct. 10
ee by permission of the author, the publishers, and the Rice Institute, from Revue générale des

Sciences pures et appliquées, Paris, Nov. 30, 1912,
167
168 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

the genius of Descartes, Newton, Leibnitz. The employment of
rectangular coordinates and of the elements of differential and integral
calculus has become so familiar to us that we might be tempted at
times to forget that these admirable instruments date only from
the seventeenth century. And in the same way the theory of partial
differential equations dates only from the eighteenth century. In
1747 d’Alembert obtained the general integral of the equation of
vibrating cords. It was the study of physical phenomena that
suggested the notions of continuity, derivative, integral, differ-
ential equation, vector, and the calculus of vectors; and these notions,
by a just return, form part of the necessary scientific equipment of
every physicist; it is through these that he interprets the results of
‘his experiments. There is evidently nothing mysterious in the fact
that mathematical theories constructed on the model of certain
phenomena should have been capable of being developed and of
furnishing the model for other phenomena. This fact is neverthe-
less worthy of holding our attention, for it permits an important
practical result. If new physical phenomena suggested new math-
ematical models, mathematicians will be in duty bound to devote
themselves to the study of these new models and their generaliza-
tions, with the legitimate hope that the new mathematical theories
thus erected will be found fruitful in furnishing in their turn to the
physicists forms of useful thought. In other words, to the evolution
of physics there should correspond an evolution of mathematics
which, without abandoning the study of the classical and tested
theories, should be developed in taking into account the results of
experiment. It is in this order of ideas that I would examine to-day
the influence that molecular theories may exercise on the develop-
ment of mathematics.

II.

At the end of the eighteenth century and in the first half of the
nineteenth there was created on the hypothesis of continuity what
we may call classical mathematical physics. As types of the theories
thus constructed we may take hydrodynamics and elasticity. In
hydrodynamics, every liquid was by definition considered to be
homogeneous and isotropic. It was not quite the same in the study
of the elasticity of solid bodies. The theory of crystalline forms had
led one to admit the existence of a periodic network, that is to say, a
discontinuous structure; but the period of the network was supposed
to be extremely small with reference to the elements of matter
physically regarded as the differential elements. The crystalline
structure therefore led only to anisotrophy, but not to discontinuity.
The partial differential equations of elasticity, as well as those of
hydrodynamies, imply continuity of the medium studied
MOLECULAR THEORIES AND MATHEMATICS—BOREL. 169

The atomic theory, whose tradition goes back to the Greek phi-
losophers, was not abandoned during that period Independent of the
confirmation that it found in the properties of gases and in the laws
of chemistry, it was by means of that theory that one was obliged to
explain certain phenomena, such as the compressibility of liquids or
the permeability of solids, in spite of the apparent continuity of
these two states of matter. But the atomic theory was placed in
juxtaposition with physical theories based on continuity; it did not
affect them. The rapid advances in thermodynamics and in the
theories of energy contributed to maintain this sort of partition
between the physical theories and the hypothesis of the existence of
atoms, which became so fruitful in chemistry. To the majority of
physicists half a century ago the problem of the reality of atoms was
a metaphysical question properly beyond the domain of physics; it
mattered little to science whether atoms exist or are simple fictions,
and one might even doubt if science were able to afirm or deny their
existence.

However, thanks especially to the labors of Maxwell and of Boltz-
mann, the definite introduction of molecules in the theory of gases
and solutions showed itself fruitful. Gibbs created the new study,
to which he gave the name ‘‘Statistical mechanics.”’ But it is only
in the last 20 years that all physicists have been forced, by the study
of new radiations on the one hand and the study of the Brownian
movement on the other, to consider the molecular hypothesis as one
that is necessary to natural philosophy. And, more recently, the
thorough study of the laws of radiation has led to the unlooked-for
theory of the discontinuity of energy—or of motion. It does not
come within my subject to expound the experimental proofs through
which these hypotheses are each day becoming more probable. The
most striking of such experiments are perhaps those which have
made it possible to observe the individual emission of the a particles,
so that one actually obtains one of the concrete units with which
the physicist constructs the sensible universe, just as the abstract
universe of mathematics can be constructed by means of an abstract
unit.

For definitely formulating their hypotheses and deducing there-
from results susceptible of experimental verification the theorists
of modern physics make use of mathematical symbols. These
symbols are those which have been created in starting out with the
notion of continuity. It is, therefore, not astonishing that diffi-
culties sometimes appear, the most real of which is the contradiction,
apparent at least, between the hypothesis of the quanta and the older
hypothesis that phenomena are governed by differential equations.
But these difficulties of principle do not prevent the success of what
one might call partial theories, by which a certain number of experi-
170 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

mental results may, in spite of their apparent diversity, be deduced
from a small number of formule which are coherent among them-
selves. Usually the employment of mathematics in these partial
theories is quite independent of the ultimate bases of the theory.
And so it is that for many of the phenomena of physical optics the
formule are the same in the mechanical theory of Fresnel and in the
electromagnetic theory of Maxwell. In the same way the formule
used by electrical engineers are independent of the diversity of
theories concerning the nature of the current.

If I have been obliged to point out, though beyond my subject,
this employment of the mathematical tool as an auxiliary to the
partial physical theories, it is in order to prevent all misunderstand-
ing. It appears certain that for a long time to come, as long, per-
haps, as human science shall endure, it will be under this relatively
modest form that mathematics will render the greatest service to the
physicists. There is no reason why we should be disinterested in
_ the general mathematical theories whereof physics has furnished
the model, whether we may be concerned with speculations on
partial differential equations suggested by the physics of the conti-
nuum or with statistical speculations pertaining to the physics of the
discontinuum. But it should be well understood that the new mathe-
matical theories which discontinuity of physical phenomena might
suggest can not have the pretention of entirely replacing classical
mathematics. These are only new aspects, for which it is proper to
make room by the side of older views in such a manner as to augment
as much as possible the richness of the abstract world in which we
seek models suitable for making us better to comprehend and better
to conjecture concrete phenomena.

Git.

It is frequently a simplification in mathematics to replace a very
large finite number by infinity. It is thus that the calculus of defi-
nite integrals is frequently more simple than that of summation
formule, and that the differential calculus is generally more simple
than that of finite differences. In the same way, we have been
led to replace the simultaneous study of a great number of functions
of one variable by the study of a continuous infinitude of functions
of one variable; that is to say, by the study of a function of two
variables. By a bolder generalization Prof. Vito Volterra has been
led to define functions which depend upon other functions—that is to
say, in the most simple case, functions of lines—in considering them
as the limiting cases of functions which would depend on a great
number of variables or, if one prefers, on a very great number of
points of the line.
MOLECULAR THEORIES AND MATHEMATICS—BOREL. LT}

These diverse generalizations have rapidly acquired the rights
of a citizen in mathematical physics; the employment of integral
equations, of which the classical types are the equation of Volterr:
and the equation of Fredholm, has there become current. Although
these theories may be well known to all, it is perhaps useful to recall
briefly their origin by a particularly simple example. We shall thus
better understand their significance from the point of view where we
stand to-day.

Let us consider a system composed of a finite number of material
points, each of which can deviate only a small amount from a certain
position of stable equilibrium. The differential equations which
determine the variations of these deviations from their positions
of equilibrium can, under certain hypotheses and to a first approxi-
mation, be regarded as linear in respect to these deviations. H,
moreover, we introduce the hypothesis that the system satisfy the
law of the conservation of energy, the differential equations take
a form very simple and classic, from which one easily deduces the
fact that the motion may be considered as the superposition of a
certain number of periodic motions. The number of these elementary
periodic motions is equal to the number of degrees of freedom; it is
three times the number of the material points, if each of these points
can be arbitrarily displaced in the neighborhood of its position of
equilibrium. The periods of the simple periodic motions are the
specific constants of the system, which depend only on its configura-
tion and the hypotheses made concerning the forces put into opera-
tion by its deformation, but which does not depend upon the initial
conditions: positions and velocities. These initial conditions deter-
mine the arbitrary constants which figure in the general integral
and which are two in number for each period: the intensity and the
phase.

Suppose now that the number of material points become very
great and let us identify each of them with a molecule of a solid body,
a bar of steel for example; if the hypotheses made continue to be
verified, and that is what one admits in the theory of elasticity,
their consequences will subsist also; we shall have, then, a very large
number of characteristic constants, each of these constants defining
a proper period of the system. Let us increase to infinity the number
of the molecules. The system of differential equations, infinitely
great in number, is then replaced by a finite number of partial differ-
ential equations, whose fundamental properties are obtained by
passing to the limit. In particular, the proper periods can be deter-
mined and we establish the remarkable fact that these periods can be
calculated with precision and without ambiguity if we take care to
define them by commencing with the longest period; there is only a
172 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

finite number of periods superior to a given interval, but this number
increases indefinitely when the interval tends to zero.

The reasoning which has just been outlined is of the type of those
to which the substitution of continuity for discontinuity leads. In
reality, the considerations based on the existence of molecules play in
them only an auxiliary réle; they put one on the track of the solution,
but this solution, once obtained, satisfies rigorously the partial
differential equations of Lamé, equations which can be deduced
equally well from theories of energy as from molecular hypotheses.
The molecular theory has therefore been a valuable guide for the
analyst in suggesting the course to be followed in studying the
equations of the problem, but it is eliminated from the ultimate
solution. On the other hand, we know that this solution represents
reality only imperfectly. We obtain an infinitude of proper periods,
instead of a very great number of them; the actual number so great,
indeed, that one perhaps ought not to scruple to pass to the limit and
to regard it as practically infinite. If, however, one observes that the
difficulties of the theory of black radiation come precisely from the
very short periods, and that these difficulties are not yet resolved in
an entirely satisfactory manner, one will perhaps judge that he can
not be too careful in everything which concerns these very short
periods. Perhaps this is why a physicist like Lorentz has not deemed
superfluous the considerable analytical efforts which the study of
the propagation of waves requires when we explicitly introduce the
molecules. However it may be in other cases, even if the substitu-
tion of the infinite for the finite is entirely legitimate in certain
problems, it may be interesting to propose to oneself, from a purely
mathematical point of view, the direct study of functions or equa-
tions depending upon a great, but finite number of variables.

LY;

The first difficulty which presents itself, when one wishes to study
functions of a great number of variables, is the exact definition of
such a function. I mean by that an individual definition, permitting
one to distinguish the definite function from an infinitude of other
analogous functions. There exist many general properties common
to the mathematical entities of a certain category, independent of
the numerical value of the coefficients; for example, every definite
quadratic form (that is to say, one always positive) is equal to the
sum of the squares of as many independent linear functions as the
number of the variables which it contains. One has at times sought
to deduce mathematical facts from this sort of physical consequences.
I must confess that I can not defend myself against some suspicion
in regard to this sort of reasoning; for it appears a little singular that
MOLECULAR THEORIES AND MATHEMATICS—BOREL. 173

one can deduce anything exact from a notion so general as that of a
surface of the second degree (let us say, for fixing ideas, a generalized
ellipsoid) in a space having a very great number of dimensions. Let
us emphasize a little the difficulty that there is in knowing individually
such an ellipsoid: Its equation may be supposed to be reduced to the
sum of squares, by an orthogonal substitution; that is to say, the axes
remaining rectangular. Such an ellipsoid, then, requires for its com-
plete definition the knowledge of what we may call the squares of
the lengths of its axes; that is to say, the squares of as many positive
numbers as the space considered contains dimensions. The question
of knowing whether one can consider as given so many numbers, when
a man’s lifetime would not suffice to enumerate a small part of them,
is a question which is not without analogy to that of the legitimacy of
certain reasonings in the theory of ensembles, such as that one by
which Prof. Zermelo pretends to prove that the continuum can be well
ordered, and which suppose, as realized, an infinitude of choices inde-
pendent of all law, and at the same time to be uniquely determined.
Opinions may differ on the theoretical solution of these difficulties
and here is not the place to reopen this controversy. But, from the
practical point of view, the response is not doubtful; it is not possible
to actually write the numerical equation of an ellipsoid whose axes
are as numerous as the molecules constituting a gram of hydrogen.

In what sense is it, then, possible to speak of a numerically deter-
minate ellipsoid, possessing a very great number of dimensions?
From an abstract point of view, the most simple process for defining
such an ellipsoid, consists in supposing that the lengths of the axes
are equal to the values of a certain function which is simple for the
integral values of the variable. One can suppose them all equal Gn
which case he will-say that the ellipsoid is reduced to a sphere).
One can also suppose that they have for values the successive integral
numbers taken in their natural order, starting either with unity or
with any other given number, or that they are equal to the inverses
of the square of these integers, etc. In other words, we suppose that
the lengths of the axes are all determined by the knowledge of a
formula simple enough for being actually written, while it is not
possible to actually write as many distinct numbers as there are axes.

Another process, to which we are naturally led by the analogies
with the kinetic theory of gases, consists in supposing that the values
of a function of the axes such that the square of the lengths of the
axes, or of their reciprocals, etc., are not given individually, but that
we know only the mean value of this function, and the law of the
distributions of the other values around this mean. We propose,
under these conditions, not to study the properties of a unique and
well determined ellipsoid, but only the most probable properties of the
174 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

ellipsoid, knowing only that it satisfies the imposed conditions. We
can also say that we study the mean properties of the ensemble of
the ellipsoids defined by these conditions. Here again, we may ob-
serve that the probable ellipsoid or the mean ellipsoid is completely
defined by the knowledge of the mean value of the law of the devia-
tions. If this law is the classic law of probabilities, it includes only
two constants. If we were led to introduce a more complicated law,
this law might in all cases be explicitly written. The two processes
that we have indicated are then equivalent from the analytical point
of view. It would evidently be the same with all other processes
that we can imagine, and notably with the combinations of the two.

Ina word, a figure which depends on an extremely great number of
parameters can be considered a numerically determinate only if these
parameters are defined by means of numerical data sufficiently few
in number to be accessible to us. It is for this reason that the study
of the geometrical figures in a space possessing an extremely great
number of dimensions, can lead to general laws, if we can exclude
from this study such of these figures as it is impossible for a human
being to define individually.

Here are, for example, some of the results to which one is led by
the study of ellipsoids. In writing the equations in the form of a
sum of squares, the second member being reduced to unity, the co-
efficients are equal to the reciprocals of the squares of the axes. If
the mean of the squares of these coefficients is of the same order of
magnitude as the square of their mean, one will say that the ellipsoid
is not very irregular. The modes of definition concerning which we
have just spoken lead to’ellipsoids which are not very irregular, from
the moment when one ceases to systematically introduce into these
definitions functions purposely chosen in a complicated manner. On
the other hand, we obtain a very irregular ellipsoid in equating to a
constant the vis viva of a deformable system composed of a very great
number of molecules, this vis viva being writen under the elassic
form of the sum of the vis viva of translation of the total mass con-
centrated at the center of gravity, increased by the sum of the vires
vive of the molecules in their motion relative to this center of gravity.
The great irregularity comes from the fact that the products of the
total mass by the three components of the velocity of the center of
gravity are extremely great in comparison with the other terms.
When an ellipsoid is not very irregular, several of its properties permit
comparing it to a sphere, which we may call the median sphere.
The surface of the ellipsoid is almost wholly comprised between the
surfaces of two spheres very near to the median sphere. On the
other hand, a point being arbitrarily chosen on the ellipsoid, it is
infinitely probable that the normal at this point passes extremely
close to the center.
.

MOLECULAR THEORIES AND MATHEMATICS—BOREL. 175

This geometrical study of figures having a very great number of
dimensions deserves, I believe, to be thoroughly investigated. It
puts in evidence the abstract bases of the theories of mechanics and
statistical physics; that is to say, it enables us to distinguish among
the propositions to which physicists are led, those which are a conse-
quence of physical hypotheses from those which are derived only
from statistical hypotheses. But, independent of its physical
utility, this geometrical study of spaces having a very great number
of dimensions presents an interest of its own. It is to the molec-
ular theories that we are indebted for this new branch of mathe-
matics.

V:

We can, however, ask ourselves whether it is legitimate to regard
as connected with the molecular hypothesis a theory which ought, in
fine, to depend upon only a small number of constants. To say that
an ellipsoid with a very great number of dimensions is entirely defined
by five or six constants is to say that all the consequences that we
are to deduce from its study shall be expressible by means of five or
six constants. We can not suppose in such a case that it will be pos-
sible to imagine an analytical mechanism which would permit us to
obtain the same consequences, expressed by means of five or six con-
stants, without its being necessary to cause to intervene the equation
possessing a very great number of terms; that is to say, without its
being necessary to utilize the molecular hypothesis.

It is well that we pause on account of this objection, though it
may recall the controversy between the energetists and the atomists,
a controversy in which the atomists appear to have had the decided
advantage. In the first place, we can reply with an argument of
fact: It matters little that we might conceive the possibility, without
making use of molecular hypotheses, of combining among themselves
the consequences of these hypotheses; the important thing is to know
whether this possibility is actually realized or if, on the contrary,
they are calculations based upon molecular hypotheses which con-
stitute the most simple, if not the only, mode of deduction. If this
latter alternative be correct, and it seems difficult to deny it, molecu-
lar hypotheses are, then, actually very necessary, and that alone
ought to be of consequence to us.

Under this modest form, which the future holds in reserve, this
reply appears preemptory; but I believe that many physicists would
not judge it too categorically. It is necessary to observe, however,
that the question is independent of experimental proofs of the reality
of the molecules. Should we succeed in seeing, by means of an instru-
ment more powerful than a microscope, the molecules of a solid body,
it would not follow, however valuable this knowledge might be, that
176 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

one-should make use of the same for stating the properties of this
body in the most simple manner possible. So it is that the possibility
of seeing an isolated microbe under the microscope is not an indispen-
sable condition for the attenuation of the viruses and of the use of
vaccines. In the same way, in the reproduction of a masterpiece by
photogravure, it is not the individual knowledge of the points consti-
tuting the negative that interests us.

From the abstract point of view, if we admit that all human theory
ought to be, in the last analysis, expressed by means of a finite and
relatively small number of data, it seems difficult to deny the possi-
bility of entirely constructing the theory without causing the inter-
vention of hypotheses which imply the existence of elements whose
number surpasses that which the investigation of man can conceive.
But the verification of this abstract possibility can not prevail against
the importance of services rendered by molecular theories in the
unification of apparently unrelated phenomena; and so it is per-
mitted to consider these reserves on the possibilities of the future, as
a simple matter of style.

Is it possible to go still further, and suppress all reserve of this
kind? In order to answer this question it is necessary to examine
in detail all the phenomena that one explains by means of the molecu-
lar hypotheses and seek to ascertain whether an extremely large
number of parameters is really necessary to this explanation. Among
the discontinuous phenomena whose experimental laws are well
known, the most characteristic are those of spectra in series. One
knows that the positions of the spectral rays are determined with a
very great precision by formule, of which the first and most simple,
due to Balmer, includes the difference of the reciprocals of the squares
of two integers. There, perhaps, is the most remarkable example of
the intervention of the integer in a natural law. If the laws of this
kind were more numerous and better known, we would perhaps be
led to cite arithmetic and the theory of numbers among the branches
of mathematics which one can connect with molecular physics. Can
one, by induction, admit that the formula of Balmer is exact, not
only for small integers concerning which the experimental verifica-
tion is rigorous, but for many other larger intergers concerning which
this verification is impossible? And if it is thus, is not there one of
the discontinuous phenomena whose explanation requires a very
large number of parameters? It doesnotseemso. On the one hand,
the formula with the variable integer, can contain with precision

1 This individual knowledge of points intervenes in the process of transmission of the negative to a
distance; but here these points, although numerous, are, however, finite, and accessible to our observation.
If we transmit by telephone an orchestral selection, we know that all the aesthetic beauties of the piece
result, in the last analysis, from certain vibrations which would require too much time to know individually;
but, in fact, these elementary vibrations present nothing visible in musical aesthetics; an excellent composer

of music can ignore their existence and an excellent physicist can be a wretched musician.
MOLECULAR THEORIES AND MATHEMATICS—BOREL. L707

only a small number of constants; on the other hand, the attempts
made for explaining the presence of this integer by hypotheses of
physical discontinuity have led to the placing of this discontinuity
in the interior of the atom itself. There is, then, no need of a very
great number of atoms; one alone is sufficient, whose structure
depends only on certain parameters, on magnétons in the theory of
Ritz, parameters whose number is far from being of the order of the
number of the atoms.

This remark leads us to consider another category of phenomena,
to which we have already made allusion and in which the atoms or
corpuscles are observed individually. Does not the explanation of
these phenomena require atomic hypotheses? It seems difficult to
deny it without being paradoxical. We observe, however, that the
phenomena such as the emission of the a@-particles are susceptible
only of a globate explanation; it is not possible to foresee with pre-
cision a determinate emission, but only a mean number. It is,
then, only this mean number that exists, scientifically speaking. The
phenomenon which consists in the emission of one particle a does not
present the characters which permit of rigorous experimentation.
We know not how to foresee it or how to reproduce it at will. It is
only the study of the trajectory after the emission that presents
these characters and in fact this study only requires equations suffi-
ciently restricted in number so that one can write them all. The
atomic hypotheses should permit one to foresee such individual emis-
sion, if one could actually calculate with reference to an extremely
great number of equations; but that is not: possible; and in that
which concerns the globate conjecture the atomic hypotheses is not,
at least a priori, necessary.

We touch here upon the borders of science, since we attain from
phenomena accessible to our observation and which depend upon
causes so numerous that it would be impossible for us to know with
precision all their complexity. Science remains possible only for mean
values which one can calculate with precision by means of data accessi-
ble to observation.

It is well understood, I think, that I do not contest the legitimacy
and the utility of molecular theories. My remarks as a mathemati-
cian can not attain physical reality; at the bottom they reduce them-
selves to this: All the calculations we shall ever really effect will
comprise only a sufficiently small number of equations actually writ-
ten. If we write one equation, and if we add that we consider some
billions of analogous equations, we do not calculate in fact these
equations which are not written, but only the written equation, in
taking count, perhaps, of the number of the equations which are not
written, a number which will also have been written. All mathe-
matical theory, then, reduces itself to a relatively small number of
178 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1912.

equations and calculations, and which involve a relatively small
number of symbols and numerical constants. It is, then, not @ priori
absurd to suppose that one might imagine a physical model containing
also a relatively small number of parameters and leading to the same
equations. However, so long as this model shall not be imagined,
and perhaps it never will be, the analytical or geometrical researches
on functions of a very large but finite number of variables will be able
to offer interest to the physicists.

VI.

We have already observed that it is an ordinary proceeding in mathe-
matics to replace a very large finite by an infinite. What may this
procedure give when we apply it to discontinuous physical phenomena
whose complexity seems tied up to a very great number of molecules?
Such are, for example, the phenomena of the Brownian movement
which we observe when very fine particles are in suspension in an ap-
parently quiet liquid. These phenomena enter the category of those
concerning which we were speaking a moment ago, for which only a
statistical foreknowledge is possible.

Can we construct an analytical image of it? Prof. Perrin has
already remarked! that the observed trajectories in the Brownian
movement suggested the notion of continuous functions possessing no
derivative or that of continuous curves possessing no tangent. If
we observe these trajectories with optical instruments more and more
perfected, we see at each new magnification, new details, the curvi-
linear are that we could have traced becomes displaced by a sort of
broken line whose sides form finite angles with each other; so it is up
to the limit of the magnifications capable of actual realization. If we
admit that the movement is produced by the impacts of the molecules
against the particle, we should conclude from this that we would
obtain, with a sufficient magnification, the exact form of the trajectory
which would present itself under the form of a broken line with
rounded off angles and which would not be sensibly modified by a
still further magnification.

But the analyst is not forbidden to retreat indefinitely into the
supposed obtainment of this ultimate state and to thus arrive at the
conception of a curve in which the sinuosities become finer and finer
in proportion as he employs a higher magnification, without his ever
obtaining the ultimate sinuosities. This is indeed the geometrical
image of a continuous function not admitting of a derivative.

We obtain thus a curve of the same nature, but rather too special
to stop to consider, when we study the function which Boltzmann

1 Jean Perrin: La discontinuité de la matiére. Revue du mois, mars 1906. See also Jean Perrin: Les
atomes (Alcan, 1913).
MOLECULAR THEORIES AND MATHEMATICS—-BOREL. 179

designates by H and Gibbs by », and which represents, in the case of
a gas, the logarithm of the probability of a determinate distribution
of the velocities ies the molecules. Each collision between two mole-

. ° :
antlaa bo a ond yatian ia thic faanetian whioh ia epee PaAnwraA

a gas, the logarithm of the probability of ‘a determinate distribution
of the velocities of the molecules. Each collision between two mole-

thic famatian whiah ta fhaua ranean

antlaa ari aAca.a ai m waratinn
a gas, the logarithin of the probability of a determinate distribution
of the velocities ies the molecules. Each collision between two mole-

.
antlaa “the a ond + Vic fan rotian wrhinh ta hata RANA

an yatian
a gas, the logarithm of the probability of a determinate distribution
of the velocities ies the molecules. Each collision between two mole-

. ° :
antlaa bo a ond yatian ia thic faanetian whioh ia epee PaAnwraA

a gas, the logarithm of the probability of ‘a determinate distribution
of the velocities of the molecules. Each collision between two mole-

thic famatian whiah ta fhaua ranean

antlaa ari aAca.a ai ” ryatian
a gas, the logarithin of the probability of a determinate distribution
of the velocities ies the molecules. Each collision between two mole-

. ° :
antlaa bo a ond yatian ia thic faanetian whioh ia epee PaAnwraA

a gas, the logarithm of the probability of ‘a determinate distribution
of the velocities of the molecules. Each collision between two mole-

thic famatian whiah ta fhaua ranean

antlaa ari aAca.a ai m waratinn
a gas, the logarithin of the probability of a determinate distribution
of the velocities ies the molecules. Each collision between two mole-

. ° :
antlaa bo a ond yatian ia thic faanetian whioh ia epee PaAnwraA

a gas, the logarithm of the probability of ‘a determinate distribution
of the velocities of the molecules. Each collision between two mole-

thic famatian whiah ta fhaua ranean

antlaa ari aAca.a ai m waratinn
a gas, the logarithin of the probability of a determinate distribution
of the velocities ies the molecules. Each collision between two mole-

. ° :
antlaa bo a ond yatian ia thic faanetian whioh ia epee PaAnwraA

a gas, the logarithm of the probability of ‘a determinate distribution
of the velocities of the molecules. Each collision between two mole-

thic famatian whiah ta fhaua ranean

antlaa ari aAca.a ai m waratinn
a gas, the logarithin of the probability of a determinate distribution
of the velocities ies the molecules. Each collision between two mole-

.
antlaa “the a ond + Vic fan rotian wrhinh ta hata RANA

an yatian
a gas, the logarithm of the probability of a determinate distribution
of the velocities ies the molecules. Each collision between two mole-

. ° :
antlaa bo a ond yatian ia thic faanetian whioh ia epee PaAnwraA

a gas, the logarithm of the probability of ‘a determinate distribution
of the velocities of the molecules. Each collision between two mole-

thic famatian whiah ta fhaua ranean

antlaa ari aAca.a ai ” ryatian
a gas, the logarithin of the probability of a determinate distribution
of the velocities ies the molecules. Each collision between two mole-

. ° :
antlaa bo a ond yatian ia thic faanetian whioh ia epee PaAnwraA

a gas, the logarithm of the probability of ‘a determinate distribution
of the velocities of the molecules. Each collision between two mole-

thic famatian whiah ta fhaua ranean

antlaa ari aAca.a ai m waratinn
a gas, the logarithin of the probability of a determinate distribution
of the velocities ies the molecules. Each collision between two mole-

. ° :
antlaa bo a ond yatian ia thic faanetian whioh ia epee PaAnwraA

a gas, the logarithm of the probability of ‘a determinate distribution
of the velocities of the molecules. Each collision between two mole-

thic famatian whiah ta fhaua ranean

antlaa ari aAca.a ai m waratinn
a gas, the logarithin of the probability of a determinate distribution
of the velocities of the molecules. Each collision between two mole-

oe 8 Pee RS Ga DR ee | ee pape Oe) Le CEC Dae mae By Rae Ohne 2S, Panny teen au Va |E eG [MOURN PPREDy Tos |p Oem el enna Ts
